-- U.S. Libor Probers Said to Seek London Trader Interviews
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-27T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-s-libor-probers-said-to-seek-london-trader-interviews.html
U.S. investigators conducting a
criminal probe of interest-rate manipulation have asked their
British counterparts for permission to interview  London  traders,
two people familiar with the investigation said.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  filed a request with the
U.K.  Home Office  for access to dozens of bankers in conjunction
with British prosecutors that are also investigating the rate
rigging, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the proceedings haven’t been made public.  The move may indicate the U.S. wants to pursue criminal
charges against individuals in the U.K. that could lead to
extradition, said  Bradley Simon , a former federal prosecutor in
 Brooklyn ,  New York . It “won’t deter them in the least” that
U.K. prosecutors are also involved, he said.  “They don’t stay within U.S. borders,” Simon said in a
phone interview. “They don’t hesitate to charge non-U.S.
citizens abroad and I know that this case is being investigated
within the antitrust division of the  Justice Department , which
is known to take their cases very seriously.”  Regulators from  Tokyo  to London to New York are probing how
derivatives traders and bankers who submitted interest-rate data
colluded to rig benchmarks including the London Interbank
Offered Rate.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among lenders awaiting information about
their fate. The Justice Department’s criminal probe is running
in parallel with civil investigations being conducted by its
fraud division, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  Fines, Resignations  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened its criminal case in
July at the request of British politicians after  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
was fined a record 290 million pounds ($470 million) for rate
manipulation. The agency had previously declined to get involved
in the case, according to the FSA. Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chairman Marcus Agius resigned
following the fine.  A Home Office spokesman declined to comment on any
cooperation request. Michael Passman, a U.S. Justice Department
spokesman, said yesterday said the department would have no
comment on the matter.  Extradition is a concern for suspects in the U.K. after
three British bankers who faced Enron Corp.-related fraud
charges lost a three-year court battle and were sent to the U.S.
in 2006 to face trial. The men, who worked for  RBS (RBS) ’s Greenwich
NatWest unit, had argued that as British citizens accused of
defrauding the London-based bank, any prosecution against them
should have been in  England .  It was among cases that prompted U.K. lawmakers to say a
2003 extradition treaty with the U.S. was unfair and urged Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to renegotiate it.  Tesler Case  “The U.K. courts have basically turned over for
extradition just about anyone the U.S. seeks,” Simon said.  Simon represented British attorney Jeffrey Tesler, who was
extradited to the U.S. last year to face bribery charges. Tesler
fought the extradition, saying because the case had strong links
to the U.K. and British prosecutors were carrying out their own
investigation, he shouldn’t be sent across the Atlantic.  If the SFO files “almost identical” charges, then the
courts may deter extradition, Simon said. If the U.S. files
antitrust charges and the SFO charges traders for fraud or false
accounting, an extradition may still happen, he said.  Kareem Serageldin, the former global head of  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in the U.S. for a bonus-boosting
fraud tied to a $5.35 billion trading book, said at a hearing
yesterday in London that he won’t consent to extradition until
he reaches a plea deal. Serageldin’s lawyer said his client’s
arrest was a result of “miscommunication.”  Cooperating Witnesses  The U.S. request came under a mutual legal assistance
treaty, or MLAT, with the U.K. Central Authority, which is part
of the Home Office, said one of the people. The Justice
Department wants the interviews to prepare their case against
former traders at rate-setting banks, which is currently based
on evidence from cooperating witnesses, one of the people said.  The SFO wants to handle the prosecution of any British
citizens in the U.K. and will resist extradition efforts by U.S.
authorities, said one of the people. The agency is stalling
while it seeks to catch up to the Justice Department’s probe,
which began around 2009, the person said.  David Jones , an SFO spokesman, declined to comment.  The Justice Department’s request may only relate to charges
it intends to bring in the U.S. against people not under
investigation by the SFO, said  Tim Harris , a London-based
criminal defense lawyer at the firm Bark & Co.  “It’s more likely that is part of the DOJ’s evidence
gathering process for charges they are looking to bring in the
U.S. against people not subject to the SFO probe,” Harris said.
“The SFO have suspects in mind for criminal conduct committed
in the U.K. The SFO would not allow, at this stage, U.K.
suspects to be extradited to the U.S. to face similar charges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  