-- U-Systems Seeks Partner as FDA Approves Breast Ultrasound
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-systems-seeks-partner-as-fda-approves-breast-ultrasound.html
U-Systems Inc., the Silicon Valley
maker of a cancer test for women with dense breasts, said it’s
seeking to partner with a larger medical-imaging company after
winning U.S. regulatory approval for the ultrasound technology.  A company with a women’s health unit would help Sunnyvale,
California-based U-Systems and its 35 employees sell the somo-v
ABUS  breast-cancer  ultrasound, Chief Executive Officer Ron Ho
said in a telephone interview. The device, approved by the  Food
and Drug Administration  last week, is the first ultrasound for
the 40 percent of women who have thick connective and glandular
breast tissue that normal mammograms can’t properly distinguish.  “All the mainframe imaging companies are very
interested,” Ho said, without being specific. “Discussions
regarding potential partnerships are taking place.”  Siemens AG (SIE) , the sales leader behind  General Electric Co. (GE)  in
the global market for medical-imaging equipment, would be a
logical suitor, according to Vijay Kumar, an analyst at ISI
Group in  New York . In addition,  Hologic Inc. (HOLX) , which developed
the first 3D mammography system, acquired a separate company
from U-Systems’ founder Bob Wang in 2006. U-Systems, which
generates less than $10 million in annual revenue, said its
first-of-kind ultrasound may be a $1 billion opportunity.  “Given this is the first approved product, it will
definitely pique one of the larger guys’ interest,” Kumar said
in a telephone interview. “It probably would be Siemens given
their historical partnership.”  State Laws  The companies became partners in 2008 so cancer screeners
could use U-Systems’ 3D technology with an automated breast
scanner made by Siemens. Munich-based Siemens also is a
distributor of U-Systems’ older products, according to Kumar.  Lance Longwell, a spokesman for the Siemens Healthcare
unit, said in an e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on
rumors or market speculation.  The U-Systems device won FDA approval on Sept. 18, for
screening in combination with standard mammography for women who
have a negative mammogram result and have no symptoms of breast
cancer. The device will be priced at about $200,000, or about
half the cost of a digital mammography system, Ho said.  New York and Connecticut are among five states that have
passed laws requiring health-care providers to inform women with
dense breast tissue of screening options following a mammogram.
California Governor  Jerry Brown  signed a law last week, which
takes effect in April.  Reimbursement Rates  The other two states are Texas and  Virginia , according to
the grassroots organization Are You Dense, which was started by
a Connecticut woman who developed advanced breast cancer after
years of traditional mammograms failed to detect the disease.
Dense breasts have larger amounts of connective and glandular
tissue, making it more difficult to interpret whether cancer is
present using mammography, a low-dose X-ray, the FDA said.  Hologic was at the U.S. Capitol this week to promote its 3D
mammography product, approved by the FDA in February 2011, and
to push for better compensation for health-care providers and
lower co-payments for patients that use the machine. New
technologies face payment hurdles until they prove their
effectiveness in the marketplace, said Meg Eckenroad, vice
president of women’s health and professional relations at
Bedford, Massachusetts-based Hologic.  “It’s important for the patients,” she said. “Sometimes
they’re paying for preventive services and sometimes they’re
not.”  Balance Sheet  President  Barack Obama ’s health law requires insurers to
cover breast cancer  mammography screenings  every one to two
years for women older than 40. Without its own specific
reimbursement scheme, some women are paying for the 3D service
when they shouldn’t be, Eckenroad said.  Eckenroad wouldn’t comment on whether Hologic may acquire
or become partners with U-Systems. Hologic generated $1.8
billion in the year ending Sept. 24, 2011, including about $825
million from breast health products, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company agreed to pay $220 million in 2006 for
R2 Technology Inc., a business controlled by U-Systems’ founder
that had $45 million in 2005 revenue.  Hologic may not be in the best position to partner with U-
Systems, as last month it completed a $3.7 billion acquisition
of diagnostic test maker Gen-Probe Inc.,  Kumar said.  “They don’t have the balance sheet,” Kumar said.  General Electric, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , sells
mammography machines as well as a system to highlight areas of
unusual blood flow as a supplement to inconclusive tests.  General Electric generated  $142 billion  in revenue last
year, $18 billion from its health-care unit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Siemen’s brought in  $103 billion  in the
year ending Sept. 30, 2011, including $17 billion from health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  