-- Vodafone Sees 500 Million Pounds in Costs From C&W Deal
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-09-27T10:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/vodafone-sees-500-million-pounds-in-costs-from-c-w-deal.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  said the
integration of its Cable & Wireless Worldwide acquisition will
incur about 500 million pounds ($809 million) in costs by March
2016 as it combines networks and customers.  The deal, whose final purchase price came to 1.3 billion
pounds including a convertible bond, will increase annual  cash
flow  by 150 million to 200 million pounds by 2016 when the two
companies predict they will be completely integrated, Vodafone
said in a statement today. Operating free cash flow from  Cable &
Wireless (CWC)  will hit 250 million to 300 million pounds that year.  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest wireless operator,
agreed to buy the fixed-line company to offload traffic and add
business customers. The acquisition will double the size of
Vodafone’s enterprise business and make it the second-largest
phone company in the U.K. by revenue, after  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the
company said today in a conference call with analysts.  “We see Cable & Wireless as a good opportunity to
strengthen our existing enterprise business,” said Nick Jeffery, the former head of Vodafone’s enterprise unit who now
runs Cable & Wireless. “If you believe the future of enterprise
communications is convergence, you really need strength in
mobile, strength in fixed and strength in hosted, or cloud
assets.”  Backhaul Services  When it was announced in April, the deal valued Cable &
Wireless at 2.5 times reported earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, including debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an average price of
3.5 times Ebitda for similar, western European deals in the last
three years. Vodafone completed the deal in July.  Vodafone will use those assets to fortify its wireless
network in the U.K., connecting  Cable & Wireless  fiber to its
towers and allowing it to cut backhaul services with providers
such as BT, the company said today.  Ultimately, the high-capacity fiber network will provide
space for Vodafone to offload streaming video and other
bandwidth-heavy services from its mobile network with enough
capacity to spare to lease to other carriers, the company said.  Cable &  Wireless, tracing its roots to 1866 when the first
submarine cable across the Atlantic Ocean was laid, has holdings
in more than 60 global cable systems. It also owns the largest
U.K. fiber system for businesses, which Vodafone may use to
relieve the strain of surging data traffic on its own mobile-
phone network.  Under-Investment  Cable & Wireless has suffered from under-investment and
Vodafone plans to put more money into  customer service 
immediately, Jeffery said today. Revenue declines will probably
continue for the next two years as Cable & Wireless feels
pressure from declining fixed-line phone subscriptions and a
weak pipeline of new services, Vodafone said.  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , was little changed at
177.35 pence in  London trading  at 11:11 a.m. The stock had
declined less than 1 percent this year through yesterday.  (The company hosted a conference call to discuss the deal
at 9 a.m. London time. To access replay, go to
 http://www.vodafone.com/content/index/investors .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  