-- Wallabies Pick Beale at Fly-Half; Carter Returns for All Blacks
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-27T11:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/wallabies-name-team-to-face-south-africa-in-rugby-championship.html
Australia picked Kurtley Beale to
replace injured fly-half  Quade Cooper  in this weekend’s Rugby
Championship match against South Africa in Pretoria, while  Dan Carter  returns for New Zealand’s game in Argentina.  Beale’s selection at No. 10 for the first time in his 30th
Test is the only change to the lineup that started the 23-19 win
against Argentina on Sept. 15. Kane Douglas retained his spot at
lock as Sitaleki Timani failed to prove he’s fully recovered
from a hamstring strain, the team said in an e-mailed statement.  “The jersey number might be new but his role within the
game won’t be,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said of Beale.
“Although his season hasn’t been without challenge, Kurtley
stepped up with his involvements on the  Gold Coast , making a
difference when he was on the field.”  With New Zealand needing one victory from its last two
games to secure the inaugural title, the match at Loftus
Versfeld in two days may decide who finishes in second place.
The All Blacks top the standings with 16 points ahead of
Australia on eight and South Africa on seven. Tournament
newcomer Argentina has three points in last place.  The Australian Rugby Union said today it wrote to Cooper
following his criticism of the Wallabies and Deans last week,
which included accusations that a “toxic culture” had
developed in the squad and that Deans and the other coaches did
not allow him to play in the attacking style he wanted.  The Sydney-based governing body said that although it had
written to Cooper in relation to the comments, which were made
on Twitter and in interviews with local media, it had “no
intention of conducting those discussions with Quade in the
public arena.”  “To that end, we will be making no further comment at this
stage,” the ARU said in a statement.  Carter, who’s scored a world record 1,318 points in 89
Tests, returns at fly-half for the All Blacks after missing the
past two games with a calf injury. Scrum-half  Aaron Smith 
replaces  Piri Weepu  in the only other change to the starting
lineup as the world champions look to claim the title in La
Plata.  “The team has really enjoyed the build-up in Buenos Aires
and the culture that the country has to offer, but we know it
will be down to business on Saturday and the team are excited by
that challenge,” All Blacks coach Steve Hansen said.  AUSTRALIA: Berrick Barnes, Dominic Shipperley, Adam Ashley-
Cooper, Pat McCabe, Digby Ioane, Kurtley Beale, Nick Phipps,
Radike Samo, Michael Hooper, Dave Dennis, Nathan Sharpe
(captain), Kane Douglas, Ben Alexander, Tatafu Polota Nau, Benn
Robinson.  Reserves: Saia Fainga’a, James Slipper,  Rob Simmons ,  Scott
Higginbotham , Liam Gill, Brett Sheehan, Anthony Fainga’a.  NEW ZEALAND: Tony Woodcock,  Andrew Hore , Owen Franks, Luke
Romano, Samuel Whitelock, Liam Messam, Richie McCaw, Kieran
Read, Aaron Smith, Dan Carter, Julian Savea, Ma’a Nonu, Conrad
Smith, Cory Jane, Israel Dagg.  Reserves: Keven Mealamu, Charlie Faumuina, Brodie
Retallick, Sam Cane, Piri Weepu, Aaron Cruden,  Ben Smith .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  