-- Weak Global Economy Will Hamper Debt-Reduction, IMF Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-27T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/weak-global-economy-will-hamper-debt-reduction-imf-says.html
The weak global economy will make
it more difficult for countries including  Italy  and  Greece  to
follow  Canada ’s 1990s lead in large-scale debt reduction,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The external environment has been an important element for
nations that embarked on fiscal plans, the IMF said today,
drawing on lessons from six developed countries’ responses to
high debt levels at different times in the 20th century.  Governments with  high debt  levels today face a world of
“widespread fiscal consolidation efforts, deleveraging
pressures from the private sector, adverse demographic trends,
and the aftermath of the financial crisis” that’s unlikely to
provide support, the IMF wrote in a chapter of its World
Economic Outlook. “Expectations about what can be achieved need
to be set realistically.”  The study gives historical perspective to efforts currently
under way in the euro area to end a debt crisis that’s engulfed
nations from Ireland to  Spain . At the epicenter of the turmoil,
with its economy contracting, Greece is trying to bring back its
debt ratio under 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020,
from more than 165 percent last year, as part of an
international bailout package that’s already forced investors to
take losses in a debt exchange.  Limited Progress  The IMF study said that progress in the euro region may be
limited until issues around the monetary union and the financial
sector are addressed. By contrast, conditions in the U.S. are in
place for fiscal consolidation, according to the Washington-
based fund.  With little support from external conditions, governments
must make sure that their fiscal consolidation plans also come
with measures to support growth, in particular low  interest
rates , according to the report. They should avoid temporary
measures and make in-depth changes to their economies, it said.  The chapter, called “The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly: 100
years of Dealing with Public Debt Overhangs,” looks at what
happened in countries where debt rose beyond 100 percent of GDP
and focuses on the U.K. after World War I, the U.S. after World
War II, and  Belgium , Canada, Italy and  Japan  in the 1980s and
1990s.  In another chapter, the IMF looked at the resilience of
emerging markets. Developed economies have for the first time
spent more time expanding over the last decade than their
developed counterparts because of improved policies and fewer
shocks, according to the study.  Still, the threat of drastic fiscal consolidation in the
U.S. and a prolonged debt crisis in  Europe  are risks for
 emerging markets  as well, according to the IMF.  “Should the external environment worsen again, emerging
market and developing economies will likely end up recoupling
with advanced economies, much as they did during the Great
Recession,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  