-- Weill Woos Carnegie Hall Friends to Support Sonoma Hall
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/weill-woos-carnegie-hall-friends-to-support-sonoma-hall.html
When Sanford “Sandy” I. Weill
learned that a university concert hall near his home in
 California ’s wine country was short on cash he toured the
unfinished building and then asked his friend Lang Lang to check
out the acoustics.  The Chinese pianist squeezed in a midnight visit to the
empty hall at  Sonoma State University  about two weeks later,
filling the space with music by Beethoven and Chopin.  Lang Lang blessed the acoustics, and two months after that,
Weill, ex-chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and longtime board chairman
of  Carnegie Hall , gave $12 million to complete the 1,400-seat
venue.  “That’s the way Sandy works,” said Ruben Arminana, Sonoma
State’s president. “The guy has incredible contacts and a sense
of urgency to get things done.”  Lang Lang returns Saturday night to open the  Joan and
Sanford I. Weill Hall  in a debut season that has already “far
exceeded expectations,” spokeswoman Jessica Anderson said. The
Santa Rosa Symphony and country singer Alison Krauss perform on
Sunday afternoon and evening, with cellist Yo-Yo Ma, soprano
Barbara Cook and the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra with
Wynton Marsalis slated in coming months.  Weill emphasizes that it has taken a team effort to bring
the project to fruition, 17 years after Arminana first conceived
of a campus facility modeled on the Tanglewood Music Center in
Lenox,  Massachusetts .  Weill Hall itself is part of the university’s Donald and
Maureen Green Music Center, for which the technology
entrepreneur and his wife, members of a local Sonoma choir,
contributed $10 million in seed money.  ‘Sweat, Tears’  “Sonoma State is a great liberal-arts college that you
won’t find in a lot of other places,” Weill said in a telephone
interview from  New York , where he and Joan, board chairman of
 Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater , maintain a primary
residence. “A lot of people had ideas that helped build this
vision. Things don’t just happen. It takes blood, sweat, tears,
as well as money.”  Sonoma State is located in Rohnert Park, California, 50
miles north of San Francisco and within driving distance of wine
regions such as Dry Creek Valley and Russian River Valley.
Student housing “villages” are named after grape varietals:
Beaujolais, Cabernet, Zinfandel, Verdot and Sauvignon.  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s sponsorship of a 10,000-seat pavilion to
be built next to Weill Hall was accelerated by Weill reaching
out to the company, according to Arminana. Weill said he
contacted  Ajay Banga , chief executive officer of the Purchase,
New York-based global payments network, among other executives.  Fellowship Plan  Weill also helped facilitate a program with  Carnegie Hall 
and the Juilliard School that will send three postgraduate arts
professionals to Sonoma State for yearlong fellowships, starting
in June 2013, said Arminana, president of the university since
1992.  “It’s a novel proposition that a small liberal-arts public
college for California’s middle-rank high-school students now
has an association with Carnegie Hall,” said Jeff Langley, a
Juilliard graduate and professor of music and performing-arts
director at Sonoma State. “They’ll be exposed to the finest
performers, have workshops and master classes, and be shown all
that the arts have to offer.”  Lang Lang, one of the world’s top classical recording
stars, brought his mother and girlfriend for the acoustics test.  “He was wide awake and ready to go to work,” said
Langley, who attended the sound test. “For about 90 minutes, he
put that hall through its paces, like a kid stomping around with
a new toy. He was very intent on measuring ring and resonance.”  Tanglewood Roots  Weill Hall was designed by  William Rawn Associates , the
Boston-based architect of Seiji Ozawa Hall at Tanglewood, which
fired Arminana’s imagination during a visit in the summer of
1995. The Sonoma venue has a larger capacity and stage, and
features steamed beech-wood paneling and seats, said Larry
Kirkegaard, the acoustician for the auditorium and for Seiji
Ozawa Hall. A 50-foot-wide, 20-foot-high rear door can be opened
for lawn spectators behind the hall, he said.  It will take about a year for wood, plaster and other new
materials to “open up and add warmth,” said Kirkegaard, who is
based in  Chicago . Three microphones over the stage and three
along each side of the hall will carry sound delayed by a tenth
of a second to speakers on the lawn so the audience feels they
are inside, he said.  Weill, who retired as Citigroup’s CEO in 2003 and as
nonexecutive chairman in 2006, said that even though he and Joan
were unaware of the hall project when they bought their Sonoma
property, the couple knew they’d be involved in the community.  “We weren’t tired, and we didn’t want to stop being
creative or stop building,” Weill said in the interview. “This
was an area we loved, with incredible stimulation from
entrepreneurs and social media and a lot of wonderful people we
met. It turned out to be a great decision.”  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television,  Jason
Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 