-- What California’s Schools Can Learn From Chicago’s
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-09-27T22:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/what-california-s-schools-can-learn-from-chicago-s.html
It is hard for education reformers
to be too optimistic about the post-strike prospects for  Chicago 
schools. The resulting contract significantly boosts teacher pay
in exchange for some modest changes such as a lengthened school
day and improved teacher testing.  As school officials figure out how to pay for the new deal
and bolster vastly underfunded teacher pensions, new disputes
are likely to arise. At least officials in Chicago recognized
that educational improvements require taking on unions and their
counterproductive work rules.  By contrast, officials in  California  are still peddling the
idea that the state’s public-school system -- which receives 40
percent of the general-fund budget, by constitutional edict --
is struggling because it lacks money.  “We can’t keep cutting our schools and still keep the
economy strong for the next generation,” Governor  Jerry Brown 
wrote in support of Proposition 30, an initiative on the ballot
in November that would impose higher income taxes on
Californians who earn more than $250,000 a year and raise sales
taxes for everyone.  Brown’s pitch is as cynical as it is untrue. The tax
increase, which is favored in opinion polls, doesn’t provide
additional funds for schools. The governor and legislators
passed a budget that increases spending for many other
priorities, but cuts $5.4 billion from public schools, unless
voters approve the tax increase. So it is blackmail -- raise
taxes or watch school programs get cut. Brown and his fellow
Democrats didn’t have to set up the budget this way.  Charters’ Challenge  At the same time, the state’s political establishment is
trying to defeat Proposition 32, which strikes at the heart of
the school problem by attacking the way unions, including the
powerful California Teachers Association, are funded. That
initiative, lagging in the polls after a labor-financed ad
blitz, would stop automatic union-dues payroll deductions, which
bankroll the political campaigns that make the union such a
powerhouse.  But the real battle over education isn’t being waged in
 Sacramento , but in poor and middle-class neighborhoods of  Los
Angeles , where desperate parents have increasingly turned to
 charter schools . Such schools, which are free of the union
collective-bargaining constraints and many state regulations,
have flourished by offering students educational choices and a
model based on results.  As the Los Angeles Times reported in 2010, “Fueled by money
and emboldened by clout from some of the city’s most powerful
figures, charter schools began a period of explosive growth that
has challenged the status quo in the  Los Angeles Unified School
District .”  The city, which has the second-largest U.S. school system
after  New York , has the highest number of charter schools in the
nation. United Teachers Los Angeles fights the movement in any
way it can, from rallies (“Hell, no, we’re not fools, we don’t
want no charter schools” was one chant) to regulation efforts. A
proposal to expand restrictions on charters and halt new
approvals of such schools in the interim is up for a vote in
October. If the union can’t beat them, it is trying to organize
them.  But it is unionization that is afflicting public schools,
not lack of funds. At the state level, there is little debate
over education policy beyond efforts to find additional  tax
revenue . Even reforms that should be noncontroversial have no
hope of passing if the California Teachers Association opposes
them.  Quashing Reform  A bill introduced in the state Legislature after the  arrest 
of a Los Angeles elementary-school teacher on horrific
molestation charges would have streamlined “the labyrinthine
‘dismissal statutes’ that require districts to navigate a
seemingly endless maze of hearings and appeals,”  wrote  Larry
Sand in City Journal. But the union got the proposal quashed.  In 2009, the Los Angeles Times  exposed  how the school
district places teachers accused of serious wrongdoing in
“rubber rooms,” where they collect millions of dollars in pay
and benefits as the cases against them wend their way through
the system. That is why the Los Angeles school district gave the
teacher indicted for multiple sex crimes a $40,000 severance
package just to get rid of him.  It is impossible to run an efficient, productive and
compassionate school system when miscreants and incompetents
can’t easily be fired; where seniority trumps teaching skill;
and where city leaders, however reform-minded, have little
authority over the classroom.  Yet all that Californians hear about from their state
leaders are laments about a  lack  of money. “Spending on K-12
programs has decreased to $7,530 per pupil in the current budget
from a 2008-09 peak of $8,414,” reported the Sacramento Bee’s
Dan Walters. Yet a Pepperdine University  study  in 2010 found
that K-12 per-pupil spending soared almost 26 percent in the
five years before the peak.  These per-pupil spending numbers can be vastly understated,
according to some researchers. Adam Schaeffer of the  Cato
Institute , for example, calculated that, when local and state
bond measures and capital expenses are included in the spending
calculation, Los Angeles spent almost $30,000 a student in the
2007-08 school year.  “More money -- they repeat that like it’s some kind of
mantra,” said  Lance Izumi , a California education scholar and
member of the  board  of governors of the California community
colleges. “There’s no correlation between higher spending and
performance. If that were the case, the Washington, D.C., public
schools would be the best ones in the nation.”  Administrators Galore  Meanwhile, the schools superintendent in Los Angeles,  John
Deasy , told a community group this month that the district is so
financially pressed that it can’t cut its lawns because “we
fired all the gardeners.” It is hard to feel too sorry for the
district, given that the Pepperdine study found that while
classroom funding fell, spending soared on the number and pay of
administrators. This spike, while not necessarily the fault of
the union, is another failure of a noncompetitive school system.  Will California voters buy into the poor-mouthing and hand
over more cash? Or will they look closely at Los Angeles, where
the only hope for change comes from competitive school
alternatives, and at Chicago, where a Democratic mayor could
finally draw a line with the teachers union?  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in Sacramento. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 