-- Wheatley’s Review Draws the Right Conclusions About Libor
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-27T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/wheatley-s-review-draws-the-right-conclusions-about-libor.html
The U.K. finally has a plan to
overhaul the London interbank offered rate, the deeply flawed
benchmark that has, for more than two decades, set the payments
made worldwide on mortgages, corporate loans and derivatives.  Given the constraints, and with some important caveats,
they’ve done a respectable job.  Martin Wheatley, the U.K.’s chief financial regulator,
faced a quandary in early July when he started  a review  of Libor
amid overwhelming evidence of manipulation. He had to tread
carefully, lest changes render null and void the more than $300
trillion in contracts tied to the benchmark. At the same time,
he had to do something to restore trust in one of the world’s
most important financial indicators.  Created in the 1980s, the Libor system could hardly have
been better designed for corruption. The calculation of the
benchmark, which is supposed to provide an objective picture of
 interest rates  across 10 currencies and 15 time periods, relies
on self-reported estimates from banks that have huge incentives
to game the system. The same banks control the British Bankers’
Association, the trade group that owns and purports to police
Libor. The entire process exists completely outside the purview
of regulators. Not surprisingly, misbehavior ensued. Global
investigators are only now beginning to understand the extent of
the mischief.  Wheatley’s Reforms  Wheatley’s reforms,  all of which  we have advocated, go
about as far as they can without changing the definition of
Libor. The highlights:  1) The BBA will be removed from the picture, and U.K.
authorities will hold an open competition to find a new
administrator. (Disclosure: Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a competitor of Thomson Reuters Corp., which
conducts Libor surveys on behalf of the BBA. Bloomberg has
proposed its own alternative to Libor.)  2) Bankers involved in setting Libor will be subjected to
regulatory oversight, and manipulation will become a criminal
offense.  3) The number of Libor maturities and currencies will be
pared down to those in which borrowing actually occurs, a move
intended to take some of the guesswork out of banks’ interest-
rate estimates.  Unfortunately, Wheatley stopped short of one measure that
would have greatly improved transparency: requiring banks to
report actual borrowing transactions, against which the public
could  check the veracity  of the estimates that banks submit.
Instead, he has recommended that even the publication of
individual banks’ estimates be put on a three-month delay -- as
opposed to being posted immediately. The change is intended to
mitigate the stigma banks might suffer if they report rising
borrowing costs during times of crisis.  As a result, it will actually become more difficult for
outsiders to assess Libor’s reliability in real time. If banks
are reporting honestly, it’s hard to understand why they would
object to the publication of the relevant information from
actual transactions. This could be done with a three-month
delay, as a quid pro quo for postponing the publication of the
banks’ Libor submissions.  Ultimately, the market  will be better off  moving away from
Libor and other survey-based benchmarks to ones that rely on
observable transactions. Criminal prosecutions of those
responsible for undermining Libor could also  go a long way 
toward changing a culture that encouraged manipulation.  That said, following through on Wheatley’s recommendations
should be enough to keep Libor going until a viable replacement
emerges. Given that the benchmark’s flaws have been visible for
years, the changes have been far too long in coming.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  dangers of China-bashing 
in U.S. politics;  Jonathan Alter  on  fixing campaign finance ;
Stephen L. Carter on  Washington’s outsize wealth ; William Pesek
on bringing the  Olympics to Japan ;  Jonathan Weil  on  giving banks
public grades  as cities do with restaurants;  Steven Greenhut  on
 Chicago ’s challenge to  California on unions ; Lawrence Sheets on
the folly of ignoring  Georgia’s elections .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 