-- WikiLeaks’s Assange Named Enemy by U.S. Military, Age Reports
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-09-27T01:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/wikileaks-s-assange-named-enemy-by-u-s-military-age-reports.html
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange
has been designated an “enemy” of the U.S. by its military,
according to declassified U.S. Air Force counter-intelligence
documents,  Australia ’s  Age newspaper reported .  Military personnel who contact WikiLeaks or its supporters
may be at risk of being charged with “communicating with the
enemy,” a military crime that carries a maximum sentence of
death, according to the documents, released under U.S. freedom
of information laws, the Age said.  The designation is the same legal category as the al-Qaeda
terrorist network and the Taliban insurgency, the Age said. The
Australian citizen’s U.S. attorney, Michael Ratner, said the
designation of WikiLeaks as an enemy had serious implications
for Assange if he were to be extradited to the U.S., including
possible military detention, the newspaper reported on its
website. The U.S. Defense Department had no immediate comment on
the report when contacted by e-mail.  Assange sought asylum in Ecuador’s embassy in  London  on
June 19 after exhausting options in U.K. courts to avert
extradition to  Sweden , where he faces questioning on allegations
of rape and sexual molestation. Assange, from the balcony of the
embassy Aug. 19, called on the U.S. government to end its “war
on whistle-blowers.” WikiLeaks has published thousands of
classified U.S. military and diplomatic documents.  “These are U.S. documents obtained under an FOI in the
U.S.,” Patrick Lowe, spokesman for Australian Foreign Affairs
Minister Bob Carr, said in a phone interview from  New York .
“It’s not a matter for Australia,” he said, declining to
comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  