-- Wisconsin Top Court Won’t Hear State Voter-ID Case Quicky
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-27T22:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/wisconsin-top-court-won-t-hear-state-voter-id-case-quicky.html
Wisconsin ’s  Supreme Court  denied
the state’s request to immediately hear its appeals of two trial
court-level rulings invalidating a voter identification law.  Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen last month asked the high
court to delay enforcement of the decisions rendered by a pair
judges in the state’s capital city, Madison, earlier this year
pending appellate review. He also asked the seven-justice panel
to immediately hear his challenges and bypass the state’s
intermediate appellate court.  In separate rulings issued today, the high court denied Van
Hollen’s requests.  “There will be no voter ID law in effect for the
presidential election on Nov. 6,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Lester
Pines said in a phone interview. His Madison firm represented
the League of Women Voters Wisconsin Education Network in one of
the cases.  Dane County Circuit Judge Richard G. Niess, who presided
over the League case, in March ruled the law requiring otherwise
eligible voters to present a government-issued photo
identification before being allowed to cast their ballots was an
unconstitutional burden.  Temporary Order  Dane County Judge  David Flanagan , who had issued his own
temporary order enjoining enforcement earlier that month in a
suit brought by the Milwaukee branch of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People, invalidated the law in
July after a bench trial.  First-term Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, signed the
voter ID measure into law last year.  “This court recognizes the importance of the issues raised
in this case and NAACP,” the state’s Supreme Court said in its
ruling today in the League of Women Voters case. “The two cases
share a commonality of subject matter, and if we were to grant
review, we would hear oral argument in both cases on the same
day and would take both matters under advisement at the same
time.”  Because appellate briefing is not yet complete in the NAACP
suit, the high court said, it is “not feasible” to hear them
both at this time.  ‘Very Disappointed’  Van Hollen , in a press statement issued today, said he was
“very disappointed,” by the high court decisions.  “The Voter ID law protects the integrity of our
elections,” he said. “The result is that the injunctions
against the Voter ID law remain in effect and will, in all
likelihood, be in effect for the upcoming November elections.”  The attorney general said he continued to believe in the
constitutionality of the measure and would continue to fight for
its enforcement.  The cases are League of Women Voters of Wisconsin v.
Walker, 2012AP584; and Milwaukee Branch of the NAACP v. Walker,
2012AP1652, Wisconsin Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  