-- Woongjin Units Tumble in Seoul on Parent’s Receivership
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-09-27T06:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/woongjin-units-tumble-on-parent-receivership-filing-seoul-mover.html
Woongjin Coway Co. (021240)  plunged by the
daily limit in Seoul trading after the South Korean water-
purifier maker’s parent filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Woongjin Coway  tumbled  by the daily limit of 15 percent to
36,150 won at the close on the Korea Exchange, its steepest loss
since June 2002. Woongjin Chemical Co. and Woongjin Energy Co.,
units of the Woongjin Group, both slid by 15 percent, while
Woongjin Holdings Co.’s shares were suspended from trading. The
benchmark  Kospi index  added 0.4 percent.  The group halted the 1.2 trillion won ($1 billion) sale of
a 31 percent stake in Coway to buyout fund MBK Partners Ltd.
after the holding company and its unlisted unit Kukdong
Engineering & Construction Co. applied for receivership to Seoul
Central District Court yesterday. Woongjin was selling Coway as
part of a plan to cut debt, which swelled after acquiring a
construction business in 2007.  “Investors don’t have exact, detailed information on how
bad Woongjin Group’s situation is, creating a big uncertainty,”
Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion, said by
telephone today. “There seems to be concern that it will have
negative spillover effects on group affiliates.”  A meeting of Coway shareholders’ to approve the stake sale,
which was scheduled for today, has been delayed until Nov. 9,
the water-purifier maker said in a regulatory filing without
giving reason for the change.  Market Share  Coway last year took 55 percent of the country’s water-
purifier market and 44 percent of the market for air cleaners,
according to a regulatory filing. The company posted a profit of
161.2 billion won on sales of 1.82 trillion won in 2011.  Progress on the Coway sale to MBK Partners appears to be
difficult with uncertainties arising from the court receivership
process, which usually takes about six months, Credit Suisse
Group AG analysts Sonia Kim and Ray Kim said in a report today.  Officials of MBK Partners did not answer Bloomberg News
telephone calls or reply to e-mails seeking comment.  Separately, the group said in a Sept. 21 regulatory filing
that it hired Woori Investment & Securities Co. as adviser as it
seeks to sell a polysilicon unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net 
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  