-- NYC Plans World’s Largest Ferris Wheel on Staten Island
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-09-27T20:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/world-s-biggest-ferris-wheel-will-anchor-staten-island-complex.html
The world’s largest Ferris wheel
will be part of an almost $500 million development on  Staten
Island  that will also feature an outlet mall and hotel next to
an existing minor-league baseball stadium,  New York City 
officials said.  The tentatively named New York Wheel will be a short walk
from the Staten Island Ferry, the city’s third-most-popular
tourist attraction, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said today. It will
stand 625 feet (190 meters) high, exceeding by 84 feet the
Singapore Flyer and by 75 feet a planned wheel in  Las Vegas .  “No question: The wheel and the outlet shopping center
will put Staten Island right in the center of travel plans for
millions of visitors to our city,” Bloomberg said at a news
conference on the island. “Both will bring new life and
economic opportunity to the borough.”  The planned attraction, one of the largest private
investments in Staten Island history, is part of the mayor’s
effort to spur development on the borough’s north shore while
continuing to attract record tourists to the city and repurpose
its waterfront. This year, Bloomberg set a goal to welcome 55
million annual visitors by 2015, when the wheel is set to open.  Rent Payments  BFC Partners , a Brooklyn-based developer, will construct
Harbor Commons, a 350,000-square-foot retail complex featuring
100 designer outlets and restaurants and a 200-room, 120,000-
square-foot hotel south of the ballpark, where an affiliate of
the  New York  Yankees plays.  No government money will be used on the project, which will
be built on city-owned land now used for parking lots, said Seth Pinsky, president of the city’s Economic Development Corp.,
which helped plan the project. The city will gain financially
through $2.5 million in annual rent and tax revenue expected to
net $100 million over 30 years, the mayor said. The project
needs City Council approval.  Bloomberg spoke with the Manhattan skyline as his backdrop,
flanked by more than a dozen elected officials and project
planners along with poster-sized renditions of the new
waterfront.  Pinsky said the wheel will become a “true icon on the
skyline of New York City.” U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  said it
would rival Paris’s Eiffel Tower. George Fertitta, who heads NYC
& Company, the city’s tourist arm, said it would change the way
the world thinks about Staten Island and the island thinks about
itself.  “This is the place you’re going to want to be,” said
Borough President James Molinaro.  Summer Fun  Construction should begin in early 2014 for the ride, which
will operate seven days a week, 365 days per year, except during
severe weather or maintenance, from about 10 a.m to 10 p.m. in
the fall, winter and spring. In the summer, the wheel will be in
use for longer hours, the mayor said.  Officials expect a peak of 30,000 riders per day and about
4.5 million visitors per year. Rides in the 36 capsules, each
able to carry as many as 40 passengers with a maximum capacity
of 1,440 people per ride, will last about 38 minutes.  The designer and manufacturer will be Starneth BV, which
includes members of the team that built the 443-foot  London Eye 
observation wheel.  The complex will generate $480 million in private
investment and create more than 1,200 construction jobs and
1,100 permanent ones, the mayor’s office said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 Edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  