-- Xstrata Split With Glencore on Terms as Deadline Nears: Energy
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-28T16:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/xstrata-split-with-glencore-on-terms-as-deadline-nears-energy.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the largest exporter
of coal used by power stations, is still at odds with  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  over board seats and retention pay three days
before a deadline for it to respond to Glencore’s revised 20.5
billion-pound ($33.3 billion) takeover bid.  Xstrata is seeking assurances that one of its executives
will replace the Swiss company’s Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  on the combined board, according to people familiar with
the talks, who asked not to be identified as the discussions are
private. While Davis’s proposed departure no more than six
months after the completion of the deal requires conditions and
assurances to retain key managers, which could still potentially
thwart the deal, both sides are committed to reaching an accord,
the people said.  The talks, which were extended last week, may be one of the
final stages in a seven-month effort by Glencore to seal what
would rank as the largest takeover in the world this year. The
friendly deal has almost been derailed by investor demands for
improved terms and opposition to the 172.8 million pounds of
proposed retention bonuses for 73 Xstrata executives. A dramatic
11th-hour move by Glencore on Sept. 7 to save the transaction
saw the commodity trader raise its all-stock offer and propose
its CEO Ivan Glasenberg eventually lead the enlarged company and
not Davis as originally planned.  “Xstrata’s board will most likely recommend the sweetened
offer as the management structure will broadly be unchanged,”
said Myles Allsop, an analyst at UBS AG in  London . The
likelihood of the deal succeeding is greater than 60 percent, he
said.  Colombian Mines  Xstrata is due to respond to Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore’s revised proposal by 7 a.m. London time on Oct. 1,
after receiving a week’s extension.  Xstrata’s  independent directors  are still addressing
shareholders’ concerns about the retention payments, the people
said. The views of Xstrata shareholders on the issue are wide-
ranging, with some opposing the measure while others say it’s
necessary to ensure loyalty of the team that manages Xstrata’s
mines, one of the people said. Spokesmen for Glencore and
Xstrata declined to comment.  Glencore is seeking to create the world’s fourth-biggest
mining company by combining with Xstrata, in which it has a 34
stake. Xstrata owns mines in  Australia ,  South Africa  and
 Colombia . It produced 72.4 million tons of coal used to generate
electricity in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Glencore has coal mines in Colombia and South Africa. It also
trades the fuel and has an agreement to sell Xstrata’s coal
exports.  CEO Switch  Glencore increased its takeover offer to 3.05 of its shares
for each one in Xstrata on Sept. 7 after investors including
Qatar Holding LLC, a sovereign wealth fund with a 12 percent
stake in Xstrata, called for a higher bid.  The deal is structured as a so-called scheme of
arrangement, the terms of which prevent Glencore from voting its
Xstrata stake. That means investors holding as little as 16.5
percent of Xstrata can block the transaction.  Xstrata declined 0.2 percent to 957.50 pence at the close
in London, while Glencore was little changed at 343.10 pence.
That means Xstrata is trading at an 8.5 percent discount to the
bid.  Glencore said Sept. 10 that Glasenberg, 55, would take the
top job from Davis, 54, within six months of the deal’s
completion. Davis was to have managed the combined company for
about three years, according to the original offer announced
Feb. 7.  Investor Criticism  Under the terms of the original takeover accord, the board
of the combined company was to have included Davis, Glasenberg,
and four non-executive directors from each company while Xstrata
Chairman  John Bond  would take the same role. Bond will still be
chairman, according to the revised takeover plan.  In May, Xstrata announced the proposed retention bonuses,
which included 28.8 million pounds for Davis over three years.
It said they were necessary to retain senior employees
overseeing a multibillion-dollar expansion of production. The
bonuses were criticized as excessive by some investors including
Standard Life Investments Plc and Fidelity Worldwide Investment.  “We worry about the proposed loss of Xstrata’s management
talent given the importance that the mining and energy business
would have to the combined entity,” Paul Gait, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London, said in a note today.  There’s no disagreement between the two mining companies
over the bonuses. Glencore said Sept. 10 that it was “content”
with Xstrata’s request for its employees to get retention and
incentive payments.  Executive Names  Some shareholders met with the company two weeks ago and
asked Xstrata directors to name the executives who would receive
the bonuses and justify the payment to each individual,
according to one of the people familiar with the talks.  Davis won’t be entitled to receive his bonus under the new
terms because he would leave before he qualifies for his pay.
His contract entitles him to receive a termination fee of about
$13 million when he steps down.  A successful acquisition by Glencore at current share
prices would be the second-largest in the  mining industry ,
behind Rio Tinto Group’s $38 billion purchase of  Canada ’s Alcan
Inc. in 2007. The volume of announced takeovers of mining
companies rose to $80.2 billion last year, the highest since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as commodity
demand in developing nations and the deteriorating quality of
mineral reserves pushed producers to seek greater economies of
scale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  