-- Myanmar Leader Hails Suu Kyi, Says Transition ‘Complex’
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-09-28T01:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/myanmar-leader-hails-suu-kyi-says-transition-complex-.html
Myanmar President Thein Sein
saluted top dissident Aung San Suu Kyi in a speech to the United
Nations that dwelled on the difficulties facing his nation as it
is “ushering in a new era” of democratic rule.  As the first Myanmar head of state to address the UN
General Assembly, Thein Sein acknowledged Suu Kyi to an audience
of world leaders and said that “the transformation process” in
Myanmar “would be a complex and delicate one that requires
patience.”  “As a Myanmar citizen, I would like to congratulate her
for the honors she has received in this country in recognition
of her efforts for democracy,” he said in New York yesterday.  Myanmar’s peaceful shift to democracy followed bloody
uprisings in the Arab world last year that felled authoritarian
rulers in  Egypt , Tunisia and Libya. Since taking office last
year, Thein Sein has freed hundreds of political prisoners and
held talks with Suu Kyi, who won a seat in Parliament in April
by-elections and is also in the U.S. on a 17-day tour.  “They are on the same page now and they want to move
ahead,” Thaung Tun, a visiting senior research fellow at the
 Institute of Southeast Asian Studies  in  Singapore , said of Thein
Sein and Suu Kyi. “If they work together, they can bring in
investment and make a difference to the lives of the people.”  While Democratic reforms have prompted Western nations to
ease sanctions and led businesses to consider investing in
Myanmar, thornier issues still left to untangle include the
plight of ethnic minorities such as the Rohingya Muslims.  ‘Unexpected Issues’  The president devoted much of his speech to the obstacles.  “While the government is resolutely pursuing political,
social and economic reforms, some unfortunate and unexpected
issues have come up in our way,” Thein Sein said.  He said his government would respect the human rights of
all people as the nation seeks a solution to unrest in a border
area with  Bangladesh , where fighting between Muslim Rohingyas
and local Buddhists has killed about 90 people and displaced
more than 70,000 others. UN official Ashok Nigam called on
authorities to resolve citizenship issues regarding the
Rohingyas at a meeting in Myanmar earlier this week.  “The issue at hand cannot be solved overnight,” Thein
Sein said. “It will be resolved by taking short-term and long-
term measures through a multi-faceted approach taking into
account political, economic and social aspects.”  Ethnic Cease-Fires  Thein Sein also pledged to make peace with rebel armies
among the country’s ethnic minority groups, particularly the
Kachin Independence Army. Noting that the government signed 10
cease-fires with ethnic minority armies so far, he said “peace
negotiations will then continue to reach a final peace agreement
that would completely end the armed hostilities.”  Thein Sein previously addressed the General Assembly in
2009 as prime minister, when he served as the public face of a
military junta headed by Than Shwe. He took full control
following 2010 elections that were boycotted by Suu Kyi’s party
and denounced as a sham by the U.S. and European nations.  Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize winner who spent 15 years
under house arrest, last week told reporters that she shared a
“common goal” with Thein Sein.  “I am happy that sanctions are now being lifted,” she
 said  on Sept. 21. “It is time now that the Burmese people took
responsibility for their democratization of the country.”  In his speech, Thein Sein highlighted moves to ease
restrictions on Internet freedom and allow people to organize,
including the formation of independent trade unions. The U.S.
and European Union have eased sanctions on Myanmar in recent
months, prompting companies such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Visa Inc. (V) 
to seek a presence in the country.  Expanding Trade  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton this week said the U.S.
would ease a ban on imports in place since 2003. The move
follows an announcement by President  Barack Obama  in July to
allow new investments in Myanmar for the first time in 15 years.  Total trade last year between the U.S. and Myanmar reached
$49 million, all in exports, an amount equivalent to half what
America trades with neighboring  Thailand  in a single day,
government statistics  show . A decade ago, U.S.-Myanmar commerce
was seven times greater.  Myanmar’s economy may grow as much as 8 percent annually if
policy makers keep prices under control, increase trade and
attract investment, the Asian Development Bank  said  last month.
About a quarter of the population has access to electricity,
while mobile-phone and Internet usage is among the lowest in
Southeast Asia, the ADB said.  “Myanmar is making progress on her democratic path,”
Thein Sein said. “But this has not been an easy task.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  