-- Younger Mona Lisa Lacks Leonardo’s Look: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-09-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/younger-mona-lisa-lacks-leonardo-s-look-martin-gayford.html
Suddenly, it seems to be raining
Mona Lisas.  A website that went live yesterday argues that there are,
in fact, two authentic Leonardo pictures of that famous smile:
the familiar painting in the Louvre and another, earlier version
of a distinctly younger-looking sitter, known as “The Isleworth
Mona Lisa” (from the west  London  suburb where its then owner
lived).  This was discovered, or so the story goes, by a British
artist and collector named Hugh Blaker (1878-1936) in Somerset
just before the World War I.  Later, it was owned by an  art dealer , Henry F. Pulitzer,
who placed it in a Swiss bank vault in 1975, where it has
remained more or less ever since. It is now owned by an
international group.  Two years ago the “Mona Lisa Foundation” was formed to
research the picture, and its findings are presented on the
website  http://monalisa.org . The picture itself was been on show
in Geneva.  So how does the evidence stack up? Central to the case is
that there were two distinct Mona Lisas painted by Leonardo in
the first place. The evidence for this is shaky.  The artist and historian Giorgio Vasari (1511-1574) stated
that the picture was unfinished -- which the Louvre painting
obviously isn’t. But he never saw the painting, never met
Leonardo, was writing decades later and frequently got his facts
slightly scrambled.  Lomazzo’s Pair  A later 16th-century writer, Gian Paolo Lomazzo (1538-92),
refers to “the portrait of La Gioconda and of the  Mona Lisa ” as
if there were two of them. The same objections apply. He never
saw the original, which was in  France .  Also, if there were two pictures, it would make no sense to
title one with the sitter’s surname and the other with her first
name. Both titles refer to the same Florentine woman, Lisa del
Giocondo.  On the other hand, it’s not impossible that there were
multiple versions of the picture. There are of several other
Leonardo paintings, including the “Madonna of the Yarnwinder,”
from approximately the same date.  In 2006, an article in the scholarly magazine Apollo
counted nine good copies of the Mona Lisa from the 16th and 17th
centuries (not including the Isleworth version).  Prado’s Mona  Earlier this year, one of those, owned by the  Prado  in
 Madrid  was claimed to have been painted in Leonardo’s studio, in
parallel with the  Louvre  painting.  The Isleworth Lisa is quite distinct from the others. Not
only is she younger-looking, but she has a different landscape
behind her and two pillars on either side (as a few early works
apparently derived from the Mona Lisa, including a drawing by
Raphael, do too).  The pillars are perhaps a point in her favor, although the
Prado picture has them too. So too is technical evidence that
apparently shows some of the paint is pre-1750, and the canvas
around 1500.  The fact that the picture is on canvas is a strike against
it. (All authentic Leonardo paintings were originally on panel,
though some were later transferred to canvas).  So what’s the verdict? Personally -- and judging,
admittedly, from photographs -- I’m not convinced, and I doubt
many Leonardo experts will be either. She just doesn’t look
“right,” as they say in the art world.  Her hands look boneless, her face strangely flat and the
landscape, even if unfinished, is nothing like any other
Leonardo. If it weren’t for that scientific evidence of age, I
might have suspected that Hugh Blaker had painted her himself at
home in Isleworth.  Information:  http://monalisa.org/   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Zinta
Lundborg’s   New York  weekend and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 