-- Typhoon Jelawat Looms Off Taiwan, Bound for Disputed Islands
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-09-27T16:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/typhoon-jelawat-looms-off-taiwan-bound-for-disputed-islands-1-.html
Taiwan  warned of floods and
landslides as the second super typhoon in two weeks ripped
through the  East China Sea  and headed for islands where Chinese
and Japanese vessels are in a territorial standoff.  With gusts as fast as 115 knots (132 miles or 213
kilometers an hour), Super Typhoon Jelawat was 410 kilometers
east-southeast of Kaohsiung at 11 p.m. yesterday, the Hong Kong
Observatory  reported . The storm is expected to move north at
about 14 kilometers an hour toward the seas east of Taiwan.  Jelawat follows Sanba, which lashed southern Japan and
 South Korea  earlier this month, grounding aircraft and
disrupting electricity. Jelawat is forecast to travel northeast
away from Taiwan from today and may cross islands claimed by
 China , Japan and Taiwan on a path toward the southern coast of
 Japan , according to the U.S Joint Typhoon Warning Center.  The Japanese Coast Guard declined to comment on the
movement of ships around the islands situated northeast of
Taiwan, known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese,
according to a spokesman who cited “security reasons.” A
three-way contest over the oil and gas-rich area erupted after
Japan reached a deal to buy the islands from a private Japanese
owner.  ‘Catastrophic Damage’  More than 50 Taiwanese fishing boats and 12 patrol vessels
left waters surrounding the islands on Sept. 25 after Japanese
ships fired water cannons at them, Taiwan’s Coast Guard
Administration said in a statement.  China’s Foreign Ministry referred questions to the
government fisheries agency when asked about bad weather plans
for the Diaoyu Islands at a scheduled press briefing yesterday.
An official with the Ministry of Agriculture couldn’t
immediately comment and declined to be identified.  A super typhoon has winds of at least 185 kilometers per
hour, according to the  Hong Kong Observatory . The storm is a
category 4, the second-strongest on the five-level Saffir-
Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale, with winds between 209 and 251
kilometers per hour. A storm of that strength can cause
“catastrophic damage” to homes, trees and power lines,
according to the U.S.  National Hurricane Center .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net  