-- Yuan Snaps Two-Day Gain as PBOC Cuts Fixing Amid Growth Concern
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-09-27T08:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/yuan-snaps-two-day-gain-as-pboc-cuts-fixing-amid-growth-concern.html
China ’s  yuan  halted a two-day gain
as the central bank lowered the  reference rate  for the currency
amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is hurting exports from Asia’s
biggest economy.  The People’s Bank of China weakened the yuan’s daily fixing
for a third day by 0.03 percent to 6.3459 per dollar. Profits at
Chinese industrial companies fell for a fifth month in August, a
government report showed today, adding to signs the nation’s
economic slowdown is extending into a seventh quarter. The euro
traded near a two-week low amid concern public protests against
austerity measures in Spain and Greece will delay efforts to
resolve Europe’s debt crisis.  “The market is still focusing on the slowdown in the
mainland economy as Europe’s crisis prolongs troubles in the
export sector,” said Patrick Cheng, a currency analyst at
Haitong International Securities Co. in  Hong Kong . “Everybody
is expecting some new policies to boost the economy.”  The yuan weakened 0.01 percent to 6.3025 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency, which can trade as much as 1 percent on either
side of the daily fixing, gained 0.7 percent this month and 0.8
percent this quarter. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, decreased 10 basis
points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.15 percent.  Net income at industrial companies fell 6.2 percent from a
year earlier to 381 billion yuan ($60 billion), the National
Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing. That compares with a 5.4
percent slide in July and a 1.7 percent drop in June.  ‘Growth Model Exhausted’  Demonstrators gathered near parliament in  Madrid  yesterday
before Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  submits a fifth
package of budget cuts, while Greek police in  Athens  dispersed
protesters with tear gas.  China’s strategy of using an “undervalued currency” and
building foreign-exchange reserves to fuel growth has come to an
end, billionaire investor  George Soros  said yesterday in New
York. “The growth model that has been driving it has been
exhausted,” Soros said. “They have to change.”  More than 10 Chinese provinces and municipalities have
rolled out regional economic stimulus measures since June,
taking the total planned spending to almost 20 trillion yuan,
compared with the 4 trillion yuan plan that the central
government introduced in 2008, China Business News reported
today, citing its own calculations.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.03 percent
to 6.4185 per dollar in Hong Kong, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was a 1.8 percent discount to the spot rate in
Shanghai. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.1
percent to 6.3125.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 