-- Korea Aerospace Jumps on Hyundai Heavy’s Stake Bid: Seoul Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-09-28T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/hyundai-heavy-vies-with-korean-air-for-korea-aerospace-stake.html
Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. (047810) 
surged the most in more than a year in Seoul after  Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. (009540)  offered to buy a stake in the maker of supersonic
trainer jets, rivaling a bid from Korean Air Lines Co.  The planemaker  jumped  15 percent, the most since its June
2011 trading debut, after shipbuilder Hyundai Heavy offered to
buy a 42 percent shareholding being sold by investors led by
Korea Finance Corp. The stake is worth $1.02 billion, based on
today’s closing price.  Hyundai Heavy’s entrance revives a sale that had been in
danger of collapse because state-controlled Korea Finance needs
at least two offers before it can sell an asset. The Ulsan,
South Korea-based builder of commercial ships and submarines is
competing for the stake as  South Korea  buys more fighters and
helicopters to counter higher defense spending in  North Korea .  “Hyundai Heavy entering the race changes everything,”
said Paul Hah, a Woori Investment & Securities Co. analyst. An
investment from the shipbuilder would also “be a far better
scenario for Korea Aerospace” than a deal with Korean Air, he
said.  The two bidders filed preliminary offers yesterday,
according to Korea Finance, which is selling shares with  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , Samsung Techwin Co. and Doosan Group. It didn’t say
how much the companies offered. The bidders will get to inspect
Korea Aerospace’s books before making final offers next month.  Ship-Order Slump  Hyundai Heavy may follow Japanese shipbuilders  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. into
aerospace as it contends with rising competition from Chinese
yards and a global slump in orders for commercial vessels. The
company has posted five straight declines in quarterly profit.  “The purchase could provide Hyundai Heavy with a stable
source of income, especially now when its main business isn’t
doing all that well,” Hah said. The company also “has the
marketing network that could help Korea Aerospace sell its
trainer jets and other products.”  The Sacheon-based  planemaker  was the best performer on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index today. The stock has fallen 29 percent
this year, compared with a 9.3 percent gain for South Korea’s
benchmark Kospi index. The company had a market value of $2.4
billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Heavy fell 1.6 percent to 252,500 won, compared
with a 0.4 percent decline for the 10-stock KRX Shipbuilding
Index. Seoul-based  Korean Air  dropped 3.5 percent to 47,550 won.  Defense Sales  Korea Aerospace got 57 percent of its 1.29 trillion-won
sales from the nation’s military last year. The company builds
the T-50 jet-plane trainer, which was developed with Lockheed
Martin Corp., and a helicopter that was devised with Eurocopter.
The company, which also makes drones and parts for commercial
planes, will begin building a fighter version of T-50 next year.
It’s also working on the nation’s first heavy fighter.  South Korea’s Defense Acquisition Program Administration is
seeking a 6.3 percent increase in its 2013 budget to 10.5
trillion won for purchases of artillery, jet fighters, tanks and
warships.  Hyundai Heavy bid for the Korea Aerospace stake six weeks
after an initial registration deadline. Korea Aerospace had
fallen 12 percent through yesterday since Aug. 16, the initial
deadline for expressions of interests, which only Korean Air
met. The  carrier  already has a unit making parts for Boeing Co.
and Airbus SAS planes.  Hyundai Heavy  has been monitoring the Korea Aerospace sale
and it decided to bid as the aviation industry could provide a
good growth opportunity, said spokesman Kim Ki Young.  More Synergy  Korean Air hopes for a fair and transparent bidding
process, the carrier said in an e-mailed statement. The company
has experience and technology in making aircraft, and a takeover
of Korea Aerospace will help avoid any investment duplications
and create more synergy, it said.  Hyundai Heavy has already responded to competition from
Chinese yards for dry-bulk vessels by moving its focus onto more
complex models such as larger container-ships and liquefied
natural-gas tankers. The company also makes excavators and
builds power stations.  The company also formed an  alternative-energy  division in
2010 and bought oil refiner Hyundai Oilbank Co. the same year to
further pare its reliance on shipbuilding. The green energy
division has been losing money since last year as the global
economic slowdown saps demand.  “Hyundai Heavy really needs something for future growth
given that the demand in the alternative-energy market is so
weak,” said Lee Jae Won, an analyst at Tongyang Securities Inc.
in  Seoul .  The green energy business made an operating loss of 23.8
billion won in the first half of this year following a full-year
loss of 175.2 billion won in 2011. Global ship orders fell 47
percent through August this year, according to shipbroker
 Clarkson Plc .  Airbus Parts  Korea Aerospace has a limited pool of potential bidders
because national-security rules mandate that it remains under
local ownership. The company plans to spend 245.4 billion won
this year, including construction of a new plant that will make
wing components for Airbus A320 planes under a record $1.2
billion deal signed in March.  Hyundai Heavy has raised 1.75 trillion won this year
selling debt and shares. It may raise another 1 trillion won in
bonds, loans and other means, according to a Newspim report in
August. The  shipbuilder  had $11 billion of current assets at the
end of June compared with Korean Air’s $2.5 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Between the two bidders, Hyundai Heavy would be a better
choice for Korea Aerospace,” said Tongyang’s Lee. “In the
long-term, it would be a win-win for both companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  