-- Zhengzhou Coal Said to Plan Wider Discount for Hong Kong
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-09-28T02:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/zhengzhou-coal-said-to-plan-wider-discount-for-hong-kong.html
Zhengzhou Coal Mining Machinery
Group Co.  is seeking regulatory approval to sell shares in  Hong
Kong  at more than the standard 10 percent discount to its
Shanghai stock, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Zhengzhou Coal, China’s largest maker of hydraulic roof
supports used in mining, has asked the China Securities
Regulatory Commission for permission to offer shares as much as
15 percent below the  Shanghai price , the people said, asking not
to be identified as the information is private. Chinese
regulators typically require companies to sell stock overseas at
no more than a 10 percent discount to their local price.  The company and its bankers concluded after meetings with
potential investors in Hong Kong that a bigger discount was
needed to lure buyers, one of the people said.  China ’s economic
slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis have weakened demand for new
shares in Hong Kong, and first-time offerings in the city are on
track for their slowest year since 2003.  “Even a huge discount may not be enough to attract
investors who have lost confidence in the market,” said Michiya
Tomita, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees $70 billion. A big discount does
not necessarily mean cheap valuation as the Shanghai market is
closed to most overseas investors, he said.  A Hong Kong-based outside spokeswoman for Zhengzhou Coal
declined to comment on the share sale plan yesterday.  Haitong Sale  Most China-traded companies that sold additional stock in
Hong Kong since 1999 have done so at less than a 10 percent
discount to their existing shares, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Companies have raised $5.7 billion from first-time
offerings in Hong Kong this year, the least for similar periods
since 2003, the data show.  In April, Haitong Securities Co. sold shares at a 10
percent discount to its volume-weighted average price in
Shanghai over the 20 trading days before the Hong Kong offering,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company raised $1.7
billion.  Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal Co. (900948)  priced its $900 million Hong
Kong offering in July at a level close to the 20-day average of
its Shanghai shares.  Offering Delay  Zhengzhou Coal may postpone its share sale to November or
December as it awaits regulators’ approval, said the people. The
company had planned to start trading in Hong Kong in early
October, people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Zhengzhou Coal, based in Zhengzhou city, has fallen 18
percent this year in Shanghai, valuing it at  14.3 billion yuan 
($2.3 billion) as of yesterday’s close. The Hong Kong offering
may account for about 20 percent of the company’s increased
capital, the people said. Zhengzhou Coal shares rose 0.3 percent
today.  China’s benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index has lost 6.5
percent this year and fell below 2,000 on Sept. 26, a level last
seen in early 2009, as Chinese industrial companies’ profits
dropped for a fifth month in August. The index jumped the most
in three weeks yesterday on speculation the government will
announce measures to bolster the stock market.  Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG are
managing the offering for Zhengzhou Coal, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  