-- Zimbabwe’s Mugabe Proposes March Ballot, November Referendum
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-09-27T13:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/zimbabwe-s-mugabe-proposes-march-ballot-november-referendum-1-.html
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe 
said he plans to hold a constitutional referendum in November
and a national election in March, according to a court filing
made today.  The dates will be finalized soon, he said, according to the
documents filed in a court in Harare, the southern African
nation’s capital.  “These events are the referendum expected to take place
during the first week of November, the by-elections and
harmonized elections,” Mugabe said, according to the papers
seen by Bloomberg. The national election will be held “in the
last week of March 2013 and a proclamation to this effect will
be made at the appropriate time.”  Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
party ruled the country for almost three decades until the South
African Development Community bloc forced it to share power with
the Movement for Democratic Change, and an MDC splinter faction
after a disputed 2008 election. Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s MDC, and the other MDC faction, have rejected
proposed constitutional changes made by Zanu-PF.  The parties must have the referendum on the constitution
before the elections, according to the SADC-brokered agreement.  Mugabe presented documents to the Harare High Court in
response to its order to set by-election dates after some MDC
candidates sued, Harare-based lawyer Beatrice Mtetwa said by
telephone. The court gave him until Oct. 30, said Mtetwa, who
represents some of the MDC candidates.  Calls to Tsvangirai’s office and MDC spokesman Douglas
Mwonzora weren’t immediately answered when Bloomberg sought
comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  