-- ‘Window-Dressing’ Undermines Bank Risk-Weight Trust: BIS
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/-window-dressing-undermines-bank-risk-weight-trust-bis.html
Global banks have improved their
 capital ratios  in part by understating the riskiness of their
assets, not by raising their ability to stem losses, the  Bank
for International Settlements  said.  Regulators need to monitor the use of internal risk models
in determining the capital lenders hold against losses and
complement them with gauges that don’t use risk weightings, the
BIS said in its annual report released today. The BIS, based in
 Basel ,  Switzerland  and owned by 60 central banks, hosts the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , a group of regulators
and central bankers that sets global capital standards.  “Market commentary has suggested that much of this trend
reflects banks’ optimization of risk-weighted assets -- the
redesign of transactions in order to lower capital requirements
-- rather than a genuine increase in loss absorption capacity,”
the BIS said. “Such window-dressing raises questions about the
use of internal risk assessments for the determination of
regulatory  capital requirements .”  The BIS adds to a chorus of international regulators that
are increasingly looking at leverage, in addition to capital
measures based on risk weightings assigned to different assets,
to gauge banks’ financial strength. Their focus intensified as
some banks improved capital ratios following the financial
crisis by altering internal models or cutting risk-weighted
assets without correspondingly shrinking their balance sheets.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the largest Swiss banks,
were told last week to increase their ratios of capital to total
assets.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest lender, was told by
the country’s financial watchdog it had underestimated risky
assets. U.S. regulators are considering doubling the ratio of
capital to 6 percent of total assets, according to four people
with knowledge of the talks who asked not to be named.  Basel Rules  Lenders in the U.S. and in more than 100 other countries
already comply with Basel’s risk-based capital rules, which
assign weightings to assets based on their riskiness. Corporate
debt is given a heavier weight than  government bonds , requiring
that more capital be held against it. The weighting affects the
profitability of trading and investing in those assets.  While firms submit their models to national regulators for
validation, they don’t have to disclose them publicly. Surveys
by the Basel Committee have shown that risk-weightings for the
same assets vary among banks, undermining their credibility.  “The range of variation indicates that the interaction of
risk-sensitive rules with the complexity of risk modeling has
created a wide scope for inconsistency, which can seriously
weaken both the credibility and the effectiveness of the
framework,” the BIS said.  Unwanted Variation  The BIS’s analysis based on samples of large globally
active banks shows that European lenders’ risk-weighted assets
were at 28 percent of total assets at the end of last year, a
value that has changed little over the past eight years. The
ratio is at 58 percent for U.S. banks, which have reduced it
from a peak of 77 percent in 2008. Japanese and U.K. banks have
also reduced assets by lowering risk weights over the last five
years.  Part of the difference is due to accounting methods. U.S.
rules allow the netting out of derivative positions, while the
international standard used by European banks doesn’t and hence
inflates total assets of banks such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  or  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  compared to U.S. peers like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Different business models also matter.  Still, even within the same jurisdiction, risk weights can
vary widely. There are several factors driving the variation,
some of which can be desirable as it allows banks to compete and
the market to “balance the views of bulls and bears,” the BIS
said. Distortions come from different parameters used by the
lenders, from statistical “noise” and crucially, from bankers’
optimistic bias.  ‘Undermine Efforts’  “Differences due to strategic choices by banks are
unwelcome because they undermine regulatory efforts,” the BIS
said. “Management interventions in the models skew risk
assessments downwards by understating potential loss.”  To be sure, the BIS advises against throwing out the risk
weighting entirely in favor of relying solely on the  leverage
ratio , which compares capital against total, unweighted assets.
Having only that gauge to measure a bank’s resilience would also
create false incentives for banks that could diminish, rather
than strengthen stability.  “The leverage ratio does not address the problem of
incentives,” it said. “For a given ratio, banks seeking to
minimize regulatory capital can simply reallocate their
portfolios toward riskier activities, or shrink their balance
sheet without necessarily reducing their potential losses.”  ‘Harnessing Strengths’  Instead of just relying on one of the two ratios,
regulators should take advantage of the fact that “it is
difficult to manipulate one without affecting the other,
typically in the opposite direction,” the BIS said. The right
response for regulators is “harnessing the complementary
strengths” while improving the risk weights by more oversight.  Regulators should address the unwanted variation of
weightings by more transparency into the models’ inner workings,
as well as by standardization and less discretion for banks in
setting their parameters, which would also help to prevent
“statistical noise,” the BIS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  