-- A 10-Step Program for India’s Economy
-- B y   J i m   O ’ N e i l l
-- 2013-06-23T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/a-10-step-program-for-india-s-economy.html
It’s fashionable to say the era of
strong emerging-market growth is over. As the U.S. recovers, the
global cost of capital will rise, holding back investment;
against this background, avoiding the next crisis is the best
that most emerging economies can do. If you take this view,
 India  might seem a perfect example, with its widening current
account deficit, heavy public borrowing, persistent inflation
and weak currency.  I don’t think so. As a general matter, emerging-market
gloom is overdone. India, in particular, could teach the
pessimists a lesson.  Last week, I made a quick visit to see the chief minister
of Gujarat,  Narendra Modi . He’d asked me to give a presentation
on how India could realize its still-enormous potential. I went
through points I’d first discussed in a paper I co-wrote with
Tushar Poddar in 2008:  Ten Things for India to Achieve its 2050
Potential . It’s striking to me that, five years later, our
recommendations don’t need revising. (They do need elaborating,
and I’ll get into more detail in an updated study and further
columns. Modi and I are planning a conference of experts before
the end of this year.)  I’ll state no opinion on Modi’s chances of becoming prime
minister after next year’s  general election  -- it has been
announced that he’ll lead the opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party ’s campaign. He’s a controversial figure. Detractors call
him a sectarian extremist. I will say this: He’s good on
economics, and that’s one of the things India desperately needs
in a leader.  Cultivating Growth  Like all Indians, Modi loves acronyms. Me too. I admire his
MG-squared -- minimum government, maximum governance -- and P2G2
-- pro-active, pro-people, good governance. That sums it up
pretty well. I don’t think it’s a coincidence that Gujarat has
avoided the slowdown that has almost halved India’s national
rate of growth. The state just keeps on growing at double-digit
rates.  Long-term growth depends ultimately on just two things --
the number of workers and how productive they are. India’s
demographics are remarkable. The country is on track to grow its
workforce by 140 million between 2000 and 2020. That increase is
the equivalent of the working population of  France ,  Germany ,
 Italy  and the U.K. combined.  Even with unspectacular growth of a little more than 6
percent a year,  India’s economy  could be 40 times bigger by 2050
than it was in 2000 -- about as big as the  U.S. economy  will
probably be by then (though not as big as  China ). But it could
do so much better than that. Growth of 8.5 percent over the
entire period is possible -- with growth of more than 10 percent
over the next 15 to 20 years not out of the question -- provided
it makes some changes.  It’s all about productivity. India scores poorly on indexes
of economic variables that are critical for economic efficiency
-- worse than  Brazil , China and even  Russia . To change that, it
needs to do 10 things:  1. Improve its governance. This is probably the hardest and
most important task -- the precondition for the rest. Modi is
right: Whoever leads the next government in 2014, India needs
maximum governance and minimum government. There is no point
having the world’s largest democracy unless it leads to
effective government.  2. Fix primary and secondary education. There has been some
progress here, but a huge number of young people still get
little or no schooling. I sit on the board of  Teach for All , a
global  umbrella organization  for groups that encourage the
brightest graduates to spend at least two years teaching. Today
India has about 350 teachers in these programs. It could do with
350,000 or more.  3. Improve colleges and universities. India has too few
excellent institutions. Its share of places in the  Shanghai
ranking  of the world’s top universities should be proportional
to its share of global gross domestic product -- meaning 10
universities in the top 500 (it currently has just one). Make
that an official goal.  4. Adopt an inflation target, and make it the center of a
new macroeconomic policy framework.  5. Introduce a medium to long-term fiscal-policy framework,
perhaps with ceilings as in the  Maastricht Treaty  -- a deficit
of less than 3 percent of GDP and debt of less than 60 percent
of GDP.  6. Increase trade with its neighbors. Indian exports to
China could be close to $1 trillion by 2050, almost the size of
its entire GDP in 2008. But India has little trade with
Bangladesh and  Pakistan . There’s no better way to promote
peaceful relations than to expand trade -- and that means
imports as well as exports.  7. Liberalize financial markets. India needs huge amounts
of domestic and foreign capital to achieve its potential -- and
a better-functioning  capital market  to allocate it wisely.  8. Innovate in farming. Gujarat isn’t a traditional
agricultural producer, but it has improved productivity with
initiatives like its “white revolution” in milk production. The
whole nation, still greatly dependent on farming, needs enormous
improvements.  9. Build more infrastructure. I flew in to Ahmedabad via
Delhi, and out via Mumbai, all in a day. I got where I needed to
go -- but it’s obvious how much more India needs to do. Adopt
some of that Chinese drive to invest in infrastructure.  10. Protect the environment. India can’t achieve 8.5
percent growth for the next 30 to 40 years unless it takes steps
to safeguard environmental quality and use energy and other
resources more efficiently. Encouraging the private sector to
invest in sustainable technologies can boost growth in its own
right.  I’ll have a lot more to say about the details as this
project moves forward. For now, suffice to say that India’s
potential is vast -- and given the will, it can be tapped.  ( Jim O’Neill , former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jim O’Neill at  joneill62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Clive Crook at   ccrook5@bloomberg.net . 