-- Abe Spurs Day Traders as Japan Stock Swings Hit 2-Year High
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d ,   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-06-24T18:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/abe-spurs-day-traders-as-japan-stock-volatility-hits-2-year-high.html
Sitting before a cluster of computer
screens in an apartment with the drapes shut, it took Naoki
Murakami seconds to make $3,500 betting $1 million that  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501)  shares would fall a fraction of a percent.  The 34-year-old day trader first sold 50,000 shares at 558
yen ($5.70), then three more lots at 1-yen intervals as the
stock dropped. He got out $2,500 richer, repeated the trade, and
seconds later had $1,000 more. Within minutes of the market
opening, the former water-purifier salesman had made more than
the average Japanese person  earns  in a month.  Stringing together 20 or 30 similar trades each day,
Murakami said he’s almost doubled his money to $750,000 this
year. He calls himself the smallest player in a group of seven
day traders who chat with each other online, vacation together,
and cumulatively buy and sell almost $100 million in stocks each
day, using leverage to increase the size of their bets.  Day trading helps explain why Japanese individuals now
account for more than 40 percent of the nation’s equity volume,
or about as much as the overseas institutions that once were the
biggest traders. They’ve also helped make  Japan  the most
volatile developed market, which is good for some and bad for
others.  “They’re creating the volatility,” said  Curtis Freeze ,
who helps oversee about $320 million as chief investment officer
at Prospect Asset Management in  Tokyo . “It’s great for them,
but for the average long-term investor, it just scares them away
-- including me.”  GPIF Stock Weightings  Volatility helps day traders by making room for bigger
gains when they bet correctly on a stock’s direction. And it’s
making it harder for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to argue the
market is safe as he tries to get households and pension funds
to buy more equities. Japan’s Government Pension Investment
Fund, the world’s No. 1 manager of retirement savings, said on
June 7 it would raise its weightings of domestic stocks by one
percentage point to 12 percent.  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average has plunged 15 percent in four
weeks, deflating a rally that had boosted the gauge 80 percent
in just over six months as Abe took power. It fell 1.3 percent
today. The price swings pushed the Nikkei volatility  index  to
the highest since the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  “Watching stocks go up and up since the start of Abe’s
government got me thinking about investing,” said Maki
Murayama, a 38-year-old Tokyo office worker. “But seeing what’s
happened lately, I realize it’s not that simple.”  Dramatic price movements aren’t the only thing that’s made
Japan a day trader’s paradise. Deregulation of  margin trading 
opened the flood gates, Murakami said. After rules were relaxed
in January, investors can borrow three times as much as their
brokerage account balances and turn loans over the instant they
exit a trading position.  ‘Borrow Endlessly’  “Now you can borrow endlessly,” Murakami said.  Pointing at price charts on his screens, the trader
explained how each day he borrows millions of shares of fast-moving stocks like  GungHo Online Entertainment Inc. (3765)  and  Fast
Retailing Co. (9983) , the most-heavily weighted company on the Nikkei
225, and sells them short.  Working barefoot in a T-shirt and shorts out of a spare
bedroom in his rented apartment in  Osaka , Murakami said he’s
made $350,000 this year, about three times his average in the
previous eight years.  Leveraging Millions  One of Murakami’s friends, who goes by the blog name
Tesuta, said looser rules let him leverage $4.5 million in cash
into as much as $67 million in daily stock bets. He held up a
hand-written ledger and showed his account balance at SBI
Holdings Inc. as proof. He asked that his name not be cited for
privacy reasons.  The number of shares traded by individuals rose to a record
in May, some 43 percent of Japan’s total equity volume, up from
27 percent before the rally started in November, according to
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  While the Financial Services Agency and the exchange have
no estimates of how many day traders there are, figures from
 Matsui Securities Co. (8628)  show they accounted for 43 percent of the
online brokerage’s transactions last month. Commissions at
Kabu.com, an online broker, more than quadrupled in May from a
year earlier, even as the number of accounts increased only 2.8
percent.  On an average day, the group of seven day traders to which
Murakami and Tesuta belong buy and sell somewhere between $80
million to $100 million in Japanese stocks, according to
estimates from the members.  “These guys are pros,” said  Jesper Koll , head of Japan
equity research at JPMorgan & Chase Co. in Tokyo, speaking of
the group. “They’re acting like a proprietary trading desk at a
major investment bank.”  Alaska’s Aurora  The group, which met years ago through their blogs, chat
continuously during market hours. They vacationed together in
Bali in April and have booked tickets for a trip to  Alaska  in
September to see the aurora borealis.  Making money isn’t easy, Murakami said. With $100,000 in
savings and no experience in the market, he started trading
stocks from a desktop PC in 2005. Within two months, he’d lost
half his stake.  Although he eventually learned how to get seven out of 10
bets right, trading in Japan’s stagnant market was like trying
to sail a boat without any wind, until this year.  “When shares don’t move, you can’t get an opening for a
trade,” he said. “Now that the market is moving, I feel like I
have to make the most of it.”  Stop Losses  Tesuta has tripled his fortune to $4.5 million this year,
he said in an interview at a Chinese restaurant in Osaka. Making
200 to 300 trades each day and cutting losses quickly to
minimize the cost of bad bets, the 33-year-old said he’s managed
to profit even amid the market’s recent decline by trading
stocks like  Tokyo Electric .  Battered by the meltdowns at Fukushima, the utility has
become a favorite of speculators, moving more than 7 percent on
an average day this year and accounting for about one in every
10 shares changing hands on the Nikkei 225 last month.  “Winning at stocks is about predicting the future,”
Tesuta said. “I have a lot better chance of predicting what’s
going to happen in the next few seconds than what will happen in
the next six months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  