-- Mandela’s Condition Has Become Critical, Presidency Says
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-06-24T09:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/mandela-s-condition-has-become-critical-presidency-says.html
Nelson Mandela ’s condition has
deteriorated to “critical” after more than two weeks in a
hospital in the South African capital, Pretoria, President  Jacob Zuma  said.  Mandela, 94, was admitted to the hospital’s intensive care
unit on June 8 to receive treatment for a recurring lung
infection, the fourth time he’d been hospitalized since
December. Known by his clan name Madiba, Mandela became  South
Africa ’s first black president in 1994.  “Doctors are doing everything to ensure his well-being and
comfort,” Zuma, who visited Mandela last night, told reporters
in Johannesburg today. “The country must accept that Madiba is
very old” and his health will trouble him as he ages.  Mandela spent 27 years in prison for opposing white
minority rule under apartheid, which ended after the ruling
 African National Congress  won elections in 1994. He won the
Nobel Peace Prize with F.W. de Klerk, the last leader of South
Africa in the apartheid era, in 1993. Mandela stood down after
five years and was succeeded by  Thabo Mbeki .  Zuma was accompanied on his visit to the hospital yesterday
by  Cyril Ramaphosa , deputy president of the ANC, and was briefed
by the medical team, Zuma said. They also met with Mandela’s
wife, Graca Machel. Mandela was sleeping at the time, he said.  Ambulance Breakdown  “The fact that the doctors are saying that he has
deteriorated from a serious condition to critical should be
sobering to all of us,” Zuma’s spokesman  Mac Maharaj  told
reporters in Johannesburg today.  Makaziwe Mandela, the former leader’s daughter, told
Atlanta-based  CNN  in an interview that he’s “at peace with
himself.” She said she’s praying “that the transition is
smooth,” according to CNN, which interviewed her before the
Presidency published a statement yesterday on Mandela’s
condition.  On June 22, the Presidency confirmed a CBS News report that
an ambulance transporting Mandela to the hospital on June 8
broke down.  The seven doctors who accompanied Mandela on his trip to
the hospital were in control of the situation and his health
wasn’t compromised, Zuma said. Maharaj said the ambulance
breakdown caused a 15-minute delay until a replacement vehicle
arrived, refuting the CBS report that it took about 40 minutes.
He also denied that Mandela suffered a cardiac arrest when he
was rushed to the hospital, as reported by CBS.  The ANC said in a statement yesterday it’s concerned that
Mandela’s health deteriorated and is “calling upon all of us to
keep President Mandela, his family and his medical team in our
thoughts and prayers during this trying time.”  A state visit by U.S. President  Barack Obama  starting on
June 28 won’t be affected by Mandela’s hospitalization, Zuma
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  