-- Harvard Grad Swaps Morgan Stanley for Sheikhdom as Deals Dry
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-06-24T12:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/harvard-grad-swaps-morgan-stanley-for-sheikhdom-as-deals-dry-up.html
After a decade of dealmaking at
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  in the Middle East, Peter Fort swapped Dubai’s
International Financial Centre for a career promoting investment
into one of the United Arab Emirates’ lesser-known sheikhdoms.  “When I first got the call about the position, it took a
lot of convincing for me to take a look at it,” said Fort, who
heads up  Ras Al Khaimah’s free zone , and is an adviser to the
emirate’s government, an hour’s drive north of Dubai. “But when
I did my research I realized that Ras Al Khaimah is at an
inflection point and I feel I can make a difference here.”  Fort, 40, is among a rising number of Persian Gulf expat
bankers starting second careers with U.A.E. firms as lenders
based in  London , New York and Zurich scale back under pressure
to boost capital buffers and profit margins. The 10 biggest
investment banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank
AG and Citigroup Inc. have lost about 11,000 front-office staff
in the past two years, analytics firm Coalition said last month.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Middle East Chief
Executive Officer Simon Penney resigned this year and will join
Abu Dhabi’s First Gulf Bank. Michael Katounas, investment
banking director for Credit Suisse Group AG in the Middle East,
joined Qatari bank QInvest as investment bank head this year.  Opportunities  “As global players continue to move people back to Europe
and the U.S., there are a lot of bankers in the market here that
don’t want to go home,” Matthew Gribble, a Dubai-based managing
director at recruiter  Michael Page International Plc. (MPI) , said in a
phone interview. “They see the opportunities the region offers
and are reluctant to leave behind the benefits, network and
contacts they have made and so are pursuing positions here.”  Economies in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council are
growing three times faster than developed markets as governments
funnel oil wealth into infrastructure projects. Year-round
sunshine, tax-free salaries and higher bonuses than their
counterparts in Europe and the U.S., according to Gribble, all
contribute to the allure of staying in the Gulf.  Fort, who declined to comment on his earnings in detail,
said his total compensation in his new role is comparable to
that at Morgan Stanley, with a higher salary and lower bonus.
His appointment to Ras  Al Khaimah  was announced last month.  A spokesman for Morgan Stanley, who asked not to be
identified under company policy, declined to comment, as did a
Dubai-based spokesperson for RBS. A spokeswoman for Credit
Suisse, asking not to be identified, also declined to comment.  SWF Hiring  Sovereign wealth funds in the Persian Gulf are also hiring
investment bankers as they build up in-house teams in areas such
as real estate and private equity. Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority counts on external investors to manage about 75
percent of assets, down from 80 percent in 2011, it said in its
annual report for last year released last month. It recently
hired former Deutsche Bank executive John McCarthy as global
head of infrastructure and appointed Gregory Eckersley head of
its internal equities department. Colm Lanigan, a former  Credit
Suisse (CSGN)  First Boston banker, was named head of Principal
Investments in its private equity unit in October.  While grappling with demands to shore up capital and profit
at home, overseas banks are facing increased pressure from local
lenders in the Middle East. The share of fees for U.S. and
Western European banks in the region fell to 43 percent last
year, compared with 52 percent in 2011, according to Freeman &
Co., a New York-based consulting company. The market share of
local banks rose to 52 percent, from 39 percent, in that period.  Debt Sales  Half of the top 20 banks advising on GCC debt sales this
year are based in the Middle East, up from six a year earlier,
as issuance rose 13 percent to $21 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Dubai-based  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  is the region’s
fifth-largest adviser this year after  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
Deutsche Bank, Standard Chartered and Citigroup, the data show.
Emirates NBD climbed from the seventh position from a year ago.  “Local companies have become increasingly professional as
the U.A.E. has reached a critical mass and facilities and
amenities have developed,” said Emad Mostaque, London-based
strategist at EMEA investment bank Noah Capital Markets.  Fort, who graduated in international political economics
from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard, came to Dubai in
2006, at the height of the banking boom. He led over 50 mergers
and acquisitions and restructuring deals. After ranking as the
Middle East and  Africa ’s top M&A adviser in 2010, Morgan Stanley
fell to seventh in 2011 and ninth last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of M&A deals in the region
fell to $51 billion in 2012, from $63 billion in 2010.  Temporary Slowdown  “I stayed for as long as I did because I was hoping that
the slowdown was only temporary and that the growth would
return,” Fort said, adding that he was asked by the New York
bank to move to London. “Since 2009, investment banking in the
region hasn’t been quite as enjoyable as in the pre-crisis days.
The competition became much more intense and often unhealthy.”  Morgan Stanley advised Abu Dhabi’s Sorouh Real Estate Co.
on its merger with Aldar Properties PJSC, the emirate’s largest
developer. It also advised Riyadh-based utility ACWA Power
International when Saudi Arabian sovereign wealth fund Sanabil
and the nation’s pension agency acquired 19 percent.  Fort’s new challenge is to funnel trade and investment into
Ras Al Khaimah as the emirate seeks to emerge from the shadow of
better known rivals Dubai and Abu Dhabi. Like its neighbors, Ras
Al Khaimah has invested in trade infrastructure such as port
facilities to compensate for a lack of oil and gas wealth. RAK
Investment Authority, the company that manages investments in
the sheikhdom, says its industrial parks are home to units of
companies including Posco, Kempe Engineering and Dabur India
Ltd.  Real  Madrid , the world’s richest soccer club, said last
April that it’s lending its name to a $1 billion soccer-themed
resort in the emirate with a 10,000-seat stadium and a target of
1 million visitors a year. The 40-hectare (99-acre) project will
include a marina, yacht club and museum as well as homes and a
shopping mall.  “Win-win”  “It’s a win-win situation,” Chavan Bhogaita, head of
markets strategy at National Bank of Abu Dhabi, said by e-mail.
“The employer gets to benefit from the substantial experience
that such candidates bring to the table, and the employee gets
to work for a very solid entity, in a part of the world that is
still moving forward and growing rapidly -- both of which are
becoming increasingly rare in the current environment.”  The region’s banks are also seeking expansion and a higher
profile. NBAD, as the lender is known, this year appointed as
Alex Thursby, former CEO for international and institutional
banking at Melbourne-based  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , as CEO. Thursby will succeed Michael Tomalin.  The bank sold A$300 million ($308 million) of five-year
Kangaroo bonds in March, the first Australian dollar-denominated
notes by a Middle Eastern-based company since before the global
credit crisis. Qatar National Bank SAQ, which ranked number one
in Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking of the world’s strongest
banks, and Emirates NBD agreed to acquire Egyptian banks in
December to gain access to the country’s 83 million people.  Looking Overseas  Dwindling trading volumes and a dearth of share sales in
the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council after the financial
crisis have forced some global banks to consider other fee-generating activities as the local competition increases.  RBS is targeting increased returns from derivatives sales
in the region as earnings from arranging debt sales and lending
fall.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, cut investment banking
jobs in Dubai and relocated executives as it focuses on asset
management and private banking in the region. The bank named Ali Janoudi as CEO for the Middle East and North Africa and said the
position will relocate to Geneva from Dubai.  “The amount of investment bankers moving from
international players to local banks and organizations says a
lot about how much the investment banking industry has declined
globally,” Fort said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  