-- Autos Probably Led Consumer Spending Gain: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-23T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/autos-probably-led-consumer-spending-gain-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably climbed in May by the most in three months, led by
growing demand for automobiles, economists said before a report
this week.  The projected 0.3 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.2 percent fall in April, the first drop in a year, according
to the median forecast of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
ahead of Commerce Department data on June 27. Other reports may
show household confidence held near multiyear highs, housing
continued to strengthen and orders for durable goods grew.  Car dealers, restaurants and furnishing retailers such as
 Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)  are reporting improved sales as the housing
rebound and gain in stocks boost shoppers’ spirits and finances.
Federal Reserve policy makers last week said they are betting
the economy will pick up and unemployment will fall, opening the
way for central bankers to trim bond purchases later this year.  “The economy continues to get better, the housing market
is getting better and that’s spilling over into  consumer
confidence ,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic
Advisors Inc. in Holland,  Pennsylvania . “They’re spending more
and that’s keeping growth at a modest to moderate pace.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report will also show
 incomes  grew 0.2 percent last month after being unchanged in
April, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Home Prices  Income gains are being supplemented by the recovery in home
prices and sales to help boost household finances and spending.
The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home values for 20 cities probably
rose 10.6 percent for the year ended April after a 10.9 percent
increase in March that was the biggest year-over-year advance
since 2006, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists before a June 25 report.  Figures from the Commerce Department the same day will show
sales of  new homes  rose to a 460,000 annualized pace in May, the
highest since July 2008, according to the survey median.  “Housing has a lot of positive knock-on effects,” adding
jobs and boosting consumer spending, said Tim Quinlan, an
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “As home prices come back, that will contribute to
the wealth effect and people will be willing to spend again.”  Sales at Pier 1, a purveyor of furniture and home
merchandise based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , grew 9.3 percent in the
quarter ended June 1 from the same time last year, with
customers buying more full-priced items and shopping online,
said President and Chief Executive Officer  Alex Smith .  Growing Sales  “If the economy stays broadly as it is, then our margins
are going to stay broadly where they are,” Smith said on a June
20 earnings call. “I don’t think we’re going to get any major
surprises.”  Improving home construction is also giving a lift to auto
manufacturers, which are seeing an increase in U.S. sales of
trucks and vans. Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.2 million
annualized rate in May, a 2.4 percent increase from the prior
month, according to industry figures.  General Motors Co. (GM)  will begin marketing a redesigned line
of pickups this year. Ford Motor Co., Chrysler Group LLC and
Daimler AG are introducing fuel-efficient work vans to the U.S.
market in response to a rebound in residential construction.  Nonetheless, it may take a few months to determine whether
the recent turmoil in financial markets will curb homebuyers’
enthusiasm.  Markets were challenged last week after Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the economy may soon be strong enough for the
central bank to begin slowing the pace of record bond purchases.
The program will probably end by the middle of next year when
policy makers project the jobless rate, which is currently at
7.6 percent, will drop to 7 percent.  Shares Slide  Stocks slumped and yields soared after the Fed’s
announcement. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent to close at 1,592.43 on June 21, trimming the decline
for the week to 2.1 percent. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
note jumped to 2.53 percent late on June 21 from 2.13 percent a
week earlier.  The previous rally, which took the  S&P 500  to a record
close of 1,669.16 on May 21, contributed to the recent
improvement in confidence.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index
fell to 83 in June, just off the six-year high of 84.5 reached
in May, economists project the final reading for the month will
show on June 28. A preliminary report earlier this month came in
at 82.7.  Consumer Confidence  A similar  measure  from the Conference Board, a New York-based research group, will decline to 75 this month from a five-year high of 76.2 reached in May, according to the Bloomberg
survey median ahead of the June 25 report.  Other data this week will show bookings for appliances,
vehicles, engines, electronics and other durable goods grew 3
percent in May after rising 3.5 percent the prior month,
economists project a June 25 report from the Commerce Department
will show.  Also this week, the Commerce Department’s third estimate of
growth in the first quarter will be released on June 26. Gross
domestic product grew at a 2.4 percent annualized pace from
January through March, unchanged from the prior estimate,
according to economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  