-- Beer Companies Press LME to Cut Aluminum Warehouse Backlogs
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-06-23T13:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/beer-companies-press-lme-to-cut-aluminum-warehouse-backlogs.html
A trade group representing brewers
is urging the London Metal Exchange to take steps to reduce
warehouse backlogs that beermakers say boost the cost of
aluminum used to make drinks cans.  The  Beer Institute  in  Washington  pressed the exchange to
“end restrictive and outdated warehousing rules and practices
that are interfering with normal supply and demand dynamics,”
according to a statement provided yesterday by  Christopher
Thorne , a spokesman for the group. Members include MillerCoors
LLC and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s Anheuser-Busch unit, according
to the organization’s  website .  The beermakers join LME users including industrial copper
companies in complaining about long waits for metal in
warehouses monitored by the exchange. While the LME tried to
quell those concerns by raising load-out rates, analysts such as
Duncan Hobbs of Macquarie Group Ltd. said the new rules won’t
improve access to metals at locations with the biggest backlogs.  “We want the LME to end restrictive load-out practices
that create supply-chain bottlenecks,” which have “led to a
complete disconnect between LME aluminum prices and actual
aluminum prices and prevent brewers and their suppliers from
obtaining aluminum in a reasonable timeframe at fair-market
prices,” the Beer Institute said in the statement.  Load-out is the rate at which aluminum supplies leave
warehouses.  “The LME shares the market’s concerns and have brought in
a series of measures to relieve the situation,”  Chris Evans , a
spokesman for the LME, said by e-mail today. “We continue to
monitor the situation and will act again if it is in the
market’s best interests.” He said the exchange can’t comment on
possible complaints.  Warehouse queues for aluminum have grown as more metal gets
tied up in financing deals that typically involve a simultaneous
purchase of metal for delivery in the near future and a sale for
later delivery that takes advantage of a market in contango,
where prices rise into the future.  The premium buyers pay to obtain aluminum in the U.S.
climbed to a record 12 cents to 13 cents a pound this week,
according to Austin, Texas-based researcher  Harbor Intelligence .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  