-- Berlusconi Seen Skirting Jail as Threats of Conviction Mount
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-06-24T14:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/berlusconi-seen-skirting-jail-as-threats-of-conviction-mount.html
Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s political future is more at risk than his freedom
from the outcome of a spate of pending corruption trials,
including today’s ruling on charges of prostitution with a
minor, criminal lawyers said.  The three-time premier, 76, faces a verdict in Milan on
charges he paid a teen-aged nightclub dancer for sex, and abused
the power of his office to cover it up. Berlusconi, who has
weathered more than a dozen criminal trials, is facing charges
in separate cases for  tax fraud  and illegal use of wiretaps.  “Even in case of definitive convictions, he would hardly
go to prison because detention laws are lenient with people over
70 and for short jail sentences,” said Andrea Castaldo, a
criminal lawyer and professor at the University of Salerno,
 Italy .  The Milan ruling comes at a time when Berlusconi’s support
is key to the survival of Italy’s government led by Prime
Minister Enrico Letta. Flexible sentencing rules, particularly
for defendants over the age of 70 and on convictions shorter
than three years may help keep Berlusconi out of jail. Still,
two of the cases call for a public-office ban, an outcome that
could tear apart Letta’s coalition of rivals.  Sexual Relationship  Milan prosecutor Ilda Boccassini alleges that in 2010
Berlusconi paid for sex with Karima El Mahroug, a nightclub
performer who danced under the name of Ruby Heart-Stealer and
was 17 at the time. Berlusconi is also charged with helping
secure her release from police custody on an unrelated theft
charge later that year. The panel of judges started
deliberations at about 10 a.m. local time and the ruling is
expected later today.  Both Berlusconi and El Mahroug denied having a sexual
relationship. El Mahroug said in an interview with television
network SkyTG24 last year that Berlusconi had given her 7,000
euros ($9,300) to help her start a business after she attended
parties at his villa near Milan.  “The situation is unique, because the alleged injured
party, Ruby, denies Berlusconi paid her for sex,” said
Castaldo. “It seems to me evidence in the Ruby case, also for
what concerns charges of abuse of power, is objectively
lacking.”  On May 13, Boccassini requested Berlusconi serve six years
in jail and be permanently barred from public office if
convicted. Berlusconi would have two chances to appeal before
the sentence would be carried out, a process that that could
take years.  Twenty Trials  Asked if Berlusconi was optimistic about the outcome of
today’s ruling, defense attorney Piero Longo said outside the
Milan courthouse that he was a “realist.” His comments were
broadcast by SkyTG24.  Berlusconi, who says prosecutors are out to destroy him
politically, has faced at least 20 trials since entering
politics in 1994. In some cases, he avoided definitive
convictions because of the statute of limitations. He also
benefited from an amnesty law and had one case dropped after his
government decriminalized some white-collar crimes. He was also
acquitted in at least five cases. By his own reckoning two years
ago, he has faced 105 probes and trials, 2,500 court hearings
and spent more than 300 million euros in legal fees.  ‘Unpredictable Behavior’  Last month a Milan court upheld Berlusconi’s October
conviction for tax fraud in a film-rights case involving his
 Mediaset SpA (MS)  broadcaster. The conviction carries a four-year
sentence and a five-year ban from public office. Berlusconi, who
has denied the charges, has the right to a final appeal to the
country’s highest court, whose definitive ruling may come before
the end of the year, according to his lawyer Franco Coppi.  “Berlusconi’s behavior may become more unpredictable in
the months ahead as his political strategy will be largely
conditioned by his own legal troubles,”  Wolfango Piccoli ,
managing director of Teneo Intelligence, wrote in a June 20 note
to investors. “However, it is not in Berlusconi’s interest to
pull the plug on the government” before the final ruling in the
Mediaset case.  Sentencing Guidelines  Even if the tax-fraud conviction is upheld before the
statute of limitations expires next year, Berlusconi is unlikely
to serve time. His four-year jail term would be eligible for
reduction to one year under a 2006  sentencing law  aimed at
stemming overcrowding in jails. Defendants can also be offered
community service instead of prison for convictions of less than
three years, said criminal lawyer Maurizio Bellacosa.  In the Mediaset case, Berlusconi would also benefit from
flexible sentencing guidelines for those over 70, who are
generally spared jail if sentenced to less than four years. The
age lenience would not apply to a prostitution conviction.  “There would be a minimum risk of jail” in the Ruby case,
Bellacosa said, adding that Berlusconi’s legal team still “has
some cards to play.”  Proceedings against Berlusconi, who once called the
judiciary more dangerous than the Mafia, have accelerated since
he resigned the premiership at the height of the debt crisis in
November 2011. The trials didn’t derail his political comeback
this year, when a surge in his support left him close to winning
February’s general election and denied Letta’s  Democratic Party 
a parliamentary majority.  Berlusconi has drawn thousands to rallies against the
judiciary. About 39 percent of Italians said magistrates are
politically biased against Berlusconi, according to a Demopolis
survey for television station La7 last month.  A conviction in the sex-with-minor trial today may weaken
Letta’s government although it wouldn’t put its survival at
risk, Giovanni Orsina, professor of politics at the Luiss
University in  Rome , said in an interview with Francine Lacqua
and  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” today.
“This is certainly not going to be an element of strength for
Letta but I think the government will survive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  