-- Best Emerging-Market Stock Pickers Buy Drugmakers to Retail
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-06-24T22:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/best-emerging-market-stock-pickers-buy-drugmakers-to-retailers.html
The only three emerging-market stock
pickers who avoided losing money for clients in the worst first-half rout since 1998 say now’s the time to buy Philippine
retailers, Chinese Internet companies and Indian drugmakers.  Lewis Kaufman, whose  Thornburg Developing World Fund (THDAX)  rose
3.2 percent, the most among U.S.-domiciled emerging-market
mutual funds overseeing at least $100 million, says Manila-based
 Puregold Price Club Inc. (PGOLD)  will benefit from 20 percent sales
growth.  CNI Charter Emerging Markets Fund (RIMIX) ’s Anindya Chatterjee
boosted his position in Shenzhen, China-based  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700)  as first-quarter profit rose 37 percent.  David Semple  has
been buying Indian pharmaceutical shares for the Van Eck
Emerging Markets Fund as the rupee’s tumble boosts exports.  The managers say they weathered this year’s 15 percent
slide in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index by making prescient
currency bets and buying companies insulated from economic
swings and government interference. All 89 of their rivals
tracked by Bloomberg posted losses as the U.S. Federal Reserve
said it may reduce monetary stimulus, while a cash crunch in
China worsened and protests turned violent in Turkey and Brazil.  “It’s been an environment where if you picked the right
spots, there’s been enough going right to offset the things that
are going wrong,” Kaufman, whose fund has about $728 million of
assets, said in a June 19 phone interview from Santa Fe, New
Mexico. “And there are a lot of things going wrong.”  Relative Value  The MSCI emerging-markets  index  declined 1.9 percent to
883.34 today, the lowest close in a year.  The gauge has trailed the MSCI World Index of developed-nation stocks by 21 percentage points in 2013 through June 21,
the biggest gap in 15 years. The emerging-markets index now is
valued at 1.4 times net assets, the lowest level since September
2011 and 28 percent below the MSCI World Index, the biggest
 discount  since 2005, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Peru Lima General Index (IGBVL) , Brazil’s Ibovespa and the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index all lost more than 19 percent, the
largest declines among 21 emerging-market equity measures
tracked by Bloomberg.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the
Rio de Janeiro-based oil explorer controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , slid 81 percent for the steepest drop
in the MSCI emerging gauge.  Bernanke Effect  Developing-nation currencies and bonds also tumbled in the
first half, with India’s rupee and Turkey’s lira sinking to
record lows against the dollar last week. The yield on the
 Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index (BEMS)  rose to 5.23
percent on June 21, the highest level since November 2011.  Even the best-performing emerging-market stock funds have
declined in June after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  mapped out a
timetable for ending the central bank’s unprecedented bond-buying program. The Thornburg fund lost about 8.9 percent so far
this month, while the CNI fund slid 8 percent and the Van Eck
fund dropped 8.3 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an 11 percent retreat in the MSCI
emerging-markets  index .  “It’s been a very, very tough year for emerging markets
overall,” Chatterjee, who started the $227 million CNI fund in
December 2011 and oversaw its 1.6 percent advance this year,
said in a June 20 phone interview from New York.  Reducing Risk  Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP’s $2.7 billion emerging-markets hedge fund sold positions and cut risk by more than half
after it lost 11 percent this year, two people with knowledge of
the matter said last week. Geraldine Sundstrom, who oversees the
fund for London-based Brevan Howard, declined to comment.  The $328 million  Goldman Sachs BRIC Fund (GBRAX) , which invests in
Brazil, Russia, India and China, declined 18 percent for the
biggest drop among 92 U.S.-domiciled emerging stock mutual funds
with at least $100 million tracked by Bloomberg. The $427
million  Goldman Sachs N-11 Equity Fund (GSYAX) , comprised of stocks in
smaller  emerging markets , retreated 8 percent.  “As a contrarian and believer in mean reversion, the fact
that the BRIC markets have underperformed for a couple years
now, that makes me very interested in those markets,” Eddie
Perkin, the London-based chief investment officer for
international and emerging markets equity at Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said in a June 23 phone interview. “The BRIC and
growth market countries have been left behind as the world
equity markets have moved ahead and there’s really good value
there.”  Fund Outflows  Investors withdrew a net $18 billion from emerging-market
stock funds during the past 10 weeks, Morgan Stanley wrote in a
June 21 report.  While the retreat in emerging markets has left stocks
“oversold,” the longer-term outlook for the asset class is
still negative, John-Paul Smith, the London-based strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG who predicted this year’s selloff, said in a
June 20 e-mail. He said stocks in China, the biggest emerging
market, may extend declines.  The World Bank lowered its 2013 forecast for growth in
China to 7.7 percent this month, which would be the slowest
since 1999, from an 8.4 percent estimate in January. The
Washington-based lender cut its prediction for developing-nation
growth to 5.1 percent from 5.5 percent, compared with the 1.2
percent projection for advanced economies.  “The situation in China is still very bearish for the
emerging equity asset class over the medium and longer term,”
Smith said.  Fastest Growth  Puregold, which operates supermarkets and hypermarkets in
the Philippines, has climbed 9.1 percent this year. The company
will probably boost  sales  by an average 24 percent during the
next three years as profits surge at an 18 percent annual rate,
according to 26 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine economy expanded at a faster-than-projected 7.8
percent pace in the first quarter, the quickest among 40 major
nations tracked by Bloomberg.  “The country is on the cusp of an investment cycle which I
think will filter through to the consumer part of the economy,”
Kaufman said. The Philippine peso has become attractive after
depreciating about 6 percent against the dollar during the past
month, he said.  Consumer Bets  Kaufman also holds shares of  OAO Magnit (MGNT) , Russia’s largest
food retailer, and  PT Mitra Adiperkasa (MAPI) , which operates Starbucks
Corp. and Domino’s Pizza Inc. outlets across Indonesia. The
money manager, who joined Thornburg in 2005 after working for
Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc., said he has an overweight
position in Southeast Asian countries, underweight holdings in
the energy industry and no stocks in South Korea. The nation’s
benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  has dropped 16 percent in dollar terms
this year.  Tencent, which boosted users of its mobile messaging
application by 228 percent in the first quarter to 194 million,
has climbed 15 percent this year. The shares are valued at 25
times estimated 2013 profits, versus 43 times for Menlo Park,
California-based Facebook Inc., operator of the largest social
network, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hong Kong-traded company, China’s largest listed
Internet business by  revenue , was the fourth-biggest position in
the CNI fund as of March after Chatterjee boosted holdings in
the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund has overweight positions in Asian consumer
companies because the region’s expanding populations and high
savings rates will spur growth even if the global economy slows,
Chatterjee said.  Glenmark, Apollo  Consumer spending in Asian emerging markets will probably
increase 9.2 percent on average in 2013, according to
Euromonitor International, a market research firm.  “In this global environment, and even over the longer
term, it makes more sense to focus on domestic demand driven by
demography,” said Chatterjee, who has covered Asian markets and
economies for 18 years at firms including Bear Stearns Cos. and
Jefferies Group LLC. “Consumption is more durable through
economic cycles.”  Semple, who has managed international equity investments at
Van Eck since 1998, said in a June 19 phone interview that he’s
been paring some Chinese holdings and adding to Indian health-care stocks. His emerging-markets fund had Chennai-based Apollo
Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. and Mumbai-based  Glenmark
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (GNP)  among its top 10 holdings at the end of
May, according to Van Eck’s website.  ‘Adverse Situations’  Glenmark, which recorded more than 70 percent of its sales
outside India in the three months ended March, has climbed 3.1
percent this year even as the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index
dropped 3.4 percent. The rupee weakened about 7.2 percent in
2013 and reached a record low of 59.98 per dollar on June 20,
boosting the value of overseas revenue for local companies.  Semple, Chatterjee and Kaufman said they tend to avoid
state-owned companies as slower economic growth increases the
likelihood of government intervention and wasteful spending.
Moscow-based  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  and Beijing-based  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939) , state-controlled companies with two of the seven
biggest weightings in the MSCI emerging index, dropped more than
16 percent this year.  “Some of the less efficient emerging-market stocks are
being found out in a world of lower growth,” said Semple, whose
fund is unchanged this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “We don’t think the index is a very good
representation of what emerging markets have become. The
companies we buy can do very well, even in adverse situations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  