-- Chicago Blackhawks One Win Away From Taking Stanley Cup
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-23T04:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/blackhawks-beat-bruins-3-1-to-take-lead-in-stanley-cup-final.html
Patrick Kane  scored two goals for
the  Chicago Blackhawks  who beat the Boston Bruins 3-1 to move
within one win of claiming the  National Hockey League ’s  Stanley
Cup .  The Blackhawks, who head to Boston for Game 6 tomorrow,
lead the best-of-seven series three games to two. Chicago last
won the Stanley Cup in 2010, while the Bruins took home the
trophy in 2011.  “It’s been a war, it’s been a battle,” Blackhawks coach
Joel Quenneville told reporters. “You look at every minute from
Game 1 to where we’re at today. It’s been an amazing series, and
relentless hockey, and I commend the guys on both teams for
leaving it out on the ice.”  The Bruins lost their star forward when  Patrice Bergeron 
skated off the ice and was transported by ambulance to the
hospital. Coach Claude Julien declined to discuss the injury,
saying Bergeron was being held for observation.  “It’s just an injury that wasn’t able to let him finish
the game,” Julien told reporters. “He may be in the next game.
I’m not going there.”  Kane scored his first goal 17 minutes, 27 seconds into the
contest on home ice at United Center in Chicago. He then put the
Blackhawks ahead 2-0 at 5:13 of the second period.  Dave Bolland  added an empty-net score with 14 seconds
remaining in the game for the Blackhawks’ final goal.  Chicago’s  Jonathan Toews  had two assists before leaving the
game with an upper-body injury in the second period.  “We’re hopeful he’ll be ready next game, upper body,”
Quenneville told reporters. “We’ll see how he is tomorrow.”  Zdeno Chara gave the Bruins their only goal in the third
period.  “It’s do or die. We’ve been there before, and we’ve done
well in that situation,” Julien said. “Right now our goal is
to create a Game 7, and to create a Game 7 you’ve got to win
Game 6. There is no panic. You’re not going to push us away that
easily. We’re a committed group, and we plan on bouncing back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  