-- Bloomberg Reaches Deal With NYC Council on $70 Billion Budget
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-24T00:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/bloomberg-reaches-deal-with-nyc-council-on-70-billion-budget.html
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and
the city council agreed on a $70 billion budget that restores
day-care and after-school programs for thousands of children and
saves Fire Department units from closing.  The budget  agreement  yesterday for the most-populous U.S.
city doesn’t raise taxes and comes before the June 30 deadline
marking the end of fiscal 2013. Bloomberg, 71, and the council
used unanticipated revenue and savings to restore funds the
mayor had cut that would have closed 20 fire companies and
reduced child-care and after-school programs.  Bloomberg, an independent, and Council Speaker Christine
Quinn, 46, a Manhattan Democrat running for her party’s mayoral
nomination, joined their negotiating teams in City Hall last
night to shake hands on the deal. Bloomberg, who is barred by
law from seeking a fourth term, will step down Dec. 31.  For Bloomberg, it is his 12th budget. He arrived in office
Jan. 1, 2002, weeks after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which
combined with a national recession produced deficits that were
closed by a property-tax increase and emergency borrowing.  “Even as cities and states across the nation experienced
large-scale layoffs and service cutbacks, our city’s commitment
to sound fiscal management and pro-growth economic strategies
pulled New York out of the recession faster than any other place
in this nation,” Bloomberg said with Quinn at his side.  Successor’s Task  The mayor left for his successor the task of negotiating
with the city’s almost 300,000 workers, including teachers,
police, firefighters and civil-service employees, some of whom
have been working with expired contracts for years.  The financial plan came together after real-estate transfer
revenue from last year exceeded forecasts, augmented by taxes
collected through Finance Department audits and about $200
million in reduced debt service, Bloomberg said.  The city still faces challenges. Bloomberg forecast a $2
billion deficit for 2015. The city’s budget must be balanced,
under state law. A $70 billion plan would bring spending down
from this year’s $70.4 billion of expenditures.  The city also used savings from other departments to keep
libraries open five days a week and finance social programs,
including $58 million for the Housing Authority to replace
funding lost from federal sequestration. The budget also
contains $250 million in spending for protection and investment
in low-lying coastal areas, after  Hurricane Sandy  struck the
region Oct. 29.  Jobs Preserved  Negotiations preserved 325 housing-authority jobs and kept
open 60 senior centers and community facilities.  “This budget does not rely on one-shots or cash infusions,
a good indication that we’re not leaving the next council and
administration in a bad financial footing,” Quinn said. “We
were faced with challenges because of what the federal
government failed to do, but we’ve all come together to
deliver.”  A court decision this month also assures that the city will
receive about $1.5 billion over the next few years starting in
fiscal 2014 from the sales of 2,000 licenses to operate taxis.
The medallions would increase the yellow-cab fleet to about
15,000.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  In trading June 19, investors demanded about 0.3 percentage
point of extra yield on average to own New York general
obligation bonds maturing in August 2023, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The securities have an AA grade from Standard &
Poor’s, the third-highest rank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 