-- Brazilians Clash Outside Stadium as Rousseff Pleads Peace
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s ,   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-23T19:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/brazilians-clash-outside-stadium-as-rousseff-pleads-peace.html
Brazilian police had to restrain
demonstrators who threatened to disrupt the Confederations Cup
soccer tournament yesterday even after President  Dilma Rousseff 
urged protesters to abandon violence and welcome foreign squads
gearing up for next year’s World Cup.  More than 100,000 marched in cities throughout Brazil
yesterday as protests demanding improved public services and
less government corruption entered a third week. The biggest
demonstration was in  Belo Horizonte , where television images
showed protesters clashing with police near the stadium where
 Mexico ’s national team beat  Japan . Tens of thousands more
demonstrated in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasilia and the
southern city of  Santa Maria . Police estimate over 5,000
protested in Salvador, where Brazil defeated  Italy .  The demonstrations were smaller than on previous occasions
and some of the first to occur after the president, in a
nationally televised address, vowed to improve social services
while urging Brazilians to help her host a “great”  World Cup .
Government financing for new stadiums has become a symbol of
misplaced state spending for protesters who demand better health
care, education and public transport.  “She ignored what the protests were about,” Rogerio
Redondo, a 58-year-old engineer, said at a march along one of
Sao Paulo’s main avenues yesterday. “She was too concerned
about justifying the World Cup when she could have announced an
effort to investigate whether there’s been corruption. She
missed out on a big opportunity.”  Protests Started  Protests started June 6 when students in Sao Paulo marched
against a 7 percent increase in bus fares. The demonstrations
have ballooned, peaking on June 20 as almost one million marched
throughout  Brazil , according to estimates by newspaper Folha de
S.Paulo. A teenager was killed during the demonstrations and a
54-year-old street cleaner died the next day after having a
heart attack during the protests.  In her first public appearance in three days, Rousseff on
June 21 responded to the unrest by offering to spend oil
royalties on education while bringing more doctors into the
country to improve health care. A former Marxist guerrilla once
imprisoned by the country’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship,
Rousseff vowed to meet with protesters and urged Brazilians to
act peacefully.  Faster Inflation  “I have both the obligation to hear the voice of the
streets and to dialog with all segments within the confines of
law and order,” said Rousseff, 65. “If we let violence take us
off our path, we will not only be wasting a big historic
opportunity, but also will be running the risk of losing a
lot.”  While 40 million Brazilians emerged from poverty in the
past decade, faster inflation has reduced purchasing power and
slowed growth. The world’s second-biggest emerging market in
2012 posted its second-worst economic performance in 13 years
while  inflation  this month breached the 6.5 percent upper limit
of the government target range.  The Brazilian president created a crisis cabinet to deal
with protests amid accelerating inflation and is trying to give
her administration a new style to contain complaints, O Estado
de S. Paulo  said  over the weekend. Adjustments to Brazil’s
economic policies to counter the effects of the U.S. starting to
phase out stimulus measures, as well as changes in the
president’s circle of advisers, are expected during the second
half, the newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Better Pay  Protesters this weekend fielded a range of grievances, from
teachers marching for better pay to gay-rights activists
opposing a bill to let psychologists recommend medical treatment
for homosexuality. Rio de Janeiro demonstrators lined up
hundreds of soccer balls on the beach to represent the country’s
murder victims.  Demonstrators June 21 blocked the highway to Sao Paulo’s
international airport, while 30,000 took to the streets of the
city yesterday to demand an end to government corruption,
according to Folha newspaper. Local police reported no major
incidents in  Salvador , where the mood at the stadium turned
festive after Brazil won 4-2. Tens of thousands marched in the
southern city of Santa Maria while protesters camped out in
front of Governor Sergio Cabral’s house in Rio, according to
Globo television.  Istanbul Protests  Unrest in Brazil echoed TV images of police using water
cannons to disperse thousands gathered at Istanbul’s Taksim
square for a memorial service to those killed in three weeks of
demonstrations against the government. Protests also spread to
 Paraguay , where about 3,000 gathered in the capital of Asuncion
June 21 to denounce corruption, according to Globo.  Fabio Okuda, 29, was among thousands who gathered on one of
 Sao Paulo ’s main boulevards, Avenida Paulista, to protest a
range of issues yesterday, including a proposal in Congress that
would block prosecutors from investigating crimes.  Protesters with yellow-and-green Brazilian flags draped
over their shoulders jumped up and down chanting “The people
have awakened,” as protesters tried to lure shop owners to join
the protest. One protester’s sign read: “In congress and in the
senate, filth everywhere.”  “Dilma didn’t say anything last night, it’s the same
discourse as always,” said Okuda, an administrator at an import
company.  Leaky Roofs  Amid the unrest in Brazil Sepp Blatter, head of soccer’s
governing body FIFA, departed the South American nation,
surprising Brazilian officials who had expected him to remain
for the length of the two-week Confederations Cup. FIFA said
Blatter will return to Brazil June 26 for the semi-finals.  The tournament so far provides a contrast to Rousseff’s
ambition of hosting a competition that she said in a speech last
month would allow Brazil to “shine” on and off the pitch as a
“joyful” and “peaceful” country.  Many protesters are critical of plans to spend 30 billion
 reais  ($13 billion) to host the World Cup in a country where
health care is lacking and education infrastructure is
crumbling. Brazil has 1.8 doctors on average per 100,000
inhabitants compared to 3.2 in  Argentina , while in Brasilia,
more than 80 percent of public schools have inadequate
facilities such as leaky roofs, according to a watchdog
organization known as the Federal District Court of Auditors.  Meanwhile, the stadium in Brasilia is forecast to cost
14,300 reais per seat, compared with 10,000 reais per seat for
the Cape Town arena, the costliest of the 2010 World Cup. Costs
for the arenas more than tripled since Brazil’s proposal to FIFA
in 2007, according to a Senate report.  Rousseff has defended the spending, saying it will improve
public infrastructure and the investments will stimulate
economic growth. She called on Brazilians to reciprocate the
kind of hospitality the national squad for decades received
abroad in the World Cup.  “We can’t live with this violence that embarrasses
Brazil,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  