-- Calgary to Begin Flood Cleanup as Downtown Stays Closed
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-06-23T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/calgary-to-begin-flood-cleanup-as-downtown-stays-closed.html
Calgary’s downtown, home to Canada’s
oil industry, will remain closed through the early part of this
week after swollen rivers flooded parts of the city, cutting off
power and forcing evacuations. At least three deaths due to the
flooding were reported outside the metropolitan area.  Office towers that house  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canadian
Natural Resources Ltd. and Imperial Oil Ltd. will remain shut as
waters recede from underground parking garages and underpasses,
and city workers restore power, Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi said
yesterday at a news conference. The city had ordered the
evacuation of 75,000 residents as rivers spilled over their
banks.  “People won’t be able to work in downtown offices” at
least for the early part of the week, Nenshi said.
“Considerable water remains downtown. If you want to help your
city, the best thing you can do is stay at home.”  Calgary imposed a state of emergency and began evacuations
on June 20, according to the city’s  website . Residents also were
advised to leave their homes in communities across a more than
150-mile (242-kilometer) stretch of southern Alberta, where
rain-swollen rivers flowed east from the  Rocky Mountains  and
flooded low-lying areas in the foothills and prairies.  The city declared the neighborhood of Discovery Ridge open
to residents and will allow residents to return to their homes
in parts of 25 communities in low-lying areas as water levels
fall, Nenshi said. The municipality is restricting water use in
order to maintain potable-quality water.  1,000 Rescued  Three bodies were recovered from the Highwood River near
the town of High River, with an unconfirmed report of a fourth
deceased person in the river, the Alberta  Royal Canadian Mounted
Police  said in a statement yesterday. As many as 1,000 people
were rescued by helicopter and boat from the town of 13,000
about 30 miles south of Calgary, the RCMP said.  The Bow and Elbow rivers, which meet near the middle of
Calgary, surged from their banks into neighborhoods and were
expected to remain high for several days. The flooding will
likely have an impact on the scale of the Calgary Stampede, the
city’s best-known festival, the mayor said.  Calgary suffered its worst flooding in about a century in
June 2005 when surging waters damaged 40,000 homes and forced
the evacuation of 1,500 people, according to the city website.
Water on the Elbow River late on June 20 was flowing more than
three times faster than during the 2005 flood,  Alberta  Premier
Alison Redford told reporters at a June 21 press conference.  Convention Postponed  Six to eight inches (150 to 200 millimeters) of rain fell
into the river basins near Calgary beginning June 19, and more
than 12 inches fell in the Sheep River basin southwest of the
city. Environment Canada forecast a 60 percent chance of rain
with a risk of thunderstorms today with temperatures rising and
becoming sunny later this week.  Many of the city’s bridges remain closed, while some were
under water and power was out in many downtown buildings,
according to the city’s website.  Power is gradually being restored as water levels fall,
according to Enmax, the municipally-owned utility. About 30,000
customers were without power as of noon yesterday.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s  Conservative Party  of
Canada announced yesterday that it will postpone its national
convention in Calgary, originally scheduled for this week.  Calgary Stampede  Calgary’s Scotiabank Saddledome, where events are scheduled
to be held during the Calgary Stampede, was flooded up to the
10th row, according to Trevor Daroux, the city’s deputy police
chief. Animals from the Calgary Zoo were evacuated or moved to
higher ground, he said.  “The Stampede may not look the same as last year,” Mayor
Nenshi said at yesterday’s press conference. The event is
scheduled from July 5 to July 14 and attendance is usually about
700,000, according to the  event’s website .  Fraser Logan, a Canadian Forces spokesman, said 1,200
regular troops from  Edmonton  were being deployed to southern
Alberta. The soldiers were to provide humanitarian relief,
conduct search-and-rescue missions and help with evacuation,
while police remain responsible for security, Logan said.  People in several other towns in southern Alberta were
evacuated, including from High River, Okotoks, Black Diamond,
Canmore and the ski-resort town of Banff.  A low pressure system moved in off the Pacific and crossed
the U.S. Pacific Northwest said Bernie Rayno, a senior
meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . The movement of the storm and the topography of
the Canadian Rocky Mountains create “ideal conditions” for
heavy rain, Rayno said.  Crops, Livestock  “Some areas in the mountains got 5 inches of rain in 24
hours,” Rayno said. “Where is that water going to go? Down
into the streams. Epic flooding is occurring in southern
Alberta. This is as bad as it gets.”  Alberta crop and livestock producers may suffer losses from
the floods, although officials won’t know the extent of damage
until waters recede, Agriculture Minister Verlyn Olson said in a
telephone interview from Edmonton yesterday. Initial reports
suggest that most of the damage is isolated to areas along river
banks and creeks, Olson said. The flooding has forced some
producers to move livestock to higher ground, he said.  Alberta is home to 40 percent of  Canada ’s cattle herds and
is also a grower of wheat and canola, among other crops, data
show. Eighty-five percent of crops in the western province were
rated in good or excellent condition as of June 18, prior to
flooding, the agriculture ministry said.  Officials are monitoring the integrity of dams used for
farm irrigation, Olson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  