-- Central Banks Seeing Limits of Powers to Revive Growth, BIS Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/central-banks-seeing-limits-of-powers-to-revive-growth-bis-says.html
Central banks can’t expand loose
monetary policy without exacerbating risks to world economies,
the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  “Central banks cannot do ‘whatever it takes’ to return
still-sluggish economies to strong and sustainable growth,”
Stephen Cecchetti, economic adviser and head of the monetary and
economic department at the BIS in Basel,  Switzerland , told
reporters on a conference call. “Central banks cannot do more
without compounding the risks they have already created.”  By putting policy rates close to zero and expanding balance
sheets central banks have given borrowers and banks time to
repair their finances, though progress has been “uneven”
across countries, he said. Monetary institutions must refocus on
their traditional role of encouraging adjustment, while
authorities must hasten reform to shore up creditworthiness.  “It is others that need to act, speeding up the hard but
essential reform and repair work to unlock productivity and
employment growth,” Cecchetti said. “Each country needs to
tailor the reform agenda to maximize its chances of success
without endangering the ongoing economic recovery.”  Cecchetti spoke on a briefing to mark the release yesterday
of the BIS’s annual report, which said that low  interest rates 
are creating “international spillovers” that direct capital
flows to fast-growing economies that pushes up currencies.
Delivering more stimulus is becoming “increasingly perilous”
and puts monetary policy officials in a “delicate position,”
it said.  Reform Call  Restoring growth requires reforms to encourage capital to
shift from industries that became too big during the boom to
sectors that have prospects of being more productive, according
to the report. Structural rigidities in the form of price
controls, exemptions from competition law for public
enterprises, and similar rules will slow growth and should be
liberalized, the BIS said.  Progress in fiscal reform has been “uneven,” according to
the report, with the biggest improvements coming from countries
with restricted financial  market access , such as Greece, and
lower improvement in nations where interest rates are below
historical averages, such as the U.K.  Creating fiscal sustainability isn’t a matter just of
stabilizing current debt levels, as they expose borrowers to a
risk investors will demand higher risk premia to offset the
threat of default, and they also reduce scope for counter-cyclical policy, the BIS said, adding that future spending on
healthcare and pensions will also create a drag on adjustment.  The BIS said that globally, the signs of economic recovery
are “uneven,” and that progress that has been made may be
jeopardized by deteriorating sentiment.  Market Risks  “In the presence of weak growth and insufficient structural
reforms, there remain risks of a sudden deterioration in  market
sentiment ,” the report said. “The need for balance sheet repair
continues to slow growth and render many advanced economies
vulnerable.”  The risks of continued loose policy also raise issues
concerning central bank exit from extraordinary stimulus,
according to the report.  There are “open questions” on how markets will react, and
there are limits on how far counterparties can hedge against
higher rates. In addition, a sharp rise in rates could also
generate stress in the financial system, the BIS said.  The BIS report went to press June 13-14, before Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments on June 19 that the
Fed will probably taper its bond buying next year sparked
volatility in global bond and equity markets.  “Disruptive market dynamics could even materialise as soon
as central banks signal that an exit is imminent,” the BIS said.
“The risk that exit will be delayed to avoid such disruptions
is likely to rise over time, as the situation becomes more
entrenched.”  To contact the reporter on this story
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  