-- China Solars Move Factories Overseas to Avoid EU Duties
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2013-06-24T14:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/china-solars-move-factories-overseas-to-avoid-eu-duties.html
As  Europe  slaps duties on $15
billion of solar panels, their Chinese producers are preparing
to counterattack with devices assembled from South Africa to
Istanbul that will avoid the  import taxes .  Trina Solar Ltd.,  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  and  Canadian Solar
Inc. (CSIQ)  are among Chinese companies preparing to shift
manufacturing abroad, dodging penalties imposed by the European
Union in the bloc’s biggest ever anti-dumping action.  China is pivoting as the EU this month set provisional
tariffs on solar goods of 11.8 percent, a rate set to quintuple
in August. At stake are imports from  Yingli Green Energy
Holding (YGE) , the world’s largest panel maker, and more than 100
other Chinese makers of silicon-based panels, cells and wafers.  Jinko’s yet-to-be-completed factories in  South Africa  and
Europe could be used as “back-up solutions” depending on how
high the EU raises its duties, Dany Qian, the company’s global
branding director, said in an interview in Munich.  As Chinese and EU officials held talks in Beijing last week
to head off the planned jump in duties, its companies are
preparing for the worst -- a years’ long battle over whether
Chinese suppliers unfairly benefit from state subsidies and by
dumping, or selling below cost, in the biggest solar market.  Growing trade tensions between China, the largest solar
products maker, and the EU undermine a relationship that
generated 434 billion euros ($569 billion) of exports and
imports last year, according to  European Commission  statistics.  Export Market  Jinko is setting up plants in South Africa and  Portugal 
that could export to Europe duty-free. Canadian Solar Inc.,
which has most of its operations in China, may open factories in
Taiwan, Malaysia or  Thailand , Chief Commercial Officer Yan
Zhuang said.  China and the European Union share the will to solve the
solar trade spat in talks, Chinese Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng
said June 21 in Beijing at a joint press conference with EU
Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht .  “Technical-level discussions,” began in Brussels at the
start of last week and are continuing in Beijing, De Gucht  told 
reporters. “But it is early days in the negotiation process.
This kind of thing is rarely solved overnight.”  The trade spat adds to China’s struggles to increase
output. Manufacturing is shrinking at a faster pace this month,
a trend that threatens to stem an economic recovery in the euro
area from the currency bloc’s longest-ever recession.  Chinese solar manufacturers have begun setting up overseas
to avoid duties in the EU and the U.S., as well as to satisfy
rules in countries like  India  that demand local content in
products, said Zhuang of Canadian Solar.  Saudi Arabia as Alternative  “Overseas manufacturing is a trend,” Zhuang said in an
interview at a solar conference in Munich. The Canadian-based
company that produces in China is also looking at manufacturing
in South Africa,  Saudi Arabia  or  Turkey , he said.  Suntech Power Holdings (STP)  Co. Ltd., the Wuxi-based panel-maker
that was once the world’s biggest and whose main unit now is in
bankruptcy proceedings, said last week said it will provide
“tariff-free” versions of all its standard modules for
European customers. The panel components will be made “outside
of mainland China,” to avoid the EU penalties, it said in a
June 17 statement.  “As Suntech is a global company with global operations, we
intend to make use of our global supply chain to provide modules
for customers which will not be subject to the duties in
Europe,” Ryan Ulrich, a spokesman for Suntech, said by email.  China Sunergy Co. this month said it started shipping
modules from its plant in Istanbul and will deliver about 6.4
megawatts of product from mid-June to August 2013 to “a well-known” French customer.  Scaled Duty Increase  Levies will jump on Aug. 6 to a range of 37.2 percent to
67.9 percent unless an accord is reached. EU governments have
until Dec. 6 to decide whether to turn the provisional duties
into “definitive” five-year measures.  The levies will increase prices for European solar-plant
builders and homeowners who install them on rooftops. They were
expecting to benefit fully from solar-module prices that
declined last year because of a supply glut and weaker demand.  Jinko’s factories, which haven’t started producing, have a
capacity of 200 megawatts to 300 megawatts of annual product
each, the company official said last week in Munich.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s second-biggest module maker,
based in Changzhou, also has the option to set up shop
elsewhere, Benjamin Hill, the president of Trina Europe, said in
a separate interview. About 48 percent of Trina’s shipments last
year were to Europe, according to a Feb. 26  presentation  posted
on the company website. Trina said last week the EU tariffs may
close access to some European markets.  Labor Costs  When it comes to overseas production, maintaining quality
levels is key, said Canadian Solar’s Zhuang said.  “The cost of labor is not everything that matters,” he
said. “People are used to a certain quality for our panels that
are made in  China .”  Chinese panel-makers may benefit from surging demand at
home, where Jinko sees installations reaching 8 gigawatts this
year and 10 gigawatts in 2014, Qian said. Phono Solar Technology
Co., a Chinese state-owned module maker and project developer,
expects 10 gigawatts this year and 12 gigawatts next year, Vice
President Rui Chunbao said last week in an interview in Munich.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  