-- Doc Rivers to Coach Clippers After Deal With Celtics, ESPN Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-24T04:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/clippers-reach-deal-with-celtics-for-rivers-as-coach-espn-says.html
Doc Rivers is set to become the next
coach of the Los Angeles Clippers, who agreed to send a first-round draft pick to the  Boston Celtics  as compensation in the
rare swap of an active coach, ESPN reported.  The Celtics agreed to release Rivers from the final three
years of his contract and the Clippers will sign him to a three-year, $21 million deal, ESPN said, citing people familiar with
the situation it didn’t identify. Rivers has coached the Celtics
for the past nine seasons, guiding the team to seven playoff
appearances and a National Basketball Association championship
after the 2007-08 campaign.  The transaction would require league approval. The last
time an active NBA coach was traded to another franchise was in
2007, when the  Miami Heat  received compensation for letting Stan Van Gundy join the Orlando Magic, ESPN said.  Rivers, 51, would replace Vinny del Negro, who was let go
by the Clippers last month after leading the team to 56 wins and
a division title for the first time in its 42-year history.  Rivers has a 587-473 record over 14 seasons as an NBA coach
with the Celtics and Orlando Magic.  Rivers won a championship in his fourth season in Boston
with a team led by  Paul Pierce ,  Kevin Garnett  and  Ray Allen . The
Celtics returned to the NBA Finals two years later, yet had
their run of five straight division titles end last season when
they lost in the first round of the playoffs.  Pierce is 35 and the rebuilding Celtics have the option to
buy out his contract for $5 million by June 30. The Celtics have
been seeking to trade the 37-year-old Garnett, ESPN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  