-- Czech President Mulls Technocratic Cabinet After Spy Scandal
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-24T13:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/czech-president-considers-technocratic-cabinet-after-spy-scandal.html
Czech President Milos Zeman is
considering an interim technocratic Cabinet to replace the
three-party coalition brought down by a scandal over illegal
spying and graft charges.  “A government of experts” is a realistic option, Zeman
said on state radio yesterday. The president, a critic of the
administration of Prime Minister Petr Necas who resigned June
17, said that he had pledged to end the rule of Necas’s Cabinet.
Zeman has the sole right to pick the next premier and will
announce his decision tomorrow.  “I have made up my mind in principle and my decision won’t
disappoint my voters,” said Zeman, the Czech Republic’s first
directly elected head of state, adding he was considering four
people as the possible leaders of a technocratic Cabinet. “A
government of experts, as a replacement of the current ruling
coalition, may stay only until early elections. This combination
can’t be at all ruled out.”  Necas was forced to resign after the scandal reached his
closest advisers. The parties in his three-way coalition
proposed Parliament Speaker Miroslava Nemcova as the next
premier as they maneuver to prevent an early election sought by
the poll-leading Social Democrats. The main opposition party has
pledged higher taxes and more state spending to revive the $217
billion  economy  currently mired in a record-long  recession .  Necas’s Austerity  The spying scandal added to public discontent with
austerity measures that hurt household spending. Necas, who quit
after three years in power, credits deficit cuts with helping
cut borrowing costs. Necas’s Civic Democrats would get 8 percent
in an election, compared with the 20 percent they received in
the 2010 ballot, the Prague-based polling company PPM Factum
said June 21.  The yield on the Czech Republic’s 10-year koruna bond fell
to an all-time low of 1.48 percent on May 17, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has risen 34 basis points since June
12, one day before the crisis started, to 2.4 percent today,
holding below comparable U.S. Treasuries.  Zeman’s idea of a technocratic government “is not such a
big surprise,” Nemcova said in a live interview on state
television today. “What is more surprising is that he is
probably considering it at the time when all parliamentary
parties have said they won’t support such a government.”.  The political turmoil erupted June 13 after nighttime
police raids resulted in the detention of eight people including
the head of the premier’s office, former ruling-party lawmakers,
as well as the current and former heads of military
intelligence.  Lacking Majority  The coalition that backed Necas controls 98 seats in the
200-member parliament and has relied on the votes of former
coalition deputies who defected their parties to pass
legislation.  According to law, any future government will need to secure
a simple majority to win a confidence vote in the lower house of
parliament within 30 days of being appointed. If it fails, it
stays in office as a caretaker Cabinet and Zeman has no
constitutional deadline for naming a replacement before the next
regular elections scheduled for May 2014  A technocratic administration “probably wouldn’t last
long,” according to Ceska Sporitelna AS analysts Lubos Mokras,
 Martin Lobotka  and Petr Bittner, in a not to clients today.
“Because all parties are against it, a dissolution of
parliament and a new election would very likely follow.”  Tax Promises  The Social Democrats, led by Bohuslav Sobotka, promised to
raise some income taxes to pay for higher spending the party
says is needed to revive the economy. The party would get 29
percent in an election, compared with their 22 percent showing
in 2010, according to the June 14-20 poll of 945 people by PPM
Factum, which didn’t provide a margin of error.  Sobotka said his party wouldn’t support a technocratic
Cabinet and will seek to secure the 120 votes in parliament
needed to dissolve the assembly and force a snap election.  The Czech Republic has a history of political instability.
It’s had seven governments led by six prime ministers since
Zeman finished his four-year term in 2002 and two interim
Cabinets since 1998.  “A technocratic government would enhance Zeman’s standing
within the political system as the only elected representative
with a direct mandate,” Otilia Simkova, an analyst at Eurasia
Group in  London , said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  