-- DeMark Sees Rally as Shanghai Bottoms: China Overnight
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-24T02:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/demark-sees-rally-as-shanghai-bottoms-china-overnight.html
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  will
jump about 12 percent in coming months as its June slump
exhausts sellers, said Tom DeMark, the creator of indicators to
show turning points in securities.  The benchmark index for Chinese equities will climb to
2,323 after producing a buy signal June 21 on the Combo chart,
designed to identify market tops and bottoms, said DeMark, who
has spent more than 40 years developing market-timing
indicators. The Shanghai index fell 9.9 percent in June through
last week, poised for the worst month since August 2009, while
the Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. lost 6.5 percent.  “I had not received any indication of possible bottom
since February until now,” DeMark wrote in an e-mail from
Scottsdale,  Arizona  on June 21, in reference to the Combo chart.
“The indication of an immediate market reversal does not exist
as clearly currently and it may require a couple of days for
Shanghai Composite to gain upside traction. Regardless investors
should be prepared for a rally.”  While DeMark had correctly predicted in February that the
Shanghai gauge would slump, he had called for a rebound in a
March 19 e-mail. The gauge has fallen 10 percent since then,
including a 2.1 percent drop today as of 10:28 a.m. local time.  Chinese stocks have plunged this month amid concern about a
cash crunch in the nation’s interbank market, and as a
preliminary reading of a manufacturing index showed output
contraction worsened. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
shares traded in  Hong Kong  plummeted 13 percent to a nine-month
low. American depositary receipts of online retailer Vipshop
Holdings Ltd. led declines on the ADR gauge last week while
mobile-chip maker  Spreadtrum Communications Ltd. (SPRD)  surged.  ‘Countdown’ Study   DeMark’s Combo indicator completed a “13 countdown” on a
daily basis for the Shanghai index. In general, DeMark’s
“countdown” study involves comparing a security’s closing
price to its highest or lowest levels two periods earlier, with
cycles of “exhaustion” forming when a pattern continues 13
times.  “Contrary to what most traders believe, it is ideal for a
market to bottom in conjunction with negative news to exhaust a
downtrend and encourage the last weak seller to capitulate,” he
wrote.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slipped 3.6 percent last week,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 2.1 percent in its
second weekly slump.  Lower Valuations  Stocks on the MSCI  China  Index, a benchmark for Chinese
companies, have tumbled 13 percent this month, sending companies
to trade at the biggest discount in 20 months to their Asian
peers. The MSCI China Index traded at 8.2 times estimated profit
in the coming 12 months on average, a 23 percent discount to the
multiple for shares in the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index and the
widest gap since October 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg showed
on June 21.  “It’s a good time to buy Chinese stocks as they look
generally cheap,” Ashish Goyal, investment director at
Singapore-based Eastspring Investments Ltd., which manages about
$94 billion in assets in the Asia Pacific markets, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York June 20.
“Many of the state-owned companies are looking very cheap now
and they should generally do well in the next two to three
years. In the private sector, some of the consumer stocks got
very expensive but they are correcting very nicely now.”  While DeMark correctly called the market’s peak this year,
his prediction for an 8 percent decline in the Shanghai index
proved too optimistic. The measure has tumbled 17 percent from
the February high.  ‘Too Early’  “I would say it’s too early to jump in,”  Alan Gayle , a
senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
 Virginia , which oversees about $48 billion of assets, said in a
phone interview June 21. “The underlying assumption is that
China has been enjoying a strong long-term growth and that long-term trend has come into question. Until we see better clarity
on central bank supervision, and better clarity on manufacturing
momentum, the Chinese market is an uncertain place to be.”  DeMark, an adviser to  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP, said in December that the Shangai Composite’s
decline below 1,960 signaled selling has climaxed and the index
will rally 48 percent within nine months. The benchmark gauge
bottomed at 1,949.46 on Dec. 4 and rallied as much as 23 percent
through Feb. 6.  Spreadtrum Rallies  DeMark provided consulting to hedge funds including  George
Soros ’s Soros Fund Management LLC and  Leon Cooperman ’s Omega
Advisors Inc. Market Studies makes money by charging traders for
access to its indicators. It also sells subscriptions to the
indicators on the Bloomberg Professional service for $500 a
month. Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , takes a
percentage. DeMark has a similar arrangement with Thomson
Reuters Corp. DeMark won’t say how many subscribers he has.  Spreadtrum jumped 22 percent last week as a unit of
 Tsinghua University  offered to pay $28.50 cash for each ADR,
according to a statement June 21. That values Spreadtrum at 10.3
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, in line with the average for acquisitions in the
industry over the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based online retailer of online
fashion goods, tumbled 18 percent last week to $26.49, the
steepest weekly slump since March 2012. Short interest on its
stock jumped a record 16 percent of its outstanding shares last
week, data from Markit showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  