-- Disney’s ‘Monsters’ Tops Zombies With $82 Million Debut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-06-24T20:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/disney-s-monsters-tops-pitt-s-zombies-with-82-million-debut.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar animation
“Monsters University” took first place at U.S. and Canadian
theaters this past weekend with $82.4 million in ticket sales,
overcoming  Brad Pitt ’s zombie apocalypse tale “World War Z,”
which was second with $66.4 million.  The films battled it out with last week’s top movie,  Warner
Bros .’s “Man of Steel,” which dropped to third, according to
 Hollywood.com Box-Office . “World War Z,” from  Paramount
Pictures , beat forecasts that ranged from $45 million to $50
million. “Monsters University” surpassed estimates, including
the $78 million projection of Boxoffice.com.  “World War Z,” hampered by early publicity focused on
soaring costs and re-shoots, benefited from positive reviews and
a marketing blitz that included personal appearances from Pitt
to highlight the scenes of zombie hordes racing through cities
on the attack. The efforts helped  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount avoid
a potential box-office disaster like Disney’s “ John Carter ,”
which lost $200 million last year.  “They made the hard decisions and spent the money and
ultimately this is going to be the saving grace of this film,”
said Jeff Bock, an analyst with Exhibitor Relations Co.  Don Harris, president of domestic distribution for Los
Angeles-based Paramount, said “a really smart marketing
campaign” helped pull people into theater seats.  “In the consumer world, by the time we got a month out any
negativity associated with this movie had pretty well
dissipated,” he said.  Zombie Virus  In the film, based on Max Brooks’s novel, Pitt portrays a
retired United Nations researcher called on to discover the
origin of the zombie virus. He witnesses a global apocalypse
during a search that takes him to  Korea ,  Israel  and Britain. The
film had a 68 percent “fresh” rating on  Rottentomatoes.com.   Bloomberg News critic  Greg Evans  compared the film’s
realistic presentation of the fantastical to the 1973 horror
classic “The Exorcist.”  “‘World War Z’ is a throwback to the full-throttle horror
films of the 1970s, posing its zombie what-ifs with the same
realism summoned to imagine what might happen if a Georgetown
girl met the devil,” he wrote.  The re-shot conclusion opens the possibility for a sequel,
something the studio is considering, Paramount Vice Chairman Rob Moore said in an interview before the film opened.  The film was the biggest opening ever for Pitt,
Hollywood.com Box-Office said.  Streak Holds  “Monsters University,” a prequel to Pixar’s 2001 hit
“Monsters Inc.,” follows creatures Mike and Sulley during
their college training to become full-fledged monsters. The
movie features the voices of  Billy Crystal  and  John Goodman .
“Monsters Inc.” opened with $62.6 million and had global sales
of $562.8 million.  The debut of “Monsters University” at No. 1 continues a
Pixar streak, with all 14 of its feature films premiering atop
the box office. The film also was the second-biggest debut for
the studio, behind 2010’s “Toy Story 3” ($110.3 million).  “Man of Steel” had sales of $41.3 million and has taken
in $210.1 million since it was released on June 14.  The movie, produced by “ Dark Knight ” director  Christopher Nolan , is infused with a darker tone than previous Superman
films. In the new version, the young Kryptonian, played by
British actor Henry Cavill, becomes a drifter, working odd jobs
while trying to discover his purpose and place among humans.  ‘Bling Ring’  The weekend’s other new film, “The Bling Ring,” took in
$2 million in 650 theaters to place 11th.  The movie, directed by  Sofia Coppola , is loosely based on
the true events about fame-obsessed teens who burglarize the
homes of celebrities including  Paris Hilton  and  Lindsay Lohan .
The R-rated film features “ Harry Potter ” star  Emma Watson  and
Taissa Farmiga, the younger sister of Oscar-nominated actress
Vera Farmiga. The movie is from New York-based independent
distributor A24.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 48 percent to
$232.4 million from the year-earlier period,  Hollywood.com  said.
Attendance is down 2.4 percent year to date, while revenue is
2.7 percent lower at $4.97 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on actual ticket sales for June 21 to June 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  