-- Dollar Index Reaches 2-Week High on Demand for Safe U.S. Assets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-24T17:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/dollar-climbs-to-2-week-high-versus-yen-on-fed-tapering-outlook.html
The Dollar Index rose to a two-week
high as investors fled higher-yielding currencies in favor of
the relative safety of dollar-denominated assets.  The U.S. currency rose against the majority of its 16 major
counterparts before U.S. reports tomorrow that economists said
will show durable-goods orders gained and house prices increased
as the Federal Reserve may reduce monetary stimulus.  Chinese
stocks (SHCOMP)  fell the most in four years, damping investor interest in
riskier currencies. The yield differential between U.S. and
German government securities increased to the widest in more
than three years.  “There’s broad-based dollar strength,” Brian Kim, a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “People are rotating out of assets that they
overreached for as the grab for yield unwinds. The dollar will
be the beneficiary of people looking to unwind liquidity- or
carry-fueled trades.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, rose 0.3 percent to 82.524 at 1:36 p.m. in New York
after climbing to the highest level since June 5.  The dollar advanced 0.1 percent to $1.3105 per euro after
appreciating to the strongest level since June 6. The U.S.
currency weakened 0.1 percent to at 97.78 yen. The yen added 0.2
percent to 128.15 per euro.  Carry Trade  Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell to
112.22, the lowest level since September. It gained 6.8 percent
in 2012 after declining the previous two years as weak economic
data in the U.S.,  Japan  and the euro region led to speculation
that central banks would keep rates low and inject money to
boost growth. With those conditions waning, volatility has
increased, which is negative for the carry trade because it
depends on predictable interest rates across jurisdictions.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index ,
based on currency option premiums, rose to as high as 11.95
percent today, the most since January 2012. The gauge has
averaged 8.76 percent in the past year.  Treasuries due in 10 years yielded 0.78 percentage point
more than similar maturity German sovereign debt. The spread
reached 0.81 on June 21, the biggest premium since April 2010,
according to Bloomberg data.  “It signals just how many people were on one side of the
boat at once in having an investment strategy based on lower
rates for even longer, if not forever,” Kit Juckes, global
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and Sara Eisen. “We are making a turning point in U.S. monetary
policy and too many of us have the wrong investment.”  Option Premium  The premium for one-year options granting the right to sell
the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases is at 1.91 percentage points, the most bearish since
Sept. 13.  “Long-term yields in the U.S. have continued to jump
higher over the last week,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “That’s driving some inflows and
strength into the U.S. dollar. There’s been a reassessment of
the whole liquidity story and what will be the impact on rates
across the board.”  The South African rand strengthened against all 16 of its
major peers after sovereign bond yields climbed to their highest
level on a closing basis in a year. The rand increased 0.6
percent to 10.1011 per dollar.  Scandinavian Currencies  Sweden’s krona declined versus most of the majority of its
most-traded counterparts as the CSI 300 Index of Chinese stocks
fell the most in four years, signaling a bear market. The
currency dropped 1.5 percent to 6.7740 per dollar after
depreciating to the least since Nov. 21. It has tumbled 4.4
percent in the past week.  The Norwegian krone fell against the majority of major
currencies, slipping as much as 1.6 percent to 6.1539, the
lowest since July 17.  The Dollar Index jumped 1 percent on June 19 when Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said policy makers may begin reducing their
quantitative-easing program this year and end it in mid-2014 if
the economy is achieving the central bank’s objectives. The Fed
purchases $85 billion of bonds each month.  “The fundamental picture for the dollar is clearly
positive,” said  Marcus Hettinger , a currency strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “The expectation that the
Federal Reserve may start reducing asset purchases leads to
higher U.S. yields supporting the dollar.”  Fed Statements  Richard Fisher, president of the Fed Bank of  Dallas , said
investors shouldn’t overreact to the central bank’s plans to
reduce the pace of asset purchases, in an interview with the
Financial Times published on its website today. This week will
see speeches from Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart,
Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker, Bank of Cleveland
President Sandra Pianalto and Bank of San Francisco President
John Williams.  U.S.  durable-goods  orders increased 3 percent in May after
rising a revised 3.5 percent the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Commerce Department
report.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index  of home values for 20 cities
climbed 10.6 percent for the year ended April after a 10.9
percent gain in March that was the biggest since 2006, a
separate survey showed.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $28 billion, compared with $62 billion on June 21,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $6.3 billion, the
largest share of trades at 23 percent. Euro-dollar options were
the second most-actively traded, at $4.1 billion, or 15 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 29 percent above the average
for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
84 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  