-- Dubai Accelerates Asset Sales as $30 Billion Debt Wall Looms
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-06-24T10:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/dubai-group-sells-finance-asset-to-abu-dhabi-amid-restructuring.html
Dubai, which teetered on the brink
of default in 2009, is accelerating asset sales as more than $30
billion of debt repayments come due next year.  Dubai Financial Group yesterday agreed to sell its stake in
consumer lender Dubai First to  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  for 601
million dirhams ($163 million). Dubai Holding LLC plans to sell
its 35 percent stake in Tunisie Telecom, the country’s ministry
for information and communication technologies, said June 21.  The second largest of the seven sheikhdoms that comprise
the  United Arab Emirates , Dubai is seeking to take advantage of
a rebounding economy to regain investor confidence after its
near default on $25 billion of debt roiled markets almost four
years ago. State-owned companies such as Dubai Holding and Dubai
World borrowed billions in a spending binge intended to make the
city the preeminent trade and tourism hub of the  Middle East .  “Government entities are accelerating the pace of asset
sales to meet upcoming debt,” Montasser Khelifi, a senior
manager for global markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd in the
city, wrote in e-mailed comments. “They’re trying to anticipate
maturities as market conditions have been good. We’ve seen a
surge in M&A activity both regionally and globally.”  The emirate’s state-linked debt coming due totals about $32
billion next year and $9.6 billion in 2015, according to  Bank of
America Merrill Lynch .  Abu Dhabi , Dubai’s larger neighbour,
probably won’t provide direct support next year after rescuing
Dubai from the crash with a $20 billion lifeline, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a March report.  Dubai Recovery  After almost four years of financial crisis, Dubai’s
economic recovery has quickened with a rebound in tourism, trade
and property. The economy will grow 4 percent this year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , while the Dubai
Financial Market General Index has risen 39 percent in 2013. The
benchmark fell as much as 5.1 percent today before paring losses
to close 1.9 percent lower amid an emerging-market rout after
 China  signaled it will maintain efforts to curb credit.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , whose equity indexes are tracked by investors
with about $7 trillion in assets, upgraded stock markets in
Dubai and Abu Dhabi to emerging-market status this month. The
average sale price of mid-range villas in the emirate soared 47
percent in the year to May, while mid-range apartment prices
advanced 32 percent, according to data compiled by Cluttons LLC.  The IMF estimates Dubai accumulated about $113 billion of
debt as it pursued projects that included the construction of
the world’s tallest tower, palm-tree shaped residential and
tourism islands in the sea, and a real estate binge that saw
vast tracts of land reclaimed from the desert.  Dubai World, the state-owned entity whose inability to
repay debt helped trigger the crisis, agreed to sell U.K.
warehouse developer EZW Gazeley Ltd. earlier this month. The
company needs to repay $4.4 billion to creditors in 2015 and a
further $10.3 billion by 2018, according to its repayment plan.  Bank Debt  Dubai Group, which owns Dubai Financial Group, last month
agreed on final terms for restructuring $6 billion of bank debt.
The Dubai First sale is “part of our stated plan to sell down
assets in order to support our broader ongoing restructuring
process,” Dubai Group Chief Executive Officer Fadel Al-Ali said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Dubai Group unit Dubai Insurance Group in February sold a
41 percent stake in Oman National Investment Corp. to Oman
Investment Fund, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, for about
$57 million. The company also holds stakes in Dubai-based
investment bank  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , Cairo-based EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE and Bank Muscat SAOG, Oman’s biggest bank by assets.  Dubai faces a “pivotal year” in 2014 amid an unclear
legal framework for restructurings and uncertain support from
its richer neighbor, Moody’s said in the March report.  Earlier this month, Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co.
said it will buy a 50 percent stake in state-owned Dubai
Aluminium Co. and merge another aluminum smelter to create a $15
billion joint venture.  “We are seeing more consolidation of assets between Dubai
and Abu Dhabi,” said Tariq Qaqish, head of asset management at
Dubai-based Al Mal Capital PSC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  