-- Duchess Portrait Missing Since WWII Returns to Her Heirs
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-06-24T11:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/duchess-portrait-missing-since-wwii-returns-to-her-heirs.html
An 18th-century oil portrait of a
German duchess that was lost in  Poland  during World War II has
returned 70 years later to Weimar, the city where it was first
commissioned by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.  Duchess Anna Amalia of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach was portrayed
as a lover of the arts by the artist Angelika Kauffmann in her
Rome studio in 1789. The painting went missing from the
duchess’s descendants’ palace in World War II, only to resurface
in 2011 when a Polish consignor took it to Sotheby’s.  “Our identity is closely linked with this city, so this is
where it had to come back to,” Michael Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach,
the heir of the painting and a descendant of the grand ducal
family, said at a ceremony at the Weimar palace. He has agreed
to loan it permanently to the city.  Christoph von Berg, the lawyer who negotiated its return,
said the painting is worth “hundreds of thousands” of euros,
declining to name an exact figure. After its completion, it hung
in the Roman House in Weimar, built under Goethe’s direction as
a retreat for Anna Amalia’s son, Duke Carl August of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach.  When the monarchy was overthrown in 1918, the  Roman House 
reverted to the ownership of the State of Thuringia and the
painting moved to the palace in Weimar, still then owned by the
family. Later, the portrait was moved to a family residence in
Silesia, now a part of Poland.  Sotheby’s Spotter  It disappeared during the turmoil of World War II, and only
surfaced in 2011 when a Polish businessman and art collector,
Piotr Buchner, took it to  Sotheby’s (BID)  in  London  to be auctioned.  A Sotheby’s employee spotted a listing for the painting on
the German database lostart.de and reported its reappearance to
Weimar city authorities.  “We will probably never know where the painting went after
1945,” Nina Buhne, a senior director at Sotheby’s said at the
ceremony. “It is lucky that it didn’t end up in a Russian
archive. And lucky that it ended up on the art market.”  Sotheby’s held on to the painting for as long as it took to
reach agreement, von Berg said.  Klassik Stiftung Weimar , the
foundation that runs Weimar’s palaces and museums, contacted
Buchner to negotiate a return. The agreement involved paying
some compensation to Buchner, who also claimed legal ownership,
von Berg said.  “We wanted to avoid expensive litigation in Britain,” von
Berg said. “It was important to negotiate an agreement.”  Duchess Anna Amalia’s most famous bequest to Weimar was her
beautiful  library , which specializes in literature from around
the year 1800. Destroyed by fire in 2004, it has since been
restored and is open to the public.  Kauffmann, who became friends with the duchess during her
sojourn in  Rome , painted Anna Amalia surrounded by evidence of
her devotion to the arts, including books, rolled up graphics
and music. Behind her, a curtain is lifted to one side to reveal
a view of the Colosseum.  Weimar plans to honor the painting with an exhibition at
the Roman House next year.  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Zinta
Lundborg’s  interviews,  Catherine Hickley  on German art and  John
Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Weimar,  Germany , at 
Or  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 