-- LME Woos China Traders as Shanghai Vies for Global Stake
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-06-24T11:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/lme-woos-china-metal-traders-as-shanghai-vies-for-global-stake.html
At a time when the London Metal
Exchange is the closest it has ever been to entering China, the
rival  Shanghai  Futures Exchange is looking for a bigger share of
the $20.6 trillion global market in metals futures.  While the LME already handled $14.5 trillion of trade last
year, backed by a network of more than 700 warehouses in 36
locations that ensure physical delivery, Chinese regulations
from 2008 mean it has no depot in the biggest metal-consuming
nation. That may change because the bourse was bought by Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. in December and Chief Executive
Officer Charles Li said he wants to be in the world’s second-largest economy.  The LME board picked HKEx, with no existing commodities
business, over bids from IntercontinentalExchange Inc., CME
Group Inc. and NYSE Euronext, in part because it judged Li, the
former chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  China , the most
likely to win over Chinese regulators. The Gansu, China-raised
CEO is facing competition from the Shanghai bourse, which said
in May it plans to give overseas institutions access to
warehouses in China and add its first depots overseas.  “The danger for the LME is that if they don’t get into
China, Shanghai will attract an increasingly large amount of
business once China opens up,” said Christopher Gilbert, a
professor at Trento University in  Italy  who has studied
commodities for four decades. “Under Hong Kong Exchanges, it’s
certainly increased the chances of getting into China. They
really need to have warehouses on the mainland.”  Asian Hours  Li is expanding a strategy that began before last year’s
acquisition. The LME opened a  Singapore  office in 2010, its
first in the region, and introduced Asian benchmark prices for
copper, aluminum and zinc in 2011. Transactions in Asian hours
accounted for 16 percent of electronic trading in three-month
futures in 2012, according to the LME.  A  Bank of China  Ltd. unit was approved as the LME’s first
Chinese company member last year and the bourse said June 17 it
listed  Taiwan  as a storage point. Warehouses in China are
important because they would make it easier for Chinese traders
using the LME to get metal delivered locally. The LME
“ideally” would eventually be able to license warehouses in
mainland China, Li said in his  blog  on June 17.  HKEx’s Li, who became CEO in 2010, wrote on his blog last
month that he is seeking “partnerships” with Chinese exchanges
as a way of getting into the mainland, without giving details.
The bourse will also sign a memorandum of understanding with
Bank of China today in  Hong Kong  on clearing of yuan-denominated
commodity products.  Hong Kong  Guo Shuqing, then chairman of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, visited HKEx in January and met with Li,
about a month after the $2.2 billion LME acquisition was
completed. It is the CSRC’s rules that bar foreign exchanges
from registering warehouses for commodity deliveries on the
mainland. The two discussed “issues of mutual interest,” the
Hong Kong bourse said in a statement, without giving details.  “I have to assume that the Chinese regulators gave their
tacit approval to the purchase,” said Peter Barrowcliff, the
London-based global head of metals at Newedge Group, a member of
the LME. “That portrays the willingness to internationalize
their market. While the rules haven’t changed so far, that
perhaps could set a scene for the rules to be relaxed.”  A measure of Li’s success so far can be seen in the number
of people going to the LME  Week  Asia conferences and parties
that start in Hong Kong today. About 900 delegates are expected
at the bourse’s $250-a-head dinner tomorrow, compared with about
200 in Singapore last year.  World Federation  Listing sheds in China is part of Li’s strategy to create
an “East Wing” for the LME by easing restrictions for traders
in China and amending contracts and clearing to attract Asian
clients. Li said in an interview in February that he wants to
“use the LME as a catalyst to achieve a breakthrough in the
barrier between China and the rest of the world.”  The 52-year-old former journalist plans to introduce yuan-denominated commodities contracts, competing in a market that
the China Futures Exchange Association valued at 95.3 trillion
 yuan  ($15.5 trillion) in 2012. All of it went through three
Chinese exchanges that restrict access to foreigners.  That included the Shanghai Futures Exchange, which handled
almost $7.1 trillion of commodity contracts last year, according
to data compiled by the World Federation of Exchanges. The
bourse lists gold, silver, steel, rubber and fuel oil in
addition to industrial metals.  “The competition between Shanghai and the LME will
certainly increase as the SHFE looks to expand and become much
bigger, more global, more international,” said Wan Ling, the
Beijing-based manager for China nonferrous metals analysis at
CRU, a research company.  Copper Warehouses  The Shanghai exchange plans to open some of its existing
products to foreign investors, starting with industrial metals
and rubber and then gold and silver, Chairman Yang Maijun told a
conference May 28, without giving a timeframe. The bourse will
also give overseas institutions access to delivery to warehouses
inside China, subject to the approval of regulators, he said.
Yang oversaw the futures industry unit of the CSRC until 2006.  The Shanghai bourse has 15 copper warehouses and 22 for
aluminum and more will be added in southern and western China,
the chairman said. Yang didn’t say where overseas depots would
be located.  “Singapore would be a good location,” said Wu Jianguo, an
analyst at Maike Futures Brokerage Co. in Shanghai. “Setting up
overseas depots is another approach to raising China’s pricing
power but many things in China, such as establishing warehouses,
require approvals from different levels of government and
consume a lot of time.”  Commodities Bourses  Copper futures volume gained 17 percent on the Shanghai
exchange last year as  transactions  through the 136-year-old LME
expanded 4 percent. The London bourse says it handled futures
contracts representing 3.6 billion metric tons of industrial
metals last year, or more than 80 percent of the global market.  The LME’s turnover of $14.5 trillion compares with $4
trillion for industrial metals at the Shanghai bourse. Volumes
through Comex in  New York  and the Multi Commodity Exchange of
 India  take the total to at least $20.6 trillion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg based on the 10 biggest commodities
bourses ranked by the World Federation of Exchanges.  HKEx’s purchase of the LME was the most expensive exchange
acquisition over $1 billion since at least 2000, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s “going to be a great bargain
if you look at it a few years from now,” Li told a conference
in Hong Kong in March. Shares of HKEx fell 12 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent retreat in the  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Bond Sale  Li has the advantage of having been brought up in mainland
China and also worked for Western companies. He grew up in a
rural territory bordering Mongolia and got a degree in English
literature. He started his career at the state-owned  China Daily 
and subsequently worked with Manhattan law firm Brown & Wood,
representing China on its first international bond sale in 1994,
valued at $1 billion.  “It will be a better opportunity being driven by a Chinese
business leader out of Hong Kong than by say Westerners from the
other side of the world,” said Jeremy Goldwyn, a director at
London-based Sucden Financial Ltd., which trades on the LME.
“But that also wouldn’t mean a rapid green light either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  