-- Leadership Turmoil at Endgame as Australia Lawmakers Meet
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-23T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/leadership-turmoil-at-endgame-as-australia-lawmakers-meet.html
Speculation is increasing  Kevin Rudd 
will again vie for the job he lost to Prime Minister Julia Gillard three years ago today in a backroom party coup as
Australian lawmakers gather in Canberra this week.  Gillard will still be the prime minister at the end of the
week, the final time parliament sits before the Sept. 14
election as the window for a challenge by Rudd closes,
Communications Minister Stephen Conroy said in a televised
interview yesterday. Voters will “punish” the ruling Labor
party if it continues to talk about the leadership and ignore
policy debate, he said.  Pressure intensified on Gillard when  Melbourne ’s The Age
newspaper  wrote  in a June 22 editorial that  Australia ’s first
female leader should step down to enable policy-driven debate to
flourish. Opinion polls indicate that a return to Rudd, whose
previous challenge against Gillard in February 2012 fell well
short, may avert a landslide win by the Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National opposition.  “It’s near impossible to hold a leadership challenge
unless the caucus is gathered in Canberra, so if anything is
going to happen it has to happen this week,” said Stephen
Stockwell, a political analyst at Brisbane’s Griffith
University. “It’s uncertain whether Rudd yet has the numbers.
Even those party members who dislike him may decide to be
pragmatic and turn to him to help at least save some seats,
rather than heading toward an election wipeout under Gillard.”  Leadership Speculation  While Gillard has vowed she won’t resign and Rudd has
declared he won’t contend for the leadership, media speculation
has intensified that Labor lawmakers are seeking a way to return
the former prime minister to his job. Should Gillard refuse to
throw open her leadership, a challenge could only be held if
more than a third of Labor’s caucus demands a party room vote,
known as a spill.  “I don’t believe that  Julia Gillard  will be overturned as
the prime minister this week,” Conroy said on Sky Television
yesterday. “I absolutely believe Julia Gillard’s got the
majority of support in the caucus. I’ve thought that for the
last three years and I continue to think that.”  Australians have had a “gutful” of the leadership talk,
Rudd said June 21, ruling himself out of the running. Gillard
beat him in a February 2012 leadership ballot 71 votes to 31,
prompting Rudd to rule out a future challenge. In March this
year, he declined to contest the leadership when Gillard called
a vote. She was re-elected unopposed by her Labor colleagues.  Replacing Gillard with Rudd would boost Labor’s chances at
the ballot box, polls show. His return would lift Labor by 11
percentage points in the primary vote to 40 percent, compared
with the coalition’s 42 percent, according to a Nielsen survey
published in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  newspapers June 17. It showed
support for Labor under Gillard slid 3 points to 29 percent,
versus the opposition’s 47 percent.  ‘Stopped Listening’  “Voters have been so distracted by internal and external
speculation about Labor’s leadership that efforts by the prime
minister and her ministers to enunciate a narrative, a strategic
vision, for the nation’s future beyond this year have failed,”
 said  The Age newspaper, published by Fairfax. “A big majority
of the electorate appears to have stopped listening.”  Speculation that Labor would return Rudd to the leadership
to revive the party’s prospects for re-election resurfaced after
he started making campaign appearances for colleagues in
marginal seats this month.  The trade union movement is unanimous in its support of
Labor and Gillard’s bid for re-election, the nation’s senior
workers’ representative Paul Howes said last week. Gillard
received another boost on June 21, when she received the backing
of Labor power-broker  Bill Shorten , who helped engineer her 2010
move on the leadership.  No Confidence  Installing a new leader while parliament still sits risks a
collapse of the Labor government because independents  Tony Windsor  and  Rob Oakeshott  have said their agreement to help the
party form a minority government in September 2010 after the
closest election in seven decades was exclusively with Gillard
and would become void under another prime minister.  Should Gillard resign or be replaced as Labor’s leader on
or after June 28, she would inform Governor General Quentin Bryce that the new leader would form government, allowing an
election to be held as early as Aug. 3 or as late as Nov. 30,
according to Australian National University international law
specialist Don Rothwell.  “It would be rather extraordinary for the governor general
not to accept that advice as the resignation of the prime
minister would not have arisen from a motion of no confidence
having been lost on the floor of the  House of Representatives ,”
Rothwell said in an e-mail. “As such, the issue of whether the
parliament has confidence in the government of the day would not
have arisen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  