-- Echo Unveils $1 Billion Sydney Casino Extension
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-06-23T05:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/echo-unveils-1-billion-sydney-casino-extension.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ,
licensed to run Sydney’s only casino until 2019, plans to spend
more than A$1.1 billion ($1 billion) expanding the property to
fend off a challenge from billionaire James Packer’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN)   The proposed extensions to Echo’s harborside Star casino
include two new hotels and more than 50 bars and restaurants,
the Brisbane-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.
Echo also proposes making a A$250 million payment to the New
South Wales government to extend its exclusive casino licence,
it said. This comes after Packer  last month unveiled  rival plans
for a A$1 billion hotel-casino project at Barangaroo, a
development site southwest of the Sydney Harbour Bridge.  Crown and associates of Lim Kok Thay’s  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  have
made rival investments in Echo since February 2012, amid
competition for high-rolling Asian gamblers who’ve doubled
 Macau’s gaming revenues  over the past three years. Echo also
submitted an alternative proposal to the NSW government
supporting the Barangaroo development, provided that gaming
facilities are VIP-only table games, it said. Under this
scenario, Echo will not make the A$250 million payment because
of the fragmentation to the gaming market.  “While Echo is confident that our proposed development
plus licence exclusivity payment provides the most impactful
solution, this alternative may be seen as a potential win-win
scenario for the people of Sydney,” John O’Neill, the chairman
of Echo, said in the statement.  ‘Formidable Competitor’  Crown sold out of its 10 percent stake in Echo last month
so it could pursue its own plans “without speculation” over
the holding, the Melbourne-based company said.  Genting Hong Kong
Ltd. (GENHK)  is still awaiting regulatory approval to lift its share to
25 percent.  “Barangaroo is likely to be a formidable competitor to
Star if Crown’s proposal is approved by the New South Wales
government,” Larry Gandler, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG, wrote in a note to clients May 24.  Echo unveiled its plans today after submitting them to the
NSW government for a June 21 deadline. Only one of the rival
casino plans will be put forward to the final stage of a  three-stage approval process  being run by the state.  Echo suffered its sharpest drop since it was spun off from
 Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH)  in 2011, after Crown sold its 10 percent
stake even after winning approval from regulators in NSW and
Queensland states to lift the holding to as much as 23 percent.
The move reflected “an increased degree of confidence” that
Crown would win permission to build Barangaroo, Nomura Holdings
Inc. analyst Nick Berry wrote May 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  