-- Egyptian Court Says Foreign Groups Involved in 2011 Jailbreaks
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-23T10:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/egyptian-court-says-foreign-groups-involved-in-2011-jailbreaks.html
An Egyptian court asked prosecutors
to seek Interpol’s help to arrest four Hamas and Hezbollah
members, contending the groups worked with the Muslim
Brotherhood to orchestrate the 2011 jailbreak of 34 of its
officials, including President Mohamed Mursi.  The court in the Suez Canal city of Ismailiya also referred
to prosecutors for investigation the files on the Brotherhood
officials who were freed from prison in the opening days of the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , including Mursi and Saad El-Katatni, the head of the Brotherhood’s political party.  The decision, read out in a televised hearing in the court,
takes place as Mursi faces escalating opposition to his
stewardship of the nation, with the opposition pushing for his
ouster in planned June 30 demonstrations that coincide with the
end of his first year in office.  “The ruling weakens the position of the Muslim Brotherhood
and strengthens the opposition stance,” Gamal Eid, the head of
the Arabic Network for Human Rights Information, said by phone
today. “There’s no space for Mursi and his supporters now to
talk about a legitimate president; now we’re talking about a
president who’s facing official charges.”  The court’s findings follow reports in Egyptian media that
implicated Hamas and Hezbollah in the storming of Wadi Natroun
prison and other facilities that held a number of their
followers, as well as jihadists, Salafis and Brotherhood
officials. The court said the jailbreaks were also assisted by
Bedouins.  Mursi has said he and others were freed from prison by
local residents, while Hamas, which rules the Gaza Strip, has
denied involvement. He and his Islamist supporters have rejected
calls for him to leave office prematurely, arguing he was
elected in democratic polls and any change must come through the
ballot box.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  