-- Egypt’s Military Say It May Intervene to Prevent Conflict
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/egypt-s-military-say-it-may-intervene-to-prevent-conflict.html
Egypt ’s Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi said the military is prepared to intervene to stop the
country’s political crisis from spiraling out of control, a week
before a planned rally against President Mohamed Mursi.  The armed forces “won’t remain silent as the country
slides into a conflict that’s difficult to control,” Al-Seesi
said in remarks posted yesterday on the military’s official
Facebook page. “There is a state of division in society and its
continuation is a danger to the Egyptian state.”  Mursi’s opponents are planning a mass rally on June 30 to
force the president to call early elections. His supporters held
a demonstration in Cairo during the weekend and warned against
attempts to overthrow the Islamist politician, who marks one
year in office at the end of this month.  “It’s a pretty strong-worded statement that is meant to
send a message reassuring those who oppose Mursi that the army
has got their back,” Hassan Nafaa, a political science
professor at Cairo University, said in a phone interview. The
statement also sends “a warning to the Islamist backers of the
president who are threatening a bloody war against the
opposition and are calling whoever opposes Mursi an infidel.”  By threatening to intercede, the army is indicating it’s
going to apply pressure to block any attempts to monopolize
power, Nafaa said. A military coup is unlikely, he said.  Opposition parties and youth movements accuse Mursi of
seeking to consolidate the power of his Islamist backers while
failing to address the economic and political demands that
sparked the 2011 uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . The political
turmoil has battered the nation’s stocks and bonds, sending
Egypt’s credit risk to the highest level since 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  