-- Egypt Military Says It May Intervene to Prevent Conflict
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-24T08:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/egypt-military-says-it-may-intervene-to-prevent-conflict.html
Egypt ’s army warned it will prevent
the country’s political conflict from escalating, a week before
rallies seeking to push President Mohamed Mursi from office.  Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi, in remarks posted
yesterday on the military’s spokesman’s official Facebook page,
also gave both the nation’s Islamist rulers and its secular and
youth activist rivals a week to work toward reconciliation.  The armed forces “won’t remain silent as the country
slides into a conflict that’s difficult to control,” Al-Seesi
said. “There is a state of division in society and its
continuation is a danger to the Egyptian state.”  Opposition parties and youth movements have shunned Mursi’s
calls for dialogue as disingenuous, accusing him of seeking to
consolidate the power of his Islamist backers while failing to
address the economic and political demands that sparked the 2011
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . Violence flared again last week
in some regions after Mursi appointed eight Islamists as
provincial governors. The political turmoil has battered markets
and sent Egypt’s credit risk to the highest level since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Bloody War’  The army’s threat to intercede is a signal that it will
block attempts to monopolize power, though a military coup is
unlikely, Hassan Nafaa, a political science professor at Cairo
University, said in a phone interview.  “It’s a pretty strong-worded statement that is meant to
send a message reassuring those who oppose Mursi that the army
has got their back,” in reference to Al-Seesi’s remarks. The
military statement also sends “a warning to the Islamist
backers of the president who are threatening a bloody war
against the opposition and are calling whoever opposes Mursi an
infidel.”  Yields on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds fell 38 basis
points to 9.17 percent at 10:25 a.m. in Cairo today, after
surging to a record 9.55 percent yesterday, when the main  stock
index  also fell 2.2 percent.  The opposition and Mursi’s Islamist backers both expressed
appreciation that the army has so far kept out of politics, and
stressed their rejection of violence in the run-up to the June
30 demonstrations that will mark Mursi’s first anniversary in
office. Mursi’s supporters rallied last weekend to oppose
attempts to push the Islamist leader from office.  ‘National Fabric’  The April 6 youth movement, which backed Mursi’s
presidential bid but later became one of his strongest critics,
said in an e-mailed statement that the army under its current
leadership is an “inseparable part of the national fabric and
the protective shield of the country’s security.”  Mohammad Saad Al-Katatni, the head of the Muslim
Brotherhood’s political arm, the Freedom and Justice Party, said
Al-Seesi’s comments gave voice to the frustration of all state
institutions, including the military, about violence ahead of
the June 30 rallies. He said the protests of last week “created
chaos, sectarianism” and civil strife.  Al-Seesi, who was appointed defense chief by Mursi after
the Islamist removed Hosni Mubarak’s long-time defense minister
and other senior officers last year, had warned in January about
the potential “collapse of the state” as a result of the
political divide. The army took control of Egypt after the 2011
uprising that ousted Mubarak, before ceding power to Mursi a
year ago.  “The army’s bond with the people is eternal,” Al-Seesi
said yesterday. “Those who think they can infiltrate this bond
or circumvent it are mistaken.” He also called for “genuine
reconciliation” between Egypt’s political forces.  Mursi met Al-Seesi yesterday to discuss preparations to
secure state installations, the president said on his
spokesman’s Facebook page.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  