-- ENRC’s Founders Make Offer Valuing Miner at $4.7 Billion
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-06-24T08:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/enrc-s-founders-in-advanced-stage-of-4-7-billion-offer.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ’s
founders and the Kazakh government will offer a mix of cash and
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  shares to buy ENRC in a bid that values the mining
company at 3.04 billion pounds ($4.7 billion).  The proposal by  Alexander Machkevitch , Patokh Chodiev and
Alijan Ibragimov to take the company private would pay
shareholders $2.65 in cash and 0.23 of Kazakhmys Plc stock for
each ENRC share held, the newly created Eurasian Resources Group
BV said in a statement. Kazakhmys, which owns 26 percent of
ENRC, said it backs the bid.  The founders are seeking to take ENRC off the market five
years after selling shares in the company at 540 pence apiece in
a London initial public offering. The  stock  has dropped  about
50 percent in the past year amid allegations of corruption in
 Kazakhstan  and  Africa . Today’s offer is effectively lower than a
May proposal that ENRC directors said “materially undervalues”
the company, Nomura International analysts said in a note.  Kazakhmys shares dropped as much as 15 percent to 230 pence
pence in  London  trading, the biggest intraday slump since
December 2008, and were at 237.7 pence by 9:51 a.m. ENRC was 1.1
percent higher at 219.3 pence, after falling as much as 7.8
percent.  “We believe the market may have been hoping for better
deal terms,” Ash Lazenby, a Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst, wrote
in a note.  Underlying Quality  The offer for ENRC, which mines iron ore, produces
ferroalloys used in steelmaking, generates power in Kazakhstan
and extracts metals in Africa. In 2010, it took control of
copper and cobalt mines that equivalent to 234.3 pence a share
at current exchange rates, according to the statement. ENRC
closed June 21 at 216.90 pence a share in London, giving the
iron-ore and ferroalloys producer a market value of 2.79 billion
pounds, and Kazakhmys at 269.4 pence. The ENRC committee of
independent directors has yet to give the offer its approval,
Eurasian Resources said.  “The Founders and the Kazakh government are confident of
the underlying quality and overall potential of ENRC’s key
businesses,” the bidding group said. “They believe that the
value of ENRC will only be fully realised if ENRC is no longer a
listed company.”  Kazakhmys will receive $887 million and 77 million of its
own shares under the offer terms, it said in a separate
statement today.  Still Undervalued  “The board of Kazakhmys believes that the offer may
undervalue ENRC and its assets, but after seeking to engage with
the ENRC consortium and its constituent members, has concluded
that there is no prospect of obtaining improved terms,” it
said. “Moreover, the board considers the prospects of realising
greater value from ENRC in the short to medium term to be remote
and the risks of further erosion in value to be considerable.”  The founding shareholders and Kazakh government, which hold
almost 54 percent, sent a letter in May to an independent
committee set up by ENRC’s board detailing a cash offer at 175
pence, equal to $2.65 at the time, plus 0.231 share of
Kazakhmys. That was equivalent to 260 pence a share based on a
370-pence Kazakhmys price, the panel said May 20, concluding
that the offer “materially undervalues” ENRC.  Given that Kazakhmys stock has fallen since the initial
proposal, this leaves the latest offer effectively lower, the
Nomura analysts said.  ENRC traces its roots to its founders’ participation in the
1990s privatizations of Kazakh state assets that were gradually
combined into a single group of companies and listed in London.  New Chairman  Mehmet Dalman, named chairman in 2012 to improve governance
and lead a reorganization following the corruption allegations,
resigned in April and was replaced by Gerhard Ammann, former
chief of Deloitte & Touche LLP’s Swiss practice.  The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office said April 25 it began an
investigation into alleged fraud and bribery at London-based
ENRC operations, including in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  In 2010, ENRC took control of copper and cobalt mines in
Congo that Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler acquired from the
nation’s government following their seizure from  Canada ’s First
Quantum Minerals Ltd. Anti-corruption groups including  Global
Witness  criticized ENRC for acquiring the assets, saying Gertler
got them at low prices because of close ties to President  Joseph Kabila . Gertler denied buying them at below-market rates.  First Quantum sued ENRC, which settled in 2012 and agreed
to pay $1.25 billion for First Quantum’s share of the assets. In
May, the African Progress Panel said in a report that the DRC
lost out on about $1.4 billion in revenue by selling undervalued
copper and cobalt deposits now controlled by ENRC and  Glencore
Xstrata Plc. (GLEN)   Kofi Annan  The figure represents a “small share” of total losses as
state-owned companies underpriced assets that they sold to
companies owned by Gertler from 2010 to 2012, according to the
panel led by former United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan .  The founders are raising $1.6 billion to fund the cash
component of the buyout, and the government is offering its 26
percent stake in London-based Kazakhmys, people familiar with
the matter said last month, asking not to be identified because
the information wasn’t public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  