-- Erdogan Likens Turkish Protests to Those in Brazil
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-06-23T10:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/erdogan-likens-turkish-protests-to-those-in-brazil.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  likened the protests in  Brazil  to those in  Turkey ,
accusing the organizers of seeking to undermine government
authority.  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff and Erdogan are
struggling to contain protests that began as fights against
higher bus fares or to protect a park and have since swelled
into broader movements. The Turkish premier, whose plans to
redevelop Gezi Park in Istanbul triggered demonstrations, said
clashes in both countries were orchestrated by international
media and social networks.  “Right now, the same game is being played in Brazil,”
Erdogan told supporters in the northern province of Samsun
yesterday. “The symbols are the same, the posters are the same.
Same Twitter, same Facebook, same international media. They are
being controlled by the same center.”  The turmoil has battered financial markets in Brazil and
Turkey. The losses deepened amid an  emerging markets  selloff
after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it may start phasing out
bond purchases this year. While Turkey’s unrest centers around
what critics say is Erdogan’s increasingly authoritarian rule,
Brazil’s turmoil highlights discontent among the nation’s middle
class as a pick-up in inflation threatens to erode gains from
recent economic growth.  Bear Market  Turkey’s crisis started as a protest against the
redevelopment of a park in Istanbul before turning into movement
against Erdogan’s Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party.
The protesters were only damaging the Turkish economy and
playing into the hands of an “interest rate lobby,” Erdogan
said yesterday.  Ten-year local-currency bond yields surged to 8.32 percent
on June 20, jumping 93 basis points in the biggest advance in
major emerging markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The lira slid to an all-time low against the dollar and the
benchmark  stock index  entered a  bear market . Investors sold $532
million of bonds in the week ended June 14, 21 times the
outflows a week earlier, central bank data showed.  “Who lost due to the rallies? Although the losses were
limited, naturally Turkey’s economy has lost, Turkey’s tourism
has lost,” Erdogan said.  Turkey may struggle to reach its year-end goal of 4 percent
economic growth, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said June 11.
The country’s current account deficit may widen to 6.7 percent
of gross domestic product from 6 percent in 2012, according to
the median estimate of 20 economists on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  