-- Matt Harvey Gets Seventh MLB Win as Mets Shut Out Phillies 8-0
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/mets-blank-phillies-8-0-as-harvey-pitches-six-scoreless-innings.html
Matt Harvey won back-to-back starts
for the first time in two months, combining with two relief
pitchers on a four-hit shutout as the  New York Mets  defeated the
Philadelphia Phillies 8-0.  Harvey improved his record to 7-1 on the Major League
Baseball season by allowing two hits over six scoreless innings
while striking out six. Although he threw only 72 pitches,
Harvey didn’t return to yesterday’s game in Philadelphia
following a 21-minute seventh-inning rain delay.  “If it had been 10 minutes, it might have been a different
story, but we had a six, seven-run lead and have an off-day
tomorrow for the bullpen,” Mets manager Terry Collins told
reporters after the game.  Harvey hadn’t recorded consecutive victories since April,
when he won his first four starts of the season.  Third baseman  David Wright  had two doubles, a triple and a
home run to become the ninth player in Mets history with four
extra-base hits in a game. Wright and Marlon Byrd each drove in
two runs for New York.  The Tampa Bay Rays beat the New York Yankees 3-1 yesterday
on James Loney’s two-run single in the seventh inning, earning a
split of their four-game series at Yankee Stadium.  The Toronto  Blue Jays  won their franchise record-tying 11th
straight game with a 13-5 rout of the  Baltimore Orioles  as Edwin Encarnacion hit a home run and drove in four runs.  The Blue Jays, who also won 11 games in a row during the
1987 and 1998 seasons, scored nine runs over the first three
innings at the Rogers Centre in Toronto.  In a matchup of division leaders, the  Detroit Tigers  beat
Boston 7-5 after scoring three runs in the eighth inning
following two errors by the  Red Sox .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  