-- Eurobonds as Refugees From Tax Men Turn 50 in $4 Trillion Market
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-06-24T13:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/eurobonds-as-refugees-from-tax-men-turn-50-in-4-trillion-market.html
Half a century ago, a  London  bond
deal for an Italian highway operator, denominated in U.S.
dollars and arranged by a U.K. bank founded by a Jew fleeing
 Germany  spawned a $4 trillion-a-year global market.  Autostrade SpA, the manager of Italy’s freeway network,
borrowed $15 million on July 1, 1963, through a new kind of
international debt security, dubbed a Eurobond. Financiers led
by  Siegmund Warburg , founder of S.G. Warburg & Co., created the
debenture so its interest payments were untaxed and in so doing
gained access to pools of stagnant American dollars in Europe.  On the eve of its 50th anniversary and a celebratory black-tie dinner in London’s Savoy Hotel today, the market for
Eurobonds and the larger derivatives markets that have grown up
alongside it face new controls and taxes from cash-strapped
governments after the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression forced five European nations to seek international
bailouts. The market’s founding fathers say escaping similar
rules was the key to its initial success.  “The market was riven with bureaucracy and rules and stamp
duties and everything to make our lives difficult,” said Peter
Spira, 83, who joined Warburg in 1957 as a newly trained
chartered accountant and worked on the Autostrade deal. “We
fought a long battle and we eventually won.”  Tax Loophole  It all started with bankers exploiting a quirk in the  tax
code  dating from the 19th century that allowed financial
transactions originating in the U.K. between foreign
counterparties to go untaxed, said Stanislas Yassukovich, who
traded the Autostrade bonds at White Weld & Co. White Weld was
acquired by Merrill Lynch & Co. while the separate European
business later became part of the firm now known as Credit
Suisse Group AG.  The new securities they dreamed up to take advantage of the
loophole allowed borrowers and bankers access to a pile of cash
called Eurodollars because they were held outside of the U.S.,
and which were left idle for tax, regulatory or political
reasons.  From those beginnings the market has helped hasten European
integration and promoted London as a global financial center.
Borrowers from Paris-based hotel operator  Accor SA (AC)  to the
Republic of Zambia have raised funds using Eurobonds.  Issuance has risen steadily since the turn of the century,
peaking at about $4.5 trillion in 2009 from $1.4 trillion in
2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales this year
are set to match the $4 trillion sold in 2012, the data show.  First Swap  Growth began in earnest with the development of the
international swaps market in 1981 by the World Bank. The
derivatives gave investors the ability to use  interest rates  in
one currency to subsidize lower rates in another as well as give
borrowers the choice of fixed or floating rates that can reduce
financing costs. The swap-driven deals became bigger and bigger
as the diversity of borrowers in different currencies increased
the appetites of global investors.  Swaps allowed borrowers to raise debt where it was cheapest
and pay in the currency of their choosing. In the first deal,
the  World Bank  needed funds in Swiss francs and Deutsche marks
but wasn’t able to access those markets. Instead, it borrowed
dollars while Armonk, New York-based International Business
Machines Corp. took out a loan in francs and marks. The two
borrowers then swapped the liabilities, essentially exchanging
cash flows.  “Clearly the development of the swaps market was extremely
important for the  bond market ,” Rene Karsenti, who worked on
the first public  currency swap  as a junior executive at the
World Bank and is now president of the International Capital
Market Association, or ICMA, said in a telephone interview.
“Swaps delinked the currency, the interest rate, the credit
rating of a transaction from the needs of the borrower.”  Transaction Tax  The interest-rate swap market, which grew to about $29.4
trillion in notional amount in June 1998, passed the $100
trillion mark in December 2003 and reached $370 trillion in
December 2012, according to the  Bank for International
Settlements  in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  Europe is now considering a financial tax that would apply
to bond trading, while in the U.S., measures designed to crack
down on tax evaders holding money offshore may force U.S.
institutions to levy a withholding tax on some transactions,
according to Chris O’Malley, a senior adviser to ICMA. The self-regulatory organization’s members range from securities dealers
and brokers, to banks, issuers and investors.  Cheaper Rates  “The most important attribute of Eurobonds, by a mile, is
that they’re free of withholding tax,” said O’Malley, the
author of the provisionally titled book “Bonds Without
Borders,” to be published by John Wiley & Sons in April. “If
that changes you can whistle goodbye to the world’s biggest
market. If you’re going to buy a cross-border issue, the key is
that you don’t want to be taxed twice. Double taxation is a
total deal killer.”  Investors in London would be less likely to buy bonds
issued by Munich-based Siemens AG if, for example, tax were
payable to both the German and U.K. authorities, he said.  Without Eurobonds, issuers would have to turn to domestic
or regional markets, which would be more expensive, said
O’Malley.  “I guess we’d go back to Bulldogs and Kangaroos and
Rembrandts and Matadors,” O’Malley said, referring to
securities sold by foreign companies in the U.K., Australia, the
Netherlands and Spain. “Effectively, there are no domestic bond
markets in Europe now. They’ve all been subsumed under the
Eurobond market.”  Regulation Hurdles  Before 1963, international bonds denominated in dollars had
to be registered with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission,
according to Yassukovich. They were underwritten by U.S. banks
even though as much as 75 percent of the debentures were sold to
investors in Europe, according to Ian Kerr’s “A History of the
Eurobond Market.”  Warburg, a German Jew who set up S.G. Warburg in London in
1946, together with his colleagues saw that a bond in dollars
sold and traded outside the U.S. could be cheaper to issue and
generate fees for European financial institutions. Warburg’s
family, who “may rank as the oldest, continuously active
banking family in the world,” trace their ancestry to the 16th
century, according to Ron Chernow’s “The Warburgs.” They were
forced to flee  Nazi Germany  and sold their stakes in M. M.
Warburg & Co., one of the largest private banks in Germany, to
regime-approved purchasers in 1938.  Governor Carli  Warburg turned to  Bank of Italy  Governor Guido Carli for
help in finding a borrower and in January 1963 signed up Rome-based Autostrade. A team led by Ian Fraser, who was named the
head of the U.K.’s City  Panel on Takeovers  and Mergers in 1969,
took six months to find ways around the thicket of regulations.  The London Stock Exchange, the  Bank of England , the Inland
Revenue and the Stamp Office all made their job harder, with
exchange controls and taxation among their main issues,
according to Kathleen Burk, Professor Emerita of modern &
contemporary history at  University College London .  Central banks in Europe also had to consent to the bonds
being distributed within their borders, as well as the coupons
and principal being paid in dollars.  Just 17 days after the Autostrade deal, President  John F.
Kennedy  announced a new law for the Interest Equalization Tax
that gave American businesses a reason to borrow abroad and to
keep those dollars outside the U.S. American multinationals
received another incentive for Eurobonds when President  Lyndon
B. Johnson  asked in 1965 and obliged by law in 1968 companies to
fund foreign investments with money raised abroad to stem a flow
of dollars out of the country.  JFK Tax  “The bombshell, the thing that really kicked it all off,
was the Interest Equalization Tax,” said Yassukovich. “That
totally killed the market in New York for international bonds.”  About $4.8 billion of Eurobonds were issued from 1963
through 1967, and the amount rose to $17.5 billion in the five
years through 1972, according to Kerr. Some $47 billion was sold
in the next five years, with the amount surging to $119 billion
from 1978 through 1982.  Stanley Ross, 82, who in 1950 began a five-decade career in
financial markets starting at Strauss Turnbull & Co., one of the
brokers of the Autostrade issue, recalls how the firm’s equity
business was “gradually pushed aside by the sheer volume” of
Eurobonds. “The market grew without any regulation,” said
Ross, who co-founded the Association of International Bond
Dealers in 1969 and was known for wearing a monocle and mutton-chop sideburns.  Financial Crisis  The market was largely self-regulated by organizations such
as the AIBD, a predecessor to the ICMA, until the 2008 financial
crisis prompted policy makers to demand greater scrutiny. The
17-nation  euro zone  suffered through almost two consecutive
years of economic contraction and the sovereign debt crisis led
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus to seek bailouts.  The proposed financial transaction tax, which the European
Commission estimates could raise 30 billion euros ($40 billion)
to 35 billion euros a year, would mean a levy of $10,000 on a
$10 million trade.  The U.K. has mounted a legal challenge and Luxembourg,
where Citigroup Inc. estimates assets held by banks are 22 times
the nation’s gross domestic product, may do the same.  “The moral to me of all of that story is that markets will
migrate to wherever they see the optimum location to provide a
service to their clients,” said John Stancliffe, who was born
in 1932, worked at White Weld in London from 1955 to 1979 and
traded the Autostrade transaction. The financial transactions
tax “is absolute insanity,” he said.  Champagne Celebration  The U.S. enacted in 2010 the Foreign Account Tax Compliance
Act, which may also discourage bond investors if they risk being
slapped with withholding tax, according to O’Malley at ICMA.  Belgian dentists, shorthand for wealthy individuals, were
attracted to the debt’s untaxed coupon payments and their
anonymity. The person holding the bond could claim the payments.  “We did virtually nothing with U.K. counterparties,” said
Yassukovich, the former White Weld executive. “We traded almost
entirely between the famous Belgian dentist in Belgium and, say,
a Latin American client or whatever.”  Buyers of Eurobonds range from wealthy individuals in
places such as Switzerland and Singapore investing via private
banks, to funds run by New York-based BlackRock Inc., and
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach and the rest
of the world’s biggest money managers.  The $15 million deal Fraser and Spira cobbled together has
been succeeded by thousands of bonds each year. Top-rated
sovereigns, state agencies and corporate borrowers now issue
into the same market as Ukrainian chicken farmers and Greek
suppliers of refrigeration equipment.  “The business has changed,” said Ross, a bus conductor’s
son who will be speaking at the Savoy tonight as the champagne
corks pop to celebrate the market’s half-century. “What I don’t
know is whether there are the same opportunities available
anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  