-- Fed’s QE Cue Curbs Bets on Deeper Belka Rate Cuts: Poland Credit
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-06-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/fed-s-qe-cue-curbs-bets-on-deeper-belka-rate-cuts-poland-credit.html
Traders are trimming bets that
 Poland ’s central bank will keep cutting  interest rates  as plans
by the  Federal Reserve  to scale back stimulus send the European
nation’s bonds toward their worst month in almost a decade.  Trading in overnight index swaps on June 21 showed bets on
28 basis points in interest-rate cuts this year, compared with
44 basis points three weeks ago. Polish bonds maturing in one
year or longer lost 2.5 percent in June, on track for their
biggest monthly drop since October 2003, according to data from
the European Federation of Financial Market Societies.  While investors still predict a cut at central bank
Governor Marek Belka’s next policy meeting on July 3 as the
economy struggles to rebound, the risk is that the zloty will
fall further as investors pull money out of Poland, according to
Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH. That may accelerate a selloff in
bonds that started last month when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said policy makers could curb their $85 billion a month of bond
purchases if the job market shows sustainable improvement.  Another rate cut would be “probably very difficult without
risking further currency weakness,” Ronald Schneider, who helps
manage $1.1 billion in emerging-market debt for Raiffeisen in
Vienna, said by e-mail on June 21. “It’s very likely that the
market will have to cope with more withdrawal of capital.”  Rates Adequate  Borrowing costs are close to a level that the majority of
policy makers would regard as “adequate,” Belka said on June 5
after the central bank cut the main rate to a record 2.75
percent. Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, one of the 10 rate-setters,
said last week the bank should deliver the final cut in July.  The zloty had its worst week since November 2011 and 
yields on zloty debt jumped the most since October 2008 after 
Bernanke said June 19 bond buying may be trimmed this year 
should risks to the  U.S. economy  continue to decrease.  “Polish zloty bonds and the currency will continue to be
affected by the uncertainty about U.S. monetary policy,” said
Thanasis Petronikolos, who manages $150 million as head of
emerging-market debt at Baring Asset Management in  London .
“During this period, economic fundamentals are not the key
driving forces of market movements,  risk aversion  is.”  Slowing Economy  Poland’s economy will probably grow 1.2 percent in 2013,
the weakest pace in more than a decade, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Officials from the Washington-based
lender have urged the central bank to reduce borrowing costs
“without delay” during their visit in Warsaw a month ago.  With growth weakening, inflation pressures remain
contained, allowing rates to fall to a new low, according to
Ernest Pytlarczyk, the chief economist at Commerzbank AG’s
Warsaw-based BRE Bank SA unit. Overnight index swaps show an 89
percent probability of a quarter-point rate cut on July 3, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Although the Monetary Policy Council began to signal that
it is coming to an end of the easing cycle again, we believe
another cut in July is still in the pipeline,” Pytlarczyk wrote
in a June 21 e-mail. “Foreign-exchange intervention and the Fed
are not going to be an obstacle. We are in the middle of one of
the steepest disinflation phases in Polish history.”  The central bank sold foreign currencies for the zloty on
June 7 in its first market intervention since 2011 to curb
volatility, the regulator said in a statement the same day.
Belka said there was “no contradiction” between the central
bank’s monetary easing and intervening to support the zloty, 
PAP newswire reported that day.  Inflation Risk  The inflation rate, which slumped to a seven-year low of 0.5
percent in May, may be on track for a “significant
undershooting” of the central bank’s 2.5 percent target in
2013, according to Pytlarczyk.  The zloty declined 0.1 percent to 4.3464 per euro at on 
June 21, slipping 2.5 percent over five days. The yield on 
five-year bonds jumped 16 basis points to a seven-month
high of 3.86 percent, increasing 65 basis points in the week.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Poland’s 10-year
zloty bonds rather than German bunds increased nine basis points
to 269, the highest since Dec. 6, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The yield spread for Polish  dollar-denominated bonds  over
U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points to 148 at the end of
last week, compared with a two basis-point jump to 350 for
emerging-market debt, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s indexes show.  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps rose 10 basis points to an 
eight-month high of 106, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 
contracts, which rise as the perceptions of creditworthiness
deteriorate, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the 
underlying securities should a government fail to adhere to its 
agreements.  The lowering of bets on rate cuts “is the result of a
correction on the market, rather than of a deep consideration of
what the rate council is doing,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at
Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said by phone on June 21. “July is the 
last moment for a rate cut. Cutting rates  after the summer 
holidays would be too late.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  