-- German Business Confidence Seen Increasing on Recovery
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-06-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/german-business-confidence-seen-increasing-on-recovery.html
German business confidence probably
increased in June amid signs that a recovery in  Europe ’s largest
economy is gathering pace.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will rise to 105.9 from 105.7 in
May, according to the median of 46 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News
survey. (GRIFPBUS)  Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  The German economy  expanded  0.1 percent in the first
quarter of this year after shrinking 0.7 percent in the final
three months of 2012. Investor confidence gained this month and
industrial production jumped the most in more than a year in
April. The Bundesbank last week said economic growth will show a
significant acceleration in the second quarter, while warning of
signs of a slowdown later in the year.  “Compared with the rest of Europe, Germany’s economy is
pretty strong and will remain solid for the rest of the year,”
said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “What
worries me are signs of weakness from  China . If this leads to a
global slowdown, Germany as an export-oriented nation will
surely suffer.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably rose to
102 from 101.6 in May, while a gauge of the current situation
may have slipped to 109.6 from 110, the survey shows.  Cash Crunch  Manufacturing in China is shrinking at a faster pace this
month, a preliminary reading of the Chinese Purchasing Manager’s
Index showed last week. At the same time, the nation’s money
market has suffered a two-week cash crunch that will test the
management skills of new Communist Party leaders saddled with
risks from a record credit expansion under their predecessors.  German exports rose 1.9 percent in April from March,
beating economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey, data from
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden showed this month.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on June 6 in
Frankfurt that exports are a primary driver of growth for the
17-nation euro area.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the German maker of Nivea skin cream, on May
2 reported first-quarter profit that exceeded estimates as
higher emerging-market sales countered a drop in western Europe.  The euro area is struggling to emerge from six quarters of
contraction, its  longest-ever recession . The ECB expects the 17-nation currency bloc to shrink 0.6 percent this year before
expanding 1.1 percent in 2014. Recent economic-survey data are
showing “some improvement, but from low levels,” Draghi said
on June 18 in  Jerusalem .  Growth Forecast  The Bundesbank on June 7 cut its projections for  Germany ,
predicting that Europe’s largest economy will expand 0.3 percent
in 2013 and 1.5 percent next year, down from earlier forecasts
of 0.4 percent and 1.9 percent. Signs of a slowdown in the
summer months are emerging, the central bank said June 17 in its
monthly report.  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest maker of sporting goods,
cut its revenue and profit forecasts for this year on May 14
after reporting first-quarter earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates, citing a “challenging” business environment in
Europe and disappointing sales in China.  German new  car sales  resumed a decline in May, after
increasing in April for the first time this year, the German
Federal Motor Vehicle Office said on June 4. Registrations fell
9.9 percent from a year earlier to 261,316 vehicles.  Improving Confidence  Still,  Daimler AG (DAI)  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche 
said on June 12 that earnings have improved in the second
quarter as new models win buyers and the Mercedes-Benz car unit
reduces costs faster than anticipated.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance,
increased to 38.5 from 36.4 in May.  German  consumer confidence  will jump to the highest level
in more than 5 1/2 years this month, GfK AG said May 24, citing
the market research company’s sentiment survey of about 2,000
people.  “Germany’s economy is performing pretty well considering
the headwinds it’s facing,” said Ulrike Kastens, senior
economist at Sal. Oppenheim Group in Cologne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  