-- Gillard Says Aussie Drop Would Be ‘Very Good Thing’ for Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-23T23:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/gillard-says-aussie-drop-would-be-very-good-thing-for-economy.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said an extension of recent declines in the nation’s
currency would help rebalance growth and warned against
undermining confidence in the economy.  “A sustained depreciation of the Australian dollar in
those circumstances would be a very good thing, to stimulate
further growth in the non-mining sector -- while the firms that
have adjusted to the historically high dollar stand to benefit
from its fall,” Gillard said in a speech in Canberra today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists estimated in a report
this month that there’s a 20 percent chance of recession in
 Australia  and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch sees a 25
percent chance. Gillard criticized pessimistic reporting on the
economy, saying “confidence matters” and “any irrational
threat to economic confidence is a threat to jobs and growth.”  Gillard’s  Labor party  hasn’t led in polls for more than 18
months and a Newspoll in the Australian newspaper today showed
her falling further behind. The local currency has slumped 11.3
percent this quarter, the worst performer among the group of 10
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as signs mount that the  U.S.
economy  is strengthening and growth is slowing in Australia’s
biggest trading partner, China.  “Perhaps there’s no better example of the failure to
separate signal from noise than the pessimists who say that the
dollar rising is bad news and then say the dollar falling is bad
news,” Gillard told the Committee for Economic Development of
Australia today. “Last week a retail industry leader who’s
spent years advocating for direct relief from the strong dollar
and low-price imports did widespread media complaining that the
falling dollar was bad for  consumer confidence .”  Currency Squeeze  Australian industry has been squeezed by a currency that
held above $1 from mid-June last year to May 10, the longest
stretch above parity with the  U.S. dollar  since the Aussie was
freely floated in 1983. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered
borrowing costs by 2 percentage points in the past 20 months to
a record-low 2.75 percent as it seeks to rebalance growth from
mining regions in the north and west toward manufacturers in the
south and east that struggled under the currency’s weight.  Australia’s has avoided recession for 22 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  