-- GM Surprise Hit Spark Shows All Segments Globalizing
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-06-24T20:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/gm-surprise-hit-spark-shows-all-segments-globalizing.html
As a two-time Toyota buyer, Ashley
Potts didn’t even think to look at a Chevrolet when she began
shopping for a small car with better fuel efficiency.  “They’ve been big gas guzzlers,” Potts, 34, who works in
human resources at a hotel in  Boston , said last week. “I’d
never given it much thought. I’d been happy with my Toyotas for
10 years.”  Then, during a chance encounter in April, she stumbled upon
a Chevrolet Spark, a mini car that looks almost like a cartoon
with its bulbous headlamps, exaggerated grille, a color palette
with options such as Techno Pink and body length 3 feet (0.9
meter) shorter than a Toyota Corolla. It gave her a taste of the
dramatic changes taking place at  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
dealerships across the U.S.  “It was fun to drive and it had all of the bells and
whistles that I wanted,” she said of the Spark. She immediately
bought a Spark, which starts at $12,170, and can come with
features usually found on bigger cars, such as Bluetooth and
keyless entry.  Modern GM has never successfully sold such a tiny car in
the U.S. The Spark’s success today, 26,869 U.S. deliveries in
its first 12 months, exceeds GM’s initial expectations by as
much as 35 percent, said one person familiar with the company’s
internal planning.  ‘Some Pizazz’  GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC have all gained
share in the first five months this year, the first time that
has happened in at least 18 years, as they sell some of their
best cars in a generation. The Spark ranked No. 2 for quality in
its segment in J.D. Power & Associates’ Initial Quality Study,
an important industry benchmark.  Unlike past attempts with the larger Chevy Aveo, the Spark
is being sold with good audio systems and other features not
typical for low-entry-level cars, said Larry Dominique,
executive vice president of Santa Monica, California-based auto
researcher TrueCar Inc.  “When you start making it not just a cheap box and start
adding some pizazz and features to it that people want, the
appeal grows,” he said. “And I think GM has done a good job
with that.”  GM could add those elements because Spark is largely sold
outside of the U.S., giving it the scale required to make a
vehicle that wouldn’t do enough business otherwise.  The company  sold 275,228 Sparks last year around the world.
While the car first went on sale in the U.S. in June of last
year, it arrived in South Korean showrooms in 2009. GM has sold
more than 720,000 globally, according to the company.  Korean Influence  The Spark’s design was led by designers in South Korea,
where small cars are more popular, which underscores the
progress GM has made in developing cars using its global
resources. It’s the same team that led development of the
 Chevrolet  Cruze and Sonic, compact cars that are still larger
than the mini Spark and that have seen sales success around the
world.  Alan Baum, an industry analyst with Baum & Associates, had
expected an annual sales rate of 25,000 in the U.S., while
35,000 now looks more likely, he said.  “The price is obviously aggressive and resulting in good
sales,” Baum said last week in an e-mail. “In addition, the
car is doing well because its competitors (which are few) have
been less focused on the U.S. market.”  U.S. sales of the Spark through May this year totaled
14,484, a little more than 3,000 behind Chrysler’s Fiat 500 at
17,562 and about half as many as the larger Ford Fiesta’s
28,801.  Toyota (7203)  Motor Corp.’s Scion iQ sold 1,919 during the same
period.  Spark Sales  At $14,563, the Spark had the lowest average transaction
price in the segment last month, according to Edmunds. The
average segment transaction price was $19,038, while the Fiat
500 had a so-called ATP of $19,739. The Ford Fiesta averaged
$17,094.  While not a best-seller for a company that delivered
418,312 Chevrolet Silverado pickups in the U.S. last year, the
Spark is bringing in a new kind of customer. It has the highest
percentage of buyers younger than 35 among Chevy models and
attracts the largest percentage of first-time new car buyers,
according to the company’s internal figures.  All of that is important for rebuilding Chevrolet, Cristi
Landy, marketing manager for the car, said in an interview.  “It helps people look at Chevy differently,” she said.
“It forces people to say, ‘Oh geez, this is a Chevy.’”  GM fell 2.5 percent to $31.42 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 9 percent this year, trailing the 10 percent
increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Young Buyers  GM is eager to hook young consumers and keep them as they
buy more expensive vehicles as they get older. A major
initiative of Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is improving
customer retention among GM’s brands as part the company’s
efforts to boost North American operating margins to 10 percent
by mid-decade from an average of 7.4 percent during the past
three years.  GM estimates that every percentage point of customer
retention improvement will generate $700 million in additional
revenue.  The Spark’s gains weren’t always expected. Coming out of
bankruptcy in 2009, the Spark was one of the many bets GM made
that seemed unlikely to pay off given the automaker’s track
record. Even some executives were skeptical, Ed Welburn, head of
GM design, said in an interview this month at the company’s
Warren, Michigan, technical center.  “This may be one step too far in doing small cars” in the
U.S., he remembered them saying. “It was almost like this was a
test.”  Hand-Washed  Welburn said he felt so strongly about the car that he has
given it an “almost out of proportion” amount of time. The
first one to arrive from South Korea for engineers to work on
before it went on sale in the U.S. showed up on a weekend in
July 2009. He remembered the engineer calling his home, asking
if he’d like to see the car before it was driven to then-CEO
Fritz Henderson’s home.  Yes, Welburn said. It arrived still dirty from the trip.
“He pulled around to my garage and I got a bucket of water and
a rag and I washed it by hand,” Welburn said.  That gave him a chance to run his hands along the sculpted
hood with flared fenders, over a roof that’s taller than a
Malibu mid-size sedan and over the big, round headlamps more
suited to a large sport-utility vehicle.  “It makes me smile,” he said of the car’s design, which
he described as fun and playful. In the middle of the interview,
he pulled out his  BlackBerry (BBRY)  to show a picture of himself from
that day, beaming with a smile during a break from washing the
burnt orange car. “It was reassuring to me,” he said.  Staying Visible  As GM made final preparations for the car’s U.S.
introduction, Landy, the marketing manager, worried the tiny car
would get lost on dealer lots, hidden behind pickups and SUVs.  “If these guys order a bunch of white and silver ones and
they park them in the back of the lot, I’m never going to even
see them,” Landy remembered worrying.  She and her team devised a plan to constrain the number of
Sparks available to dealers in traditional colors, such as black
and white, as part of an effort to flood showrooms with bright-colored ones with names such Jalapeno, Denim, Lemonade and
Techno Pink.  Techno Pink nearly didn’t make it on the list, Landy said.
The hue, kind of a Hello Kitty-inspired shade of pink infused
with silver, is the No. 1 selling Spark color in South Korea.
Some at GM didn’t think it would fly in the U.S.  “I thought why not?” Landy said. “We wanted it to be
fun. It wasn’t like we were making 500,000 of these. In my
opinion, it was a small risk.”  Couldn’t Wait  The U.S. team did make one change. In South Korea, the
color was called Luscious Kiss Pink. They renamed it Techno
Pink. To shake things up for the new model year, Chevy won’t
offer Techno Pink. It’s being replaced with Grape Ice, a cool
purple shade.  In any event, the Spark’s pink paint job appealed to Potts,
the car buyer in  Massachusetts . The dealership didn’t have one
in stock, though, and Potts said she didn’t want to wait for it
come in. She picked a Denim blue one that was on the lot.  “It’s fun to drive,” she said. “It zips in and out of
everywhere. It’s small, but doesn’t seem as small as it looks
from the outside. There’s room in the back seat.”  Her family liked the car so much that her father-in-law,
Peter Mitchell, 63, bought one, too. His is Jalapeno green.  “This is an eye-catcher,” he said. “We love it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Soutfhfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  