-- Gomez Says Independents to Tip Scales in Massachusetts Election
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-23T16:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/gomez-says-independents-to-tip-scales-in-massachusetts-election.html
Republican Senate candidate Gabriel Gomez said his appeal among independent voters will overcome his
widening deficit in the polls in the Massachusetts special
election this week.  Gomez and Democrat Ed Markey, a 37-year member of the
House, are competing in the June 25 vote for the seat vacated by
Democrat  John Kerry  when he became Secretary of State.  “Our message is resonating among independents, Democrats,
Republicans,” Gomez said on the “Fox News Sunday” program,
adding that Markey appeals to “a narrow sliver of the
Democratic Party.”  A Gomez victory would erode the Democrats’ 54-46 majority
in the Senate, where President Barack Obama is pushing for a
rewrite of immigration laws, and give Republicans a boost going
into the 2014 congressional elections. It also would spotlight
Massachusetts as a vanguard of shifting national political
attitudes reminiscent of early 2010, when voter discontent
helped  Scott Brown  become the state’s first Republican U.S.
senator since 1979.  A parade of Democrat stars, including first lady  Michelle Obama , former President  Bill Clinton , Democratic National
Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  -- as well as
singer Carole King -- have campaigned on Markey’s behalf. Vice
President  Joe Biden  visited the commonwealth yesterday, where he
said Gomez, if elected, would be a reliable vote for Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , who leads the chamber’s
Republicans.  Republican Head Count  “If he wants Gabriel Gomez in his caucus, it’s not because
he thinks he will ever disagree with him,” Biden said. “It’s
because he wants a Republican majority and he knows he can count
on the guy to vote with him on everything he needs.”  A poll published June 21 by New England College showed
Markey with a 20-point lead over Gomez. Gomez has support from
45 percent of independent voters, the poll showed.  A June 16 poll from the  Boston  Globe put Markey 13
percentage points ahead and showed Gomez with a nine-point lead
among unaffiliated voters, who make up about 53 percent of those
registered to cast ballots.  That edge is short of the 2-to-1 margin Gomez likely needs
from that bloc to overcome the more than 3-to-1 advantage
registered Democrats have over Republicans in the state, said
David Paleologos, director of the Suffolk University Political
Research Center in Boston.  Markey has outspent Gomez almost 4-to-1, according to
Federal Election Commission records. Markey’s campaign has had
outlays of $8.6 million since January compared to Gomez’s $2.3
million.  The challenge for both candidates Tuesday will be getting
voters to participate in an election that features a single
race. In November, more than 3.1 million ballots were cast in
 Massachusetts . In a January 2010 special election, the turnout
was less than 2.3 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  