-- Gulftainer Takes Control of Three Saudi Terminals Amid Expansion
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-06-23T12:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/gulftainer-takes-control-of-three-saudi-terminals-amid-expansion.html
Gulftainer acquired full management
control of three terminals in  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
oil exporter, as the closely held port operator based in the
United Arab Emirates seeks to expand in  emerging markets .  Gulftainer bought 51 percent of Saudi Arabia’s Gulf
Stevedoring Contracting Co., helping it take management control
of three terminals in Jeddah and Jubail, the company said today,
without disclosing the value of the transaction. The acquisition
makes it the largest port operator in the  Middle East  by number
of terminals operated, Gulftainer said.  “Saudi Arabia is hugely important for the company’s
ambition in the Middle East,” Badr Jafar, vice chairman of
Gulftainer, said in an interview today. “Going forward we see
the majority of the company’s growth in developing markets.”  Saudi Arabia is spending billions of dollars to develop
energy and infrastructure projects in regions such as Jubail,
home to several projects that are being developed with companies
including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Total SA. Gulftainer, with its
stake in Gulf Stevedoring, is likely among companies that stand
to gain from shipment of goods to help develop the projects.  Gulftainer has ports and logistics operations in the
U.A.E., Iraq,  Russia , Lebanon and  Brazil , as well as ventures in
Turkey and Pakistan. The company expects to handle more than 10
million containers in the next five years, compared with a
forecast of 6 million containers this year, driven by
international operations, said Jafar, who is also the chief
executive of  Crescent Enterprises.   Investments  The port operator is considering opportunities in  Africa ,
America and the eastern Mediterranean region for investments,
Jafar said. “The exact ports and locations are under review.”  Gulftainer also plans to invest $150 million over five
years in its home base in Sharjah and the U.A.E., where it
expects to raise capacity to 8 million twenty-foot equivalent
units by 2015. The company plans to invest $500 million over two
years as it expands in Russia and Saudi Arabia, Jafar told
 Bloomberg News  last month.  “We have a decent amount of work cut out for ourselves
this year,” Jafar said today. “It doesn’t necessarily mean we
are not looking at closing transactions in the remainder of the
year, but our focus will be on recent acquisitions and
operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  