-- Increasing Bond Yields Risk Debt Spiral in U.S., Japan, BIS Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-06-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/increasing-bond-yields-risk-debt-spiral-in-u-s-japan-bis-says.html
Major economies risk ballooning debt
loads unless their growth can keep pace with increases in
borrowing costs as spending on the elderly rises, according to
the  Bank for International Settlements .  Japan ’s public  debt  would swell to 600 percent of gross
domestic product by 2050 on a 2 percentage-point increase in
funding costs, should its age-related  government spending 
continue unchecked, the Basel-based BIS said in its 83rd annual
report. In the U.S., the debt-to-GDP ratio would almost double
to 200 percent under the same circumstances, it said.  “Governments in several major economies currently benefit
from historically low funding costs,” the BIS said. “At the
same time, rising debt levels have increased their exposure to
higher interest rates. The consolidation needs of countries
experiencing low interest rates would be greater if their
growth-adjusted interest rates were to rise.”  Bond yields around the world jumped last week after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that the
central bank may begin dialing down its bond purchases this year
and end them in mid-2014. That signals higher borrowing costs
for governments as the recovery in the U.S. gathers momentum.  Treasury 10-year note  yields  rose past 2.5 percent for the
first time in almost two years on June 21, having climbed from a
record low of 1.379 percent set on July 25, 2012. The average
yield to maturity on the more-than-20,000 securities in the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index rose to 2.03
percent on June 20, the highest since April 26, 2012.  Health, Pensions  Adding to pressure on state debt loads are burgeoning
“age-related” expenses, the BIS said in its report. Government
liabilities related to health care and pensions as a proportion
of GDP will rise by 9 percentage points in the U.S. between 2013
and 2040, the biggest increase among developed economies, it
estimated.  “A rise in interest rates without an equal increase in the
output growth rate will further undermine fiscal
sustainability” in several major economies, the report said.
“Age-related spending will eventually put debt on an upward
path regardless of interest rates. However, a higher  interest
rate  causes debt to go up much sooner.”  U.S. debt  as a percentage of GDP will be 108.1 percent this
year and 109.2 percent next year, the according to an
 International Monetary Fund  forecast in April. Debt will reach
245.4 percent of GDP in Japan and 93.6 percent in the U.K. in
2013, it said.  Of the three, the U.K. would be least affected by an
increase in borrowing costs because the average maturity of its
debt, at around 14 years, is the longest, the BIS said. U.S. 
bonds mature in 64.5 months on average, according to  data  
compiled by Bloomberg.  “This factor effectively provides some insurance against
sharp interest-rate rises,” BIS said in the report. “That
said, if left unchecked, age-related spending will put
additional pressure on debt ratios further down the road.”  The BIS was formed in 1930 and acts as a central bank for
the world’s monetary authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson@bloomberg.net  