-- India Troops Seek Stranded People as Flood Deaths May Top 1,000
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-06-23T05:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/india-troops-seek-stranded-people-as-flood-deaths-may-top-1-000.html
India ’s military continued working
today to evacuate thousands still stranded in the foothills of
the Himalayas as the death toll rose to more than 750 after
torrential rains in the region triggered flash floods.  Narrow valleys in the mountainous north, where shrines lure
tens of thousands of Sikh and Hindu pilgrims during the summer
months, remain cut off six days after torrents surged through
the rocky canyons. Helicopters continue to drop supplies in
remote areas of Uttarakhand state, where roads were swept away.  As many as 1,000 people may have died in the floods, NDTV
24X7 reported citing Vijay Bahuguna, Uttarakhand’s chief
minister.  “We are working on a war footing even if there is bad
weather,” Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde told reporters
yesterday as he visited the region. “The government will
provide whatever help, money required for relief operations. We
are having regular meetings over the crisis situation. Our
paramilitary forces are carrying out relief operations.”  Rain will occur at many places along  Himachal Pradesh ,
Uttarakhand and  Uttar Pradesh  from June 25 to June 29, the
weather office said on its website yesterday.  Monsoon rains that annually cause destruction across India
have moved over the country with record speed this year.
Downpours channeled by steep-sided and deforested valleys have
generated especially violent floods, washing away homes,
vehicles and mobile-phone towers. Television networks have
broadcast footage of buildings collapsing into raging rivers and
village streets filled with debris and rocks.  Vital to Farms  India’s monsoon accounts for about 70 percent of the
rainfall vital to the country’s agriculture-driven economy.
Rains since the monsoon began  June 1  have been 39 percent above
average, helping to ease water shortages in some regions and
promising to boost crop production in the world’s second-most
populous country.  Sonia Gandhi , president of the ruling Congress party,
called on all national and state lawmakers in her party to
donate a month’s salary to help those affected by the floods,
Ajay Maken, a senior Congress leader, wrote on his Twitter page.  The  Indian Air Force  has deployed 43 aircraft, federal
Information and Broadcasting Minister Manish Tewari told
reporters in New Delhi June 21.  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  on June 19 announced a
10 billion rupee ($169 million) relief package, saying the
number of casualties is expected to rise.  More Rainfall  Uttarakhand, which abuts India’s border with  China  to the
west of Nepal and has a population of about 10 million, has
received almost four times the usual rainfall this month,
causing rivers to burst their banks.  The army and air force have deployed more than 8,000
troops, including medical teams and engineers, to clear roads
blocked by landslides and construct temporary bridges to help
reach survivors.  In 2007, more than 2,800 people were killed by monsoon
rains during India’s June-September wet season. As many as 50
million people were affected by floods that destroyed 1.6
million homes in the four-month monsoon period. The  United
Nations  described the flood as the “worst in living memory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  