-- Kerry Urges India to Reduce Emissions of Greenhouse Gases
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-23T17:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/kerry-urges-india-to-reduce-emissions-of-greenhouse-gases.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
called on India today to join the U.S. in seeking to curb global
warming, saying the world’s largest democracy and its oldest
democracy are best suited to lead the effort.  The top U.S. diplomat used a speech in  New Delhi  to appeal
for an alliance to help curb  climate change  as he began a three-day visit to meet with Indian officials.  “Today we must recognize the science of climate change is
screaming at us for action,” Kerry said. “Working together,
the U.S. and India can make this leap, and it will be to our
benefit and the world’s.”  The appeal came two days before President  Barack Obama  is
to announce an initiative to combat global warming that may
include using executive authority to impose limits on  carbon
emissions  from existing  power plants .  The U.S. administration has already proposed limits on
greenhouse-gas emissions for new power plants. Existing plants
account for about 40 percent of the annual release of carbon
emissions in the U.S.  Kerry, citing a World Bank forecast, said the next
generation could suffer “widespread water and food shortages,
historic heat waves, prolonged droughts and more intense
flooding” should warming trends continue unchecked.  “India is a prime target for all four,” he said. “The
world’s largest democracy and the world’s oldest democracy must
do more together.”  Kerry’s address served as the opening act for what will be
two days of talks at the fourth annual U.S.-India Strategic
Dialogue that will touch on matters of trade, clean energy,
higher education, Afghanistan and  Pakistan .  Pakistan Relations  Kerry, in his speech, said the election of Prime Minister
 Nawaz Sharif  in Pakistan could pave the way for improved
relations with its historic rival, India.  “A new dynamic is beginning to emerge and it can develop
further,” particularly by expanding trade ties, Kerry said.  Kerry wants to use the conference partly to discuss
obstacles to increased U.S. trade with India such as
intellectual property protection, restrictions on foreign direct
investment and taxation problems, according to a State
Department official who briefed reporters before the meeting.  U.S. trade with India already surpasses $100 billion a
year, with U.S. business investments in India amounting to about
$25 billion, the official said.  Senators  Mark Warner  of Virginia and  John Cornyn  of Texas
urged Kerry in a recent letter to seek ways to improve trade.
They said many U.S. businesses fear “arbitrary, retroactive tax
charges” in  India  that may make them reluctant to invest there.  Afghanistan, China  India’s main priorities from Kerry’s trip include security
concerns such as U.S. plans for Afghanistan and Pakistan and the
rise of China, according to officials at India’s Ministry of
External Affairs, who asked for anonymity in keeping with
government policy.  India wants a better understanding of how U.S. troops will
withdraw from Afghanistan, the size of forces that will remain
in the country, and how the Obama administration plans to work
with the new government in Pakistan, the officials said.  While Kerry is making his first visit to India as secretary
of state, his ties to India run deep, the State Department
official said. Kerry, a former Massachusetts senator, led the
first U.S. congressional trade delegation to India more than 20
years ago and a Senate effort to secure congressional approval
of a U.S.-India nuclear pact, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  