-- Nabiullina Seeks Growth Options as Russian Economy Stumbles
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a ,   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-24T15:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/nabiullina-seeks-growth-options-with-russia-economy-losing-steam.html
Russia ’s central bank will embrace
new approaches to fostering economic growth, including by
improving access to credit, Elvira Nabiullina said as she takes
over the chairmanship from Sergey Ignatiev today.  “I would say the policy should be continuity, but taking
into account new challenges,” Nabiullina, 49, said in an
interview in her office in central Moscow before taking over at
Bank Rossii. “Slowing economic growth is a reality that the
central bank will need to consider.”  Weakening the ruble or succumbing to calls for lower
interest rates as a quick fix to boost demand are “dangerous”
options, Nabiullina said. The central bank is already
contributing to the goal of promoting growth by reducing
 inflation  and developing financial markets and shouldn’t cave in
to “temporary changes or political factors” when making
interest-rate decisions, she said.  President  Vladimir Putin  recruited Nabiullina, his chief
economic aide, to take over Bank Rossii with Russian economic
growth at the weakest since a 2009 recession and inflation at a
21-month peak. The first leadership change in more than a decade
follows a market selloff after  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments last week that the U.S. central bank may
start tapering its unprecedented stimulus this year if the
world’s largest economy continues to improve.  Belousov, Ulyukayev  Economy Minister Andrei Belousov was appointed to replace
Nabiullina at the presidential administration, the Kremlin said
today in an e-mailed statement. Alexei Ulyukayev, who was
Ignatiev’s top deputy at the central bank for nine years, will
take Belousov’s place, according to the statement.  Investors are pricing in a smaller reduction in Russian
 interest rates . Three-month borrowing costs may drop four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, in the next three months,
according to forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg.
That’s down from as much as 49 basis points on May 22. The ruble
retreated 0.6 percent to 32.9755 per dollar at 7:05 p.m.  “Many central banks are experimenting, and the long-term
consequences of that aren’t yet clear,” Nabiullina said. “But
a frozen view on things also carries the risks of stagnation and
losing chances at growth.”  Bank Rossii has held its main lending rates for nine months
since a quarter-point increase in September, while also reducing
some longer-term rates at each of the last three board meetings.
Ignatiev said earlier this month that policy makers were moving
toward easing and that  inflation (RUCPIYOY)  may drop into the central
bank’s target range of 5 percent to 6 percent by September or
October.  Growth Mandate  Putin, who returned for a third term in the Kremlin last
year, rebuffed calls to give Bank Rossii an explicit growth
mandate for Bank Rossii, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said
this month. Lawmakers championed the measure after Putin noted
in a speech in December that central banks including the Federal
Reserve and the  European Central Bank  consider unemployment and
economic growth in policy making.  “The central banks of a few countries really have gone
beyond their traditional mandates in recent years and were
forced to compensate for weak progress on structural reforms
with monetary policy measures,” Nabiullina said. “I can’t say
those policies have been able to secure a stable trajectory of
growth.”  Credit Boost  Still, Russia must find ways to boost credit available to
small and medium-sized businesses, and may look for ways to
standardize and securitize loans to those companies, according
to Nabiullina. The government wants to help reduce lending rates
to 2 to 3 percentage points above inflation, First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in an interview last week.  Nabiullina rejected a proposal backed by Belousov to
introduce indicative lending rates that may be used to determine
whether banks are charging too much.  “It’s a mechanism that would be difficult to implement,
and it may have the opposite effect, reducing the volume of
lending,” Nabiullina said, calling it a “Soviet approach.”  Securitizing small and medium-sized loans to widen the pool
of collateral the central bank accepts in its refinancing
operations would be “a more complicated path than introducing
indicative rates, but more effective,” she said.  The central bank is looking to gradually simplify the 21
interest rates it now uses for refinancing operations, with the
focus already shifted to repurchase operations, Nabiullina said.
The  refinancing rate , now at 8.25 percent, can’t be eliminated
because it’s widely used in corporate contracts even after its
role as a policy lending rate has faded, she said.  Cheap Money  Bank Rossii should wait to see whether lower rates on one-year loans backed by non-marketable assets and gold start to
have an effect before considering longer operations, Nabiullina
said. It would be “premature” to follow the ECB and introduce
three-year loans, she said. Bankers including Andrey Kostin,
head of VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, have argued
the measure is needed.  “Banks always want cheap, long-term money,” Nabiullina
said. “It’s not a fact that, having received this money, they’d
immediately go and use them to finance investment projects.”  Nabiullina, who spent four and a half years as economy
minister before joining Putin’s administration in May 2012, also
warned against “dangerous” calls to use a weaker ruble to
stimulate growth.  ‘Step Backward’  A Chinese model with a fixed exchange rate and capital
controls would be a “step backward” for Russia, she said.
Giving the  Finance Ministry  the right to start buying foreign
currency on the domestic market through the central bank for the
 Reserve Fund  was “the right decision,” Nabiullina said.  “It’s not about weakening the ruble, it’s about preventing
an artificial appreciation of the ruble,” she said.  Russia’s two sovereign wealth funds, the Reserve Fund and
National Wellbeing Fund, are managed by the central bank under
Finance Ministry guidelines. Under the current system, the
ministry’s off-market conversion of ruble revenue into foreign
currency is usually made once at the start of every year, with
the central bank buying rubles amassed during the year.  The new system, which may begin in August, may weaken the
ruble exchange rate by 1 to 2 rubles, Finance Minister Anton
Siluanov said in an interview earlier this month.  ‘Abnormally High’  The currency fell 3.2 percent against the dollar on the
week to 32.7830 on June 21. The rout was exacerbated later in
the week by Bernanke’s comments. The market turmoil followed
what Ignatiev last week called an “abnormally high” outflow of
capital in 2012. Net private capital outflows in the first
quarter were $25.8 billion, almost half the 2012 total of $54.2
billion, according to central bank data.  Russia may “theoretically” increase interest rates to
slow capital outflows even as that would slow the economy even
further, she said. While reducing interest rates may accelerate
outflows, that wouldn’t necessarily be an obstacle to easing
monetary policy, Nabiullina said.  Bank Rossii will take  capital flows  into consideration on
its rates decisions, though policy makers shouldn’t be worried
about outflows that are merely offsetting Russia’s current
account surplus, Nabiullina said. Russia must still fight
“illegal outflows,” she added.  Nabiullina said she saw no reason yet to drop the central
bank’s aim of moving to inflation targeting from 2015, while
conceding there was a chance “those reasons would arise
later.”  Inflation Spike  Inflation accelerated to 7.4 percent in May from a year
earlier, damaging the central bank’s goal of containing price
growth to between 5 percent and 6 percent this year after
missing the target in 2012. Russian monetary policy should
target 3 percent to 4 percent price growth by the end of her
four-year term without sacrificing growth, she said.  In taking over from Ignatiev, Nabiullina will oversee the
largest expansion of the central bank’s powers since it was
established after the  Soviet Union ’s collapse as the authorities
move to create a unified regulator. Bank Rossii’s remit will be
extended to include the functions now performed by the  Federal
Financial Markets Service .  “Creating a mega regulator is also a huge challenge,” she
said. “There’s a massive amount of work. We’ll have to roll up
our sleeves and get to work. Morally I’m ready for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  