-- Nestle to Open China Factories on Rising Demand Amid Slow Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-23T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/nestle-to-open-china-factories-on-rising-demand-amid-slow-growth.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
maker, said it will open two factories in  China  next month to
tap growth in the world’s most populous nation even as the
economy slows.  The Swiss foodmaker will open a coffee plant in the eastern
province of Shandong, and another food factory with Chinese
partner Yinlu Foods Group, Roland Decorvet, the company’s
Greater China chairman and chief executive officer, said in a
June 21 interview in Beijing. The company didn’t disclose the
investment amount.  The Vevey, Switzerland-based firm, maker of Nescafe coffee
and Maggi food seasonings, is relying on the world’s second-largest economy to boost sales as demand in other  emerging
markets  slows. Nestle reported in April its slowest first-quarter revenue growth since 2009 as sales for its products in
the Asia, Oceania and Africa region decelerate, and government
austerity programs weigh on growth in  Europe .  China’s economic growth unexpectedly slowed in the first
quarter. Still, the weaker economy hasn’t hurt business in the
Asian nation, Decorvet said. The Chinese government is trying to
boost domestic consumption for growth while reducing reliance on
exports and investments.  “We are quite confident for the market,” he said.
“People still need to eat. The government clearly wants to
focus on the growth of the domestic economy. The wages keep
increasing; the urbanization keeps increasing as well.”  Market Share  Nestle, which also sells Nespresso, had the largest market
share in coffee sales in supermarkets and shops in China last
year with 72 percent, followed by  Kraft Foods Group Co. (KRFT) ’s 12.5
percent, according to data from researcher Euromonitor.  Nestle’s new Shandong coffee plant, its second coffee
extraction factory in China, will double the foodmaker’s coffee
making capacity in China over the next two years, Decorvet said.  The Swiss company will also open its fourth plant with
Yinlu Foods Group, in Chuzhou city in China’s eastern Anhui
province, boosting its partner’s production capacity by 25
percent, Decorvet said.  Yinlu makes peanut-milk beverages to congees and Nestle
took a 60 percent stake in the company in 2011.  Nestle, which more than doubled Greater China sales last
year to 5.16 billion Swiss francs ($5.61 billion), has been
expanding in China this year.  In April, the foodmaker said it would invest 500 million
 yuan  to expand its ice cream business in the Southern Chinese
province of Guangdong and spend $16 million on a coffee center
in the southwestern Yunnan province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  