-- New Bird Flu Found to Be Less Deadly Than First Estimated
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/new-bird-flu-found-to-be-deadlier-than-first-estimated.html
The H7N9 strain of bird flu that has
killed 38 people in  China  since March is less deadly than had
been supposed, according to the most detailed analysis of the
outbreak so far.  The risk of death for patients admitted to a hospital with
H7N9 infection is about 36 percent, researchers at the Chinese
Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the University of
 Hong Kong   wrote in The Lancet  medical journal today. While
initial reports of severe illness among most patients suggested
the virus may be highly lethal, as many as about 27,000
undetected mild cases may have occurred, lowering the risk, the
study said.  Still, H7N9 is only about half as deadly as the H5N1 bird
flu strain that has killed about 60 percent of the  630 people 
it’s infected since 2003, the researchers wrote. The new virus,
which has subsided with the onset of warmer weather and the
closure of live bird markets in China, may rebound this year if
it follows a similar pattern to H5N1, they said in a  separate
study .  “This potential lull should be an opportunity for
discussion of preventive public health measures,” the authors
wrote.  The virus has sickened 131 people in China and killed 39
since it emerged in March, the official Xinhua news agency
reported June 9, citing China’s National Health and Family
Planning Commission. Most cases were among people with exposure
to live poultry, and there’s no evidence the virus can be
transmitted between people, according to the Geneva-based  World
Health Organization .  The outbreak caused airline stocks and soybean prices to
fall, prompting Chinese authorities to halt trading in live
poultry, close bird markets and slaughter fowl to curb
transmission.  Shanghai , the city with the most cases,  lifted a
ban  on live poultry sales last week as concern about the
outbreak eased, according to the Shanghai Daily newspaper.  “It is reassuring that head-to-head comparison of the
fatality risk of admitted patients infected with avian influenza
A H7N9 or H5N1 suggests a substantially milder disease course
for H7N9,” Cecile Viboud from the U.S. National Institutes of
Health and Lone Simonsen of George Washington University wrote
in an editorial accompanying the two papers.  H7N9 is more dangerous than the H1N1 swine flu virus that
sparked the 2009 flu pandemic and killed about 21 percent of
those infected in China, the authors wrote.  The WHO estimated the fatality risk of H7N9 at about 25
percent in a  report last month .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  