-- Obama South Africa Visit Completes World Awakening From Mandela
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-23T22:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/obama-south-africa-visit-completes-world-awakening-from-mandela.html
The only meeting between the first
black presidents of the U.S. and South  Africa  lasted only a few
minutes and almost didn’t happen.  In May 2005,  Barack Obama , a new U.S. senator, was riding
to a Washington event when his office called.  Nelson Mandela ,
whose decades-long fight against apartheid and efforts at racial
reconciliation had inspired Obama to become engaged in politics,
was in town and asking to see him. Obama seized the chance.  In Mandela’s room at the Four Seasons hotel, the man who
had transformed South Africa rested in an armchair, legs up, a
cane at his side. Obama bent to gently grasp Mandela’s hand. In
an unpublished photograph taken by Obama aide  David Katz , Obama
is in silhouette while Mandela is bathed in light.  When Obama, 51, makes his first presidential trip to  South
Africa  this week as part of a three-country visit to the
continent, it will be too late for the sort of reunion with the
94-year-old ailing African icon that he may have once imagined,
if any contact between them is even possible.  Still, Obama’s visit is inviting comparisons of these two
presidents who each broke the color barrier in different ways.  Mandela and Obama are both historic figures, Nobel Peace
Prize winners, who leaped from being parochial politicians to
symbolic forces of global change, helping to shed shameful
aspects of their nations’ pasts.  Yet the comparisons only go so far. While Obama admires
Mandela’s strength and resilience, he’s not seeking to be the
standard bearer of the South African’s legacy, top aides say.  Drawing Criticism  “I have never once heard President Obama in any way
compare himself to President Mandela,” said  Valerie Jarrett , a
senior Obama adviser. “I know he feels that any challenges he
may have simply pale in comparison to what Mandela endured.”  Some of Obama’s policies would probably have drawn
criticism from Mandela, as did those of his predecessors,
Presidents George W. Bush -- Mandela called the U.S. “a threat
to world peace” during Bush’s presidency -- and  Bill Clinton ,
for U.S. policies aimed at isolating Cuba, Iran and Libya.  Obama’s campaign calls for bipartisanship, racial unity and
multilateralism “would have resonated with President Mandela,”
said Jennifer Cooke, director of the Africa Program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  The president’s robust defense of anti-terrorism policies,
such as expanding lethal drone strikes abroad and classified
surveillance of telephone and Internet communications, likely
would not, she said. “I think Mandela would find that anathema
to broad ideals of principled foreign policy.”  Failing Health  The Reverend  Jesse Jackson , the civil rights activist and a
longtime friend of Mandela, agreed. While Mandela has held Obama
in “high esteem,” he would be “troubled by” the U.S. drone
policy, Jackson said.  Mandela is hospitalized and his condition has “become
critical,” the office of South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said in a statement yesterday. Doctors are “doing everything
possible” to ensure his health improves, the statement said.  Obama, who will visit Johannesburg, Pretoria, Cape Town and
Robben Island, where Mandela was held for 18 of his 27 years in
prison, will defer to Mandela’s family on whether he’s in
condition to receive a personal visit, according to  Ben Rhodes ,
the president’s deputy national security adviser.  Spurring Activism  In recent days, Obama has been reflecting with aides on
Mandela and the influence he has had on him, Rhodes said in an
interview. Obama was moved when Mandela called after his 2008
election, and he spoke with him in 2010 when Mandela’s great-granddaughter was killed in a car crash on her way home from the
opening concert of the  World Cup  in South Africa.  “He considers Mandela one of the most important influences
on his desire to enter into public service,” Rhodes said. “It
was the first thing that drew him to political activism.”  Obama’s first political speech, as an undergraduate at
Occidental College in Los Angeles in 1981, was inspired by
Mandela and the anti-apartheid movement.  Recalling his on-stage role in the South African divestment
campaign, Obama wrote later in his memoir, “Dreams from My
Father, ‘‘I really wanted to stay up there, to hear my voice
bouncing off the crowd and returning back to me in applause,’’
even as he feared that he had no standing to speak and that his
appearance had been ‘‘a farce.’’  While Mandela was receding from public life as Obama began
his meteoric rise, his prison exile by whites and perseverance
in becoming the nation’s president in 1994 shaped Obama’s sense
of how patience and organization could yield change.  ‘Dramatic Effect’  ‘‘The sense of ordinary people getting involved in a
political process with a determination to affect change, and
then seeing change happen, certainly gave him the foundation to
believe that grassroots efforts could have a dramatic effect,”
Jarrett said of Obama.  Mandela’s example “helped awaken me to the wider world,
and the obligation that we all have to stand up for what is
right,” Obama wrote in the forword to Mandela’s memoir,
“Conversations with Myself.”  Nonetheless, Obama’s own experience -- raised as a biracial
American during the U.S. civil rights movement by a white mother
and grandparents -- is far removed from Mandela’s. He was
admitted to and flourished in elite institutions, from the
private school he attended in Hawaii to  Harvard Law School . His
political alliances in the  Illinois  state legislature and later
the  U.S. Senate  transcended racial lines.  Avoiding Race  As president, Obama has largely steered away from policies
and stances that would identify him as a black president,
focusing on the  U.S. economy  and national security.  He has more often connected his own challenges as president
to those of former presidents  Abraham Lincoln ,  Ronald Reagan  and
 John F. Kennedy .  While Obama and Mandela both broke the race barrier in
their countries, “if you keep going, the analogy starts to
break down,” said Bruce Ransom, a political science professor
at  Clemson University  in South Carolina who specializes in black
politics.  Unlike Mandela, the path to Obama’s election didn’t change
the structural foundations of the U.S. government, he said.  “On a surface level you see parallels, but in terms of
governance and getting things done, what happened with Mandela
and the dismantling of apartheid, it was a new day and a
transformative process.”  Walking Tightrope  Even as the first black president, Obama has been cautious
in confronting racially charged matters, Ransom said. “The
president, in many cases, can’t deal with issues of race head
on, or some say he hasn’t dealt with them at all,” Ransom said.
“He still walks a tightrope.”  Jackson said Mandela is “a figure who is both historical
and transformative,” while Obama “has miles to go before he
reaches the pinnacle of his role in the White House and in the
world.”  Obama himself has acknowledged that. Accepting his Nobel
Peace Prize in 2009, he said his “accomplishments are slight”
compared to past recipients, including Mandela.  Still, in South Africa, Obama “will receive an
exceptionally warm reception,” Jackson said. “He is seen as a
great historical figure in Africa completing the circle” from
slavery to self-determination, he said.  After his meeting with Mandela in 2005, Obama returned to
the car. He was more reflective than loquacious about what he
saw as the significance of the moment, recalled Katz, the former
aide who took the photograph of the two men, a black-and-white
version of which hangs in Obama’s private White House residence
and a color version, signed by Obama, is framed in Mandela’s
study.  “He was a junior senator from Illinois,” Katz said. “It
was far more of an honor for Obama to meet him than the other
way around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  