-- Obama’s Legacy May Hinge on This Summer’s Achievements
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-06-23T14:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/obama-s-legacy-may-hinge-on-this-summer-s-achievements.html
There are two widely discussed
scenarios that could unfold in Washington this summer.  The first, embraced by the White House and some Democrats,
is upbeat: The immigration bill passes the Senate with a big
margin, making it almost impossible for House Republicans to
resist; more people start signing up for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, and even though no fiscal grand bargain
is in the offing, an improving economy gives the president a
stronger hand in dealing with Republicans on extending the debt
ceiling and on spending bills.  The so-called scandals recede: It becomes clear there was
no political interference with the  Internal Revenue Service , and
the other controversies don’t resonate. The Middle East is still
a cauldron, but it hasn’t gotten worse, and the administration’s
pivot to Asia seems sensible.  The second sequence of events, foreseen by many Republicans
and a few Democrats, is more dire: The once bright hopes for an
immigration bill this year slip amid the usual petty
partisanship; all other legislation and appointments are
stalled, and an ugly fight over the  debt ceiling  rattles markets
and hampers the economy.  Interest in the  health-care  exchanges remains lackadaisical
as insurance premiums increase in anticipation of the law taking
effect. An investigation of the IRS controversy by the  Justice
Department  lacks credibility and the scandal persists.  In Syria and Iran, either the U.S. becomes embroiled in
dangerous confrontations or Obama is seen as a feckless wimp.
Republicans are licking their chops about winning control of the
Senate next year and increasing their majority in the House,
making the final Obama years a nightmare of recrimination,
investigations and veto fights.  No Drama  Obama, who prides himself on taking the long view and not
getting caught up in the passions of the moment, rejects the
notion of such make-or-break moments. Only a little more than 10
percent of the second term is complete.  Yet it isn’t unusual to establish a framework for success
or failure of U.S. presidencies by the end of the first summer
of the second term.  Eight years ago,  George W. Bush ’s post-re-election high
hopes were dashed by Labor Day after an ill-considered effort to
overhaul  Social Security , a botched response to  Hurricane
Katrina  and an increasingly discredited war in  Iraq .  Two decades earlier,  Ronald Reagan , despite the subsequent
Iran-contra debacle, set the benchmark for success: He was
guided by Treasury Secretary Jim Baker on the domestic front,
and a sweeping tax reform measure was on course. In foreign
policy, Secretary of State  George Shultz , working privately with
First Lady  Nancy Reagan , was taking control of a more measured,
less bellicose approach.  There are, to be sure, events that could change the
dynamics of the final three years: a real scandal, a war or
terrorist act, or a national tragedy that rallies the public.  Nevertheless, if the bad-case scenario plays out, it’s hard
to see how the president recovers momentum. Alternatively, if he
is able to make progress in carrying through two of the most
significant domestic achievements in years -- health care and
immigration reform -- while presiding over an  economy  recovering
from the worst crisis since the Depression and the ending of two
wars, the question might be: Which coin or dollar denomination
will eventually bear his likeness?  Health Exchanges  In general, there’s not that much Obama can do this summer
to affect the outcome. The administration has been slow in the
critical task of enlisting people to sign up for the health
exchanges. Ultimately, success will depend on the psychology of
healthy young people, whether they see a need for insurance.  On immigration, success or failure largely rests with
inside calculations on  Capitol Hill .  There also isn’t much in the president’s toolbox to improve
the economy. Congressional Republicans are interested only in
thwarting Obama. What matters are the  Federal Reserve  and
 consumer confidence . The president has much more latitude on
foreign affairs, though there is little indication so far of any
clear policy.  It may be that on all these issues, he comes out even,
doing better in some, less well in others.  It’s just as likely that the next three months will be
either Obama’s seminal season or his summer of discontent.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 