-- Holding Bankers Who Behave Badly Personally Accountable
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/holding-bankers-who-behave-badly-personally-accountable.html
Five years after the world’s
financial system began melting down, consumers, homeowners and
taxpayers -- that is, pretty much anyone who isn’t a bank
executive -- remain frustrated that no banking bigwigs went to
jail.  The reasons are many: Specific misdeeds couldn’t be pinned
on higher-ups; prosecutors got cold feet after early fraud cases
resulted in acquittals; what the person on the street considered
“fraud,” such as giving triple-A ratings to bonds full of shoddy
mortgages, was often legal.  The popular desire to put those in charge behind bars is
understandable and unlikely to abate, given last week’s  arrest 
of a former Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG trader accused of
manipulating interest-rate benchmarks. At the same time,
prosecutors are required to prove willful intent, beyond a
reasonable doubt, to violate specific laws. Almost wrecking the
world economy is a very bad thing. But it is not in and of
itself illegal.  So what can be done when bankers, knowing they can’t be
punished for what they don’t see, purposely don blindfolds? Or
when banks are caught breaking the rules but are allowed to pay
large fines (which punishes shareholders, not executives) to
settle civil fraud cases without admitting or denying guilt?  Those are the questions the U.K.’s Parliamentary Commission
on Banking Standards and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sought to answer last week. Their answers flow from
different legal, political and cultural conventions, yet they
arrive at the same correct conclusion: When banks behave badly,
someone must be held accountable. A personal price must be paid
for institutional misconduct.  No Responsibility  The forensic analysis by the U.K. commission of what ails
the banking industry is a  tour de force , and its conclusions and
recommendations are well worth reading. One of the most dismal
features that emerged from the evidence, the report states, was
the absence of any personal responsibility for widespread
failings and abuses. “Ignorance was offered as the main excuse,”
the report states. “It was not always accidental.”  Banking is not the only industry with such failings, of
course. But its failings have a disproportionate impact on the
world economy. And the lack of clear lines of responsibility
allows bank executives to claim the “Murder on the Orient
Express” defense: Everyone was party to the decision, so no one
can be held to blame. This was the case in the Royal Bank of
 Scotland ’s implosion and, in the U.S., the collapse of the
mortgage market.  To prevent such behavior, the commission would require
banks to assign crucial responsibilities to a specific
individual. Someone would be clearly identified as responsible,
for, say, how Libor rates are set or managing home foreclosures.
So if an enforcement action is brought against a bank,
regulators would know which senior people should be held
responsible.  The commission also proposes a couple of novel ideas to
help regulators enforce the law. First, it would shift the
burden of proof in some cases so that bankers would have to show
they took positive steps to prevent wrongdoing. It also
recommends a new crime of “reckless misconduct in the management
of a bank.” Bankers wouldn’t have to prove they weren’t
reckless. But prosecutors could build a criminal case if
executives showed a pattern of willful blindness to misdeeds,
for example, or e-mails showed they took steps to cordon
themselves off from knowledge of unsavory activities.  The legal community’s immediate response: It’ll never work.
How would you prove, for instance, that a man who received a
knighthood for his achievements in banking was also behaving in
a criminally reckless manner? (The question isn’t hypothetical,
as defenders of Frederick Goodwin, who presided over the Royal
Bank of Scotland’s collapse in 2008, might argue.)  Prison Prospects  One answer: Don’t be so quick to knight bankers who engage
in dizzying expansions with huge amounts of borrowed money and
minuscule amounts of capital. Better, perhaps, to have bankers
who worry about the prospect of a prison sentence for failing to
know what’s happening in their own institutions.  There is a corollary. If a bank can settle a securities
violation by paying a fine and without admitting to wrongdoing,
it will commit the same violation over and over. This has been
true through decades of SEC cases. Now Mary Jo White, the new
chairman, is  signaling  that she will approve fewer of these
kinds of settlements.  She’s right, even if the change slows down the enforcement
process and increases litigation costs. It would also make
settlements more meaningful. In 2011, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff embarrassed the agency, and rightfully so, when he
refused to sign off on a settlement with Citigroup over the
bank’s sale of risky mortgage bonds on which investors lost more
than $600 million.  White would dial back the policy only slightly by requiring
admissions of guilt when misconduct was egregious, for example,
or when a large number of investors were harmed. She knows
defendants won’t admit wrongdoing in cases that might open the
door to shareholder suits, whose success rate would skyrocket
with a guilty admission. As a result, the SEC may find itself
litigating more often, with all the risks that entails. So the
agency will have to choose its targets carefully.  The changes the U.K. commission and the SEC propose are not
without controversy. But bankers with blindfolds and no-admit,
no-deny settlements invite misconduct and allow everyone to
escape responsibility. The benefits -- fewer global financial
crises, less severe recessions, lower unemployment -- vastly
outweigh the risks.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 