-- Osborne Agrees to U.K. Government Budget Cuts of $18 Billion
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/osborne-agrees-to-u-k-government-budget-cuts-of-18-billion.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  has reached deals with his fellow ministers to
cut 11.5 billion pounds ($17.7 billion) from spending for the
year beginning April 2015.  A weekend of negotiations between the Treasury, which was
looking for cuts, and other departments trying to protect
programs resulted in agreements three days before Osborne sets
out details to Parliament in a statement on June 26.  Among the final departments to settle were the Ministry of
Defence, which will have to renegotiate deals with suppliers and
cut civilian staff, and the Department for Business, the
Treasury said in an e-mailed statement today without giving a
breakdown of the cuts. Officials are finalizing agreement on 50
billion pounds of  capital spending  for the same year.  “Everyone around the Cabinet table knows we’ve got to go
on delivering our economic plan, make those savings,” Osborne
said on the  BBC ’s Andrew Marr show. “We’re going to do it in a
way that prioritizes the services that people care about, the
things that support our economy, the things that make sure we
can live in a world where we can pay our way.”  The chancellor has pledged to protect the budgets of
schools, hospitals and international development, requiring
deeper cuts elsewhere. The Liberal Democrats oppose further
reductions in welfare spending.  Because the spending plans go beyond the May 2015 general
election, they will set the baseline for political debate as it
approaches. The opposition  Labour Party , which has objected to
many of the government’s cuts so far, has said it will stick to
the plans if elected. If it wants to reverse unpopular
government policies, it will have to show where it will find the
money.  The financial crisis has wrought havoc on public finances
by sapping tax receipts and pushing up spending on welfare.
Since peaking at 11.1 percent of gross domestic product in
2009-2010, the deficit has fallen by less than a third instead
of the half the government projected when it took office three
years ago.  Osborne also confirmed that if he’s in his post after the
2015 election, he’ll want to review whether wealthier recipients
of government pensions should have some of their retirement
benefits means-tested. Labour is already committed to asking the
same question.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  