-- Osborne Says Deal Reached With Ministry Means U.K. Defense Cuts
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-23T14:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/osborne-says-deal-reached-with-ministry-means-u-k-defense-cuts.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne said he has reached a deal with the Ministry of
Defence in budget talks on 2015-2016 military spending.  Appearing today on the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show,” Osborne
said the agreement will mean renegotiations with equipment
suppliers and cuts to civilian staff. Troop numbers will be
unaffected. The chancellor said he and Defence Secretary Philip Hammond came to the agreement on spending late yesterday.  With days to go before Osborne’s June 26 announcement of
where he’s going to find 11.5 billion pounds ($17.7 billion) in
savings for the year beginning April 2015, he hasn’t announced
where he’ll find most of the money. Business Secretary Vince Cable has refused to agree on cuts to his department.  “There’s not a massive argument,” Osborne, a
Conservative, said of talks with Cable, a Liberal Democrat whose
party is the junior partner in the governing coalition. “We’re
arguing about the small details, not the big picture.”  Osborne didn’t say how much money had been saved from the
defense budget. As of June 14, he had found 3.6 billion pounds
of the savings required from all departments.  The chancellor has pledged to protect the budgets of
schools, hospitals and international development, requiring
deeper cuts elsewhere. The Liberal Democrats oppose further
reductions in welfare spending.  The financial crisis has wrought havoc with the public
finances by sapping tax receipts and pushing up spending on
welfare. Since peaking at 11.1 percent of gross domestic product
in 2009-2010, the deficit has fallen by less than a third
instead of the half the government projected when it took office
three years ago.  Osborne also confirmed that if he’s in his post after the
2015 election, he’ll want to review whether wealthier
recipients of government pensions should have some of their
retirement benefits means-tested. The opposition Labour Party is
already committed to asking the same question.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  