-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Bernanke’s Exit, Stocks, Fed Bond Buying
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-06-23T05:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/most-read-on-bloomberg-bernanke-s-exit-stocks-fed-bond-buying.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Obama Says Bernanke Has Been at Fed ‘Longer Than He Wanted’  June 18 (Bloomberg) -- President  Barack Obama  said Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has stayed in his post “longer
than he wanted,” one of the clearest signals the central bank
chief will leave when his current term expires next year.  2. Asian Stock Futures Signal Extension of Rout as Gold Tumbles  June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Asian stock futures slid, indicating
shares in the region may extend the global market retreat, on
prospects the Federal Reserve will start paring back stimulus
later this year and concern over  China ’s cash crunch. Gold
futures sank and crude slipped for a third day.  3. Bernanke Says Fed on Course to End Asset Buying in Mid-2014  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said the central bank may start dialing down its
unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely
in mid-2014 if the economy finally achieves the sustainable
growth the Fed has sought since the recession ended in 2009.  4. Trading Desks at Wall Street Banks Defy Second-Quarter Curse  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Wall Street banks, buoyed by record
stock-market prices and high-yield bond issuance, probably will
report a jump in second-quarter trading and investment-banking
revenue from the same period a year ago.  5. Sodomy Hazing Leaves 13-Year-Old as Outcast in Colorado Town  June 20 (Bloomberg) -- At the state high-school wrestling
tournament in Denver last year, three upperclassmen cornered a
13-year-old boy on an empty school bus, bound him with duct tape
and sodomized him with a pencil.  6. Middle-Aged Men in Lycra Told to Think Twice About Triathlons  June 21 (Bloomberg) -- For men competing in triathlons past
the age of 40, the grueling slog to the finish line could be
their last.  7. Bernanke Outlines End to Fed’s Unprecedented Policy Easing  June 20 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke is putting investors on notice that the central bank is
prepared to begin phasing out one of the most aggressive easing
programs in its century-long history later this year.  8. Asian Futures Rise Before Fed After U.S. Rally as Yen Holds
Drop  June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Asian equity futures tracked gains
in U.S. stocks while the yen held declines against most major
currencies as investors assessed prospects for less economic
stimulus before this week’s Federal Reserve meeting. Treasuries
dropped and natural gas rebounded.  9. Japan Futures Drop as Fed Sinks U.S. Stocks While Aussie
Slides  June 20 (Bloomberg) -- Japanese and Australian equity
futures followed U.S. stocks lower as the dollar surged after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said bond purchases may
be reduced later this year should risks to the U.S. economy
abate.  Australia ’s currency slumped while oil slid.  10. U.K. Bankers Face Decade Bonus Delay and Criminal Sanctions  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Senior employees at U.K. banks may
face a 10-year wait for bonuses under proposals put forward by a
committee investigating the failures of the industry, which also
recommended making “reckless” management of lenders a crime.  COLUMNS  1. Why Hillary Clinton Should Part With Bill: Margaret Carlson  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Hillary Clinton’s return to the
living was almost flawless. Almost.  2. How Poor Students Get Soaked for College Sports: Richard
Vedder  June 18 (Bloomberg) -- As parents and students struggle to
keep up with rising college tuition and take on greater burdens
of debt, universities are being challenged to justify the
ballooning athletic fees they tack on to the bill.  3. Apple’s Long-Lived MacBook Air Goes On and On:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   June 20 (Bloomberg) -- When it comes to consumer
electronics, the discussion usually revolves around faster,
sleeker, smaller, cheaper.  4. Bank of America Faces Tragedy of Foreclosure: Jonathan Weil  June 21 (Bloomberg) -- In one corner, we have five former
Bank of America Corp. employees who told a federal court they
were instructed to mislead customers on the verge of losing
their homes and stall their applications for loan modification  5. Who Created the IPhone? Apple or Government?: Mark Buchanan  June 20 (Bloomberg) -- Albert Einstein famously held the
view that “imagination is more important than knowledge.” What
we think we know can limit what we see as possible. The greatest
thinkers challenge what everyone believes to be obvious. They
allow us to see the world anew.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Bernanke Says Fed May End Asset Buying in Mid-2014  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke speaks about the U.S. economy and labor market, and the
outlook for the central bank’s bond purchases and benchmark
interest rate.  2. Gross Says Markets Misinterpreted Bernanke on Inflation  June 19 (Bloomberg) --  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks
about bond market reaction to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s remarks that the central bank may begin reducing bond
purchases later this year.  3. Bernanke’s Own Words on Fed Policy, U.S. Economy  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke offers his views on the outlook for the U.S. economy
and labor market, and the central bank’s unprecedented bond-buying program and benchmark interest rate.  4. Military, Police Training Guide Chicago Principal  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Aaron Rucker, the principal of
William H. Ryder Elementary School on  Chicago ’s South Side, has
initiated a system for discipline called restorative justice.  5. Colorado Sodomy Hazing Pits Town Against 13-Year-Old  June 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s John Lauerman reports
that sexual abuse is frequently part of the high-school hazing
ritual.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  