-- China Condemns Pakistan Attack That Killed at Least 9 Climbers
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-06-24T01:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/pakistan-attack-on-foreign-climbers-at-base-camp-kills-10-people.html
China  condemned an attack in
 Pakistan ’s mountainous north in which gunmen shot and killed at
least nine climbers and their guide as they prepared to ascend
the country’s second-highest peak.  China’s embassy in Pakistan asked authorities to capture
the gunmen and protect Chinese people in the country, the
official Xinhua News Agency said in a statement yesterday. Two
Chinese citizens and one Chinese-American were among the dead
from the June 22 attack, Xinhua reported, citing Pakistan
Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan.  The killings were the most audacious attack on foreigners
in Pakistan since the Marriott Hotel bombing in Islamabad in
2008, and underscored the challenges faced by Prime Minister
 Nawaz Sharif , who took over early this month after winning a
general election in May. The Pakistani Taliban claimed
responsibility, the Geo television network reported yesterday,
citing the group’s spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan.  “This is an attack not only on foreigners but on Pakistan,
which is in a state of war,” Khan said in parliament, blaming
security lapses at a time when militants are intensifying their
campaign against civilian and military targets.  Six Ukrainians and three Chinese were among those killed in
the area visited frequently by foreign climbers on Nanga Parbat,
the second-highest peak in Pakistan and located in the Himalayan
mountain range bordering China. The climbers were staying at a
base camp in the Diamer district in Gilgit-Baltistan.  Scout Uniforms  The gunmen, who were wearing local scout uniforms, targeted
the base camp after kidnapping two guides to reach the high-altitude area where normal security procedures for foreign
tourists are not available, Khan said. One Chinese climber and a
local guide were rescued, he said.  Militants from the Pakistan Taliban and other sectarian
groups routinely target the country’s security forces and
opposing groups in the region. At least 17 people were killed in
sectarian violence in Gilgit-Baltistan in April last year.  The Taliban’s aim is to expel Western interests from the
country, force the removal of government troops from tribal
areas, and establish Islamic law.  A U.S. drone attack on May 29 killed the deputy chief of
the Pakistani Taliban, Waliur Rehman, according to a U.S.
official who asked not to be named because it was a classified
operation. Rehman was involved in the 2009 suicide attack on a
Central Intelligence Agency outpost in  Afghanistan  that killed
seven Americans, the State Department said in 2010.  Sharif condemned the killing of climbers, calling it an act
of “cruelty and inhumanity,” according to a statement issued
by his office.  Pakistan is making arrangements to return the bodies of the
climbers to their countries and is beefing up security at all
key installations, Khan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  