-- Pharmstandard Said to Weigh Sale of OTC Drugs Business
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-06-24T17:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/pharmstandard-said-to-seek-buyer-for-otc-drugs-business.html
OAO Pharmstandard, Russia’s biggest
drugmaker, is considering the sale of an over-the-counter
medicines business, people familiar with the matter said.  The assets may be valued at about $2.5 billion, according
to the people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are
private.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is helping organize the sale process,
which is still at an early stage, the people said.  The unit would offer a gateway to Russia, where the
government has limited the reach of foreign drugmakers.
Pharmstandard said it  captured  a 3.4 percent share of the
country’s $24.9 billion pharmaceutical market last year, putting
it behind Swiss drugmaker  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and French pharmaceutical
company  Sanofi. (SAN)   “It may be a good entrance ticket to the Russian market,”
Natalia Smirnova, a Moscow-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said by phone. She recommends buying Pharmstandard shares.  Pharmstandard, based in Moscow, may draw interest from
international companies seeking local production to avoid  import
duties  in  Russia , Smirnova said. The $2.5 billion price tag may
be too high as the entire London-listed company was valued at
about $3.1 billion, she said. Also unclear, she said, is just
how the over-the-counter business would be carved out.  Shares Rise  Pharmstandard’s  global depositary receipts  fell 1.7 percent
to close at $20.15 in London. Pharmstandard is also listed on
the Micex exchange in Moscow.  Irina Bakhturina, head of  investor relations  at
Pharmstandard, said she isn’t aware of any sale being considered
and declined to comment further. A spokeswoman for Citigroup
declined to comment yesterday.  Over-the-counter drug sales fell 4.5 percent to 14.8
billion rubles ($451 million) last year, accounting for 29
percent of Pharmstandard’s  revenue . Sales growth came instead
from the prescription-drug unit, with revenue rising 33 percent.
Pharmstandard’s revenue from third-party over-the-counter
products also rose 30 percent to 28.3 billion rubles.  Once Pharmstandard’s core business, contributing three-quarters of revenue in 2007, the over-the-counter unit has been
under pressure as its brands have aged and  government regulation 
has increased, Ivan Kushch, an analyst at Moscow-based VTB
Capital, wrote in a note today.  Increased Competition  Kushch cited three factors putting pressure the over-the-counter business. Competition from private labels is growing,
formerly over-the-counter drugs have been shifted to
prescription-only, and the government is debating an advertising
ban on non-prescription drugs, he wrote. Kushch has a buy rating
on Pharmstandard’s shares.  Anti-flu medicine Arbidol, painkiller Pentalgin and
Complivit vitamins are among Pharmstandard’s  top sellers , the
company said.  Fifty-four percent of Pharmstandard’s Moscow-listed shares
are owned by Augment Investments Ltd., according to the
drugmaker’s  website . Augment belongs to Pharmstandard Chairman
Viktor Kharitonin and board member Yegor Kulkov. Kharitonin owns
38 percent of Pharmstandard, according to Forbes’s  billionaires
list  this year.  In 2003, Kharitonin bought Russian plants of ICN
Pharmaceuticals with billionaire Roman Abramovich to create
Pharmstandard. The company’s GDRs started trading in  London  in
2007. Abramovich and his partner Evgeny Shvidler sold a 17
percent stake in the company to Kharitonin and Kulkov the
following year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  