-- Rio Tinto to Keep Diamond Unit After Scrapping Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-24T08:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/rio-tinto-to-keep-diamond-units-after-scrapping-sale.html
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company, will keep its diamond businesses after
failing to find a buyer and deciding not to pursue an initial
public offering of the unit.  “It is clear the best path to generate maximum value for
our shareholders is to retain these businesses,” Rio Tinto
Diamonds & Minerals Chief Executive Alan Davies said today in a
statement.  The London-based company had been considering selling the
assets since March 2012 and hired Morgan Stanley to oversee an
IPO of the gem unit, a person familiar with the matter said June
3. The unit, the world’s third-biggest producer of rough
diamonds with mines in  Canada ,  Australia  and  Zimbabwe , may be
worth about $2.2 billion, Deutsche Bank AG said in a March 11
report.  Rio fell 2.1 percent to close at A$51.54 in Sydney trading.
Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index declined 1.5 percent.  The company is seeking to sell assets, reduce spending and
curb costs amid slower demand and lower prices for some of the
raw materials it produces.  Dominion Diamond Corp. (DDC) ’s purchase of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
Ekati diamond mine in Canada and its marketing operations for
$500 million may have taken the most likely buyer of Rio’s gem
assets out of the market, said Vince Pisani, an analyst at Shaw
Stockbroking Ltd. in Melbourne.  “If it’s still generating good cash and profits, well then
you keep it until someone pops along and says they really want
the asset. It’s not a big negative,” he said.  The medium to long-term outlook for the diamond industry
was robust with growing demand for luxury goods in Asia and a
strong market in North America, Rio’s Davies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in  Melbourne  at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  