-- S. Korea to Tighten Monitoring of Banks’ Liquidity: Choo
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2013-06-23T04:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/s-korea-to-tighten-monitoring-of-banks-liquidity-choo.html
South  Korea ’s government plans to
tighten monitoring of banks’ liquidity and scale down its bond
sales volumes in July as possible reductions in Federal Reserve
stimulus roil capital flows from  developing countries .  South Korea’s fundamentals from budget to foreign reserves
are sound, so speculation on a Fed move is unlikely to spur any
drastic capital outflows, Vice Finance Minister Choo Kyung Ho
said in Seoul.  “We should watch out for excess caution” after Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s comments about an early exit from
stimulus, Choo told reporters before a meeting of policy makers.
The possibility of such a move “indicates optimism over the
U.S. economic recovery in the mid and long terms, which will
give a chance to boost our exports. We believe volatility on
 emerging markets  may be short-lived.”  Choo met officials at the  Bank of Korea , Financial Services
Commission, Financial Supervisory Services and state-run  Korea
Center for International Finance  to discuss dealing with
volatile financial markets.  The won fell 2.5 percent to 12,154.15 per dollar in Seoul
in the week ended June 21, its biggest decline since the five
days ended Sept. 23, 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, surged 258
basis points, or 2.58 percentage points, to 12.98 percent in the
week ended June 21.  Bond Sales  The government plans to scale down the volume of its long-term treasury bond sales in July to adjust liquidity in the
local market in a flexible manner, Choo said.  Foreign buying of Korean bonds outstripped selling by more
than 300 billion won ($260 million) on June 20-21 after
Bernanke’s remarks, while Korea’s benchmark Kospi equity index
fell 3 percent on foreign selling during the same span, Choo
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  