-- Saudi Arabia Changes Weekend to Friday, Saturday
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-06-24T14:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/saudi-arabia-changes-weekend-to-friday-saturday-spa-reports.html
Saudi Arabia  will shift its weekend
to Friday and Saturday starting next week, taking the biggest
Arab economy a step closer to opening its $400 billion stock
market to foreign investors.  Ministries and monetary agencies will adopt the new weekend
from June 29, aligning Saudi Arabia with other Gulf Cooperation
Council countries, according to a  royal decree  yesterday. The
decision was taken based on “the economic position of the
kingdom and its international and regional obligations,” it
said. The weekend moves from Thursday and Friday.  “Investors can read between the lines and see this as
another step towards opening up the market,” Fadi Al Said,
senior  fund manager  at ING Investment Management in Dubai, said
by phone yesterday. “It’s not official, but this is one of the
things Saudi needed to do to open the markets for foreign
investors.”  Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc are among banks that
have predicted the kingdom’s stock exchange, the largest in the
region with a  market value  bigger than those in Turkey and
Ireland combined, may open to foreigners as early as next year
amid rising demand for assets. Such a move may attract as much
as as $30 billion of inflows,  John Burbank , founder of $3.7
billion San Francisco-based hedge fund Passport Capital LLC,
said in February.  Global Businesses  Non-resident foreign investors can currently only
participate through share-swap transactions and exchange-traded
funds.  The weekend switch “will help us in the global business
world,” Mutlaq al-Morished, chief financial officer for  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemicals
company by market value, said in response to e-mailed questions.
“We had only three days left to do business. If you add in the
time zones, like with U.S., we found ourselves with limited
hours to do business in the week.”  The  Tadawul All-Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 0.8 percent to
7,500.69 today, trimming this year’s advance to 10 percent. That
compares with a surge of 39 percent for Dubai’s index and a drop
of 16 percent for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG are among global
banks have set up offices in Riyadh as a hub for brokers
covering the GCC region in anticipation the market will open up.
MSCI Inc., whose gauges are tracked by investors managing about
$7 trillion, last year resumed Saudi coverage and said it would
consider including the nation in frontier or emerging-market
indexes if it allows foreigners direct access.  MSCI this month upgraded the  United Arab Emirates , the
second-biggest Arab economy, and Qatar to emerging-market
status. The index provider’s decision “puts additional pressure
on Saudi Arabia to accelerate its qualified investor program and
we now believe this is likely over summer,” Emad Mostaque, a
London-based strategist at Noah Capital Markets EMEA Ltd., said
June 12.  “Opening up to foreigners is mostly about regulation,”
Tariq Qaqish, head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal
Capital PSC, said by phone yesterday, adding that changing
regulation in the country can take years. Still, the weekend
shift “is definitely a step forward,” he said.  Lost Opportunities  The changes to the working week will “lead to greater
convergence with global markets,” Saudi Capital Market Chairman
Mohammad Al-Sheikh, who’s based in  Riyadh , said in a statement
yesterday.  The kingdom has taken other steps in recent months. Al-Sheikh, a World Bank executive representing Saudi Arabia, was
appointed as chairman of the CMA in February. In April the CMA
announced a plan to issue credit ratings for local companies,
and in May issued a resolution to adopt a stock price
fluctuation limit of 10 percent for shares on their first
trading day. The same month it proposed new procedures for
companies with losses at or exceeding 50 percent of their
capital.  The Saudi weekend switch will “put an end to negative
effects and lost economic opportunities” from having different
working days than regional and international institutions, the
Saudi Press Agency said, citing the royal decree. Weekend
changes for schools and educational institutions will start in
the next academic year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  