-- Saudi Arabia Aligns Weekend in Next Step Toward Opening Market
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-06-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/saudi-arabia-aligns-weekend-in-next-step-toward-opening-market.html
Saudi Arabia  will shift its weekend
to Friday and Saturday starting next week, taking the biggest
Arab economy a step closer to opening its stock market to
foreign investors.  Government ministries and monetary agencies will adopt the
new weekend from June 29, aligning Saudi Arabia with the other
five Gulf Cooperation Council countries, according to a  royal
decree  yesterday. The decision was taken based on “the economic
position of the kingdom and its international and regional
obligations,” it said. The Saudi weekend has been Thursday and
Friday.  “Investors can read between the lines and see this as
another step towards opening up the market,” Fadi Al Said,
senior  fund manager  at ING Investment Management in Dubai said
by phone yesterday. “It’s not official, but this is one of the
things Saudi needed to do to open the markets for foreign
investors.”  Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc are among banks that
have predicted the kingdom’s stock exchange, the largest in the
region with a  market value  of about $400 billion, may open to
foreigners as early as next year amid rising demand for assets.
Such a move may attract as much as as $30 billion of inflows,
 John Burbank , founder of $3.7 billion San Francisco-based hedge
fund Passport Capital LLC, said in February.  Non-resident foreign investors can currently only
participate through share-swap transactions and exchange-traded
funds.  The  Tadawul All-Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.5 percent yesterday,
bringing the advance for the year to 11 percent. That compares
with a surge of 42 percent for Dubai’s benchmark index and 6.2
percent for the MSCI World Index.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG are among global
banks shifting regional equities bases to  Riyadh  in anticipation
the market will open up. MSCI Inc., whose gauges are tracked by
investors managing about $7 trillion, last year resumed Saudi
coverage and said it would consider including the nation in
frontier or emerging-market indexes if it allows foreigners
direct access.  MSCI this month upgraded the  United Arab Emirates , the
second-biggest Arab economy, and Qatar to emerging-market
status. The index provider’s decision “puts additional pressure
on Saudi Arabia to accelerate its qualified investor program and
we now believe this is likely over summer,” Emad Mostaque, a
London-based strategist at Noah Capital Markets EMEA Ltd., said
June 12.  “Opening up to foreigners is mostly about regulation,”
Tariq Qaqish, head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal
Capital PSC, said by phone yesterday, adding that changing
regulation in the country can take years. Still, the weekend
shift “is definitely a step forward,” he said.  CMA Moves  The kingdom has taken other steps in recent months. In
February Mohammad Al-Sheikh, a World Bank executive representing
Saudi Arabia, was appointed as chairman of the Capital Market
Authority. In April the CMA announced a plan to issue credit
ratings for local companies, and in May issued a resolution to
adopt a stock price fluctuation limit of 10 percent for shares
on their first trading day. The same month it proposed new
procedures for companies with losses at or exceeding 50 percent
of their capital.  Saudi’s weekend switch will “put an end to negative
effects and lost economic opportunities” from having different
working days than regional and international institutions, the
Saudi Press Agency said, citing the royal decree. Weekend
changes for schools and educational institutions will start in
the next academic year.  The decision “will make the Saudi market more aligned with
regional markets,” John Sfakianakis, chief investment
strategist at MASIC, a Riyadh-based  investment company , said by
phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  