-- Graham Sees ‘Trouble’ for Party if Immigration Bill Fails
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-24T04:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/senate-s-graham-sees-republicans-losing-hispanics-if-bill-fails.html
Republicans will forfeit a chance to
win Hispanics to their party if Congress can’t agree on a
measure to overhaul U.S. immigration laws, supporters of the
legislation said yesterday.  The comments were directed at the Republican-dominated
House and its leader, Speaker  John Boehner . With the Senate
poised to advance legislation as soon as this week, attention is
turning to the more fractious House, where Republicans have yet
to bridge fundamental ideological differences on immigration,
let alone begin the complex legal and policy work of passing a
bill. If they can’t advance legislation, the political
consequences could be dire, some senators warned.  “If it fails and we are blamed for its failure, our party
is in trouble with Hispanics,” said  Senator Lindsey Graham , a
Republican co-sponsor of the bill, speaking on the “Fox News
Sunday” program. “The Hispanic community is very close to our
values but we’ve driven them away over this issue.”  If enacted, the Senate legislation would be the first major
change to U.S. immigration law since 1986. It would beef up
border security and give 11 million illegal residents a chance
to become American citizens.  Senate Democrats  want to pass a
bill before July 4.  “There will be huge pressure on Speaker Boehner not to
block immigration reform because that will consign the
 Republican Party  to minority status,” Senator Chuck Schumer, a
Democratic co-sponsor of the bill, said on CNN’s “State of the
Union”.  “If he tries to bottle it up or do things like that, I
could see a million people on the mall in Washington,” Schumer
said. “This has the potential of becoming the next major civil
rights movement.”  Senate Approval  Graham, of  South Carolina , and Schumer, of  New York , said
they have as many as 70 votes for the legislation, more than
enough to get a bill approved in 100-member Senate, which is
controlled by Democrats.  “America is not divided on this,” Graham said.  Boehner has said he won’t allow a vote on any proposal
unless a majority of his chamber’s Republicans support it. His
spokesman,  Michael Steel , yesterday said the speaker “has been
clear that immigration reform is a priority.” The House
Judiciary Committee has been working on the subject and a
bipartisan group of lawmakers might announce their own proposal
as soon as this week.  Border Security  Senators last week agreed to toughen the bill’s border
security measures in order to win more Republican support. The
provision would double the size of the U.S. Border Patrol,
adding 20,000 agents, and require 700 miles of fencing at the
U.S.-Mexico border. Unmanned aerial drones would be provided to
help police the border.  Republicans continue to fight for improved border security
measures. Republican Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky , who has
generally supported rewriting immigration law, announced his
opposition to the bill yesterday.  “It’ll pass the Senate but it’s dead on arrival in the
House,” Paul said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program.
“The House is much closer to me, and I think they think border
security has to come first before you get immigration reform.”  If enacted, the Senate bill would mark the biggest
investment in border security in U.S. history, dwarfing a
package approved in 2010. That $600 million measure, which Obama
signed into law in August 2010, provided 1,500 new agents, new
communications equipment and unmanned aircraft.  At the time, many Democrats thought the border agreement
might advance the broader political debate on immigration.
Republicans won control of the House that November and the issue
was stuck in a partisan stalemate until this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  