-- Syrian Rebels’ Car Bomb Explodes Inside Aleppo Airbase
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-23T14:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/syrian-rebels-car-bomb-explodes-inside-aleppo-military-airport.html
Car bombs ripped through a military
airbase in Aleppo and a pro-government area of Damascus, while
 suicide bombers  tried to storm two police stations elsewhere in
the capital. At least 25 people were reported killed in the
escalating battles to control  Syria ’s top two cities.  Violence in Aleppo claimed at least 12 lives, the U.K.-
based opposition group,  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights ,
said in an e-mail. The bombing at Minnigh Airport,  carried out
in conjunction with a missile strike, destroyed several
buildings at the base, which is partially under rebel control,
the group said. Syrian forces, backed by Lebanese Hezbollah
fighters, launched an offensive earlier this month to retake
Aleppo, Syria’s largest city and commercial center.  The deadly attacks took place a day after the U.S. and 10
other nations pledged to increase support for opposition forces
in Syria, without saying what specific steps they would take or
how much firepower may be needed. In Qatar today, French
President  Francois Hollande  said rebels must “organize”
themselves to secure European military support.  Rebel Plea  A top rebel commander has been pleading for weapons,
warning they were crucial to turning back advancing government
forces, who earlier this month conquered a key central town, al-Qusair, with the help of the Iranian-backed Hezbollah.  The opposition’s loss of al-Qusair “can be repeated
anywhere in Syria,”  General Salim Idriss, the Free Syrian
Army’s chief of staff, said in a televised interview with Al
Jazeera English. “Time is a very important factor. We are
asking for anti-aircraft missiles. We need them yesterday.
Tomorrow or after tomorrow may be too late.”  The fall of al-Qusair changed the momentum of the two-year-old war by cutting rebel resupply lines from Lebanon and giving
the government control of a town near the highway linking
President Bashar al-Assad’s two bastions of support,  Damascus
and the coastal mountain region that is the heartland of his
Alawite sect. Following that victory, government forces and
Hezbollah headed toward Aleppo and Damascus.  In the capital today, six suicide bombers tried to storm
two police stations, killing themselves and five others, and
injuring nine people, state television reported, citing an
interior ministry statement. Separately, a car bomb went off in
Mezze 86, a Damascus neighborhood inhabited mostly by Alawites,
killing two people, the Syrian Observatory of  Human Rights  said.  The opposition Local Coordination Committees reported
earlier today on its Facebook page that a chemical weapons
attack by government forces killed four people and wounded a
“large number” in the Damascus suburb of Zamalka. There was no
way to independently verify the report.  The U.S., U.K. and  France  have accused Assad’s forces of
deploying chemical weapons, a charge he rejects.  Syria’s civil war has killed more than 93,000 people in
over two years of fighting and driven more than 1.5 million
refugees into neighboring countries. The fighting has taken on a
sectarian nature, pitting Assad’s Alawite sect, an offshoot of
Shiite Islam, against mostly Sunni Muslim rebels, and drawing in
neighboring countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  