-- Turks Are Fighting Over the Future, Not Religion
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2013-06-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/turks-are-fighting-over-the-future-not-religion.html
The protests in Turkey, which now
involve an extraordinarily diverse group of people, illuminate
an altered political landscape. Yet much coverage of the
demonstrations betrays an intellectual lag -- worse than the one
that plagued many journalists and pundits when anti-Mubarak
protesters filled  Tahrir Square  in 2011.  Hasty proclamations of a “Turkish Spring” have given way
to sophisticated-sounding but shallow dualisms, which seem to
come straight from Flaubert’s “ Dictionary of Received Ideas .”
The conflict is now cast as a battle between secularists and
Islamists, between authoritarianism and democracy.  The presence of Turkish neo-nationalists at the
demonstrations even prompted the liberal-left Guardian to go
soft on  Kemalism . “At issue,” the newspaper claimed, “is
whether Turkey should be the progressive, secular European
nation-state that Ataturk originally envisaged and shaped from
the ruins of the  Ottoman Empire , or a more explicitly religious
country.”  Never mind that secularism in Turkey was brutally imposed,
and that many Islamic practices were violently eradicated by
Ataturk. That Istanbul’s long-standing, cosmopolitan communities
of Jews and Greek Catholics were chased out during the heyday of
secular nationalism. Or that the long-persecuted Turkish Kurds
suspect -- rightly -- that they might get a better hearing from
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan than from fans of
Ataturk.  Simple ideological oppositions also obscure a more
revealing irony: the Islamist Erdogan expediting, with the help
of crony capitalists, the touristification of Istanbul. This
highly lucrative beautification campaign requires the
destruction of familiar landmarks, such as Gezi Park.  Cultural Inferno  But it should not be forgotten that Ataturk, beloved of
modernizing despots from the Shah of  Iran  to  Pervez Musharraf ,
presided over a cultural inferno more extensive than Erdogan
could ever dream of -- one that turned Turkey’s greatest
writers, from Ahmet Hamdi Tanpinar to  Orhan Pamuk , into
melancholy private archivists of an officially scorned Ottoman
culture.  Those conditioned to see Erdogan’s cultural vandalism as a
fall from a golden age or as evidence of his latent Talibanism,
should recall Turkey’s long history as a country with plenty of
rich and powerful secularists but no democracy and human rights.
Like Meiji  Japan , Kemalist Turkey wanted to achieve civilization
and enlightenment on terms defined by the West, yet only managed
to violate the values of both.  As Pamuk wrote in 1997, “the ban on criticism by pro-Western thinkers at a time when the country was in the process
of Westernization, and the contemptuous rejection of traditional
culture, while attempting to inculcate a new nationalistic
Turkish identity, are striking examples of the contradictory and
confused political and cultural attitudes which plagued  Turkey ’s
efforts to modernize.”  Those contradictions and confusions are now more apparent
as top-down modernization slowly gives way to bottom-up
democratization. Indeed, well before a few environmentalists
started a defense of Gezi Park, the  Kurdish minority , often
found demonstrating in Taksim Square, had invigorated some long-standing questions about citizenship in Turkey: What rights does
it consist of, what kind of belonging does it define?  Citizens of a secular republic may seem equal in the
abstract. But whoever establishes the norms of citizenship also
sets up an invisible hierarchy, entrenching the power of the
dominant groups of the moment. This is even more apparent in
Turkey, where republicanism proceeded by dictatorial fiat, than
in countries like France and  India .  Loosened Stranglehold  Ataturk, for instance, simply ignored Turkey’s diverse
population, enthroning Turkish as the national language and
decreeing all  Sunni Muslims  to be Turks. In this exclusive
conception, those calling themselves Kurds were seen as deluded
and backward people who had forgotten their Turkish origins.  In actuality, this notion of citizenship was paradoxical to
the point of incoherence. It combined French republicanism with
German-style ethnic nationalism. It could only be held together
by brute force, and it was for much of the last century.  Since moving to representative government, Turkey has
witnessed the unfreezing of Kemalist verities. The devout
Anatolian masses that Ataturk and his hardline secular
successors despised have become politically much more assertive.
They have loosened the stranglehold of secular urban elites over
the bureaucracy and big business.  The  Justice and Development Party , known as the AKP, under
Erdogan has been the prime beneficiary of this political
awakening and entrepreneurial ferment. The party has used its
huge electoral majorities and political capital to force the
military and the Kemalists onto the defensive. It has also
presided over a period of rapid economic growth.  The party’s success, combined with Erdogan’s clear failure
to shake off Turkey’s traditions of authoritarian governance,
has bred new challengers: among others, displaced and
disgruntled older elites, and a young generation of globalized
Turks with their own ideas of dignity and freedom.  Turkey is not alone in suffering the conflicts unleashed by
the twinned dismantling of old hierarchies and emergence of mass
politics. The street fighting between yellow- and red-shirters
in Bangkok, the stone throwing of  Kashmiri youth  in Srinagar,
the anti-Chinese demonstrations in  Hong Kong  -- all these are
battles over political identity, rights and belonging.  Their religious identity, or lack thereof, should not
confuse us into simplifying complex events into gratifying
morality tales about secularists and Islamists. Erdogan is a
cunning practitioner of the politics of resentment, and an
exponent of majoritarian rule and authoritarian capitalism --but
in the mold of  Thailand ’s Thaksin Shinawatra and  Malaysia ’s
Mahathir Mohamad, rather than the Ayatollah Khomeini.  Bigger Struggle  And Erdogan has a bigger struggle ahead of him. Timeworn
ideas of citizenship -- in Turkey as much as in Thailand, India,
or  Indonesia  -- can no longer reconcile differences of class,
region, ethnicity and, increasingly, income. As the latest
 demonstrations in Brazil  show, politicized elites, as well as
masses in the age of globalization, want to rewrite their
compact with the domineering old state.  In Turkey, the first major step toward revising the social
contract was taken by the AKP. But the recent eruptions of
political discontent show that the party no longer exclusively
controls this process. Erdogan’s instincts for demagoguery will
now provoke silent minorities into loud opposition while causing
unease within his own party.  Commenting in 1997 on Turkey’s prolonged and weird
isolation, Pamuk held out a bleak prospect: “Since people have
lost their memories and their relationships with their cultural
neighbours” he wrote, “the entire country has acquired the
crudeness, inflexibility and slovenliness which often occur in
those who live alone.”  Both Erdogan and his neo-nationalist opponents manifest
many of these tendencies. The difference is that in the age of
global capital flows and rapid communications, Turkey no longer
lives alone. In many ways -- and this may be their enduring
significance -- the recent protests have rancorously shattered
Turkey’s almost century-long solitude.  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ,” and a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 