-- Versace to Decide on Stake Sale by the End of 2013, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-06-23T14:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/versace-to-decide-on-stake-sale-by-the-end-of-2013-ceo-says.html
Gianni Versace SpA, an Italian maker
of $950 flower-print jeans, expects to decide by “October or
November,” if it will sell a minority stake publicly or
privately to fund growth, Chief Executive Officer Gian Giacomo Ferraris said.  “We are still looking at the numbers,” Ferraris said late
yesterday before Versace’s menswear fashion show in Milan.  Versace hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Banca IMI SpA
last year to explore growth options. The banks haven’t yet
presented “possible solutions” and the Milan-based company
hasn’t started talks with potential suitors, Ferraris said.  “To produce more, you need more working capital,” the CEO
said. Whatever Versace’s family owners decide, they will retain
control “for sure,” he said.  Versace is weighing opening its capital in a bid to tap
rising demand for  luxury goods , particularly among Asian and
Latin American consumers. Worldwide luxury sales will rise
between 4 percent and 5 percent this year, Bain & Co. estimates.  Versace may have “a scenario of possibilities” by the
middle of 2013, Ferraris said in April. The company, founded by
the late Italian designer of the same name in 1978, has a
valuation of about 1.4 billion euros ($1.84 billion), based on
the 32 times earnings, before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, that Qatar’s Mayhoola for Investments SPC paid
last year for Valentino Fashion Group SpA.  In 2012, Versace reported Ebitda of 44.5 million euros on
revenue of 408.7 million euros. The maker of $550 blue patent-leather loafers is “on plan” to increase revenue to between
450 million euros and 500 million euros this year, led by demand
in the U.S., Ferraris said yesterday.  Donatella Versace and her brother Santo Versace have helped
run the company known by its Medusa-head logo since their
brother Gianni’s murder in 1997. Donatella serves as creative
director, while Santo is chairman. Donatella owns 20 percent of
Versace, Santo owns 30 percent and Donatella’s daughter Allegra,
a non-executive director, owns the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Milan at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  