-- World’s Biggest Pension Fund Doubts 2% Inflation for Japan
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a ,   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-06-24T10:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/world-s-biggest-pension-fund-doubts-boj-can-achieve-2-inflation.html
Japan ’s central bank probably
promised too much when it set a goal of lifting inflation to 2
percent within two years, according to Takahiro Mitani,
president of the country’s public pension fund.  History is against the  Bank of Japan  as it undertakes
unprecedented asset purchases in pursuit of a pledge to overcome
15 years of deflation, Mitani, the 64-year-old head of the 112
trillion yen ($1.14 trillion) Government Pension Investment
Fund, said in a Tokyo interview June 21. The world’s biggest
manager of retirement savings, which said on June 7 that it’s
cutting local bond holdings to buy more stocks and foreign
securities, plans to leave its asset allocations at the new
levels until at least March 2015, he said.  The BOJ has pledged to double the monetary base by the end
of next year while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is promising public
spending,  tax reform  and freer markets to reinvigorate Japan’s
economy. It’s been  21 years  since annual inflation in Japan
exceeded 2 percent, according to the  World Bank .  “It’s going to be very difficult,” Mitani said. “The BOJ
think that if they say they will take bold measures to bring
about inflation, then inflation expectations will rise and as a
result prices will rise. But reality isn’t that smooth. Even in
the bubble, inflation was only about 1 percent.”  In the last five years of the 1980s, when Japan’s  gross
domestic product  climbed from $1.3 trillion to $3 trillion and
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average peaked at almost 39,000, the
monthly readings for  inflation  averaged 1.2 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the decade to April 2013, the
average has been minus-0.1 percent, the data show.  Harsh Outlook  Mitani said in February that if Abe and the BOJ are
successful then a 67 percent allocation for local bonds would
look “harsh.” The fund cut its target holding for local
 government bonds  to 60 percent from 67 percent, while the
proportion of foreign and local shares will rise to 12 percent
each, from 9 percent and 11 percent respectively. The
allocations announced this month are close to what the fund
already holds, he said.  The central bank can add to its unprecedented monetary
easing announced two months ago should economic conditions
change significantly, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told
lawmakers last week. The bank is buying 7.5 trillion yen of
bonds a month, which Kuroda said in April will mean the bank is
buying the equivalent of 70 percent of government bond issuance,
along with more risk assets like  real estate investment trusts 
and exchange-traded funds.  Another Angle  “I don’t know what they will do next,” Mitani said. “If
they do need another hand, I don’t think they can buy much more
bonds. So they’ll have to come at things from another angle.
Kuroda-san said something about J-Reits and they have increased
up to upper limit but they could expand that, so maybe they
could buy other things.”  The BOJ’s policy is to boost its holdings of exchange-traded funds and Japan real-estate investment trusts by about 1
trillion yen and about 30 billion yen per year respectively.
That contrasts with about 50 trillion yen for purchases of
Japanese government bonds.  Benchmark 10-year government bond yields have swung from an
all-time low of 0.315 percent to as much as 1 percent since the
BOJ announced its plan in April. The yield rose 1.5 basis points
to 0.88 percent at 7:08 p.m. in  Tokyo  today.  Yields will “calm down below 1 percent,” Mitani said. “I
don’t think many in the market think it’ll be 2 percent in two
years. If the BOJ start reducing bond buying, then supply and
demand may change so over the long-term, it’s hard to say. Of
course if inflation rises, then it may change. I think most
people in the market don’t know whether to be concerned about
bond supply and demand or inflation.”  Stock Correction  Stocks surged after the BOJ’s April announcement, taking
gains since elections were announced that brought Abe to power
to as much as 77 percent before the rise in bond yields
triggered a correction that began on May 23. The  Topix index ,
the country’s broadest equity measure, closed at 1,089.64 today,
almost 15 percent below its May 22 high.  “The markets are very demanding,” Mitani said. Even if
the BOJ increases its stimulus efforts “just a little bit, it’s
not as good as they want, they will ask for more. I don’t think
the BOJ have to keep dealing with what the market wants at every
turn. I don’t know what hand they have. I’d like them to think
about it.”  The GPIF will release results and more details on its
holdings in July, Mitani said. The fund didn’t alter the
structure of its holdings during the 2008 financial crisis or in
response to the 2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster. The
reweighting of its portfolio wasn’t a response purely to the
change in policy by the BOJ or Abe, Mitani said.  Historical Analysis  “Some people think that we changed our core portfolio just
because of market changes,” Mitani said. “But it’s not like
that. We decided to look back over past data and recalculate
things. That was how we came to our new portfolio decision. For
instance, we use data looking back to 1973.”  The shift toward higher-yielding assets comes as the
manager prepares to fund retirements in the world’s oldest
population. Stocks extended their declines after Abe said on
June 6 that a legislative campaign to loosen rules on
businesses, the “third arrow” of his economic plan, won’t
begin until after upper house elections next month.  “Maybe some have been disappointed by the economic growth
strategies they have seen from Japan so far,” Mitani said.
“When people tell me they are disappointed, I tell them that
there is the elections, so once the elections are over, we may
see an Arrow 3.5. Abe has basically said that too.”  Tokyo Poll  The ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  and its coalition
partner won nearly two thirds of the seats in a weekend Tokyo
assembly poll, increasing optimism for the party’s prospects in
the national upper house election on July 21. Victory for the
LDP in the upper chamber would end the hung parliament that has
hampered decision-making.  The fund returned 3.3 percent in the three quarters though
December, according to its latest  results . Japanese bonds
returned 1.48 percent, local stocks posted a 1.63 percent profit
and foreign bonds and stocks returned 10.3 percent, according to
their statement.  GPIF is the biggest pension fund in the world by assets,
followed by  Norway ’s government pension fund, according to the
Towers Watson Global 300 survey in August.  Review Ordered  The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, which oversees
public pensions, demanded GPIF re-examine its portfolio
structure after a recommendation by the Board of Audit Japan, an
organization independent of the government in charge of auditing
state accounts and public bodies.  GPIF should frequently review the efficiency and security
of its  asset allocation , the board said in October last year,
according to a  statement  released with the reallocation
announcement on June 7. The fund has a range of plus or minus 8
percent for its allocation to JGBs, 6 percent for local stocks,
and 5 percent for foreign assets.  “If there are big changes to the market, then we must
discuss whether we should make changes,” Mitani said. “We just
made a new portfolio so if we can, we don’t want to touch it. We
can’t change our core portfolio that often, or else it’s not
really a core, is it?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  