-- Zloty Risk Rules Out Polish July Rate Cut, Kazmierczak Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-06-24T08:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-23/zloty-risk-rules-out-polish-rate-cut-in-july-kazmierczak-says.html
Poland  should avoid cutting interest
rates next month as the risk of weakening the currency and
triggering capital outflows outweighs any benefit to the
economy, central bank policy maker Andrzej Kazmierczak said.  “Rate cuts obviously hurt the zloty and if the current
pace of depreciation continues, it could end up having a
devastating impact on bond prices and investor confidence,”
Kazmierczak, a member of Narodowy Bank Polski’s rate-setting
panel, said June 21 in an interview in Warsaw. “If the zloty
keeps weakening, I can’t imagine a rate cut in July.”  Poland’s currency last week fell the most in 19 months and
bond yields jumped the most since 2008 after the U.S. Federal
Reserve said it may end its asset-purchase program that had
underpinned emerging-market inflows. For Kazmierczak, the Fed’s
announcement wasn’t the only trigger for a selloff, since the
zloty had already slumped to a one-year low after the Polish
central bank’s latest quarter-point rate cut on June 5.  The reduction brought the  benchmark rate  to a record 2.75
percent as policy makers tried to nudge the economy from its
steepest slowdown in four years. After the decision, Governor
Marek Belka signaled that monetary easing may be close to an end
because “we’re very near a rate level that the council would
regard as appropriate.”  ‘Dangerous’ Depreciation  “The zloty selloff we’ve observed since early June can’t
be explained entirely by the Fed, since continued monetary
easing has narrowed the interest-rate disparity that had
benefited the zloty,” Kazmierczak said. “The depreciation
we’re seeing is far from harmless -- it’s dangerous when foreign
investors own 200 billion zloty ($60 billion) of our bonds.”  Foreign investors held 36.1 percent of Polish zloty-denominated debt at the end of April, up from 35.1 percent at
the end of 2012, according to Finance Ministry data.  The zloty rose 0.3 percent to 4.3436 per euro at 10:50 a.m.
in Warsaw after declining 2.7 percent last week, its biggest
weekly drop since November 2011. The  yield  on the five-year
government bond stayed unchanged at 3.86 percent. It rose 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, June 21, extending its
weekly increase to 65 basis points, the biggest jump since
October 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Fewer Reasons’  “There are fewer reasons to buy Polish bonds and sentiment
is reversing,” Kazmierczak said. “That’s why the next few days
will be crucial for the July rate decision. We need to take into
account what’s happening on the currency market.”  Kazmierczak backed three of Poland’s five consecutive rate
cuts between November and March, according to voting tallies
published by the central bank. Minutes for the May and June rate
meetings haven’t been released yet. Belka has the tie-breaking
vote on the 10-member Monetary Policy Council and used it to
reduce rates by 50 basis points in March, with Kazmierczak among
those voting against.  “Kazmierczak is one of the hawks and, in fact, his support
isn’t necessary for a rate cut in July,” Bank Zachodni WBK
wrote today in an e-mailed note. “Nevertheless, the council
will take the situation in the forex market into consideration
and if the pace of zloty depreciation accelerates, it may reduce
the chance of a rate cut at the next meeting.”  Near Stagnation  Growth in the European Union’s largest eastern economy has
slowed as the 17-nation euro region, which buys more than half
of Polish exports, remains stuck in a record-long recession.
 Gross domestic product , which rose 0.5 percent in January-March
from a year earlier, may expand by 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, while growth for 2013 will be about 1 percent,
Kazmierczak said, citing the central bank’s internal forecasts.  “The economy is close to stagnation and successive
forecasts show the recovery will be later and weaker,”
Kazmierczak said. “We can’t count on any boost from external
demand before the end of the year, while internal demand, our
main hope, has disappointed.”  While the condition of the economy “provides arguments for
continuing monetary easing,” the lack of a response to 200
basis points of rate cuts since November suggests that course
would be ineffective, Kazmierczak said.  “Monetary easing isn’t translating into economic
expansion,” Kazmierczak said. “It’s not spurring lending
growth, while the negative impact of low interest rates on bank
deposits is becoming evident.”  Bank deposits  held by Polish households grew at a nominal
rate of 7.7 percent from a year earlier in May, slowing from 8.9
percent in April, while household borrowing rose 0.9 percent,
down from 2 percent in April, according to central bank data.
 Corporate borrowing  shrank 0.2 percent in May after growing 1.4
percent in April, according to the same report.  “Demand for credit is less sensitive to price when the
economy is stagnating,” Kazmierczak said. “The focus should be
shifted to the possibility of a fiscal stimulus, and especially
to reviving public investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  