-- Abe Win Sets Up Next Battle as Japan Reform Fights Loom
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s ,   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-07-22T07:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/abe-win-sets-up-next-battle-as-japan-reform-fights-loom.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
ruling coalition faces the challenge of maintaining unity and
public support after cementing control of both houses of
parliament on a platform of economic revival.  Abe’s Liberal  Democratic Party  and its New Komeito ally now
have 135 of the 242 seats in the upper house, according to
estimates by state broadcaster NHK. The former ruling Democratic
Party of Japan slid further into the margins of politics after
its collapse in lower house elections in December, with the
worst showing since its formation in 1998.  With the Diet avenues now cleared for the government’s
bills, the fight for Abe, 58, turns inward. He needs to convince
his enlarged party, and a public that turned out in fewer
numbers yesterday, that his program of change is worth enacting.
Vested interests are lined up against him on everything from
making it easier to  fire workers  to entering a U.S.-led free-trade zone.  “The good news is the strong victory gives Abe immense
political capital to implement” his platform, said  Robert
Feldman , head of Japan economic research at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. “The bad news is that immense political capital
will be needed to overcome the vested interests. With a large
majority, the coalition has no excuses, and so failure to act
could bring strong market reaction.”  Yen Gains  The yen strengthened 0.6 percent to 100.08 yen against the
 U.S. dollar  as of 3:40 p.m. in Tokyo after earlier rising as
much as 1 percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.5
percent as of the close.  The  Topix Index (TPX)  of stocks climbed 59 percent in the past
eight months on optimism that Abe’s three-pronged economic
strategy of monetary stimulus, a flexible fiscal stance and
business deregulation will end two decades of malaise. The yen
tumbled about 19 percent against the dollar in that time,
helping exporters.  Abe has already seen how quickly investor sentiment can
turn. When he delivered a speech previewing his structural
reform agenda that did not contain hoped-for measures on labor
market reform and corporate tax, the Topix tumbled 3.2 percent.  “Escaping 15 years of deflation is no easy matter, in fact
you could say it’s a historic task,” Abe told reporters in
 Tokyo  today. “We will focus on that. If we don’t have a strong
economy, we won’t have a strong basis for our social security
system. The same goes for diplomacy and security.”  Decision Time  Decisions loom on whether to cut corporate tax; reduce
labor regulations dating from the 1960s that offered lifetime
employment at larger enterprises; make it easier to consolidate
agricultural land; allow greater access for foreign goods and
services through the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks;
streamline the approval of medical-industry products; restart
nuclear reactors to cut energy costs; and address funding
shortfalls in the social-security system.  He is already facing dissent. Hidehisa Otsuji, a former
health minister who won an upper house seat for the LDP, vowed
to challenge Abe over  Japan  joining the TPP, saying he would
fight to “protect our culture from American market
fundamentalism and neo-liberalism,” the Sankei newspaper
reported.  “We do not promise to do anything that can’t be done,”
government spokesman Yoshihide Suga told reporters in Tokyo in
response to Otsuji’s remarks. “We will carry out our election
promises. It’s true there will be various debates within the
party.”  Debt Load  Abe must decide whether to proceed with a scheduled
increase in sales taxes designed to pare the fiscal deficit in a
nation with the world’s largest public debt burden. He said
yesterday that question will be answered in the autumn, with
economic data helping determine the call.  Turnout tumbled in the election, which coincided with the
first weekend of school holidays. Only 52.61 percent of the
electorate cast votes, the third lowest on record for an upper
house election, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs
and Communications.  Abe is seeking to avoid falling into the trap of revolving
door prime ministers that began in 2007 and led to the LDP’s
ouster in 2009.  “I don’t think people are going to feel the effects of
Abenomics in their wage packets in the next six months or a
year,” said Katsuhiko Nakamura, executive director of Tokyo-based think tank Asian Forum Japan. “The problem will be how to
make people feel progress is being made in the meantime.”  Vote Tallies  Half of the  upper house  seats were up for grabs. The LDP is
set to win 65 seats to add to its existing 50, according to NHK.
New Komeito is projected to win 11 seats for a total of 20, the
broadcaster added, while the DPJ will win 17 seats, for a total
of 59. The Japan Restoration Party, once seen as an up-and-coming force, was limited to eight seats, adding to its single
current spot, NHK said.  Another choice for Abe is how much to focus on
strengthening defense and revamping the U.S.-occupation era
constitution. With  China  increasingly challenging Japan’s
administration of the Senkaku Islands, known as Diaoyu in
Chinese, the LDP has proposed building a Marines-style force and
amending the pacifist constitution to legitimize Japan’s
maintenance of armed forces.  Abe said yesterday on NHK he wanted to deepen the debate on
constitutional change in a calm atmosphere. He said Japan’s door
was open to talks with China and declined to say if he would
visit the Yasukuni Shrine, which is dedicated to Japan’s war
dead including leaders convicted as Class A war criminals by an
Allied tribunal after World War II.  “I don’t think he will go to Yasukuni,” said Nakamura.
“He has been saying that the door is open to talks with China.
If he does go, that will look like empty posturing and will
effectively close the door for the next year.”  Abe consolidating his grip on power may lead to Japan
becoming a source of instability for the region and the world,
China’s official Xinhua News Agency wrote in a commentary after
the vote.  Wage Malaise  Angst over incomes may deepen should Abenomics deliver on
its promise of inflation, without prompting companies to start
increasing compensation.  Wages (JNLSUCTL)  haven’t risen in Japan on a sustained basis since the
bursting of the asset bubble in the early 1990s, as companies
focused on fixing balance sheets and consumers reined in
spending. Labor cash earnings fell 0.1 percent in May from a
year before.  Among the burdens reducing the incentive for Japanese
companies to invest at home is the second-highest level of
effective corporate taxes in the Group of Seven nations,
executives say. The nation’s 35.6 percent corporate  tax rate 
compares with 25 percent in China, according to the Ministry of
Finance. Only the U.S. has a higher rate at 39.1 percent,
according to Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development data.  Abe, who took office as prime minister for the second time
in December, has already overseen a recalibration of monetary
policy. Abe installed inflation-target advocate Haruhiko Kuroda
in March to head the  Bank of Japan , and he followed through with
an unprecedented plan to double the monetary base over two
years.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices excluding fresh food are forecast to rise
0.3 percent in June from a year before, the first increase in 14
months, based on the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  before a July 26 report.  Meantime,  slowing growth  risks stoking dissent among LDP
lawmakers just as Abe embarks on his reform legislation. Gross
domestic product rose an annualized 2.8 percent in the three
months through June, compared with 4.1 percent in the first
quarter, a survey of 29 economists by Bloomberg indicates.  “Members within Abe’s LDP with vested interests will be
against reforms -- especially on health care, pensions and
agriculture,” said Takuji Okubo, chief economist at Japan Macro
Advisors in Tokyo, who formerly worked at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in 東京 at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  