-- Abe Victorious in Japan Vote Has Least-Volatile Bonds
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-07-22T02:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/abe-victorious-in-japan-vote-has-least-volatile-bonds.html
As he celebrates winning greater
control over  Japan ’s government, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can
also take satisfaction in taming the world’s second-biggest
sovereign debt market.  Sixty-day  historical volatility  in Japanese  government
bonds  slid 91 basis points in the past month to 3.03 percent,
the lowest among 25 markets tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. All other
sovereigns saw an increase in price swings as investors
speculated on a possible exit from monetary stimulus by the U.S.
Federal Reserve. The equivalent  gauge  for Treasuries jumped 1.1
percentage points to 4.86 percent.  Abe’s ruling coalition, which won a majority in the upper
house election yesterday, needs to keep a lid on 10-year  yields 
that reached a one-year high of 1 percent on May 23 because debt
equals 245 percent of economic output.  Bank of Japan  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda tamed volatility by increasing the frequency of
bond-buying operations and starting regular meetings with market
participants.  “Higher volatility means a higher risk premium, which
tends to drive up yields further than they really should be,”
said Shinji Hiramatsu, a senior investment manager in  Tokyo  at
Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $9.4 billion. “For the BOJ, economic growth and
faster inflation are acceptable reasons for yields to rise, but
the risk premium shouldn’t be.”  Coalition Victory  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  and its coalition partner
New Komeito will have at least 133 of the 242 seats in the upper
house, according to estimates by state broadcaster NHK. That
will give the coalition control of both houses for the first
time since 2007.  The BOJ doubled monthly bond buying to more than 7 trillion
yen ($70 billion) in April, after Abe urged the central bank to
take steps to overcome 15 years of deflation and achieve 2
percent annual price gains in two years. One year of purchases
amount to more than half of the JGBs that the government  plans 
to sell in the fiscal year started April 1.  JGB volatility peaked at a five-year high of 3.98 percent
on June 25. It declined as the BOJ  increased  the frequency of
its debt buying to about 10 times a month from 8 times,
detailing the amounts and maturities of its intended purchases
before the operations. The central bank also holds regular
meetings with investors and traders, with the next gathering
scheduled for July 24.  Risk Premiums  Kuroda said after a July 10-11 policy meeting that the
BOJ’s bond purchases were lowering volatility and reducing  risk
premiums .  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note completed a two-week decline on July 19 for the first time since March 22,
falling five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 0.805
percent. The yield was at 0.8 percent today. That’s the lowest
10-year rate in the world, with  Switzerland  coming next at about
0.98 percent.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Tokyo-based Sega Sammy
Holdings Inc. sold 5 billion yen each of three-year, 0.493
percent notes and five-year, 0.732 percent bonds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s Shinhan Bank offered 30 billion yen of
Samurai debt in two tranches, including 26.7 billion yen of two-year, 0.83 percent securities, according to a statement from
Citigroup Inc. on July 19.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.15
percent return this month, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. That compares with a 0.16 percent gain for
Samurai notes, which are yen-denominated securities sold in
Japan by overseas borrowers, and a 1.09 percent return on
company debt worldwide.  Auction Test  The Ministry of Finance’s 1.2 trillion-yen sale of 20-year
bonds on July 25 will serve as the first test of investor
appetite for JGBs after the upper-house election. The previous
auction on June 18 drew bids valued at 4.23 times the amount
offered, the highest since September.  Abe’s economic policies, known as Abenomics, consist of
what he calls the three arrows of monetary easing, fiscal
stimulus and deregulation.  The premier “is not very dynamic on major structural
reform,” Stephen Church, a partner at Tokyo-based JI  Asia , said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television on July 19. “Arrow
three is a package of growth measures, and that is, I think it’d
be fair to say, on the weak side.”  ‘Crunch Time’  Abe must now decide whether to proceed with a scheduled
doubling of the consumption tax rate to 10 percent by 2015.
Decisions also loom on whether to cut the corporate tax burden,
loosen labor regulations and restart nuclear reactors.  “This is crunch time for Abenomics,”  Nicholas Spiro , the
managing director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said in
an e-mail. “The low-hanging fruit has already been picked. All
eyes are now on the more politically contentious aspects of the
program, notably the sales tax hike and the long-anticipated
supply-side reforms.”  Sixty-day price volatility for Treasuries maturing in more
than a year accelerated after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
on June 19 that the U.S. central bank may curb its bond buying
this year and end it in mid-2014 if economic growth is in line
with Fed projections. The gauge rose to 4.88 percent on July 17,
the highest since January 2012.  Treasury Outlook  Ten-year yields in the U.S. will probably rise to 2.91
percent by the end of June next year from 2.51 percent, while
Japan’s rates are expected to advance to 1.02 percent, according
to weighted-average forecasts of analysts. Should those
estimates prove correct, investors who bought 10-year Treasuries
last week would lose 0.8 percent during the period, figures
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The BOJ’s buying is leading to the decline in both
volatility and yields,” said  Makoto Yamashita , the chief Japan
rates strategist in Tokyo at Deutsche Securities Inc., one of
the 23 primary dealers obliged to bid at Japanese government
bond sales. “Markets see a very low likelihood that the BOJ can
achieve its 2 percent inflation target within two years, so
yields are likely to stay around the current levels.”  Ten-year yields may fall below 0.7 percent in September, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  