-- Abenomics Boosts Singapore Bourse Profit: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-07-23T05:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/abenomics-boosts-singapore-bourse-profit-southeast-asia.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  may post a
51 percent jump in fourth-quarter profit, the fastest growth in
six years, as renewed interest in Japanese shares made it the
No. 1 venue for trading Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures.  SGX, as the operator of  Southeast Asia ’s largest stock
market is known, will today report net income rose to S$92
million ($72.8 million) in the three months ended June 30 from
S$61.07 million a year earlier, according to the average
 estimate  by six analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Japanese index futures contracts have become Singapore’s
most actively traded, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s reforms
have spurred equities.  Japan ’s broader Topix index capped its
biggest rally over three quarters in more than 30 years on June
30. The  Nikkei 225  jumped 58 percent from Nov. 14, when
elections that brought Abe to power were announced, through the
end of June. The coalition led by Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party 
won a majority of upper house seats in elections this weekend.  “SGX’s derivatives business has been doing well,” Julian Chua, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Kuala Lumpur , said
in a telephone interview on July 12. “When there was a lot of
focus on Japanese equities, the volumes of Nikkei futures picked
up as well. Derivatives still has pretty good prospects.”  Derivatives trading volumes jumped to a record in June, led
by demand for futures contracts on the Nikkei 225 and the FTSE
 China  A50 Index, the bourse operator said on July 3.  Derivatives Growth  The source of profit at the company partly owned by  Japan
Exchange Group Inc. (8697)  has shifted from cash-equity trading and
initial public offerings to derivatives in the past few years.  Revenue from the cash market declined to S$437 million in
the year to June 2012 from S$450 million in fiscal year 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. During that period,
contributions from derivatives trading climbed about 30 percent.  Average daily derivatives transactions jumped 77 percent to
556,728  contracts  in June, a new monthly record, according to
the SGX. The Japanese index futures contracts are the most
actively traded in Singapore, followed by those from China,
 Taiwan  and  India , the company said.  The derivatives business benefited from a rally in Japanese
equities from last November, SGX Chief Financial Officer Chng Lay Chew said in April.  SGX shares gained 0.7 percent to S$7.54 as of 1:40 p.m. in
Singapore, heading for its highest close since May 30. The stock
had climbed 6.9 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with a 2.1 percent advance for the benchmark  Straits Times
Index. (FSSTI)   Preferred Venue  More than 4.5 million Nikkei 225 futures traded in
Singapore in June, compared with 3.6 million Nikkei 225 futures
in  Osaka  and 1.6 million in  Chicago , according to data from the
Singapore and Japanese bourse operators compiled by Bloomberg.
The Japanese bourse has kept a bigger share of the mini Nikkei
225 futures, whose contract size is about five times smaller
than those offered in Singapore and Chicago, based on the data.  “Investors prefer trading futures in Singapore where they
have access to a variety of products, including futures on
China, Japan, India and Taiwan markets,” Nomura’s Chua said.
“Rather than keeping accounts in each of the different Asian
markets, traders can come to  Singapore  and trade a lot more
variety of products.” Nomura is Singapore Exchange No. 3
 shareholder , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Southeast Asian bourse has been focusing on increasing
the number of international participants in its futures and
options market, Chng said in April. SGX said in March it had 43
derivatives trading members, compared with 27 equities brokers.  “They are actually hitting a critical mass of volume,”
Arjan van Veen, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG said in a
telephone interview July 16. “You need the volume, you need the
systems, which they put in place a few years ago.”  Delay Setback  SGX suffered a setback in April, when derivatives trading
was delayed for three hours by a computer breakdown, prompting
company officials to apologize and pledge to review procedures.  Exchanges worldwide are seeking to build their futures and
commodities businesses as contributions from equities trading
decline.  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. bought the London
Metal Exchange in December after posting its lowest quarterly
profit since the global financial crisis. The Japan Exchange
Group, formed from the merger of rivals in  Tokyo  and Osaka, has
made expanding services in derivatives its main objective.  “We see derivatives as being the bright spot in SGX’s
line-up of businesses,” Srikanth Vadlamani, an analyst at Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. in Singapore, wrote in a note on July 11.
“We are reasonably confident that there’s is still scope for
secular volume growth in this segment.”  The average  daily  value of stocks traded on SGX fell to
S$1.41 billion in the year through June 2013, after peaking at
S$2.18 billion in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Currency Futures  To develop the derivatives business, the Southeast Asian
bourse plans to introduce foreign exchange futures in the second
half of 2013, starting with the U.S. dollar-Singapore dollar,
Indian rupee-U.S. dollar, Australian dollar-U.S. dollar and
Australian dollar-Japanese yen currency pairs. SGX started
trading iron-ore futures in April and will introduce contracts
on Philippine and Thai equity indexes by the fourth quarter.  “Derivatives will outgrow equities and continue to be a
bigger part of the pie,” said Credit Suisse’s van Veen. “Five
years from now I think people will think of SGX more as a
derivatives exchange than equities, or at least equal. In the
short-term it is still more determined by equities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  