-- Abertis Sells Belfast, Swedish Hubs to ADC-HAS for $374 Million
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-22T10:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/abertis-sells-belfast-swedish-hubs-to-adc-has-for-374-million.html
Spain’s  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE) 
agreed to sell airports in Sweden and  Northern Ireland  together
with a  management contract  at the world’s busiest hub in Atlanta
to U.S.-based ADC & HAS for 284 million euros ($374 million).  The deal includes Belfast International and Stockholm
Skavsta airports, plus terminal concessions at Orlando Sanford
in Florida and the U.S. management business of Abertis’s TBI
unit, which includes the Atlanta contract, it said today.  Following the disposal, Barcelona-based Abertis will be
left with only London Luton airport among European assets bought
via a 90 percent stake in TBI in 2005, after agreeing to sell a
terminal in Cardiff to the Welsh government in March for 61
million euros. The company still owns or manages airports in
 Latin America  and Caribbean through DCA, acquired in 2007.  Abertis, which also runs toll roads and provides
telecommunications infrastructure, said today’s agreement with
 ADC & HAS Airports Worldwide  reflects a strategy of “continually
managing its portfolio to optimize the company’s asset base.”  Buyer ADC & HAS was formed in 2008 by Airport Development
Corporation of Canada and Houston Airport System, backed by the
Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System pension plan.  Atlanta Terminal  Based in Houston, ADC & HAS currently has stake in airports
in Ecuador and Costa Rica. The TBI contracts in the U.S. that
are being acquired as part of the deal include management of a
28-gate international terminal at Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson
plus contracts at Raleigh-Durham, Bob Hope airport in California
and Middle Georgia Regional Macon Downtown in Georgia.  Abertis will receive 90 percent of transaction proceeds,
with Aena International, its Spanish partner in TBI, getting the
rest. The businesses being offloaded would have contributed
about 78 million euros in revenue this year, the company said.  European airport ownership is in a state of flux, with
 Hochtief AG (HOT)  agreeing to sell its airports unit to Public Sector
Pension Investment Board of Canada in May in a deal valuing a
business that includes stakes in Athens, Budapest, Dusseldorf
and Hamburg airports at about 1.5 billion euros.  The cash-strapped  Portuguese government  in December agreed
to sell state-owned airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal
SA to French builder  Vinci SA (DG)  for 3.08 billion euros.  Antitrust regulators also caused London Heathrow-owner
 Ferrovial SA (FER)  of Madrid to sell the U.K. capital’s Gatwick and
Stansted hubs in recent years, together with Edinburgh airport
in Scotland.  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY) , Britain’s biggest builder, last
month also sold Exeter airport in England to Rigby Group Plc.  Abertis’s sale of the TBI assets to ADC & HAS is subject to
approval by local authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  