-- Halliburton Boosts Share Buybacks as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-07-22T20:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/halliburton-boosts-share-buybacks-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, expanded its share
buyback plan to $5 billion as second-quarter profit beat
estimates on demand outside its home market.  Per-share earnings excluding one-time items of 73 cents
exceeded the 72-cent average of 33  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 1.1 percent to a record $7.3
billion, Houston-based Halliburton said today in a statement.  Sales from Europe,  Africa , the  Middle East  and Asia rose 16
percent to $2.6 billion, and full-year revenue growth from these
regions is expected to be “in the mid-teens,” Halliburton
said. The company raised its share buyback authorization to $5
billion after repurchasing $1 billion of shares in the second
quarter.  “They’re in a position where they’re consistently
generating free  cash flow ,”  Scott Gruber , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , who rates the shares a buy and
owns none, said in a phone interview. “We expect them to remain
in that position for several years.”  Net income declined to $679 million, or 73 cents a share,
from $737 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier.  The number of rigs operating onshore in the U.S. dropped 11
percent to an average of 1,686 in the second quarter compared
with 1,902  rigs  a year earlier,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data show.
Prices charged for U.S. fracking services slid 14 percent in
2012 and are expected to fall another 6 percent this year,
according to PacWest Consulting Partners LLC, a Houston-based
industry adviser.  Blasting Water  The pressure-pumping technique known as fracking involves
blasting water mixed with sand and chemicals underground to free
trapped hydrocarbons from shale formations. About 16.3 million
horsepower is competing to meet demand for 12.5 million this
year, the consultant said.  The operating profit margin in Halliburton’s  Completion and
Production  division in the U.S. and  Canada  dropped to 18 percent
from 22 percent a year earlier.  Boosting margins to the “mid 20s” will require help from
higher natural gas prices, Chief Executive Officer Dave Lesar
told analysts and investors today on a conference call.  A glut in the U.S. fracking market may persist beyond the
first quarter of next year, he said.  Halliburton, which has 28 buy, four hold and two sell
 recommendations  from analysts, fell 1.6 percent to $45.08 at the
close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  