-- Halliburton Profit Drops as Fracking Prices Fall Amid Glut
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-07-22T11:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/halliburton-profit-drops-as-fracking-prices-fall-amid-glut.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, said second-quarter
profit fell as prices retreated amid an equipment glut.  Net income declined to $679 million, or 73 cents a share,
from $737 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier, Houston-based
Halliburton said today in a statement on Business Wire.
Excluding one-time items, profit beat the 72-cent average of 33
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of rigs operating onshore in the U.S. dropped 11
percent to an average of 1,686 in the second quarter compared
with 1,902  rigs  a year earlier,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data show.
Prices charged for U.S. fracking services slid 14 percent in
2012 and are expected to fall another 6 percent this year,
according to PacWest Consulting Partners LLC, a Houston-based
industry adviser.  “It’s North America margins, associated with the drop in
pressure-pumping pricing,” Scott Gruber, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, who rates the shares the
equivalent of a buy and owns none, said in a phone interview
before the results were announced. “We’re not optimistic that
pricing power returns in the near future.”  The pressure-pumping technique known as fracking involves
blasting water mixed with sand and chemicals underground to free
trapped hydrocarbons from shale formations. About 16.3 million
horsepower is competing to meet demand for 12.5 million this
year, the consultant said.  In a separate statement, Halliburton said it completed $1
billion of share repurchases in the second quarter and raised
its share buyback authorization to $5 billion.  Halliburton’s  Completion and Production  division in the
U.S. and  Canada  is expected to report an operating profit margin
of 18 percent, down from 22 percent a year earlier, Gruber said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  