-- Amplats Sees Unions Recognizing Need for Job Cuts After Profit
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-07-22T09:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/amplats-returns-to-profit-and-lifts-output-target-on-plan-delay.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  sees
its unions recognizing the need to pursue plans to cut thousands
of jobs in talks with the world’s largest producer of the metal
even after the company returned to profit in the first half.  “The last few weeks have been constructive,” Chief
Executive Officer Chris Griffith said on a call. “There is a
realization that this is likely to happen and must happen.”  Plans by Amplats, as it’s known, to cut 6,000 jobs, idle
three shafts and reduce annual output by 350,000 ounces were
initially opposed by unions. Talks on the terms of voluntary
cuts and early retirement are scheduled to end Aug. 10 at the
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.  Amplats today posted first-half net income of 1.15 billion
rand ($117 million), or 4.67 rand a share, from a loss of 450
million rand, or 1.77 rand, a year before. Headline earnings
excluding one-time items rose 88 percent to 1.34 billion rand.  The rand’s 14 percent drop this year helps Amplats counter
above-inflation gains in wage and power costs as it pays for
those in the South African currency and sells metal in dollars.
Local costs are still rising with unit charges expected to reach
17,000 rand per equivalent refined platinum ounce, Griffith
said, compared with a Feb. 4 estimate of 16,000 to 16,500 rand.  Amplats will begin wage talks with unions in a month. The
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union wants entry-level wages for underground workers to be more than doubled.  Align Production  “The need to restructure the company -- to restore
profitability and align production with market demand -- has not
diminished and it is required for the long-term sustainability
of Anglo American Platinum through the cycles,” Griffith said
in an e-mailed statement. “Mining inflation has remained well
above the South African  consumer price index  and labour unrest
linked to union rivalry continues to present challenges.”  The company’s Rustenburg operations suffered net cash
outflows of about 1 billion rand in the first half, Griffiths
said. The figure includes  capital costs .  Amplats produced 1.2 million ounces of equivalent refined
platinum in the half, unchanged. It lost about 20,000 ounces in
production from illegal work stoppages, another 3,000 ounces
because of a bus strike, as well as about 30,000 ounces due to
its inability to redeploy workers, Griffith said.  Net demand will be flat in 2013 as European vehicle sales
are depressed and jewelry and investment demand is sensitive to
prices, Griffith said. Platinum is used to cut car emissions.  Amplats avoided paying an interim dividend for a second
year as lower cash from operations boosted debt and future
funding needs, it said. Net debt rose to 13.2 billion rand from
10.5 billion rand in December 2012 and capital expenditure fell
22 percent to 2.3 billion rand in the half. The company is set
to spend as much as 7 billion rand this year, it said.  Amplats raised its refined platinum output target for the
year to 2.3 billion ounces, from a range of 2.2 million to 2.3
million after delays in plans to trim operations.  Platinum slipped 0.4 percent to an average $1,549 an ounce
in the first half compared with a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  