-- Haniel Said to Hire JPMorgan to Explore Celesio Options
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-07-22T17:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/haniel-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-to-explore-celesio-options.html
Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH, a family-owned holding company in Germany, is exploring options including
a sale of its entire stake in German pharmaceutical retailer
 Celesio AG (CLS1) , according to two people familiar with the matter.  Haniel has hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to advise on the sale
of a full or partial stake or a partnership with another
company, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
talks are private. The process remains at an early stage and
Haniel could decide against a sale of its 50 percent stake in
the Stuttgart-based company, they said.  Celesio shares surged 9.3 percent to 17.70 euros at the
close in  Frankfurt , the biggest gain in a month. The stock has
climbed 36 percent so far this year, giving the company a market
value of 3 billion euros ($4 billion), amid speculation the
company could be sold. Celesio Chief Executive Officer Markus Pinger was fired this month after he hired Citigroup Inc. to
advise on a potential deal, people familiar with the situation
said at the time.  Since  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain,
agreed in 2012 to buy a 45 percent stake of U.K. pharmacy owner
 Alliance Boots , drug wholesalers have been examining their
positions in Europe and ways to reduce costs. A possible Celesio
sale comes as medical expenses rise and governments cut spending
in Europe.  Potential Suitors  Celesio has attracted interest from at least three
companies, one of the people said.  McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the largest
U.S. drug distributor, and U.S. competitor  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) 
are among potential buyers, one of the people said. Celesio and
 CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  have held talks on a possible collaboration,
including purchasing pacts, rather than an acquisition, the
person said.  A Haniel spokesman in Duisburg, Germany, said it’s company
policy not to comment on market speculation. Representatives of
Celesio, JPMorgan and CVS Caremark declined to comment. McKesson
and Cardinal Health couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  