-- Apple Developer Website Taken Down After Hacker Attack
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-07-22T21:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/apple-developer-website-taken-down-after-hacker-attack.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shut down its website for
software developers after a hacker broke into the network and is
overhauling the system to prevent the incident from damaging its
relationship with programmers.  Apple took the site, used by engineers who write
applications for iPhones, Macs and other products, offline on
July 18 after a hacker tried to steal basic information on
developers such as e-mail addresses, the company said in a
 statement  posted on the Internet yesterday.  Developers who use the site for software downloads,
documentation and engineering information could face delays in
introducing their own products. Some of the information is
encrypted and Apple hasn’t been able to rule out whether names,
mailing addresses or e-mail addresses may have been accessed,
the company said.  “Unless it turns out the breach was worse than they’re
saying, this won’t have much impact,” said Roger Thompson,
chief emerging threat researcher at ICSA Labs, a unit of  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  “If it’s just e-mail addresses, developers
will think ‘gosh, we may get some spam.’”  Apple said it would extend memberships for any users if
their accounts were due to expire while the website is offline.
The Cupertino, California-based maker of iPhones and iPads said
to prevent a security threat like this from happening again it’s
“completely overhauling” its developer systems.  “Apple has reacted with an abundance of caution, to make
sure they get everything straightened out,” Thompson said.  Apple Response  “Having your partners get breached in a hacking attempt is
a serious loss of trust for developers,” Frank Yu, Beijing-based chief executive officer of app developer  Kwestr , said in
an e-mail today. “Apple has responded well to allay those
fears.”  The Pentagon cleared Apple devices for use on its networks
in May, approving the use of government-issued Apple products
running a version of the iOS 6 mobile platform. Some  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  BlackBerry Ltd. (BBRY)  products are also approved
for military sales. The approval demonstrated Apple’s
“commitment to deliver a secure platform to our enterprise and
government customers,” the company said at the time.  Sony Corp. was targeted in 2011, when information from more
than 100 million customer accounts for the PlayStation Network
was stolen. Hackers compromised the network, used for purchases
of game content and video on demand, causing it to be shut down
for more than two months.  Apple apologized for “significant inconvenience” that the
outage caused for software developers and that it was working
“around the clock” to restore the website soon.  “This event shows that our private information and our
developer account may be leaked,” said Cui Tong, a Beijing-based iOS developer who works for photo-sharing app PaPa. “I
hope Apple will spend more time and resources on security to
protect our private information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  