-- Larsen Sales Growth to Accelerate on Energy Market Projects
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-07-23T05:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/larsen-net-misses-estimates-as-weak-economic-growth-damps-demand.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s
biggest engineering company, said its sales growth will
accelerate in the second half as demand for energy exploration
and construction projects recovers.  That will help Larsen achieve its revenue and order growth
forecast of 15 percent to 20 percent for the year ending March,
Chief Financial Officer R. Shankar Raman said yesterday after
the company posted a second straight drop in quarterly profit.
Orders booked in the quarter ended June 30 rose 28 percent to
252 billion rupees ($4.2 billion), Larsen said in a statement.  “All of us across the industry are positioned to do much
larger volumes than what we’re currently doing,” Raman said in
Mumbai, where Larsen is based. The area of “hydrocarbon is just
getting busy,” he said.  Larsen  shares  rose for the first time in three days in
Mumbai trading today. The stock fell the most in more than four
years yesterday after first-quarter profit missed analyst
estimates.  India ’s slower pace of economic expansion, widening
fiscal deficit and high current account deficit had resulted in
“lackluster” investment in infrastructure such as power plants
and highways, according to Chairman A.M. Naik.  Net income  in the first quarter declined 13 percent to 7.56
billion rupees, the biggest drop in three years. That lagged
behind the 9.06 billion-rupee median of 38 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 5 percent, the slowest pace in
at least three years, to 125.6 billion rupees.  Overseas Contracts  Revenue from hydrocarbon projects rose 24 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier to 27.8 billion rupees, Larsen said
in the statement. The segment secured fresh orders of 28 billion
rupees during the period, with contracts from overseas
accounting for almost of half of it, the company said.  New contracts from infrastructure projects rose 14 percent
to 175.8 billion rupees in the three months. The company’s order
book stood at 1.65 trillion rupees as of June 30, rising 8
percent from a year earlier, according to the statement.  “Order inflow and revenue targets are achievable. The
challenge is how are they going to protect margins,” said Jinal Joshi, a Mumbai-based analyst at BOB Capital Markets Ltd., who
has a buy rating on the stock. “They can boost orders easily by
going abroad.”  Larsen rose 1.6 percent to 916 rupees as of 10:10 a.m. in
Mumbai trading. The S&P BSE Sensex Index gained 0.8 percent.  Power, Oil  The company reported a  net income margin  of 6.02 percent in
the three months ended June, the smallest in 19 quarters, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Larsen will continue to benefit from
a drop in commodity prices, Raman said. Margins will also
improve from an increase in local  orders  for power and oil
sector projects, he said.  Volatility in the  Indian rupee , which declined 8.6 percent
against the dollar last quarter, and uncertainty in financial
markets affected “investment sentiment,” Larsen said in the
statement.  India’s economy  expanded 5 percent in the year ended
March, the weakest pace in a decade.  “We are an under-serviced and under-invested economy and
therefore there are going to be opportunities,” Raman said.
“We will continue to look forward for orders rather than worry
about things that are certainly beyond our control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  