-- Martin Currie’s Porter Looks to U.S. Stocks for Dividend Growth
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-07-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/martin-currie-s-porter-looks-to-u-s-stocks-for-dividend-growth.html
Alan Porter, who runs two global
growth and income stock funds for Edinburgh-based Martin Currie
Investment Management Ltd., has been looking to U.S. companies
such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to provide dividend growth.  Porter has almost half his funds invested in U.S. stocks,
which traditionally pay lower dividends than companies in Europe
and parts of Asia, relying more on share buybacks and  capital
appreciation  to provide investor returns.  “U.S. companies are becoming more shareholder friendly in
a dividend-paying way,” Porter, 43, said in an interview in his
office in Edinburgh. “That has been quite an important sea
change. There has been a lot of shareholder demand on corporate
America to start paying higher dividends.”  Record-low  interest rates  around the world as central banks
try to stimulate economic growth in the wake of the global
financial crisis has made it harder for income investors such as
Porter, whose mandates don’t allow him to invest in higher-yielding corporate bonds, to generate return for clients.  Still,  Securities Trust of Scotland Plc  has returned 46
percent since Porter started managing the closed-end fund at the
start of August 2011, compared with 25 percent for the MSCI
World High Dividend Yield Index, the fund’s benchmark, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In dollar terms, Securities Trust
has returned 36 percent. It ranks third among 11 similar funds
over the period, according to research company Morningstar Inc.,
and has the same ranking this year with a return of 21 percent.  ‘Sustainable Dividends’  Porter focuses on the High Dividend Yield index as it both
outperforms the MSCI World Index and is less risky, he said.
“Clients are much more interested not in you blowing the lights
out in some years and putting it all at risk in some years
afterward but in consistency,” he said.  “We are looking for global high-yielding companies with
persistent and sustainable dividends,” Porter said. “It is
very easy to move from sustainable dividends to sustainable
business models.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  paid out its first dividend in 17 years in March
2012 after the late  Steve Jobs , the co-founder, spurned demands
to return some of the cash stockpiled by the Cupertino,
California-based maker of iPads and iPhones. In April, the
company unveiled a plan to add $55 billion to its dividend-and-buyback plan, for a total of $100 billion.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  raised its annual payout 15 percent last
September on top of a 25 percent increase the year before. U.S.
technology companies are paying out dividends at the fastest
pace in more than a decade in an attempt to appease investors
disappointed by slowing growth.  Lower Leverage  Porter also looks for companies with lower-than-average
leverage and that are trading in line with, or below, the
valuation of his benchmark. He will sell any holding where the
dividend yield falls below 75 percent of the prospective 12-month dividend yield of the broader market.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index, the benchmark for U.S.
stocks, is trading at a yield of 2.04 percent, compared with
3.95 percent for the MSCI World High Dividend Yield Index.
Indexes in the U.K., Canada France,  Germany ,  Hong Kong ,  Italy 
and Singapore all trade at a yield of more than 3 percent.  The fund has 50 stocks, compared with 47 in the Martin
Currie Global Equity Income Fund. The only difference between
the holdings is three stocks Porter holds in Securities Trust to
take advantage of its ability to use leverage.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, which
trades at a yield of 5 percent, was Porter’s largest holding at
the end of June. Since then he has sold some of his stake to
finance an investment in  Shin Corp. (INTUCH) , the owner of Thailand’s
largest mobile-phone operator. Pfizer, which yields 3.3 percent,
is now the fund’s largest investment.  Heinz, Watsco  “I had quite a decent telecoms weighting, and I didn’t
want to add more risk to the portfolio,” Porter said. “AT&T
was our largest active position. It didn’t feel right for it to
be the biggest stock.”  This year, Porter sold H.J. Heinz Co. following its $23
billion takeover by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
3G Capital Inc. as well as  Watsco Inc. (WSO)  after the air-conditioner
distributor cut its quarterly dividend by 60 percent in January,
after last December returning the equivalent of two years of
payouts in a special dividend. Watsco was the first company
Porter sold because of his minimum dividend-yield criterion.  The other stock he sold this year is ProSiebenSat.1 Media
AG, the German broadcaster owned by KKR & Co. and Permira
Advisers LLP. In its place Porter bought a stake in  Modern Times
Group AB (MTGB) , a Swedish pay TV broadcaster with operations in 36
countries. Since then it raised its dividend by 11 percent, and
Porter is looking for annual increases of 7 percent.  Kinder Morgan  Other purchases this year include  Kinder Morgan  Inc., the
largest U.S. pipeline operator, which he bought to get exposure
to U.S. infrastructure growth without having to choose a
specific  oil company . Kinder Morgan is trading at a dividend
yield of 4.05 percent. Porter has also bought  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
the largest French bank, and Eutelsat Communications SA, a
French satellite operator, which has a yield of 4.6 percent.  The mutual fund had 103 million pounds ($158 million) of
assets the end of last month, up from 17 million pounds when
Porter started running it in November 2010. Securities Trust of
 Scotland , which had net assets of 156.5 million pounds on June
30, may issue as many as 100 million new shares over the next 12
months to meet investor demand, Porter said.  Closely held  Martin Currie  oversaw 5.3 billion pounds at
the end of last month, the firm said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  