-- Hasbro Games Show Signs of Life in iPad World
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-07-22T20:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/hasbro-games-show-signs-of-life-in-ipad-world.html
Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the world’s second-largest toymaker, is showing signs that its games business just
may thrive in an iPad world.  Sales of games such as “Monopoly” and “Magic: The
Gathering” rose 19 percent to $255.4 million in the second
quarter, Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based Hasbro said today in a
statement. That was the unit’s third straight sales gain and
reverses a 7.6 percent drop in the same period a year earlier.  Hasbro has remade classic products, such as turning
“Twister” into “Twister Dance” and incorporating pop music
into the game, to lure a younger set accustomed to digital
elements in their play. After years of playing catch-up to  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  and others in the market for games played on Apple Inc.’s
best-selling tablet, Hasbro two weeks ago acquired a stake in
Backflip Studios, maker of titles such as “DragonVale” and
“Paper Toss.”  “Hasbro got its head knocked in, in the games area three
years ago,”  Sean McGowan , an analyst at Needham & Co. in  New
York , said in an interview. “This is evidence that at least for
now they figured it out.”  The good news in the games business lifted the shares amid
profit and sales that trailed analysts’ estimates. Net income
fell 16 percent to $36.5 million, or 28 cents a share, while
sales declined 5.6 percent to $766.3 million. Analysts projected
earnings of 34 cents and revenue of $789.7 million.  Hasbro  rose  3.3 percent to $46.87 at the close in New York,
the biggest gain since April 22. The shares have climbed 31
percent this year, compared with a 19 percent advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Earnings Miss  The earnings and revenue misses were due to declining sales
of boys toys, which were up against tough comparisons from a
year earlier, when the latest Spider-Man and Transformers films
boosted revenue, McGowan said. Revenue from the boys unit fell
35 percent to $253.7 million. The division should rebound next
year with a better lineup of entertainment tie-ins, including
the fourth film in the Transformers series, and Stars Wars-related television shows, he said.  “What looked like a company that had weakness everywhere,
now only has weakness in one area that is almost certainly going
to be better next year,” McGowan said.  Hasbro also announced that it extended its merchandising
partnership with Walt Disney Co.’s Marvel brand two years to
2020. The extended term includes $80 million in additional
royalty payments to Disney.  The toymaker also signed a new deal with the Star Wars
brand, which Disney acquired last year from Lucasfilm Ltd. While
Hasbro’s previous pact went through 2020, it didn’t account for
the decision to release at least three more Star Wars films so
it will pay as much as $225 million in guaranteed payments. The
seventh film in the Star Wars series is planned for release in
2015, Hasbro said.  Hasbro’s results came after  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s
largest toymaker, fell the most in 15 months on July 17 amid
profit that trailed analysts’ estimates and declining demand for
the Barbie brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  