-- Asian Stocks Snap Three-Day Loss as Abe Wins Election
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-22T10:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/asian-stocks-poised-to-snap-three-day-loss-on-abe-victory.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index snapping three days of losses, after Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s victory in upper-house election gave
him a freer hand to execute economic reforms.  Samsung Engineering Co. rose the most on MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, jumping 8.3 percent in  Seoul , on speculation it will post
a profit in the third quarter. NEC Corp. added 4.2 percent in
Tokyo after the Nikkei newspaper reported the computer
manufacturer will form a server partnership with Hewlett-Packard
Co. Minsheng Banking Corp.,  China ’s first non-state lender,
dropped 0.8 percent after the central bank removed a floor on
lending rates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.5 percent to 135.65 as
of 6:31 p.m. in Tokyo with all of the measure’s 10 industry
groups rising.  “Abe’s victory in the upper house is bullish for Japanese
equities and the Japanese economy as a whole, as the removal of
political headwinds bolsters the government’s ability to press
forward with all ‘three arrows’ of its growth strategy,” John Vail, Tokyo-based chief global strategist at Nikko Asset
Management Co., which manages $162 billion, wrote in an e-mail.
“Global investors should be seriously considering Japanese
equities, or they may well miss out on major opportunities.
These reforms will be even stronger than promised before the
election.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 4.3 percent this year
through July 19, with consumer discretionary stocks leading the
gain and energy shares falling the most among the 10 industry
groups on the measure. The Asian benchmark gauge traded at 13.3
times estimated earnings, compared with 15.4 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.5 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Regional Gauges  Japan ’s  Topix index  gained 0.4 percent after falling as
much as 0.4 percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 0.5
percent after yesterday’s victory by the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party gave it an outright parliamentary majority,
allowing Abe to push through economic reforms and deregulation.
Shipping companies gained the most among the Topix’s 33 industry
groups.  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , Japan’s biggest shipping line by
sales, added 3.4 percent to 303 yen. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.,
ranked No. 2, gained 1.9 percent to 422 yen.  South Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.5 percent.  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.6 percent, while New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index climbed 0.4 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.5 percent
and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index gained 0.7 percent.  Hong Kong  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.3 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.6 percent. The People’s Bank of
China scrapped the floor on the rates banks can charge customers
on July 19 while keeping a cap on deposit rates.  Chinese
Premier Li Keqiang said July 16 the nation will seek to keep
economic growth, employment and inflation within limits.  “The gesture by the PBOC was symbolically important, but
the actual economic and financial impact was neutral,” said
Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset strategy at
Baring Asset Management Ltd., which manages about $51 billion.
Li’s comments last week “provide a bottom to the market, but
for the market to go up strongly, one needs to see clear
measures to boost growth in China.”  China Minsheng dropped 0.8 percent to HK$7.78 in Hong Kong
as Moody’s Investors Service said it will face increased
competition for loans to small and medium enterprises. Chongqing
Rural Commercial Bank Co., created after the government merged
rural cooperatives in the region, lost 2.5 percent to HK$3.14.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the country’s No. 1
lender, retreated 1.2 percent to HK$4.86.  U.S. Earnings  Futures on the S&P 500 rose 0.1 percent today. The measure
added 0.2 percent in  New York  on July 19, capping a fourth
straight week of gains, as better-than-forecast results from
General Electric Co. offset disappointing earnings from Google
Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  About 53 percent of S&P 500 companies that have reported
second-quarter results have beaten revenue projections,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Among other stocks that rose, Samsung Engineering soared
8.3 percent to 76,000 won, the most since September 2011. The
provider of engineering construction and project management
services is expected to post an operating profit of 130 billion
won ($116 million) in the third quarter as it makes up losses
from about five overseas projects in the first half, said Wayne
Lee, an analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co.  NEC added 4.2 percent to 246 yen in  Tokyo  after the Nikkei
newspaper reported the computer manufacturer will form a server
partnership with Hewlett-Packard Co.  China Resources Power Holdings Co., a mainland electricity
generator that tumbled 15 percent last week amid allegations of
overpaying for coal assets, rose 5.2 percent to HK$17.74 in Hong
Kong as shareholders rejected a merger plan with China Resources
Gas Group Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  