-- AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Novartis Among Suitors for Onyx
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-07-22T20:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/astrazeneca-pfizer-novartis-among-suitors-for-onyx.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , Pfizer Inc. and
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  are among the suitors preparing bids for  Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , the drugmaker that snubbed an unsolicited
offer from  Amgen (AMGN)  Inc., said two people familiar with the matter.  The companies, which signed confidentiality agreements and
hired advisers, may make first-round bids this week, according
to the people, who asked not to be named because the process is
private. Onyx disclosed last month that it’s working with
advisers on finding bidders following its rejection of Amgen’s
bid of $120 a share.  Amgen is still interested and is doing due diligence, said
three people with knowledge of the process. Shares of South San
Francisco, California-based Onyx have consistently traded at
more than that price since the proposal from  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based Amgen surfaced in June, indicating the
successful suitor may have to beat that offer by a wide margin.  Onyx  rose  2.3 percent to $129.25 at the close in  New York ,
giving the company a market value of about $9.4 billion.
Representatives for London-based AstraZeneca, Amgen, New York-based Pfizer, Novartis and Onyx declined to comment. There’s no
guarantee any of the companies will bid.  $61.1 Billion  The interest reflects Onyx’s status as an established
company in the  $61.1 billion  global market for cancer medicines,
which is growing about 5 percent a year, according to industry-data tracker IMS Health Inc. Onyx said June 30 it enlisted
 Centerview Partners  to help find bidders.  The winner would gain control of Onyx’s blood-cancer
treatment Kyprolis, which it sells alone and whose sales may
surge about ninefold to $2.4 billion by 2019, according to
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company also gets a
20 percent royalty on sales of Stivarga for stomach cancer from
 Bayer AG (BAYN) , which has said it expects the drug to be a bestseller.  The biotechnology company also sells Nexavar for liver and
kidney cancer in partnership with Germany’s Bayer. Onyx reported
$362 million in 2012 revenue, with 80 percent coming from
Nexavar and Stivarga.  Kyprolis would be a good fit for Novartis, Jefferies & Co.
analysts said this month. The Basel, Switzerland-based company
markets Gleevec, a medicine for leukemia, a cancer of the blood
and bone marrow, and is developing a multiple myeloma drug.  AstraZeneca Focus  AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot wants to focus on core
research areas such as cancer and announced in May that he was
moving three experimental cancer treatments into late-stage
development earlier than planned. The U.K.’s second-biggest
drugmaker advanced development of moxetumomab pasudotox for
hairy cell leukemia, olaparib for platinum-sensitive relapsed
ovarian cancer and selumetinib for non-small cell lung cancer
patients with the KRAS genetic mutation.  A successful bid for Onyx would help AstraZeneca replace
sales lost to generic competition as its second-best-selling
drug, Seroquel for schizophrenia, no longer has U.S. patent
protection. Its patent on Nexium for ulcers, the third-biggest
seller, expires in the U.S. in 2014.  Pfizer (PFE)  may also be interested in boosting its cancer
portfolio. An acquisition would give the world’s biggest
drugmaker full ownership of palbociclib, an experimental
compound being studied for  breast cancer  that could be a
blockbuster. Onyx has an agreement to get 8 percent of sales of
palbociclib, if it’s approved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  