-- Australian Dollar Gains Versus Peers as Fed Taper Bets Trimmed
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-22T08:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/australian-dollar-gains-versus-peers-as-fed-taper-bets-trimmed.html
The Australian dollar rose versus
most of its 16 major peers as expectations of a looming
reduction in Federal Reserve bond purchases were damped, buoying
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie climbed against the U.S. dollar following  a
comment by Group of 20 nations that they will pursue “carefully
calibrated and clearly communicated” policy moves and after
officials in  China ,  Australia ’s biggest trading partner, moved
to scrap a rule that had constrained lending by its banks. New
Zealand’s currency remained higher after a weekly advance as
Asian stocks gained.  “Anything over 93 cents for the Aussie and you’ve got to
start accumulating shorts,”  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based
currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in
reference to bets on an asset’s decline. “The timing for Fed
tapering might fluctuate, but the endpoint’s still the same.”  The Australian dollar gained 0.3 percent to 91.99 U.S.
cents as of 6:13 p.m. in Sydney, after climbing 1.4 percent last
week. It slipped 0.3 percent to 92.01 yen. New Zealand’s
currency was little changed at 79.18 U.S. cents, following a 1.8
percent advance in the five days ended July 19, the most since
the period through June 14. It lost 0.6 percent to 79.18 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares gained 0.5 percent.  Australia’s  10-year yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.65 percent after earlier touching 3.63
percent, the lowest since June 20. New Zealand’s two-year swap
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates that is
sensitive to interest-rate expectations, dropped six basis
points to 3.155 percent, the lowest close since June 19.  ‘Too Early’  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said he
expects the Fed won’t tighten policy until 2016 at the earliest,
after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week it’s “too
early” to decide whether to begin tapering the U.S. central
bank’s purchases of $85 billion of bonds a month in September.  The G-20 nations said they will move “more rapidly”
toward market-determined exchange-rate systems, according to a
July 20 statement after a meeting of finance chiefs in Moscow.
The statement came after the People’s Bank of China said on July
19 it ended a floor on borrowing costs previously set at 30
percent below the benchmark.  The G-20’s comments “seemed to have settled markets
down,” said Hans Kunnen, senior economist at St. George Bank
Ltd. in Sydney. “I’m more surprised when the Aussie goes up
than when it goes down, because I think some of the supports
that have been there for the last six months to a year are
starting to be eroded.”  Second Worst  The Australian dollar has lost 8.3 percent this year, the
biggest decline after the yen among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
Its New Zealand counterpart has weakened 0.1 percent.  A July 24 report may show Australia’s  trimmed mean  gauge of
core consumer prices gained 2.1 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, after rising 2.2 percent in the previous
period, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Inflation as measured by the consumer price
index may have accelerated 2.5 percent over the same period.  “The inflation outlook, although slightly higher because
of the exchange rate depreciation, could still provide some
scope for further easing, should that be required to support
demand,” the Reserve Bank of Australia said last week in
minutes of its July 2 meeting.  Downside Surprise  “In the coming week, I think Aussie-kiwi is the cross to
look at,” David Forrester, a Singapore-based senior vice
president for Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie
Bank Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We like
being short ahead of the Australian CPI release. We think that
number could surprise a little bit to the downside and cement a
rate cut when it comes to August.”  Traders see a 75 percent chance RBA policy makers will
lower the central bank’s benchmark rate by 25 basis points to
2.5 percent at their next meeting on Aug. 6, according to
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg. Reserve Bank of
New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler, who is due to announce a
policy decision on July 25, will keep his country’s borrowing
costs at a record-low 2.5 percent, the data show.  The Australian dollar climbed 0.4 percent to NZ$1.1620
after touching NZ$1.1542 on July 19, the lowest since November
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  