-- Tax-Dodge Crackdown, ‘Big’ Insurers, Tourre: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/tax-dodge-crackdown-big-insurers-tourre-compliance.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development proposed a blueprint for cracking
down on tax-dodging strategies used by companies such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble called the
OECD’s plan a “major step.” The proposal aims to develop rules
over the next two years preventing companies from escaping taxes
by putting patent rights into shell companies, taking interest
deductions in one country without reporting taxable profit in
another, and forcing them to disclose to regulators where they
report their income around the world.  The 40-page report will complement efforts by deficit-laden
governments to increase revenue they collect from profitable
enterprises. It follows hearings in the U.S. and U.K. revealing
how companies avoided billions in taxes by attributing profits
to mailbox subsidiaries in places like  Bermuda  and the Cayman
Islands.  The U.K. Parliament has held three hearings since November
on corporate tax dodging -- examining strategies used by Google,
Amazon and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  In May, the U.S. Senate held a
hearing on Apple’s offshore tax strategies. The companies all
say they’ve complied with international tax laws.  A pair of the OECD proposals calls for rules to make it
harder to shift profits by assigning intellectual property, such
as patent rights, to offshore units. Under current law, such
offshore subsidiaries can take credit for profits arising from
patents developed in countries like the U.S. and U.K. --
generally with cash the parent companies provided to them in the
first place.  Mountain View, California-based Google, for example, has
avoided as much as $2 billion in worldwide income taxes annually
by attributing profits to a subsidiary in Bermuda that holds the
rights to its intellectual property for sales outside the U.S.,
as reported by Bloomberg News in December.  The OECD is a government-funded think tank that was charged
by the G-20 to tackle the issue.  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  China Regulators to Allow More Banks to Sell ABS, Reuters Says  China will allow more banks to sell asset-backed securities
to support economic growth, Reuters  reported , citing
unidentified people.  The rules from the country’s banking and securities
regulators will also scrap a quota on such issuances, Reuters
reported. The government will control the pace of securitization
to avoid risks, according to the report.  The State Council urged banks in  June  to better use
existing credit and step up efforts to contain financial risks.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission said Feb. 26 it would
allow more firms to develop asset-backed securities businesses
with the goal of boosting liquidity.  The securities regulator didn’t immediately respond to
faxed questions seeking comment July 19. Calls to the China
Banking Regulatory Commission’s news department weren’t
immediately answered.  Chinese regulators reined in the money supply in June in an
effort to force investors to shift funds out of shadow banking,
which allows lenders to bypass controls and capital
requirements.  Compliance Action  Allianz Joins AIG on FSB’s List of Too-Big-to-Fail Insurers  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Allianz SE (ALV)  are among
insurers deemed systemically important by global financial rule
makers, meaning they may face tougher capital standards and
tighter regulation.  The list of nine too-big-to-fail insurers, including
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  in the U.S. and
France’s  Axa SA (CS) , was published late in the day on July 18 by the
Financial Stability Board, the Basel, Switzerland-based body set
up by the Group of 20 nations.  The FSB, led by Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, is
coordinating global regulators’ response to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression to prevent a repeat of the
turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and bailout of AIG.  Also on the list are Prudential Plc and  Aviva Plc (AV/)  of the
U.K., China’s  Ping An Insurance Group Co. (2318)  and Italy’s
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA. (G)   Insurers identified as too big to fail will have to draw up
recovery and resolution plans to limit the economic fallout
should they go bust, the International Association of Insurance
Supervisors said.  Implementation details for higher “loss absorbency
requirements” are to be developed by the end of 2015 and will
apply from January 2019, the FSB said. The nine companies on the
list, which will be revised every year, will immediately face
stricter supervision, the FSB said.  “Even though we continue to be of the opinion that the
insurance business in general and Allianz in particular does not
represent a systemic risk, we acknowledge the decision of the
FSB and will continue to support its efforts for more stable
financial markets,” Dieter Wemmer, chief financial officer of
Munich-based Allianz, said in a statement July 19. “We are well
positioned to manage the new requirements.”  “Our expectation is that the FSB will rely on regulators
in the U.S. to implement G-SII policy measures for U.S.-
headquartered companies,”  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for
Prudential Financial, said in a statement using an abbreviation
for global systemically important insurers. “Prudential will
remain engaged at both the global and domestic level on
developing regulatory standards that are beneficial to consumers
and preserve competition.”  “AIG looks forward to working with our international,
federal and state regulators to develop a regulatory framework
for large global insurers that is both robust and consistent,”
Jon Diat, a spokesman for the New York-based company, said in a
statement.  MetLife is reviewing the proposed policy measures, said
 John Calagna , a spokesman for the New York-based company.  Ping An will continue to augment its operational management
standards and risk management capability, the insurer said July
19, adding that its solvency is above regulatory requirement.  Generali said it was put on the list because of its non-insurance activities.  Axa declined to comment.  Courts  Tourre Jurors Hear Phone Call Misstating Paulson Role in Deal  Jurors in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
case against Fabrice Tourre heard a much-fought-over phone call
the SEC is using as evidence that Tourre misled a key
participant in the 2007 transaction at the center of the fraud
case against him.  An SEC lawyer on July 19 played a recording of the phone
call between Gail Kreitman, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
saleswoman, and an employee of ACA Management LLC, the firm that
was paid to select the 90 mortgage-backed securities underlying
the deal known as Abacus 2007-AC1.  The SEC claims Tourre, 34, a former Goldman Sachs vice
president, hid from investors in the deal the role of the
Paulson & Co. hedge fund in helping select the assets, which it
was betting would fail. Tourre also misled ACA into thinking
Paulson, run by billionaire John Paulson, was making an equity
investment in Abacus, rather than taking a purely short
position, the SEC claims.  Evidence presented in the case shows Paulson never
considered an equity investment in Abacus. The SEC claims that
Tourre falsely told Kreitman that Paulson was long, not short.
Lawyers for Tourre lost a pretrial bid to bar the recording from
the trial.  Jurors are scheduled to hear this week from Laura Schwartz,
the SEC’s star witness, who was the senior ACA executive on the
Abacus deal, and from Tourre himself. Paulson is expected to
testify as a witness for Tourre, possibly on Aug. 1.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  RP Martin Brokers Conspired With UBS, HSBC Workers, SFO Says  Two former RP Martin Holdings Ltd. brokers charged over
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate conspired with
employees at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) , Rabobank Groep and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , U.K. prosecutors alleged in court papers.  Terry Farr, 41, and James Gilmour, 48, were charged with
conspiring with employees of the firms and Tom Hayes, a former
UBS trader in Tokyo who was arrested with the two men in
December, over a three-year period. Farr was also charged with
conspiring to rig yen Libor after Hayes had left UBS and was
working for  Citigroup Inc. (C) , from the end of 2009 until September
2010.  Farr and Gilmour appeared July 19 in court for the first
time since being charged and they will appear at a July 30
hearing.  Hayes was charged with eight counts of conspiracy to
defraud by the SFO last month. He has also been charged by the
U.S. Justice Department, which is running a parallel criminal
investigation.  “It is regrettable that of all the very many organizations
and individuals who may have contributed to the failings of
Libor-setting, the SFO has chosen to charge Mr. Farr, an
unqualified interbank broker who had no responsibility
whatsoever for setting Libor rates, a minnow in a very large
pond, for doing what he believed to be his job,” his lawyers at
Bindmans LLP said in an e-mailed statement earlier this week.  A lawyer for Gilmour, Sean Curran, declined to comment.
Farr’s lawyers declined to comment beyond their previous
statement.  Dominik Von Arx, a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS, and Jezz
Farr, a spokesman for London-based HSBC, declined to comment on
the hearing. Calls to Tullet Prebon and RP Martin weren’t
immediately returned.  Roelina Bolding, a spokeswoman for Netherlands-based
Rabobank, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  