-- Baker & McKenzie, Bracewell, Simpson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/baker-mckenzie-bracewell-simpson-business-of-law.html
Baker & McKenzie LLP hired a team of
more than 20 lawyers, including nine partners from Ramon & Cajal
in  Madrid . The lawyers, led by partners Alberto Alonso Ureba and
Francisco Bauza More, will join Baker & McKenzie in Madrid on
Aug. 1.  “The addition of this high-quality team to our Madrid
office takes our Spanish corporate and finance offering to a new
level,” Madrid managing partner Jose Maria Alonso said in a
statement. “It positions us well to serve the needs of our key
Spanish and international clients on complex transactions.”  The lawyers also include two of counsel and more than 10
associates. The team is focused on corporate, M&A, capital
markets and banking work, and has acted for listed Spanish
corporations, Baker & McKenzie said in a statement.  Among the partners are corporate and commercial lawyers
Guillermo Guerra and Fernando Marroquin, and finance and capital
markets lawyer Rafael Bazan.  In addition to expanding the firm’s work in Spain, the team
will work in Latin America, where the firm has 15 offices and
more than 1,100 lawyers, according to Europe, Middle East and
Africa region chairman Koen Vanhaerents.  Ramon y Cajal has 100 lawyers, which includes 31 partners,
at offices in Madrid and  Barcelona , according to its website.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers at 74 offices
in 46 countries.  Deals  Bracewell, V&E, Simpson Thacher on Apache $3.75 Billion Deal  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP is representing  Apache Corp. (APA) , a
U.S. oil and natural gas producer which agreed to sell wells and
acreage in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico to private-equity firm Riverstone Holdings LLC for $3.75 billion in cash.
Vinson & Elkins LLP and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP were
legal advisers to Fieldwood Energy LLC, a portfolio company of
Riverstone Holdings.  Bracewell attorneys involved in the transactions include
partners G. Alan Rafte, Kristen V. Campana, Bruce R. Jocz, Bryan E. Loocke, Elizabeth L. McGinley and Robin J. Miles.  The V&E team was led by M&A partner David Cohen with
assistance from partners Marc Rose and Shay Kuperman. Also
assisting were partners Ted Stockbridge, mergers and
acquisitions; Sean Becker, labor/employment; Christopher Dawe,
finance; Larry Nettles, environmental; James Olson, energy
regulatory; and David Peck and David D’Alessandro, tax.  Simpson Thacher represents Fieldwood Energy in connection
with the acquisition financing. The team includes credit
partners Chris Brown and Robert Rabalais.  The sale to Riverstone’s Fieldwood Energy includes 1.9
million net acres with estimated reserves of 133 million barrels
of oil and liquids and 636 billion cubic feet of gas, the
Houston-based oil company said in a statement. In addition to
the cash, Riverstone will assume about $1.5 billion in future
costs associated with shutting the wells. Apache will keep a 50
percent stake in certain blocks for future exploration.  In May, Apache doubled the amount of assets it planned to
sell this year to $4 billion, saying it would use $2 billion to
reduce debt and other proceeds to buy back as many as 30 million
shares. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Farris said
in a March interview that everything was up for review as Apache
began to streamline operations after a $16 billion acquisition
spree that began in 2010 and ended last year.  Daily output from the assets is the equivalent of more than
95,000 barrels of oil, Fieldwood said.  For more, click here.  Moves  Competition Law Partner Breuvart Joins Jones Day in Brussels  Charlotte  Breuvart joined Jones Day’s Brussels office as a
partner in the antitrust and competition practice. She was
previously with Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, where she was the
resident partner in charge of that firm’s Brussels antitrust and
competition group.  Breuvart’s practice focuses on European, French, and
Belgian antitrust and competition law. She has experience
advising companies on European competition law issues, including
merger control, cartels, abuse of dominance, and State aids.  She will be based in the Brussels Office and will also
spend time in Jones Day’s Paris office.  “We are very pleased to welcome Charlotte to our global
team,” said Dave Wales, partner and practice leader of Jones
Day’s antitrust and competition law practice in a statement.
“Her experience complements our highly regarded competition law
practice in Europe, and brings additional depth to our excellent
teams in Belgium and France, as well as in Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, Spain, and the U.K.”  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 40 offices
worldwide.  Vivian Bercovici Joins Dickinson Wright in Toronto  Vivian Bercovici joined Dickinson Wright LLP’s Toronto
office as a partner. Since 2007, she was at Heenan Blaikie LLP.  Bercovici’s practice focuses on insurance regulatory
matters, corporate governance, risk management, libel and
slander, privacy, aboriginal law, and public policy and
legislative advice, the firm said.  Dickinson Wright has more than 350 lawyers in 12 North
American offices.  Former Assistant U.S. Attorney in California Joins Locke Lord  Priya Sopori joined Locke Lord LLP’s Los Angeles office as
a partner in the intellectual property litigation practice.
Sopori spent the past five years as an Assistant U.S. Attorney
for the Central District of  California , where she prosecuted
white collar crimes, violent felonies and other criminal cases,
the firm said.  “As first chair in numerous prosecutions and grand jury
investigations, Priya’s outstanding trial experience immediately
bolsters Locke Lord’s West Coast ability to serve clients in the
IP litigation arena,” Mitch Popham, managing partner of the Los
Angeles office said in a statement.  Locke Lord has about 650 lawyers at 13 offices in the U.S.,
 London  and Hong Kong.  Robert Folland Joins Barnes & Thornburg LLP in Columbus  Barnes & Thornburg LLP announced that Robert C. Folland,
formerly of Thompson Hine LLP, joins the firm in its Columbus
office where he will practice in the finance, insolvency and
restructuring department.  Folland focuses on business matters that include
litigation, restructuring, creditors’ rights and bankruptcy for
financial institutions, debtors and creditors’ committees. He
also has experience assisting clients with state court
receiverships and out of court business restructurings, the firm
said.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  Fund Formation Lawyer Joins Nixon Peabody in Boston  Nixon Peabody LLP has added partner Stacy L. Vezina to its
private equity practice in the Boston office. She joins the firm
from Ropes & Gray LLP.  Vezina focuses her practice on U.S. and international
institutional and other investors investing in private
investment funds in primary and secondary transactions. She also
represents private investment funds in connection with matters
related to fundraising, governance, organizational structure and
internal operations, the firm said.  Nixon Peabody has about 700 attorneys in the U.S., Europe,
and Asia.  Litigation  BP Judge Refuses to Suspend Oil-Spill Settlement Payments  BP Plc (BP/)  lost a bid to persuade a judge to temporarily halt
payments from the court-supervised program administering its
settlement of claims tied to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans rejected
July 19 the company’s request to stop the payments while Louis Freeh, former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
probes allegations of misconduct in the claims program.  BP contends two lawyers working for the settlement
administrator,  Patrick Juneau , improperly took fees from law
firms while processing their clients’ claims. The staff
attorneys were ousted after the alleged improper payments came
to light.  “BP has not produced any evidence to take the drastic step
of shutting down the entire” claims process, Barbier said today
at a hearing.  Officials of the London-based oil company said they were
disappointed with Barbier’s decision.  “There is a material risk that payments going out the door
have been and continue to be tainted by possibly fraudulent or
corrupt activity, and BP should not be forced to bear the risks
of improper payments,” Geoff Morrell, a BP spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The dispute is the latest complaint from BP over the claims
process set up by last year’s settlement of suits filed by
private-party victims. BP set up a hotline July 15 seeking
reports of alleged fraud or corruption in the claims process.  The oil company has also accused Juneau of approving
hundreds of millions of dollars in claims for “fictitious”
business economic losses under a liberal interpretation of the
accord.  The company contends Juneau misinterpreted the settlement’s
terms and allowed Gulf Coast claimants to recover millions for
economic losses that aren’t directly tied to the spill.  It has been forced to add hundreds of millions of dollars
to the estimated $7.8 billion cost of the settlement and may
have to pay billions more than expected, BP said.  Barbier has repeatedly rejected BP’s requests to force
Juneau to adopt a more restrictive interpretation of the accord.
A U.S. appeals court heard arguments in the dispute earlier this
month.  BP asked Barbier July 19 for the “temporary pause” in
settlement payments to give Freeh time to finish his corruption
investigation,  Jeffrey Clark , a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP
and one of BP’s lawyers, said at the hearing.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-mdl-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  Video  Axiom Law: BigLaw’s Friend or Enemy?  Axiom Law, which has 1,000 employees in 11 offices, isn’t a
legal process outsourcer, claims its founder and CEO Mark Harris. But it’s also not a law firm, he says. Yet it’s been
solely responsible for the legal work on more than 10 M&A
transactions over the past year -- the kind of work law firms
once thought they alone could do. It aspires to become “one of
the world’s largest providers of legal services,” Harris tells
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia. Listen for yourself to decide if
it’s a threat or a friend to BigLaw.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 