-- Banvit Plans Bond Sale to Cut Forex Exposure, Chairman Says
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-07-22T15:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/banvit-plans-to-sell-bonds-to-cut-forex-exposure-chairman-says.html
Banvit Bandirma Vitaminli Yem
Sanayii Ticaret AS (BANVT)  is seeking to sell bonds as part of the
Turkish poultry producer’s plan to trim short-term foreign
currency debt after the lira’s slump this year.  Banvit plans to offer as much as 200 million liras ($104
million) of notes in various tranches, Chairman Omer Gorener
said in a phone interview on July 17. The company had $88
million of dollar-denominated debt at the end of the second
quarter, up 16 percent from the previous three months, while its
euro-denominated liabilities fell 28 percent to 35 million euros
($46 million), according to data provided by Banvit.  “We have shortlisted two advisers for debt sales, which
may start with a two-year tranche, followed by a three-year
one,” Gorener said, without disclosing names of the advisers.
“After the recent spike in the dollar, we’re observing the
market. We first want to see how others do in bond sales.”  Banvit, which relies on exports for about 18 percent of
sales, is taking steps to offset the lira’s 7 percent
depreciation versus the dollar this year, the worst performance
after South  Africa ’s rand among emerging-market currencies in
 Europe , Africa and the  Middle East  tracked by Bloomberg. The
company, based in Bandirma, Balikesir in northwestern Turkey, is
also pursuing a five-to-seven year loan to help extend the
maturity of its liabilities, Gorener said.  Better Sales  The lira, which tumbled to a record low of 1.9740 a dollar
on July 8, appreciated 0.3 percent to 1.9122 a dollar at 5:47
p.m. in Istanbul. The currency has weakened 6.7 percent against
the dollar and the euro this year.  Banvit’s second-quarter results will show a “much better
picture,” after it posted a loss of 4.5 million liras ($2.4
million) in the previous three-month period, according to
Gorener. The company “may be able to return to profit” when it
reports results in a few weeks, he said. Ekspres Invest and  BGC
Partners Inc. (BGCP)  are both expecting Banvit to report a quarterly
loss, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The poultry producer revised its 2013 sales-growth forecast
upward to 1.7 billion liras, representing a 35 percent increase
over 2012, Gorener said. Banvit won new customers after
competitor  Seker Pilic ve Yem Sanayi Ticaret AS  halted
production in January due to financial difficulties, he said.  Banvit attempted to acquire Seker’s assets before talks
broke down in February, Gorener said, without giving details.
The company now provides about 70 percent of poultry orders for
retail chain  Bim Birlesik Magazalar AS (BIMAS) , up from 35 percent
before Seker halted output, he said. Seker restarted output on
June 30, according to a filing with Borsa İstanbul.  Export Markets  Banvit, which relies on poultry sales for 65 percent of
revenue, also expects exports to grow 43 percent this year to
$90 million, according to Gorener. The company produces about
480,000 chickens daily at three facilities, including one that
started operations less than a month ago in Elazig, eastern
 Turkey , that will help boost exports. Banvit opened a unit in
Dubai in November to increase sales to the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia , where the
company sent its first shipment this month.  “This year we target sending 5,000 tons to the Gulf
region,” Gorener said. “Iraq is our biggest export market,
with a share of 60 percent in all foreign sales, but we’re
working to diversify.”  Gorener expects the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which
started July 9 in Turkey, to boost earnings this quarter as
wholesale poultry prices increased to about 5.25 liras a
kilogram from about 4.9 liras in June. Muslims break day-long
fasts with communal meals at sunset during Ramadan, with food
prices typically rising due to higher spending.  Banvit shares fell 0.6 percent to 3.52 liras at the close
today, their lowest since July 12. The  stock  has declined 8.8
percent this year, compared with a retreat of 3.1 percent for
the Borsa Istanbul National 100 index.  Four analysts  have a buy
recommendation on the stock, while two recommend holding it,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  