-- Bedouin Tribe Talks a Risk in Saudi Solar Drive, Eversheds Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-22T10:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/bedouin-tribe-talks-a-risk-in-saudi-solar-drive-eversheds-says.html
Companies vying to supply  Saudi
Arabia  and other  Middle East  nations with solar, wind and
nuclear power face potential hurdles including negotiating
access to Bedouin tribe lands, law firm Eversheds LLP said.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil exporter, is seeking about
$109 billion of investment for a solar industry that will
generate a third of its electricity by 2032, or about 41
gigawatts, according to the International Renewable Energy
Agency in  Abu Dhabi . That’s more than the 32 gigawatts of
renewable energy generation the European Union installed last
year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  Outside developers in Saudi Arabia, which is using its oil
wealth to invest in renewables, may struggle to determine land
ownership and win local zoning approvals for projects, according
to Eversheds. Contractors may need to get access from
traditional owners, who may include Bedouin tribes.  “The hope is the legal system will catch up,” Indraj Mangat, the London-based head of clean energy project finance at
the  law firm , said by phone July 19.  In Dubai, foreigners can only own real estate in designated
areas, according to a report in May by Eversheds, Ernst & Young
and the Emirates Solar Industry Association.  Bedouin  are mostly migrating animal herders, according to
Encyclopaedia Britannica. Although they make up a small part of
the region’s population, they use a large area of land.  Population Increase  Infrastructure banks and Japanese trading houses are among
groups seeking to supply renewable energy in the Middle East as
investments in  Europe  are scaled back, said Michelle Davies,
global head of clean energy for Eversheds.  “The real driver behind the Saudi policy is the increase
in population year on year and the corresponding increase in
energy demand,” she said. “As long as the cost of renewable
energy is sufficiently lower than the export price of oil,
renewable energy makes sense and will be developed.”  The Saudi population rose 2.7 percent in 2011 to 28.1
million, according to  UN data . Its solar program is part of a
wider program to generate 54 gigawatts from renewable energy
sources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  