-- Biggest Banks’ Debt Holdings to Be Published by EBA
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-22T14:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/biggest-banks-debt-holdings-to-be-published-by-eba.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator will reveal data on the sovereign debt and types of
capital held by the bloc’s biggest lenders as it forgoes a
 stress test  for a second year.  The European Banking Authority, set up in 2011 to harmonize
banking rules, may publish the data as early as October and
include additional information on banks’ cross-border
investments across the EU. The agency has previously revealed
lenders’ holdings of European sovereign debt as part of annual
stress tests.  The EBA scrapped the 2013 exam in favor of a review of
lenders’ asset quality led by the  European Central Bank , which
will become the euro area’s chief banking supervisor. European
leaders last year decided that the central bank should become a
regulator in a bid to ease the currency bloc’s fiscal crisis by
breaking the link between bank solvency and national public
finances.  “One of the positive feedbacks we received from our 2011
stress test was the unprecedented level of disclosure, some
3,400 data points per bank, providing consistent information
which helped to dispel rumors of hidden concentrations in
banks,” Piers Haben, director for banking oversight at the
London-based EBA, said in an e-mailed statement.  “This was followed up by disclosure on capital and
sovereign positions in 2012 and the EBA plans to maintain the
momentum of these disclosure exercises in 2013,” Haben said.  Capital Raising  Eight banks failed the 2011 exams, which were criticized
for failing to catch problems at other lenders, with a combined
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion billion).  Investors expected as many as 15 banks to fail and raise 29
billion euros after assessments, according to a survey by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender,
received a clean bill of health and then failed after a bank run
three months later.  The EBA told lenders a year later, in what it described as
a capital-raising exercise, to hold on to more than 200 billion
euros in profits and investments accumulated to pave the way for
tougher global standards, known as Basel III, and in response to
concerns about the quality of their European sovereign bond
portfolios.  The EBA today told banks to hold on to the capital raised
through the past year, because it “is essential for maintaining
the flow of lending to the real economy,” Andrea Enria,
chairman of the EBA, said in an e-mailed statement.  Basel Proposals  Regulators have sought to increase transparency in banking.
Lenders face requirements to publish information about their
buffers of liquid assets to be drawn on in a crisis, under rules
proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Standards last week.  “Public disclosure improves transparency, reduces
uncertainty in the markets and strengthens market discipline,”
the group of global banking supervisors said in a statement on
its website.  The U.K.  Financial Policy Committee  has also urged lenders
to reveal more information about how the models they use to
calculate the riskiness of their assets. Complying with the
disclosure guidelines “would reduce the opacity to investors of
the differences in risk weighted assets across banks and over
time,” the committee said in a June 26  report.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  