-- Billionaire Batista’s Battered OGX Bonds Lure Hedge Funds
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-07-22T12:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/billionaire-batista-s-battered-ogx-bonds-lure-hedge-funds.html
CarVal Investors LLC , the hedge-fund
manager with $8 billion in assets, is buying bonds sold by
Brazilian oil producer  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  after
they posted the worst selloff in  emerging markets .  Notes due in five years from OGX, controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista , have plunged 82 cents from their January high to
16 cents on the dollar, the biggest drop among all developing-nation securities in Bank of America Corp.’s Global Corporate
and High Yield Index. Their price is the lowest of any
performing corporate bond in the world. Credit Suisse Group AG
estimates OGX, which has $3.6 billion of dollar debt due in 2018
and 2022, may have about $13 million left in cash by year-end.  While investors including BlackRock Inc., the world’s
biggest money manager, have dumped OGX’s debt as Batista fails
to deliver production pledged from offshore fields, Joseph Graf,
a senior managing director at CarVal, said the securities are
undervalued. Greylock Capital Management LLC, the New York-based
hedge fund that helped negotiate  Greece ’s debt swap last year,
said OGX’s bonds are attractive at current prices.  “Down at these levels, this is a very interesting
situation because of the complexity, the different legal
regimes, the sector involved,” Graf, who declined to provide
details on CarVal’s OGX holdings, said in a phone interview from
New York. “Creditors, financial advisors and legal advisers
need a strategy that’s going to fundamentally improve the
probability of recovery and not just force a breakpoint here
that ends in liquidation.”  Creditor Meetings  CarVal is seeking to replicate the success it had investing
in distressed debt from Brazilian meatpacker Independencia SA to
Mexican glassmaker Vitro SAB, which Graf said helped the
Minneapolis-based fund’s emerging-market strategies net average
annual returns of 15.2 percent since 1999.  Distressed-debt investors such as CarVal now represent the
majority of buyers of OGX bonds at these depressed levels,
according to Sam Aguirre, a senior managing director at advisory
firm FTI Consulting Inc.’s corporate finance and restructuring
practice. FTI, along with U.S. law firms including  Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  and Bingham McCutchen LLP, have
held meetings with OGX bondholders this month to discuss
Brazilian insolvency law.  ‘Risky Buy’  Regulatory filings from February to April show New York-based BlackRock sold about $160 million in face value of OGX
dollar debt in the preceding six months, cutting holdings by
about 70 percent to $69 million.  Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman at BlackRock, declined to
comment on the fund manager’s OGX holdings.  The oil producer’s $2.56 billion of 8.5 percent 2018 notes
are the third-most traded emerging-market securities over the
past 20 days by volume, with $546 million in face value
transacted, according to data from Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “It is a risky buy, but a buy nonetheless,” Diego Ferro,
co-chief investment officer at Greylock, which oversees $500
million in emerging-market debt, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Even in bankruptcy the recovery value looks higher
than current trading prices. This is a very complicated
situation, and the prices seem to reflect a worst-case type
scenario.”  He declined to say whether Greylock owns OGX bonds.  Honor Obligations  OGX said in a July 10 e-mail response to questions that it
isn’t restructuring its dollar debt. An OGX press official
declined to comment when reached July 19.  Batista wrote last week in an opinion piece in  Brazil ’s
Valor Economico newspaper that he would honor all of his
obligations, while shifting the blame for OGX’s failure to meet
production targets to auditing firm DeGolyer & MacNaughton
Corp., which he said helped build up shareholder expectations.  “I was as surprised as every one of my investors, partners
and the market,” Batista wrote in the article about the
reversal for OGX’s outlook. “Maybe I put too much trust in
people who didn’t deserve that confidence, but in the end the
responsibility is all mine.”  Batista, whose net worth has plunged $31 billion since its
peak last year, had forecast OGX would pump 730,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day by the end of 2015. The company extracted
23,000 per day last month, including just 9,700 a day from the
Tubarao Azul field, its only producing offshore field.  ‘Not Clear’  OGX may shut Tubarao Azul next year after completing a
review of the field and plans to start output at offshore field
Tubarao Martelo later this year, where  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. agreed to buy a 40 percent stake in May for $850
million.  Robert Abad, a  money manager  who helps oversee $51 billion
in emerging-market assets at Western Asset Management Co., said
he’s shunning OGX’s bonds because it’s difficult to determine
the value of the company’s assets.  “What you need to see is an asset base that’s there, that
has some value,” Abad said in a telephone interview from
 Pasadena ,  California . “It’s not clear what the asset base looks
like. It’s not clear what values you should assign to the asset
base in general. This is about liquidity being applied toward
making some asset produce, and where we are right now, the
assets haven’t proven their worth.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazil government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 212 basis points at 8:29 a.m. in  New York ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  ‘Positive News’  Brazil’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts insuring
the nation’s debt against non-payment, dropped one basis point
to 165 basis points.  Moody’s Investors Service cut OGX’s credit rating two
levels to Ca last week, 10 steps below investment grade, and
maintained its negative outlook on the company. Obligations
rated Ca are likely in, or very near, default, according to the
rating company.  “It seems that with only very marginal positive news this
could rally from current levels,” Greylock’s Ferro said. “It
is unusual to see a bond trading at 15 cents. Bondholders are
fairly aligned with Batista. He either turns the situation
around or may end up broke.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  