-- Blackstone Venture Files for Extended Stay America IPO
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-07-22T13:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/blackstone-venture-files-for-extended-stay-america-ipo.html
Extended Stay America Inc., the mid-price lodging chain owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Centerbridge
Partners LP and Paulson & Co., filed for a U.S. initial public
offering, seeking to take advantage of a rally in hotel shares.  Extended Stay filed to raise as much as $100 million
through two classes of stock, according to a regulatory filing
today. The amount is a placeholder that will probably change.
The number of shares and price range haven’t been determined,
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said in a statement.  The share sale could raise about $500 million, based on the
typical 10 percent to 20 percent of a company’s value sold in
IPOs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Extended Stay is
valued at about $3 billion to $4 billion, before debt, said a
person with knowledge of the company, who asked not to be named
because the details are private.  Extended Stay’s owners, which hold equal parts in the
company, are taking the chain public less than three years after
buying it out of bankruptcy. The Bloomberg REIT Hotel Index has
gained about 21 percent with dividends this year and is close to
a five-year high amid a recovery in the real estate market.  “Our performance has improved significantly since the
acquisition date, which we believe is in large part due to the
industry recovery,” Extended Stay said in the filing. “We are
beginning to realize the benefits of our recently implemented
capital, brand and marketing initiatives, and we believe these
initiatives will continue to drive our internal growth.”  Ownership Changes  Extended Stay owns and operates almost 700 hotels in the
U.S. and  Canada , with about 75,900 rooms. The company, led by
former  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive Officer Jim Donald, had
revenue of $1 billion last year and net income of $22.3 million,
according to the filing.  Extended Stay changed owners three times during the past
decade’s boom and bust in real estate. In 2004, Blackstone
bought the core of the company’s assets for $3 billion, while
industry revenue was in a slump following the terrorist attacks
in 2001. The New York-based private-equity firm later combined
it with other purchases.  Bankruptcy Filing  When the commercial real estate market peaked in 2007,
Blackstone sold Extended Stay for $8 billion to Lightstone Group
LLC. Saddled with $7.6 billion of debt after the credit crisis
shut off refinancing sources, the hotel chain filed for
bankruptcy protection in 2009. The following year, Blackstone
joined Centerbridge, a lender who had worked to restructure
Extended Stay debt, and Paulson to buy back the hotel chain out
of bankruptcy for about $3.9 billion. Centerbridge was co-founded by former Blackstone partner Mark Gallogly.  Since the three bought Extended Stay, its cash flows have
increased more than 40 percent amid a recovery in the hotel
business, two people with knowledge of the situation said in
November. The owners invested about $420 million to renovate
rooms and consolidate properties under the Extended Stay brand
name, they said at the time.  Blackstone, which also owns hotel chain Hilton Worldwide
Inc., has begun to sell real estate holdings as markets rally.
The company’s Brixmor Property Group shopping-center unit filed
last week for an IPO that research firm Renaissance Capital LLC
estimates may raise more than $700 million.  “This is a good environment to start seeking some exits,”
Blackstone Chief Financial Officer Laurence Tosi said July 18 on
the company’s second-quarter  earnings  call. An improving U.S.
economy is translating into higher occupancies and rents at the
firm’s real estate holdings, he said.  Blackstone has said it expects to take Hilton public in the
next 12 to 18 months.  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are arranging the Extended Stay stock offering,
according to today’s filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  