-- BNP Paribas Sells StanChart Debt Notes After Muddy Waters Rout
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-07-22T11:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/bnp-paribas-sells-stanchart-debt-notes-after-muddy-waters-rout.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  sold the first
structured notes tied to  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s debt in more
than a year after short-seller  Carson Block  triggered a surge in
the cost of insuring the debt of the U.K. bank by saying he had
bet against it.  The 16 million euros ($21.1 million) of four-year credit-linked notes were the first to reference  Standard Chartered 
since Citigroup Inc. sold $10 million of similar securities in
June 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps on the London-based lender’s debt surged to an 18-month high of 196 basis points on June 24 before easing to 144.7
basis points today.  Block, the founder of Muddy Waters LLC, said May 10 he had
bought default swaps on Standard Chartered at 85 basis points
because of the “deteriorating” quality of its loan book. It
includes a $1 billion loan to the chairman of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the coal
producer at the center of an ownership dispute, which Block
described as a “red flag.”  Default swaps are a key pricing component for credit-linked
notes, which offer higher yields and tailored maturities that
may not be available in the  bond market . Investors in the notes
sold by BNP Paribas also receive coupons tied to European
inflation, where interest payments are calculated at 1.2 times
changes in  consumer prices , according to Bloomberg data.  Ashling Cashmore, a spokeswoman for BNP Paribas in London,
declined to comment on the notes, as did Valerie Tay, a
Singapore-based spokeswoman for Standard Chartered.  Banks led by Germany’s DZ Bank AG and Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg sold $26.2 billion of credit-linked notes this
year, up two percent from the same period in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buyers of the securities, which include private banks and
wealthy individuals who may not be able to buy derivatives,
suffer losses if there’s a default either by the bank issuing
the note or the linked entity.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  