-- HBO’s ‘Cheshire’ Documents Savage Murders, Aftermath: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/hbo-s-cheshire-documents-savage-murders-aftermath-tv.html
Jennifer Hawke-Petit and her two
young daughters were slaughtered in their Connecticut home while
police apparently assembled -- and waited -- on the lawn
outside.  That’s one among many maddening elements of  HBO ’s harrowing
documentary “ The Cheshire Murders .”  Debuting a day before the sixth anniversary of the July 23,
2007, triple homicide, this thoughtful, unsettling film examines
the crime, its players and the systemic failures that ended in
incomprehensible brutality.  The three Petits -- Jennifer, 11-year-old Michaela and 17-year-old Hayley -- died following a horrific home invasion.
There was sexual violence and the two children were burned alive
when the killers used gasoline to set them and their home
ablaze.  Husband and father Dr. William Petit was bludgeoned and tied
in the basement, the sole survivor.  Going beyond the well-known facts of the sensational crime,
directors Kate Davis (“ Southern Comfort ”) and David Heilbroner
present heartbreaking portraits of the victims and thorough
accounts of killers Joshua Komisarjevsky and Steven Hayes.  Ordinary Sadist  While Hayes seems a standard-issue sadist (his own brother
spoke out against him and here recalls once being forced by him
to touch a hot stove), Komisarjevsky is, if possible, even more
disturbing.  Sexually molested as a child, Komisarjevsky displayed severe
emotional and mental problems during his teens.  His adoptive Evangelical parents refused psychiatric
treatment, instead sending the teenager to a Christian camp and,
eventually, an exorcist.  Komisarjevsky, 26 at the time of the killings, was on parole
for a string of burglaries when he first saw Michaela and her
mother at a grocery store. He followed them home and memorized
the address for later.  At their trials, Komisarjevsky and Hayes attempted to lay
blame on one another. Both were sentenced to death by lethal
injection.  The film delves critically into the death-penalty process
and its toll on victims’ families and public coffers. Appeals
are automatic; the attorneys and the defendants have little say
in the matter.  So, despite Hayes’ (denied) request for immediate execution,
his and Komisarjevsky’s appeals process will cost an estimated
$7 million and last more than a decade.  Still, while charting the judicial, familial, health care
and police lapses that cleared the path to murder, the
documentary cuts the killers no breaks.  “The Cheshire Murders” explains, but never excuses.  “The Cheshire Murders” airs Monday, July 22, on HBO at 9
p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ****  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and Jeffrey
Burke on  books .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 