-- BofA to Goldman Lead Tsunami of Bank Bond Sales: Credit Markets
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-07-22T15:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/bofa-to-goldman-lead-tsunami-of-bank-bond-sales-credit-markets.html
Banks around the world are stepping
up  bond sales , with lenders from  Bank of America Corp.  to
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  accounting for the biggest share of
dollar-denominated investment-grade deals in two years.  Offerings by lenders from the U.S. to  Europe  and  Asia  rose
62 percent to $26.4 billion last week from $16.3 billion in the
period ended July 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Almost 60 percent of high-grade sales in the U.S. this month are
from banks, the biggest proportion in two years.  Banks in the U.S. are attracting bond buyers with second-quarter earnings beating analyst estimates by 8.7 percent, the
widest margin of any industry. The yield on the Bloomberg U.S.
Corporate Bond Index Financials has declined to 2.84 percent
from an 11-month high of 3.18 percent reached June 25.  “The reporting season is done and dusted and interest-rate
volatility has stabilized,” said Norval Loftus, chief
investment officer at Allegra Investment Management (U.K.) Ltd.
in  London , an asset manager specializing in bond investments for
large family offices. “So it’s a good two-part combination for
an issuance window and for banks to increase their issues.”  The Bloomberg financial index has gained 1.3 percent this
month versus a 1.15 percent return for industrial borrowers.
That’s pared this year’s loss for bonds of borrowers from
Citigroup Inc. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. to 0.47 percent,
following a 4 percent loss in May and June.  Improved Sentiment  Investors are regaining their appetite for bonds after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledged last week to
“maintain a high degree of monetary accommodation” in deciding
to curtail the central bank’s unprecedented purchases of fixed-income securities that have bolstered markets.  “Sentiment has improved over the past couple of weeks” as
some of the economic concerns of May and June were clarified,
said Richard Ford, the London-based head of European fixed
income at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, which manages
$347 billion of assets globally.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined for a fourth
day, with the Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of
71.8 basis points as of 11:43 a.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.9 basis point to 18.25 basis points
as of 11:43 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Bank of America are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 5.9 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 11:44 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Goldman’s bonds were the most actively traded last week,
accounting for 3.2 percent of the volume of dealer trades, Trace
data show.  Goldman’s Offering  The $2.5 billion offering of five-year bonds on July 16
from the Wall Street bank that generates most of its revenue
from trading led $66.9 billion of corporate-bond sales  worldwide 
last week, an 11.5 percent increase from the $60.1 billion sold
in the period ended July 12, Bloomberg data show.  Goldman’s 2.9 percent debentures priced to yield 155 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, its narrowest
spread on five-year securities since October 2007, Bloomberg
data show. The securities climbed 0.87 cent from the issue price
to 100.78 cents on the dollar to yield 2.73 percent as of the
end of last week, according to Trace data.  Goldman, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, reported
profits of $3.70 a share, beating estimates of $2.89, Bloomberg
data show.  Investment-banking  revenue jumped 29 percent to $1.55
billion in the quarter, including $695 million from debt
underwriting and $371 million for equity offerings, according to
a July 16 statement.  Forecasts Exceeded  “Goldman benefited from resilient revenues in both
investment banking and its institutional client services
businesses,”  Kathleen Shanley , an analyst at debt researcher
Gimme Credit LLC, wrote in an e-mail. “It never hurts for an
investment bank to launch a bond offering right after releasing
an upbeat earnings result.”  The 25 financial firms in the  S&P 500 Index  that have
reported second-quarter results posted earnings totaling $31.6
billion, exceeding analyst estimates of $29.1 billion, Bloomberg
data show. Fifty-six financial companies in the index have yet
to report.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America sold $2
billion of 4.1 percent debt due July 2023 on July 18 at a
relative yield of 157 basis points, Bloomberg data show. Those
bonds rose 1.3 cents from the issue price to 101.22 cents on the
dollar to yield 3.95 percent, according to Trace.  Banks have borrowed $49.7 billion this month, compared with
$30.7 billion in June, the least since $30.4 billion was sold in
December 2001, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Preset Course’  In the U.S., bank bond offerings of $29.2 billion accounted
for 59.1 percent of investment-grade sales, the biggest share of
issuance since 63.2 percent in July 2011, Bloomberg data show.
The proportion increased from 7.3 percent last month.  Bernanke triggered a bond selloff on May 22 when he said
the central bank may cut the pace of $85 billion of monthly
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds if economic
conditions warrant. Yields on Bloomberg’s dollar-denominated,
high-grade financial debt  index  soared from a record low 2.21
percent on April 30.  The Fed’s asset purchases aren’t on a “preset course,”
Bernanke said July 17. “We’re going to be responding to the
data,” the Fed chairman said in testimony before the House
Financial Services Committee.  “Bernanke has signaled he won’t imminently slow stimulus,
so sentiment has genuinely improved,” Allegra’s Loftus said.
“You didn’t know what might happen from one day to the next
last month in terms of tape bombs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  