-- Brady Software Revenue Rises With Progress From Energy Division
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-22T11:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/brady-software-revenue-rises-with-progress-from-energy-division.html
Brady Plc (BRY) , a British maker of
software for commodities trading and risk management, posted a
23 percent increase in first-half sales as new license deals and
a reorganization of its Energy unit boosted performance.  The company’s recurring revenue rose 25 percent compared
with a year earlier while total sales increased 23 percent, it
said in a statement today. Recurring revenue was 57 percent of
the total, compared with 55 percent in the corresponding period
in 2012. Cambridge, England-based Brady signed six significant
new license deals as total license revenue rose 9 percent. The
stock gained 3.3 percent to 78.50 pence at 12:36 p.m. in  London ,
the highest intraday price since May 30.  Slumping commodities markets have made the timing of
securing new deals more challenging, Chief Executive Officer
Gavin Lavelle said in the statement, while Brady has “a
substantial pipeline of new opportunities” and is focused on
managing its cost base. The restructuring of the Energy business
unit has contributed to higher revenue after “two significant
service deals.” the company said.  Brady’s trading update shows “encouraging growth,” Andrew Bryant, an analyst at Cenkos Securities Ltd, said in a note to
investors. “The timing of winning deals is less certain but the
pipeline remains sizeable and our forecasts remain unchanged
ahead of interims in September.” Bryant maintained his buy
recommendation with a price target of 115 pence.  Deals with  Chile ’s Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, and a global aluminum producer endorse Brady’s
position, Lavelle said.  There’s no sign of acquisitions slowing in the sector after
software provider Triple Point Technology Inc.’s recent purchase
by Ion Trading, Bryant said. Brady had revenue of 28 million
pounds ($43 million) last year and its clients include financial
institutions, miners and recycling companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Contiliano at 
 tcontiliano@bloomberg.net  