-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Tombini Inflation Comment; Real Gains
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-07-22T13:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-tombini-inflation-comment-real-gains.html
Brazilian swap rates rose for a
second day after comments by central bank President Alexandre
Tombini fueled speculation policy makers may step up the pace of
borrowing-cost increases.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 9.39 percent at 10:11
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real gained 0.2 percent to 2.2437 per
dollar after advancing 0.9 percent last week.  The fight against inflation is important for rebuilding
confidence in  Brazil ’s economy, which is necessary to maintain
the gradual recovery, Tombini said, according to the Sao Paulo-based newspaper. His comments encouraged speculation that policy
makers may step up the pace of interest rate increases,
according to  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB
do Brasil.  “Tombini expressed the desire to have lower inflation,”
Rostagno said by phone from Sao Paulo. “To achieve this
objective, the benchmark rate will have to rise more than the
market has been projecting.”  Brazil’s central bank will lift borrowing costs to 9.25
percent by year end, according to the median estimate of about
100 economists in a central bank survey published today.  Policy makers on July 10 raised the target lending rate by
a half-percentage point to 8.50 percent, the third increase this
year. The central bank said in minutes of last week’s policy
meeting that it is appropriate to maintain the pace of increases
in borrowing costs to curb inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  