-- Brazil Cuts $4.5 Billion in Spending to Meet Fiscal Goal
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-07-22T20:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/brazil-cuts-10-billion-reais-to-meet-fiscal-goal-this-year.html
Brazil ’s government is cutting
spending for the second time in two months to help meet its
fiscal target as it forecasts slower growth this year in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy.  The government is reducing expenditures by 10 billion reais
($4.5 billion) and lowering this year’s economic growth forecast
to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said today. The government will meet its primary budget surplus
target, which excludes interest payments, of 2.3 percent of GDP
this year without reducing investments, he said.  President  Dilma Rousseff  has pledged to keep a lid on
expenditures to help control inflation that has exceeded the
upper limit of the central bank’s target range twice this year.
The government will cut travel,  information technology , rental
and outsourcing expenses, Planning Minister Miriam Belchior told
reporters alongside Mantega in Brasilia.  “It’s a step in the right direction but it won’t be
sufficient to meet the budget target,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil, said by telephone from  Sao
Paulo . “Tax income is likely to fall short of what they are
expecting because the GDP growth forecast is still optimistic.”  Economists cut their 2013 economic growth forecast for the
10th consecutive week to 2.28 percent in a central bank survey
published today. While the government is open to further
revisions of its GDP outlook, Mantega cautioned about changing
forecasts too frequently.  ‘Change Clothes’  “We also can’t change the GDP like you change clothes,”
he said.  Rousseff is balancing efforts to slow consumer price
increases while meeting public demands for improved health care,
education and public transportation. More than 1 million
Brazilians in June demonstrated throughout the country for lower
bus fares, less government corruption and better public
services, among other issues.  On May 22, Mantega said the government was cutting 28
billion reais in spending.  Standard & Poor’s  in June lowered its outlook for Brazil’s
BBB credit rating, citing a loss of credibility in the
government’s fiscal accounts. Last week  Fitch Ratings  affirmed
its BBB rating and said policy adjustments may improve
confidence in Brazil’s economy.  First-quarter economic growth unexpectedly slowed to 0.55
percent from the previous three-month period, falling short of
analysts’ forecasts for the fifth straight quarter. GDP climbed
0.9 percent last year, the worst performance since the 2009
recession.  Consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in the year through mid-July after breaching the upper limit of the central bank’s 2.5
percent to 6.5 percent target range the previous month. Annual
inflation will end the year at 5.75 percent, according to the
median estimate of analysts polled July 19 by the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  