-- Portugal’s Rally Leads European Bonds as Early Election Avoided
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-22T15:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/bunds-little-changed-as-portugal-s-coalition-to-stay-in-office.html
Portugal ’s bonds advanced, with 10-year yields dropping the most since January, after President
Anibal  Cavaco Silva  said the government will stay in office
until its term ends and he doesn’t want to call early elections.  Portugal’s  10-year yield  fell to a four-week low even after
ruling coalition parties and the main opposition Socialists were
unable to agree on measures to complete a European Union-led
bailout plan after six days of talks. Italian and Spanish
securities advanced and German  10-year yields  were two basis
points from a six-week low.  Government bonds  across  Europe  rose
last week on optimism central banks around the world will
maintain stimulus measures that subdue  interest rates .  “The confirmation of the current government by President
Cavaco Silva has added to the notion that the political crisis
has been resolved for the time being,” said Marius Daheim, a
senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in
Munich. “That’s of course a positive, supportive factor for
Portuguese bonds, but it remains to be seen how long-lived this
political stabilization will be.”  Portugal’s 10-year  yield  fell 42 basis points, or 0.42
percentage point, to 6.38 percent at 4:15 p.m.  London  time.
That’s the steepest drop since Jan. 2. It reached 6.31 percent,
the lowest level since June 20. The 4.95 percent bond maturing
in October 2023 advanced 2.825, or 28.25 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,316) face amount, to 89.45.  Majority Support  “The government has the support of an unequivocal majority
in parliament,” Cavaco Silva said in a speech in Lisbon
yesterday. The government will ask lawmakers to approve a
confidence motion, said the president, who has the power to
dissolve parliament.  The Portuguese 10-year yield has dropped from a record
18.29 percent in January 2012 as investors regained confidence
in the Iberian nation and its aid program overseen by the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund . The government will also complete
its aid program, the president said today in Vila de Rei.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
debt instead of similar-maturity German bunds narrowed 42 basis
points to 486 basis points. The spread may shrink to as little
as 400 basis points, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Silvia Ardagna and Andrew Benito wrote in a note to clients.  Positive Reaction  “Investors are likely to react positively to elections
having been avoided,” they said. “The Portuguese government
bond market has scope to rally versus  Germany , but yields will
remain higher than estimated fair values until a new program is
agreed upon and more support is provided.”  Germany’s 10-year  bund yield  was little changed at 1.52
percent after declining to 1.50 percent on July 19, the lowest
since June 7.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Finland and  Spain , according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  The cost of insuring Portugal’s sovereign debt fell to the
lowest in three weeks. Credit-default swaps linked to the
country’s bonds dropped 47 basis points to 454, the biggest
decline since Nov. 21.  The comments by the Portuguese president mask deeper,
underlying problems, according to strategists at Rabobank
International led by  Richard McGuire  in London.  Split Opinion  “This maintenance of the status quo does nothing to
address the divergences of opinion within the ruling
coalition,” they wrote in an e-mailed note. “It would be wrong
to take this morning’s relief rally in Portuguese government
bonds as signaling the all clear in terms of Portuguese
political risk and the threat this represents regarding the
potential need for additional official creditor support.”  Italy’s 10-year rate dropped seven basis points to 4.33
percent and the yield on similar-maturity Spanish bonds slipped
six basis points to 4.62 percent.  Greek 10-year bonds snapped a seven-day advance, with the
yield increasing five basis points to 10.24 percent.  Portuguese bonds returned 0.3 percent this year through
July 19, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds
handed investors a loss of 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  