-- Burger Binges at Red Robin Fuel Hospitality Hiring Spree: Retail
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-07-22T20:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/burger-binges-at-red-robin-fuel-hospitality-hiring-spree-retail.html
Katie Nelson, general manager at Bar
Louie in Chicago’s River North neighborhood, recently called the
chain’s headquarters with some good news: Business is booming.
Then she made a plea for money to hire 20 employees.  “We’re hiring a ton right now,” Nelson said on a Friday
evening as her outdoor patio filled up with diners sipping Goose
Island Matilda pale ale and munching flatbread pizzas.
“Whenever we get new people trained, we still need more.”  Bar Louie’s newest dishwashers, cooks and servers owe their
jobs to U.S. consumers who are spending more on dining,
amusement parks and other close-to-home activities. Fresh crews
streaming into restaurants from  Red Robin Gourmet Burgers Inc. (RRGB) 
to  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  lifted the number of leisure and
hospitality jobs to a  record 14.2 million  in June, with hiring
80 percent stronger so far this year than in 2012. The sector
now accounts for about 10.5 percent of the U.S. workforce, also
a record since the government started tracking the jobs in 1939.  “We’re definitely seeing that people are coming out more
frequently and we’re seeing a growth in transactions,” said
Charlie Morrison, chief executive officer of Richardson, Texas-based Wingstop Restaurants Inc., which this year is adding about
1,000 workers and 70 locations. “This is our best year since
the recession.”  The looser spending that’s lubricating date-night bar tabs
and higher traffic at casual-dining restaurants also is paying
off for investors. So far this year share prices have risen 29
percent at  Starbucks Corp., (SBUX)  30 percent at  Dunkin’ Brands Group
Inc. (DNKN)  and 51 percent at  Sonic Corp. (SONC) , all outstripping the 19
percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  6 Million Diners  Sales at U.S. restaurants and bars will reach a record
$461.3 billion this year, a 3.8 percent gain from 2012, the
 National Restaurant Association  in  Washington  estimates.  Even with the U.S.  unemployment rate  stuck above 7 percent
for a 55th straight month in June, the economy has regained 6
million jobs in recent years. That’s 6 million more people who
can afford to go out, said Michael Montgomery, U.S. economist at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  “Discretionary spending is under less stress,” Montgomery
said, adding that there’s also less pressure from the price of
gasoline, which ended June about the same as two years earlier.
“It was harder for people to find money for food away from home
when gasoline prices kept going up.”  Domino’s Tents  That means more jobs for restaurant workers, amusement park
employees and crews at golf courses, all of which count as
leisure and hospitality industry jobs. The sector added 75,000
employees in June, including 52,000 for food service and
drinking places, leading all groups, according to the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics.  “Employment tends to drive a lot of the overall picture
for restaurants,” said David Tarantino, a Milwaukee-based
restaurant analyst at Robert W. Baird. People with jobs “don’t
necessarily have as much time to cook.”  Domino’s Pizza is putting final touches on its first-ever
national hiring week, Patti Wilmot, executive vice president of
human resources at the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based company, said
in an interview. The pizza chain plans to advertise its hiring
week on television and set up tents outside stores with hot
slices of pizza and information about the company.  The chain so far this year has hired between 3,000 and
3,500 workers at its U.S. corporate-owned locations, which is
more than last year, she said.  “We could easily add 7,000 team members,” Wilmot said.
“Our stores have never been busier.”  Chain Expansion  It’s a pattern repeated nationwide as chains expand and
other restaurants spring up. Some 12,000 new restaurants were
added last year, the most since 2007.  Sonic, whose carhops serve food to diners parked in their
cars, is adding locations on the West Coast. The Starbucks unit
 Seattle ’s Best Coffee opened 10 drive-thru stores in  Texas  in
May, adding about 150 jobs. Red Robin on July 1 issued a
statement seeking to hire 100 workers who agree “the sizzle of
burgers on the grill is music to your ears” for a new location
in Springfield,  Illinois , about 200 miles southwest of Chicago.  Addison, Texas-based  Bar Louie , which sells dirty martinis
and tempura shrimp, is opening locations and looking to fill
positions. In August, the 71-location chain will hold job fairs
in Ashburn,  Virginia ;  Greece , New York; and  Boston .  ‘Steady Gain’  Steve Davidson, 52, said he decided to open one of the 70
new airplane-themed Wingstop restaurants in January in Warren,
 Michigan , after 32 years in the industry working for other
people. He has 12 employees now and may hire more later this
year in time for the U.S. football season when fans gather in
greater numbers for chicken wings and beer, he said. Next year,
he said he plans to open a second store.  “I was encouraged by the economic outlook,” said
Davidson, taking a break from serving the lunch crowd, many from
the nearby General Motors Co. technical center that is booming
again after the automaker’s 2009 bankruptcy.  “The last 30 days or so we’ve seen another 10 to 15
percent improvement, and it’s been kind of a steady gain like
that each week,” Davidson said.  The improving outlook is unleashing bigger spenders, said
Scott Rick, an assistant professor of marketing at the
University of Michigan  Stephen M. Ross School of Business  who
studies the emotional causes of consumer financial decisions. He
classifies about a quarter of consumers as tightwads who resist
spending, and another quarter as spendthrifts, or enthusiastic
consumers. The rest of us, Rick says, fall in the middle.  ‘Spendthrifts’ Back  “The spendthrifts are bouncing back” after the last
recession, he said. “People are very willing to look for
positive signs and they can be influenced even by the idea that
they are going to earn more in the future.”  For Mark Miller, 28, eating out wasn’t an option after his
2007 graduation from the College for Creative Studies in  Detroit 
with a degree focused on auto design. In 2010, a friend helped
him get hired at GM and now he says he can eat out two or three
times a week, often with his fiancée.  “I couldn’t afford to eat out at all before,” Martin
said. “It’s a lot easier now.”  While the number of jobs at restaurants is soaring, the
wages trail other industries. The workers in the sector averaged
about $13.46 an hour in June, less than the $24.01 average for
all workers, according to BLS data. The employees in the
entertainment sector also averaged about 26 hours a week,
meaning many don’t qualify for benefits, according to the data.  Amusement Centers  For now, everyone should benefit from the expansion, said
Jon Luther, chairman of Roark Capital’s Arby’s Restaurant Group
Inc. and a director at Chili’s owner  Brinker International Inc. (EAT) 
and amusement park operator Six Flags Entertainment Corp.  “There’s still a work ethic in this country, and extended
unemployment only goes so far, and if opportunities come up that
are $12 or $13 an hour, people take them” until something
higher-paying opens up, Luther said. He retired in May as
chairman of Dunkin’ and was on the board of Roark’s Wingstop
before taking the chairman spot at Arby’s.  Employment at amusement parks and arcades, like those at
restaurants, was at a record in May, the most recent month for
that level of detail, according to BLS data. The May total was a
33 percent gain from the June 2009 recessionary low.  The improvement is evident to Rick Iceberg, president at
C.J. Barrymore’s, a complex in Clinton Township, Michigan, that
bridges the world of restaurants and amusement centers. The
sprawling venue with go-karts, batting cages and bowling is
adding a 6,500-square-foot arcade in October.  “This is my third recession at this job, so I knew what to
expect,” said Iceberg, who will have to hire more workers for
the expansion. “You can tell it’s getting better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  