-- Cable Companies Try to Take Over Europe, Too
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-07-22T15:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/cable-companies-try-to-take-over-europe-too.html
Earlier this month, Neelie Kroes,
vice president of the European Commission,  announced  that she
would soon release a proposal to create a single market for data
communications in Europe. The goal, Kroes  says , is to “deliver
a competitive, connected continent. Where operators can smash
barriers and think big. Plan, bid and invest on a large scale.”  That sounds good. Unfortunately, details of the plan that
have leaked out suggest it amounts to a deal with network
operators -- both cable and wireless -- that repeats the same
mistakes the U.S. has made. Consumers get reduced mobile roaming
charges -- not an insignificant achievement. But in exchange,
Kroes is encouraging consolidation and enabling abusive monopoly
behavior by network operators, with no regulation to stop them.  This is not a deal she should make.  Kroes may not understand how thoroughly cable operators
control American markets for wired data distribution these days,
and how willing telephone companies are to cooperate by ceding
the wired field to cable and retreating to their own profit-rich
mobile wireless businesses.  She assumes instead that Europe will have “infrastructure-based competition,” a concept that has been fashionable in the
U.S. for the past 10 years, even though it hasn’t materialized.
We have assumed that telephone companies would compete with
cable companies to provide high-speed data access, and that this
competition would obviate the need for regulation. We have been
wrong. The U.S. market for fixed high-speed data distribution
has become overpriced and uncompetitive.  As John Malone, the cable billionaire who controls  Liberty
Global Plc (LBTYA) , told shareholders in 2011, when it comes to
distribution of data over wires, “Cable is pretty much a
monopoly now.”  Regional Monopolies  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  has seen how much cheaper it is
for cable companies to upgrade their wires than it is for phone
companies to dig up their own copper wires -- over which they
provide digital-subscriber-line, or DSL, services -- and replace
them with fiber, which has  potentially unlimited  capacity for
downloading and  uploading  data. (Cable systems are designed to
favor downstream usage.) In March 2010, Verizon stopped
expanding its FiOS fiber-optics services. As a result, Americans
have switched to cable for wired Internet access in droves. Now
the U.S. has a collection of regional cable monopolies that face
neither competition nor oversight.  In the past few years, an important change in the
telecommunications landscape has been the “emergence of high-speed connectivity as the king of services, driven by more and
more over-the-top content,” according to Malone. He’s delighted
that everyone in the data, media and information businesses will
require “a terrestrial presence” -- a wire -- in order to
deliver their services. And he’s hopeful that in many European
and American markets, that wire will be sold by a cable company
that will probably be owned by him.  Last month, Michael Fries, president and chief executive
officer of Liberty Global -- already the largest cable
distributor in the world, with 25 million subscribers --  told
shareholders  that the company was in a “great position to be
opportunistic” about acquisitions. If Kroes’s plan goes
through, the company will have enormous power in negotiations
with program suppliers, other connecting networks and technology
suppliers. Kroes’s plan, which would allow unlimited
consolidation and let cable data distributors use their
advantages of scale to keep competitors from emerging,
particularly in urban areas, would make Liberty Global’s dreams
come true.  Slower Uploads  Kroes’s draft proposal appears to be driven by a  white
paper  funded by Liberty Global. This report asserts, among other
things, that the current European Commission goal of covering
the entire European Union with speeds of 30 megabits per second
for both uploading and downloading is “overkill” -- perhaps
because cable networks aren’t built to provide fast uploads. The
paper also promises that cable will be cheaper than fiber optics
for many European countries and that its presence will encourage
phone companies to build fiber-to-the-home networks. Exactly the
opposite has happened in the U.S.  It’s clear from Kroes’s speeches that cable operators have
promised her that they will build high-capacity data
infrastructure in Europe if she reduces the risk of regulation.
She also  appears to  believe that allowing network operators to
make deals about the terms under which they will connect to
other networks will encourage greater investment and
competition. She needs to learn some American vocabulary: She is
being suckered. Where consolidation is possible, competition is
impossible.  (Susan Crawford, a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
professor at the Cardozo School of Law, is the author of
“Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in
the New Gilded Age.” Follow her on Twitter at  @scrawford .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 