-- Canadian National Sees Soft 2nd Half as Bulk Market Slows
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-07-23T20:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/canadian-national-profit-beats-estimates-as-rates-volumes-rise.html
Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the
country’s largest railroad, said it may face a “challenging”
second half because of “softness” in shipping bulk products
such as grain.  Chief Financial Officer Luc Jobin disclosed the company’s
outlook yesterday on a conference call with analysts. Even so,
the railroad reaffirmed its 2013 target of “high single-digit
growth” for adjusted profit from C$5.61 a share in 2012.  “They are struggling through a little bit of a slower
growth environment,”  Jeff Nelson , an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview. “The company
will get through it. Things are just a little bit weaker than
they were expecting.” Nelson rates Canadian National hold and
doesn’t own the stock.  The comments came after the company reported adjusted
second-quarter profit of C$1.66 a share, topping the  average
estimate  of C$1.61 in a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts. The
railroad’s operating ratio, which compares expenses to sales,
improved to 60.9 percent from 61.3 percent a year earlier,
 Canadian National  said.  Including a gain of 3 cents a share on a transaction with
another railway, net income rose to C$717 million ($694
million), or C$1.69 a share, from C$631 million, or C$1.44, a
year earlier, the Montreal-based company said in a statement.
Sales rose 5 percent to C$2.67 billion, buoyed by an 18 percent
jump in petroleum and chemicals, Canadian National said.  Bulk Products  Canadian National released its results yesterday after the
close of trading in Toronto. The stock  fell  3.2 percent to
C$101.69 at the close for the biggest drop amomg members of the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Industrials Index, cutting its gain this
year to 13 percent.  Carload growth will be “muted” in the third quarter
because of weak markets for coal, grain and fertilizer before
shipments pick up in the fourth quarter, Chief Marketing Officer
Jean-Jacques Ruest said on the call. The three bulk products
together generated sales of C$570 million in the second quarter,
the company said in a quarterly  filing .  “While this leaves the full year guidance somewhat
uncomfortably dependent on a strong fourth quarter, we believe
that continued GDP-plus like growth in merchandise and
intermodal, an expected ramp-up in crude on rail, and an average
grain crop production volume should drive a strong ending for
2013,”  Fadi Chamoun , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said
yesterday in a note to clients.  Excluding some costs and gains, Canadian National may earn
C$1.63 a share in the third quarter and C$1.61 in the fourth,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While bulk products struggle, the shipment of crude oil by
rail is booming and growth is sustainable, Ruest said. Crude
revenue more than doubled from last year’s second quarter to
almost C$100 million, and Canadian National -- which now has 10
more loading stations than last year at the same time -- will
continue to add terminals in western  Canada , he said.  “Petroleum has been the shining star,” Nelson at  Edward
Jones  said. “It continues to impress investors.”  Quebec Crash  Rail safety of crude shipments has come under scrutiny
after a  Montreal  Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. train derailed in
Lac-Megantic,  Quebec , on July 6, killing at least 47 people and
incinerating buildings in the town’s center. Officials are
investigating the cause of the nation’s worst rail disaster
since 1910.  Even though Canadian National wasn’t involved in the
accident, the railroad sent staff to the crash site to help
investigators and learn about its safety implications, CEO
Claude Mongeau said yesterday on the call. Canadian National has
begun to review its policies because of the accident, he said.  “We feel that our train securement policies are robust,
but we are nevertheless reviewing them in light of the
accident,” he said. “Before we conclude our assessment, we
first need to understand what actually happened here. We don’t
know at this point exactly what happened.”  The Lac-Megantic crash “will definitely raise questions in
the public’s mind about the safety of crude-by-rail versus
pipeline projects,” Benoit Poirier, an analyst at Desjardins
Capital Markets in Montreal, said today in a note to clients.
“The event may negatively affect” business at Canadian
National and smaller rival  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  