-- Canadian Dollar Rallies to 1-Month High on Retail-Sales Forecast
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-22T21:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/canadian-dollar-trades-at-almost-1-month-high-on-fed-taper-view.html
The Canadian dollar reached the
highest level in a month along with the price of commodity
export gold before a government report tomorrow that is forecast
to show retail sales accelerated in May.  The currency gained as data last week revealed faster
inflation in June, even as consumer-price gains remained below
the Bank of  Canada ’s 2 percent target. The U.S dollar tumbled
against all its major peers after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s
said last week the central bank seeks to assure the economy and
labor markets have sufficient momentum before reducing its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases.  “You’re going to get patches where the Canadian economy
looks a little bit healthier, you’re going to get patches where
commodity prices are in the Canadian dollar’s favor and you’re
going to get patches where the U.S. dollar is out of favor,”
said Doug Porter, chief economist at the Bank of Montreal, by
phone from Toronto.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, rose 0.3
percent to C$1.0334 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto.
Earlier it touched C$1.0322 per U.S. dollar, the highest level
since June 20. One loonie buys 96.77 U.S. cents.  Gold rose 3.1 percent to $1,335.82 per ounce, the highest
since June 20. Canada is home to the world’s two biggest gold
producers by market value. Goldcorp Inc. is the biggest by
market value and Barrick Gold Corp. is the second biggest.  Moving Average  The currency traded stronger than its 50-day moving average
of C$1.0353 for the first time since June 19. Breaching moving
averages signal to some traders a move has momentum to continue.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer was at almost its lowest level in more than
two months. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal
rate fell to 1.1275 percent. It touched 1.1225 percent July 15,
the lowest since May 10. Risk reversals measure the premium on
options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S.
contracts that do the opposite.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart was at 6.87 percent, the
lowest level since May 15. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  “On days when the dollar is soft generally Canada will
tend to go up against the dollar and down against other
currencies and that’s what we’re seeing,” said Adam Cole, head
of Group of 10 currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, by
phone from  London . “The general theme running through markets
is the dollar has pulled off the highs somewhat as U.S. tapering
and tightening expectations have perhaps gotten a little bit
stretched.”  Bond Yields  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bond  was little changed with
yields at 2.35 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in
June 2023 traded at C$92.54.  The nation will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of
notes due November 2015 on July 24.  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell 1.1
percent to $106.91 per barrel in New York, while remaining above
the $100 per barrel level for the 13th straight day. The
 discount  on Canadian heavy oil compared with the U.S. benchmark
widened to $22, the largest gap since May 10.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks added 0.2
percent while the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 0.4
percent, following a fourth straight week of gains.  Economic Performance  Canadian retail sales increased 0.4 percent in May from 0.1
percent the month before, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20
economists.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent from a year ago
following a 0.7 percent gain in May, Statistics Canada said last
week, bringing it within the bottom end of the Bank of Canada’s
target band of one to three percent.  “It does say we’re not falling off any kind of cliff and
there’s not strong worries for the Canadian consumer,” said
Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank,
by phone from Toronto. “Inflation is quite low, it’s at the
bottom end of the target range, and it will take a considerable
time to get out of that trough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  