-- CFTC’s Chilton Says ‘Thoughtful Review’ of Warehouses Needed
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-22T12:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/cftc-says-thoughtful-review-of-warehousing-needed-1-.html
A “thoughtful review” of commodity
warehousing is needed after hearing from users about its effect
on markets, according to Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The CFTC sent a letter about the issue, Chilton said by e-mail today, in response to questions from Bloomberg. The U.S.
regulator asked companies not to destroy any documents relating
to warehouses registered by exchanges such as the London Metal
Exchange or Chicago Mercantile Exchange dating to January 2010,
according to a copy of the letter obtained by Bloomberg. At
least three warehouse operators received the letter, according
to three people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Lengthy waits at warehouses monitored by the LME, the
world’s biggest metals marketplace, have driven up costs for
users of metals from beer makers to cable producers. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Glencore Xstrata Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are among companies operating LME-approved storage facilities. A
Senate subcommittee is due to hold a hearing tomorrow on whether
banks should control warehouses,  power plants  and refineries.
The Federal Reserve says it’s reviewing a decade-old ruling to
let deposit-taking banks trade commodities.  LME Proposal  The LME has sought to ease the backlogs by increasing the
minimum delivery rate at which warehouse companies are obliged
to withdraw metal. It proposed rules July 1 to speed up
withdrawals from depots where waiting times exceed 100 days by
requiring warehouses to deliver out more metal than they take
in. Detroit, New Orleans, the Belgian city of Antwerp, the Dutch
port of Vlissingen and  Malaysia ’s Johor are locations affected
by those waits, according to Barclays Plc.  The CFTC is aware of potential conflicts involved in
warehouses and has heard from “many” metal users that those
conflicts are resulting in “market manifestations which
ultimately impact consumers,” Chilton said. “If that’s
occurring, regulators need to stop it. It shouldn’t take months,
or even years, to get raw commodities out of warehouses,
particularly when in some cases we see the warehouses have no
problem with the stuff going in.”  Goldman’s Metro International Trade Services LLC operates
the most warehouses in  Detroit , while Pacorini Metals, owned by
Glencore Xstrata, dominates in New Orleans, Vlissingen and
Johor, according to the LME website. NEMS, controlled by
Trafigura Beheer BV, operates most storage facilities in
Antwerp. Copper inventories in LME-registered warehouses doubled
this year, while aluminum  stockpiles  climbed to a record this
month, as warehouse companies offered incentives to attract
metal, forcing consumers to compete with them for metal.  CFTC Order  The CFTC asked companies to “retain, preserve, and
safeguard against destruction all documents, communications, and
other information and materials” concerning or relating to any
warehouses that store physical metals against a futures
contract, according to the letter, dated July 18 and mailed from
the division of enforcement’s Chicago office.  The premium added to aluminum for immediate delivery on the
LME climbed to a record last month in the U.S. Midwest,
according to  Harbor Intelligence , an Austin, Texas-based
researcher. The copper  surcharge  in the U.S. traded at the
highest in almost six years this month, according to Metal
Bulletin data.  The Beer Institute in  Washington , whose members include
MillerCoors LLC and  Anheuser-Busch (ABI)  InBev NV’s Anheuser-Busch
unit, pressed the LME to “end restrictive and outdated
warehousing rules” saying warehouse backlogs boost the cost of
aluminum used to make beverage cans. Timothy Weiner, a global
risk manager at MillerCoors, is scheduled to testify at the
Senate hearing tomorrow, according to a committee statement.  “The warehouses charge storage fees and the bottlenecks
can impact prices and potentially move markets,” Chilton said.
“That’s not right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  