-- Chidambaram Sees No Shift in RBI Stance After Rate Increases
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-07-22T05:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/chidambaram-sees-no-shift-in-rbi-stance-after-rate-increases-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  India ’s recent
move to raise two  interest rates  while keeping the benchmark
repurchase rate unchanged doesn’t signal a shift toward a
tightening bias, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said.  “What I think the central bank did a few days ago is not
to be understood as affecting the policy rate one way or
another,” Chidambaram said in a July 20 interview in Moscow,
where he attended a meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers and
central bankers. “That decision will be taken separately.”  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who has one monetary-policy
review left before his term expires in September, is under
pressure to contain inflation and stem a plunge in the rupee
that has boosted import costs. He will leave the  repurchase rate 
unchanged on July 30 for a second meeting, after three cuts
earlier in 2013 to fight the weakest economic growth in a decade,
all 16 analysts said in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The central bank has no space to change the repurchase
rate this fiscal year,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “We remain negative on India
over the next six to nine months because of deteriorating
external finances, a weak currency and worsening growth.”  Subbarao increased the  bank rate  and the marginal standing
facility rate on July 15 and capped daily fund injections via
repo contracts, after the rupee sank to a record-low 61.2125 per
dollar on July 8. The currency has dropped about 7.5 percent
this year and was the world’s worst performer in June.  Rupee Pressure  The rupee weakened 0.1 percent to 59.405 as of 10:24 a.m.
in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex index rose 0.2 percent. The yield
on the 8.15 percent note due June 2022 advanced to 8.10 percent
from 8.07 percent on July 19.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Nomura say the probability of
the central bank raising rates would increase if the measures
taken by the RBI fail to stem the rupee’s drop.  The increase in the two non-benchmark rates led some
economists to warn of tightened liquidity conditions at a time
of lackluster growth. The government has changed policies since
September to try to boost expansion and avert a credit-rating
downgrade before a general election due by May 2014.  “We think there’s a good chance we can grow close to 6
percent,” Chidambaram said. “Basically next only to  China ,
India is the largest growing economy.”  Asia ’s No. 3  economy  expanded 5 percent last fiscal year,
the weakest pace since 2003, and below the 10-year average of
about 8 percent. It will probably grow 6.1 percent to 6.7
percent in the year through March 2014, according to a survey by
India’s  Finance Ministry  in February.  Inflation Quickens  Consumer-price inflation  was 9.87 percent in June.
 Wholesale inflation  reached a three-month high of 4.86 percent.  Subbarao lowered the repurchase rate in January, March and
May by 25 basis points each to 7.25 percent.  The government’s reforms included looser foreign investment
rules in the aviation and retail businesses. It has also eased
caps and levies on purchases of local bonds by investors abroad.
Restrictions in other industries are also set to be eased.  “We expect that inflows will resume,” Chidambaram said.  When asked about the government’s plans to consider issuing
debt abroad or selling bonds to non-resident Indians,
Chidambaram said “our options are on the table, no decision has
been taken.”  Trade Imbalance  ArcelorMittal and Posco last week scrapped $12 billion of
proposed steel projects because of delays in getting land and
permits, dealing a blow to India’s efforts to woo investment to
help finance a record current-account shortfall.  The imbalance in the broadest measure of trade has weighed
on the rupee. The prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus has
also eroded demand for assets in  emerging markets  from  Brazil  to
India.  Chidambaram said he didn’t think the Food Security Bill
enacted earlier this month will “adversely” affect the fiscal
deficit.  “When the budget is made for the next year or the years
after, this expenditure will be taken into account and the
budget will be drawn up accordingly,” he said.  Under the food bill, 67 percent of India’s 1.2 billion
people may be entitled to buy wheat, rice and coarse grains at
subsidized rates. The plan involves estimated spending of 1.25
trillion rupees ($21 billion) in a full financial year at
current prices.  “I think the fiscal deficit consolidation plan is a well
laid-out plan and we do not intend to breach the red lines in
that plan,” Chidambaram said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  