-- China Resources Power Shareholders Reject Unit Integration
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-07-22T08:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/china-resources-power-shareholders-reject-merger-plan.html
China Resources Power Holdings Co. (836) ,
the electricity generator accused of deliberately overpaying for
coal assets in 2010, scrapped a plan to combine with a sister
company after shareholders rejected the proposal.  Sixty-four percent of the company’s minority shareholders
voted against the integration with  China Resources Gas Group
Ltd. (1193) , China Resources Power said in a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange today. The deal had been expected to fail, with
the gas unit trading 14 percent higher than the value of the
offer shortly after the shareholder vote ended in Hong Kong
today, indicating investors considered the bid too low.  “It should be next to impossible for the power unit to
pitch another merger with the gas unit, as shareholders have
already made their attitude crystal clear,” Shi Yan, an analyst
at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai , said by phone. “The power
unit has to find a way to disconnect itself from all the
negatives from the Shanxi coal mine purchase and convince
investors to focus on its money-making power generation
business.”  Follows Controversy  The deal’s failure follows a controversy last week over the
company’s 2010 purchase of stakes in three coal mines in Shanxi
province. All five of the parent company’s units traded in Hong
Kong sank after allegations against it and Song Lin, the
parent’s chairman, were posted by the official Xinhua News
Agency to its website on July 17. The parent is now being
audited by the government, Xinhua reported July 19. Xi Jinping,
who became China’s president in March, has pledged to
investigate and clean up graft that’s threatening to undermine
the economy and the government’s grip on power.  The deal had valued China Resources Gas at HK$24.64 a
share, or HK$54.8 billion ($7.1 billion), including debt, a 13
percent premium to its closing price of HK$21.85 on May 9. China
Resources Power shares had since tumbled from HK$25.40 on May 9
to HK$16.86, valuing the gas unit at HK$38.56 billion at the
July 19 close of trade.  China Resources Power rose 5.2 percent to HK$17.74 a share
in  Hong Kong  today, while China Resources Gas was up 1.9 percent
at HK$19.54, leaving the gas unit 14 percent above the value of
the offer.  SASAC Audit  China Resources Holdings Co., the state-run parent, is
being audited by the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission, which has started reviewing company
accounts, Xinhua reported, citing an unidentified official at
the agency. SASAC will severely punish any misconduct, according
to the report.  “The SASAC investigation just provided one more reason for
independent shareholders to kill the deal,” said UOB’s Shi.
“The key factor preventing the vote from getting passed was
failure to explain why shareholders need this merger at all.”  China Resources Holdings employs more than 400,000 people
and controls businesses spanning power generation, cement
production, real estate and finance. Unit China Resources
Enterprise produces the country’s best-selling brand of beer
with  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)  In 2012, China Resources Holdings had
HK$41.2 billion of profit on HK$404.6 billion of sales,
according to its  website .  Xinhua Letter  In his letter posted to Xinhua’s website, Xinhua reporter
Wang Wenzhi alleged that Song and other executives deliberately
overpaid for the mine assets. China Resources Power bought an 80
percent stake in the mines for 7.9 billion yuan, while another
company had offered to pay 5.2 billion yuan for the entire asset
a few months earlier, according to the letter, which was
addressed to the Communist Party’s Central Commission for
Discipline Inspection.  A group of minority investors said July 18 they had filed a
lawsuit in Hong Kong making similar allegations and demanding
the company forfeit the purchase. They have no connection with
Xinhua’s Wang, Li Su, founder of Hejun  Vanguard Group , which is
representing the investors, said at a briefing.  Datong Coal Mine Group is the company that planned to buy
the same assets for 5.2 billion  yuan  in 2010 before walking away
from the deal, according to the letter posted by Wang.  Datong Coal has no connection with China Resources Power’s
2010 purchase and won’t comment on anything concerning the deal,
a media official who only gave his surname as Liu, said by phone
on July 19 from the company’s headquarter in Datong, Shanxi.  Three calls to Shanxi Jinye Coal Coking Group Co., the
seller of the assets, went unanswered on July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  