-- China’s Net Gasoline Exports Double in First Half on Supply Glut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-22T09:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/china-s-net-gasoline-exports-double-in-first-half-on-supply-glut.html
China ’s net exports of gasoline
doubled in the first half of this year amid a fuel surplus in
the country, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer.  Overseas sales of gasoline exceeded imports by 2.5 million
metric tons from January to June, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data e-mailed by the General
Administration of Customs in Beijing today. That’s equivalent to
116,400 barrels a day. Net exports of the motor fuel were about
1.3 million tons over the same period in 2012.  “Refiners were exporting more because there’s a surplus of
domestic fuel supply,” Li Li, an oil analyst at ICIS-C1 Energy,
a Shanghai-based consultant, said by phone from Guangzhou.  China is experiencing an oversupply as refiners produce
fuels at a faster rate than demand is growing, amid a slowdown
in Asia’s largest economy. Gasoline output climbed 14 percent
over the first six months to 48.85 million tons, according to
the National Bureau of Statistics. By comparison, apparent
demand for the motor fuel gained 12 percent over the same
period, the National Development and Reform Commission said on
July 19.  Gasoline exports from this month to December may slow as
refiners including PetroChina Co. and  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (386)  have exhausted their sales quotas and the government
hasn’t decided to increase allocations, according to Li.  Net exports of  diesel  in the first half reached 1.5 million
tons, or almost 62,000 barrels a day, according to the data. In
the same six-month period last year, the country was a net
importer of 61,205 tons.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  