-- China’s Stocks Rise as Small Companies Rally on Lending Reform
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-22T08:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/china-s-stock-futures-fall-after-banks-lending-floor-removed.html
China’s stocks  rose for the first
time in four days as investors speculated looser interest-rate
controls will benefit smaller companies, overshadowing concern
banks’ lending margins will shrink.  Goertek Inc. (002241) , an Apple Inc. supplier, led a gauge of
technology companies to the biggest advance among industry
groups, while the ChiNext index of smaller companies surged 3.4
percent. Bank of Communications Co. and Bank of Beijing Co.  fell 
at least 1.3 percent after the People’s Bank of  China  ended a
floor on borrowing costs while keeping a cap on deposit rates.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.6 percent to 2,004.76
at the close, erasing a loss of as much as 1.1 percent. The
removal of China’s interest-rate floor may make higher-yielding
loans to small companies more attractive for banks as they seek
to bolster net interest margins, according to Tang Yonggang, an
analyst at Hongyuan Securities Co. in Beijing.  Lenders “will turn to smaller companies for profits and
offer more attractive packages to them,” Tang said.  The CSI 300 Index advanced 0.5 percent, while the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
slipped 0.5 percent. The Shanghai Composite has fallen 12
percent this year as data from industrial production to exports
pointed to a slowdown in the economy and as money-market rates
reached record highs last month.  Technology Stocks  China’s central bank ended a floor on borrowing costs
previously set at 30 percent below the benchmark, it said July
19. The limit on  mortgage rates  will stay to curb property
speculation, the PBOC said. Also unchanged was a 10 percent
limit on what banks can offer over PBOC-set deposit rates.  While banks may suffer because of the lending changes and
their losses may drag on the broader stock market, this could be
offset by gains for other industries which benefit from lower
rates, according to Hao Hong, Hong Kong-based head of China
research at Bank of Communications.  A measure of technology companies in the CSI 300 rose 3.4
percent, the most among the industry groups. Goertek surged 3.1
percent to 36.19  yuan . Sanan Optoelectronics Co. advanced 2.5
percent to 22.67 yuan. Nationz Technologies Inc., a chip
designer listed in the ChiNext, jumped 10 percent to 19.58 yuan.  Only 3 percent of China’s 42 million small- and medium-sized firms currently borrow from banks, according to Citic
Securities Co., a Beijing-based brokerage.  Among large companies, PetroChina Co. gained 0.8 percent to
8.08 yuan and Jiangxi Copper Co. climbed 2 percent to 15.99
yuan.  Banks Drop  A measure of health-care companies in the CSI 300 gained
2.3 percent, the second most among the industry groups. Kangmei
Pharmaceutical Co. rallied 3.6 percent to 20.58 yuan.  Investors should buy drugmakers and consumer-staples
companies in the second-half of the year,  according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co. Risk premiums for China’s stocks will
rise as capital costs increase amid liberalization of  interest
rates , while the clean-up of local government financial vehicles
and shadow banking increases the risk of swings in the economy,
said Shenyin & Wanguo, ranked first for China equity strategy
research by New Fortune magazine last year.  Bank of Communications lost 1.3 percent to 3.79 yuan. Bank
of Beijing lost 1.6 percent to 7.39 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group
Co., the second-biggest developer, fell 2 percent to 9.98 yuan.
China Vanke Co., the largest, slid 1.2 percent to 9.45 yuan.  Before last week’s move, China regulated how much banks can
pay to depositors and how much they could charge borrowers,
ensuring a profit margin for lenders. Banks are allowed to offer
up to 10 percent above the official deposit rate, currently at 3
percent, and before the limits were removed could issue loans at
as much as 30 percent less than the benchmark 6 percent rate.  Trading Drops  The practice led to lending to unprofitable projects and
the growth of unregulated banking that policy makers say
increases risks in the financial system. Premier  Li Keqiang , who
took office in March, is accelerating financial reforms to
revive the economy after gross domestic product growth slowed to
7.5 percent in the second quarter.  Trading volumes on the Shanghai index were 12 percent lower
than the 30-day average today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The measure’s 30-day volatility was at 27 on July 19, the
highest since December 2010, data show. The Bloomberg China-US
55 Index rose less than 0.1 percent in  New York  on July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  