-- China One-Year Swap Rate Rises on Capital Outflow Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-22T02:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/china-one-year-swap-rate-rises-on-capital-outflow-concerns.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
rose to a three-week high on concern capital will head overseas
as a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy erodes the
creditworthiness of local companies.  Yuan   positions  at Chinese financial institutions
accumulated from sales of foreign exchange, an indication of
capital inflows, rose 67 billion yuan ($10.9 billion) in May,
the least in six months, the People’s Bank of China reported
June 14. The nation’s rating firms cut the most bond issuer
rankings on record in June, according to Guotai Junan Securities
Co., the nation’s third-biggest brokerage.  “Concern about capital outflows is rising because of fear
of default and increasing non-performing-loan ratios,” said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong
Kong .  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.98 percent as of
10:23 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That is the highest since July 1. The seven-day repo increased
21 basis points to 3.97 percent, based on a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The People’s Bank of China ended a floor on borrowing costs
previously set at 30 percent below benchmark lending rates, it
said  July 19 . The limit on  mortgage rates  will stay to curb
property speculation, the PBOC said. Also unchanged was a 10
percent limit on what banks can offer over PBOC-set deposit
rates.  Rating Downgrades  A total of 38 issuers were downgraded last month, according
to Guotai Junan Securities Co., the most since the brokerage
started compiling the data in 2005. Some 86 firms were upgraded,
down from 88 a year earlier.  “The government can’t save everyone,” said Xu Hanfei, a
bond analyst in Shanghai at Guotai Junan. “In the future,
downgrades may spread to high-grade bonds, especially those
which rely heavily on support from the central or local
governments.”  Haitong Securities Co., the second-biggest listed
brokerage, forecast that the first onshore default may occur in
six to 12 months as the government seeks to build a sound credit
system.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 