-- China Travel Agency in Glaxo Probe Used by Sanofi, Roche
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-23T16:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/china-travel-agency-in-glaxo-probe-used-by-sanofi-roche.html
Sanofi (SAN) , Novartis AG,  Merck (MRK)  & Co. and
 Roche Holding AG  worked with the same travel agency under
investigation by Chinese authorities as part of a probe of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over allegations of bribery and corruption.  Sanofi, based in Paris, and Roche and Novartis of  Basel ,
 Switzerland , stopped using the travel agency, called  Shanghai 
Linjiang, once the allegations of wrongdoing surfaced, the three
drugmakers said yesterday. Merck also has stopped doing business
with the agency, a spokeswoman said. Separately, AstraZeneca Plc
said yesterday that police had visited its offices in Shanghai
related to “a local police matter focused on a sales
representative” and there is no reason to believe the case is
related to any other probes.  Glaxo’s head of  emerging markets  said yesterday after
meeting with government officials in Beijing some employees may
have broken China’s laws and pledged corporate changes that will
deliver cheaper medicines. Glaxo faces allegations of economic
crimes involving 3 billion  yuan  ($489 million) of spurious
travel and meeting expenses as well as trade in sexual favors,
the ministry said last week.  “Certain senior executives of GSK China who know our
systems well, appear to have acted outside of our processes and
controls which breaches Chinese law,” Abbas Hussain, the Glaxo
executive who was sent to China to help with the probe, said in
a statement after a “very constructive meeting” with officials
from the Ministry of Public Security. “We have zero tolerance
for any behavior of this nature.”  Earlier Probe  The London-based company, which made about 1 billion pounds
($1.5 billion) of  revenue  in China last year, had said in June
that it found “no evidence of corruption or bribery” there
after a four-month internal investigation.  Glaxo fell 1.3 percent to 1,672.50 pence at the close of
 London  trading. The stock has gained 26 percent this year.
 AstraZeneca (AZN)  rose 0.4 percent to 3,290.50 pence.  AstraZeneca said today that two line managers were taken in
by police in Shanghai for questioning on July 19. The Public
Security Bureau is describing its inquiry as an individual case,
the company said.  “AstraZeneca adheres to high ethical standards in the
pharmaceutical industry, and does not tolerate any illegal or
unethical conduct in our business activities,” the company said
in a separate statement. “All AstraZeneca China employees and
third parties on AstraZeneca’s behalf are required to strictly
comply with these guidelines in the conduct of business.”  Six Drugmakers  All drugmakers are receiving visits to their Chinese
operations, according to UCB SA, the Belgian drugmaker that said
last week that authorities came to its offices in the country.  Merck used the Shanghai Linjiang travel agency “in the
past, but no longer does so,” Kelley Dougherty, a spokeswoman
for the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based drugmaker, said
yesterday. Dougherty declined to comment on details of the work
or when the business relationship ended.  In addition to Glaxo, at least six other global drugmakers
also used the travel agency, the New York Times reported
yesterday, citing documents it obtained.  Novartis spokesman  Eric Althoff  said the Swiss company
hasn’t been contacted by Chinese authorities on the matter.
Novartis is reviewing travel systems and processes as part of
its continuous compliance efforts, Althoff said in an e-mail.  Executives Detained  China detained four senior Glaxo executives on suspicion of
economic crimes, the ministry said July 15. Its finance chief in
China, Steve Nechelput, has been unable to leave the country
since the end of June because of the investigation, though he
hasn’t been arrested or questioned, Simon Steel, a Glaxo
spokesman in London, said July 18.  A U.S. citizen was detained in Shanghai, said Nolan
Barkhouse, a U.S. embassy spokesman. Barkhouse didn’t provide
the person’s age or gender or the reason for the detention. The
Wall Street Journal reported today that the person was detained
in connection with  China ’s probe of the pharmaceutical industry.  Glaxo’s executives “violated China’s laws and damaged
markets by engaging in bribery to raise drug prices, expand
sales and reap inappropriate profits,” the Public Security
Ministry said in a  statement  posted on its website yesterday.
Hussain apologized on behalf of Glaxo and pledged to cooperate
with the investigation, the ministry said, citing a recent
meeting with the executive and his colleagues.  Glaxo’s Review  Glaxo is reviewing how it operates in China, according to
Hussain. “Savings made as a result of proposed changes to our
operational model will be passed on in the form of price
reductions, ensuring our medicines are more affordable to
Chinese patients,” he said.  Glaxo had been warned two years ago about the way it
conducted research in China, the  New York  Times reported today,
citing a 2011 internal audit document. The auditing process
worked as intended, with a follow-up audit showing the issues
raised in 2011 had been addressed, Glaxo said in a statement.  “Glaxo is firmly committed to the process of conducting
robust audits into its business practices,” the company said.
The follow-up audit “gave the organization in China the highest
possible rating. Patient safety is paramount and the audit
reports do not show that this was compromised.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  