-- CME Orders Trader to Pay $2.1 Million in Trade-Manipulation Case
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-07-22T14:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/cme-orders-trader-to-pay-2-1-million-in-trade-manipulation-case.html
Michael Coscia and his company,
Panther Energy Trading LLC, were fined $800,000 by  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  and ordered to give back more than $1.3 million for
allegedly manipulating electronic markets using algorithmic
computer programs.  Coscia and employees at his firm developed a strategy where
one small order was placed in the  futures markets  owned by CME
Group at the best price to buy or sell, the company said in a
series of disciplinary actions today. At the same time, several
large orders were made on the opposite side of the trade,
creating false price pressure, CME Group said. More than 98
percent of the time the orders were cancelled because they
“were not intended to be traded,” CME Group said.  Coscia neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing under the
settlement.  In a separate  statement , the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission settled charges accusing Coscia and Panther Energy of
“spoofing” markets and ordered them to pay $1.4 million in
civil penalties and return $1.4 million in profit. The
reimbursement of profits will be offset by any returned gains to
CME Group by Coscia and his firm, the CFTC said. Coscia and his
firm were barred from trading on any CFTC-regulated market for
one year.  The trading system employed by Panther “misled market
participants, including other algorithmic traders, and exploited
that deception for Panther’s benefit,” CME Group said.  Coscia is responsible for $200,000 of the fine by CME Group
and was barred from any floor-based or electronic trading on the
company’s exchanges for six months. Panther Energy Trading was
assessed the remainder, or $600,000.  Coscia and Panther Energy Trading couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 