-- Coal Carriers Returning to Profit on Australian Exports: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-07-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/coal-carriers-returning-to-profit-on-australian-exports-freight.html
The largest commodity carriers are
poised to profit for the first time this year as  Australia 
exports near-record amounts of coal, diminishing a glut of ships
that caused rates to drop as much as 99 percent since 2008.  Costs for Capesizes, hauling 160,000 metric tons of cargo,
almost tripled to $13,339 a day this year and will rise to an
average of $15,450 in the fourth quarter, according to data from
the Baltic Exchange and the average of six analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The prediction is more than the $14,500
that RS Platou Markets AS says the ships need to break even.
Investors may profit because the forecast is 8.7 percent higher
than swaps traders use to bet on future freight costs.  Australian coal producers are boosting shipments because
they increased export capacity at a record pace since 2008, when
prices were more than double those now, according to Standard
Bank Plc. The nation’s largest ports shipped 19 percent more in
June than last year, indicating volumes near December’s record 31.2
million tons. Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut their price forecasts since June,
citing the glut of supply.  “The wall of supply from expansion projects in Australia
will prove very challenging for coal prices,” said Marc Pauchet, a senior analyst at ACM Shipping Group Plc, a
shipbroker in  London . “It’s a baby step for the shipping market
on its road to recovery.”  Yen Weakens  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101)  and Mitsui O.S.K Lines Ltd., the largest
Capesize owners, surged in Tokyo trading this year as the yen
weakened against all but one of its 16 biggest peers, boosting
the value of repatriated earnings.  Shares of NYK, whose Capesizes account for 35 percent of
its fleet, advanced 51 percent and will climb 2.2 percent in the
next year, the average of 15  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Mitsui’s Capesizes represent 21 percent of its
fleet and its shares will fall 1.3 percent, paring a 66 percent
gain this year. The company has said it will return to profit
this fiscal year because of the weaker Japanese currency.  Australia, the biggest coal exporter after  Indonesia ,
shipped more every month this year compared with 2012 following
record investment in mines and ports since the fuel reached an
all-time high in 2008. While prices have slumped, producers
won’t curb cargoes because they need revenue to pay for port
expansion projects, according to HSBC Holdings Plc analysts led
by  Andrew Keen  in London.  Fuel Harbor  The price of coal at Australia’s Newcastle, the world’s
biggest harbor for the fuel, fell to $76.75 a ton on July 19,
from a record $173 five years ago, according to data from
Petersfield, England-based IHS McCloskey. The commodity will
average $95 this year, 17 percent less than in 2012, Morgan
Stanley estimates.  Credit Suisse cut its 2013 estimate for Newcastle coal by
4.4 percent to $86 a ton on July 3 and Bank of America reduced
its prediction by 6.5 percent to the same level on June 20.
JPMorgan pared its forecast for next year’s average price by 5
percent to $90 on June 26.  Shipments from ports accounting for about 90 percent of
Australian coal exports reached 28.9 million tons in June, from
24.2 million tons a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Australia’s annual exports will increase 9 percent to
185.9 million tons in 2013, representing 37 percent of global
growth in seaborne supply, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker.  While Capesize rates are now the highest for this  time of
year  since 2009, the average since the start of January is the
worst on record. Almost all the gains have come since mid-June,
mirroring the increase in Australian coal shipments. Coal is the
third-biggest seaborne commodity, after oil and iron ore.  Running Costs  Rates haven’t been high enough to meet basic running costs
including crew, insurance and repairs of about $7,758 a day,
according to  Baltic Exchange  data and estimates from Moore
Stephens LLP, a consultant to the industry in London. Platou’s
break-even figure also includes expenses such as debt financing.  Continued growth in Australian exports may be curbed as
miners cancel expansion plans. The government estimates that
about A$150 billion ($146 billion) of mine projects were delayed
or scrapped in the past year.  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the biggest
shipper of thermal coal burned in  power plants , halted work on
the Balaclava Island export terminal in Queensland in May. About
15 percent of Australian coal is extracted at a loss below $90 a
ton, according to CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.  Oil Tankers  The capacity glut in Capesizes extends across most of the
merchant fleet, which the Round Table of International Shipping
Associations says hauls about 90 percent of world trade. Rates
for the largest  oil tankers  are also averaging less than
operating costs this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
ClarkSea Index, a gauge of industrywide earnings, is poised for
its worst year since at least 1990.  Owners are also benefiting because the expansion of the
fleet is slowing. Outstanding orders at shipyards are now equal
to 16 percent of existing capacity, from more than 99 percent in
2009, according to data from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based research company.  Gains in other cargoes may also offset any weakening in
Australian coal exports, with Clarkson predicting a 5 percent
climb in dry-bulk commodity shipments to a record 4.27 billion
tons this year. Iron-ore exports, the biggest source of demand
for 1,000-foot-long Capesizes, will increase 6 percent to 1.18
billion tons, also an all-time high, the shipbroker says.  “Everyone is getting hopeful for the second half of the
year,” said Jeff McGee, a consultant who formerly led the
research department at Poten & Partners Inc., a New York-based
shipbroker. “The focus has been on  iron ore , but coal is
helping to balance the Capesize market too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  