-- Coffee Gains Before Possible Frost; Raw Sugar Extends Advance
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2013-07-22T10:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/coffee-gains-before-possible-frost-raw-sugar-extends-advance.html
Arabica coffee climbed in  New York 
as cold weather forecast for  Brazil  within two days may damage
next year’s harvest. Sugar rose for a fourth day.  Temperatures tomorrow night into the morning of July 24 may
fall to minus 2 degrees Celsius (28.4 degrees Fahrenheit) in
Parana, David Streit, senior lead forecaster at Commodity
Weather Group in Bethesda,  Maryland , said by phone today. Coffee
has rallied the past two days only to end lower.  “We think that Brazilian growers will take advantage of
any ensuing rally by selling some of their new crop,”  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London , said in a
report dated July 19. “This will serve to cap both the extent
of the rally as well as the duration of it.”  Arabica for September delivery rose 1.8 percent to $1.2495
a pound by 6:55 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Rain over the weekend in Brazil sugar areas was lighter
than forecast, and dry weather is anticipated for the next
couple of weeks, Streit said. Raw sugar for October delivery
climbed 0.9 percent to 16.44 cents a pound on ICE, the fourth
consecutive advance and the longest streak for a most-active
contract since April 30.  Cocoa fell 0.6 percent to $2,351 a metric ton on ICE, the
first drop in five days.  Ivory Coast  has sold 750,000 tons of
the new season crop, with 80 percent of sales expected to be
reached by mid-August, Macquarie said, citing unidentified
people from the Ivory Coast ministry. “If true, then this
leaves more room for prices to move upward as there will be less
origin selling pressure,” according to Macquarie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  