-- Copper Advances to Six-Week High on Outlook for Global Stimulus
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-07-22T18:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/copper-advances-for-a-third-day-before-u-s-house-sales-reports.html
Copper futures rose to the highest
in almost six weeks on speculation that central banks will
maintain policies aimed at boosting economic growth.  The ruling coalition of  Japan  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
whose strategy includes monetary stimulus, solidified control of
parliament in elections, sending Japanese equities higher.
Global finance chiefs in the Group of 20 nations sought to
buttress the global economic recovery with pledges to avoid
roiling markets as  China  moved to scrap a lending rule that
constrained its banks.  “Easing should be continuing in Japan, and the G-20
comments suggest that they believe central banks should err
toward being accommodative,”  David Meger , the director of metal
trading at Vision Financial Markets in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “The focus in the markets is on monetary
policy, and all of this is helping metals.”  Copper futures for September delivery advanced 1.4 percent
to settle at $3.185 a pound at 1:19 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Earlier, the price reached $3.215, the highest for a most-active contract since June 18.  Sales of previously owned houses unexpectedly dropped in
June, a private report showed today. The report may underpin
copper prices by easing concern that the Federal Reserve will
begin scaling back monthly bond purchases, Meger said.  On July 19, the central bank in China, the world’s top
copper consumer, ended a floor on borrowing costs as part of an
effort to liberalize the financial system.  “Prices could lift further today after the PBOC announced
measures to liberalize interest rates,”  Mark Pervan , an analyst
at ANZ in  Melbourne , said in a report.  Hedge funds cut wagers on falling copper prices by 40
percent to 15,673 Comex futures and options contracts as of July
16, the third straight drop, government data showed on July 19.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 1.6 percent to $7,029 a metric ton ($3.19 a pound).
Nickel fell, while aluminum, tin, zinc and lead climbed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  