-- Cuadrilla in Talks With United Utilities for U.K. Water Supplies
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-07-22T13:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/cuadrilla-in-talks-with-united-utilities-for-u-k-water-supplies.html
Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., a U.K.
shale explorer, is in discussions with  United Utilities Group
Plc (UU/)  over water supplies for its sites in northern  England .  The company is looking at a potential six new sites in the
Bowland Basin, a Cuadrilla official said today by phone, asking
not to be identified by name citing internal policy. Part of
that search is to identify where the water would come from for
its operations, which require about 50,000 barrels or 2.1
million gallons per hydraulically fractured well, he said.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, blasts a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals underground to release trapped oil and
gas from rock formations. Peter Hewer, a United Utilities
spokesman based in  London , confirmed the company is in early
discussions about Cuadrilla’s water requirements. United
Utilities is the U.K.’s largest publicly traded water company.  Cuadrilla said the amount of water it’s seeking for the
fracking is less than half of 1 percent of what United Utilities
supplies a day. Using the utility’s supplies would help limit
the number of trucks transporting water on roads, Cuadrilla
said.  Environmental groups are concerned the drilling technique
blamed for earth tremors in Lancashire, northwest England, that
led to an 18-month moratorium on fracking uses so much water and
may contaminate supplies. The ban was lifted by the U.K. in
December.  The government said last week shale developers would be
subject to a 30 percent tax rate and not the maximum 62 percent
applied to the oil and gas industry as it seeks to cut
dependence on imports amid declining reserves in the  North Sea .  Cuadrilla is based in Lichfield, England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  