-- CVC Raises EU10.5 Billion for Latest European Buyout Fund
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-22T10:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/cvc-raises-eu10-5-billion-for-latest-european-buyout-fund.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
private-equity owner of Formula One motor racing, amassed 10.5
billion euros ($13.8 billion) for a leveraged buyout fund, the
largest raised by a European firm since the financial crisis.  The firm raised the maximum it sought after starting to
gather pledges in January, London-based CVC said in a  statement 
today. About 90 percent of the money came from investors in the
firm’s previous funds, CVC added.  The fund is the biggest raised by a European private-equity
firm since the financial crisis of 2008 left investors with less
money to plough into the funds, according to research firm
Preqin Ltd. London-based competitor Apax Partners LLP spent 15
months raising 5.8 billion euros for its latest buyout fund
while Permira Advisers LLP spent 18 months raising 2.2 billion
euros, less than half of the 5 billion-euros it’s still seeking.  “If you look at CVC’s track record it is far more
successful than other managers of a similar size,” Jos Van
Gisbergen, a senior portfolio manager with responsibility for
private-equity investments at insurer Achmea BV, said in a
telephone interview. “CVC have shown they can add value to
their portfolio companies using ‘outside the box’ thinking with
deals such as Formula One and BPost,” a Belgian postal company.  Formula One  Formula One was among the firm’s most-profitable holdings.
The firm has already reaped more than $4 billion on its original
investment of $1 billion, and expects to make as much as $7
billion from the holding ultimately, founding partner Donald Mackenzie said in an October interview. The firm raised 812
million euros when it took Bpost public in May in an initial
public offering that valued it at about 2.9 billion euros.  Mackenzie, Rolly Van Rappard and Steve Koltes took over as
CVC’s co-chairmen after  Michael Smith , who negotiated CVC’s
spinoff from Citicorp in 1993, stepped down in January.  “The investment community has shown so much interest,”
Koltes said in the statement. “It is a vote of confidence in
 Europe  and in CVC’s deeply-rooted and highly qualified
professionals across the region.”  The fund surpasses the 8.5 billion euros Advent
International Corp., a Boston-based buyout firm that invests in
Europe and the U.S., raised in November. It’s still smaller than
the 11.2 billion-euro pool Apax closed in 2008 at the start of
the financial crisis, according to London-based Preqin.  CVC’s 2008 buyout fund, the 10.8 billion-euro CVC European
Equity Partners V LP, generated a net internal rate of return of
10.4 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That puts its
performance among the top 25 percent of all private-equity funds
raised that year, according to an investor in the fund.  AIFMD Directive  The firm accepted 10.25 billion euros of pledges from
investors as of July 19, the firm said in a statement today. CVC
has allocated a further 250 million euros to investors, which it
expects to legally close by the year-end.  The speed of the fundraising was partly influenced by CVC’s
desire to pre-empt European Union rules that could stop the
private-equity firm seeking backers from the region. By holding
a close before July 22, 2013, the firm expects to qualify for
some exemptions from the EU’s Alternative Investment Fund
Managers Directive, including unfettered access to investors.  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee of as
much as 2 percent and keep 20 percent of the profits from
investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  