-- David Gilbert’s ‘& Sons’ Is Literary Magic: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/david-gilbert-s-sons-is-literary-magic-books.html
Two families enjoying the money and
privilege associated with  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side are
indelibly connected by one member’s literary fame -- acquired by
using friends and kin in his fiction.  In his brilliant second novel, “ & Sons ,”  David Gilbert 
reunites these families for a funeral and in the space of just a
few days exposes what has lain for years below their facades.  He does this with vibrant prose and literary legerdemain.
There’s another novel pervading “& Sons,” as well as a variety
of texts -- e-mails, handwritten letters, an edited manuscript,
a screenplay -- that carry vital information, push the plot and
post apt reminders that writing is everywhere. Add to these:
wordplay and allusions, and a comic sensibility that can handle
cruelty and sadness without getting mawkish.  For a glimpse of the fun, let’s take the almost
afterthought title “& Sons.” Once a common suffix on store
signs, the term implies legacy, though absent the patriarch
here. The famous father/author in the book is the reclusive A.N.
Dyer, whose initials translate the symbol ampersand.  Dyer at 79 enjoys a Salinger-size renown built largely on
his first novel, titled “Ampersand” and set at a prep school
modeled after  Phillips Exeter Academy , which Dyer and his sons,
as legacies, attended.  Inside Joke  The book’s title also carries forward a slight joke from
Gilbert’s debut novel, “ The Normals ,” in which the head of a
debt-collection agency called Ragnar & Sons confesses that there
are no Sons in the business. Miraculously, Gilbert drops a real
chemical engineer named  Ragnar Sohlman  who worked with  Alfred
Nobel  into the description of an unreal but crucial cloning
project in “& Sons.”  The story is told (though his voice is prominently absent
for stretches) by an utterly unreliable narrator named Philip
Topping, the son of Dyer’s Exeter classmate Charles. The elder
Topping was abused for his adulation of Dyer pere (a victimizing
taken further in “Ampersand”) -- as Philip was bullied by
Dyer’s sons while at Exeter.  Philip himself offers a convoluted caveat: “Before charges
of narrative fraud are flung in my direction, let me defend
myself and tell you that A.N. Dyer often used my father in his
fiction.” Late in the book he will refer to “the deformed
heart of an ampersand.”  Three Sons  Philip has been forced to leave his family and his teaching
job because of an affair discovered just before his father’s
funeral, which opens the book. He is staying, uncomfortably, at
Dyer’s duplex as the writer’s sons, Richard and Jamie, arrive
after a long estrangement and come to know their father’s third
son, 17-year-old Andy, thought illegitimate but in fact another
Dyer creation, from DNA.  If you’re keeping track, the cloning means that teenage
Andy is genetically identical to Dyer and so is father to those
who seem to be his much older brothers.  Gilbert plays often on such confusions as he weaves
together the frayed threads of fame, fatherhood, family and
friendship into a meditation on the blessing and curse of
creativity. So we find Dyer forging a first draft of
“Ampersand” to boost the sale price of his papers to the
 Morgan Library . A teacher at Exeter is pressuring Andy to bring
his famously reclusive father to the alma mater.  Frick Party  Richard must get his father to sell the movie rights to
“Ampersand” to guarantee a production deal for his own script.
In a hilarious book-publishing party held at the  Frick
Collection , Gilbert has a ball with fame as he gathers five Dyer
males, plus book agents, Hollywood executives and an actor keen
to play the “Ampersand” lead.  Thoughtful, farcical, acerbic and original, Gilbert’s crisp
writing and sinuous mind could grab and hold any reader -- with
the possible exception of a reader seeking a strong female
character. There simply are none, although Dyer’s ex-wife has
her moments.  We’ll have to wait for “& Daughters.”  There also are, less surprisingly, no happy characters,
unless you look back many years and just outside the novel’s
pages, where you’ll find exceptions ever so briefly in the young
Dyer family as Daddy weaves the bedtime story and its postscript
that bracket the book. “He was at his fatherly best at these
moments,” Gilbert has Dyer say in telling afterthought while he
remembers a promise never kept:  “The next book I write is for you, he said. And their
faces lit up, and as always his wife was thrilled. Yes, yes,
that’s a wonderful idea.”  “& Sons” is published by  Random House  (434 pages, $27).
To order this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Greg Evans 
on TV.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 