-- Delaware Slated for New Bankruptcy Judge Amid Money Woes
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-07-23T20:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/delaware-slated-for-new-bankruptcy-judge-amid-money-woes.html
Delaware’s U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
the busiest in the country for Chapter 11 filings, is getting an
additional judge to help handle what officials see as a “full-blown crisis” called “devastating” at a Senate hearing today.  The court, based in Wilmington, has a caseload justifying a
dozen judges, while it has only half that number now, Chief
Delaware U.S. District Judge Gregory M. Sleet, who oversees the
bankruptcy unit, said in his 2013 annual report.  “The seventh judgeship is important and funding it is
obviously necessary,” Democratic Delaware U.S. Senator  Chris Coons , chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
Bankruptcy and the Courts, said in a statement.  The budget cuts have been “devastating” to the courts,
and “we have no available surplus funding,” Judge Julia Gibbons of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Sixth Circuit told
Coons at today’s hearing in  Washington .  The cuts, and reduction in court staff, mean delays, and
the U.S. history of fairness and prompt justice “is in
jeopardy,” said  W. West Allen , a lawyer and representative of
the Federal Bar Association.  “We’re on the verge of being crippled,” said  Michael
Nachmanoff , federal public defender for Eastern Virginia. He
said his staff may have to be reduced by 35 percent.  Automatic Cuts  The spending sequestration is the practice of imposing
automatic, across-the-board spending cuts in the face of annual
budget deficits. The idea of imposing automatic spending cuts in
the  federal budget  was first put in place by the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.  Coons has been helping to strengthen the financial
underpinnings of the bankruptcy courts, sponsoring the
bipartisan Temporary Bankruptcy Judgeship Extension Act to
extend expiring authorizations in 14 states and  Puerto Rico .  “A full-blown crisis awaits us” in Delaware as the
bankruptcy court deals with 28 percent in budget cuts over three
years, necessitating the elimination of 23 of 72 office
employees and a furlough program “whereby all staff of the
clerk’s office take one day every two weeks, without pay,
equating to a 10 percent decrease in their salaries,” Sleet
wrote.  Not Funded  The additional bankruptcy judge authorized for  Delaware  by
federal court administrators “has not been funded,” Sleet
said.  Current sitting bankruptcy judges in Delaware are Chief
Judge Kevin Gross, Peter Walsh, Mary Walrath, Kevin Carey,
Brendan Shannon, and  Christopher Sontchi .  Some of the largest bankruptcies filed in 2013 in Delaware
include marketing solutions company, Dex One Corp., which filed
on March 17 with assets of $2.84 billion and debt of
$2.79 billion; lead battery maker  Exide Technologies (XIDEQ) , which
filed June 10 with assets of $1.89 billion and debt totaling
$1.14 billion; and vodka seller Central European Distribution
Corp., which filed April 7 with assets of $1.98 billion and debt
of $1.73 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 