-- Dempsey Pegs Syria No-Fly Zone at $1 Billion a Month
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-23T16:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/dempsey-says-syria-no-fly-zone-could-cost-1-billion-a-month.html
Imposing a no-fly zone over  Syria 
would cost as much as $1 billion a month and put U.S. aircraft
at risk of being shot down without necessarily toppling Bashar al-Assad’s regime, the U.S. military’s top officer said.  Thousands of U.S. troops would be required on the ground if
the U.S. wanted to establish buffer zones to protect targeted
geographic areas or to control the proliferation of chemical
weapons, Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said in a letter to the chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee that was released yesterday.  Underscoring his reluctance to take military action in
Syria, Dempsey said U.S. intervention “could inadvertently
empower extremists or unleash the very chemical weapons we seek
to control,” without the emergence of a “viable opposition.”  Dempsey’s letter is the strongest public statement by a
Pentagon leader setting out the dangers of direct involvement in
Syria. The war has claimed more than 93,000 lives by United
Nations estimates while threatening to destabilize neighboring
Jordan and Lebanon and risking a broader regional conflict
between Sunnis and Shiites.  Asked today whether Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel agrees
with Dempsey’s assessment on Syria, Pentagon spokesman  George
Little  told reporters today that Hagel is “clear-eyed about the
cost of intervention.”  Committee’s Questions  Members of the Senate Armed Services panel who favor more
aggressive military action pressed Dempsey at a hearing last
week to disclose what advice he’s giving to President  Barack Obama . Dempsey said it would be “inappropriate for me to try to
influence the decision” by making public his recommendations to
the president when they’re under consideration.  While Obama administration officials have said they are
weighing all options short of putting U.S. troops on the ground
in Syria, the U.S. has limited its support for rebel forces to
non-lethal aid and a promise of small arms.  Some lawmakers have expressed doubts about the limited
steps the Obama administration is taking in Syria, which stop
short of any no-fly zone or direct military action.  “The House Intelligence Committee has very strong concerns
about the strength of the administration’s plans in Syria and
its chances for success,” said Representative Mike Rogers, the
panel’s chairman and a Michigan Republican, said in a statement
yesterday.  Stopping ‘Massacre’  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, said at last
week’s hearing that he would block Dempsey’s nomination for a
second term heading the Joint Chiefs unless the general revealed
his advice to Obama. McCain has led calls in Congress to arm the
rebels and establish a no-fly zone to protect the opposition
from Assad’s air power.  “We wouldn’t be starting a war,” McCain said. “We would
be trying to stop a massacre that’s going on.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who’s chairman of
the committee, asked Dempsey to write the letter outlining
options in an effort to resolve the committee’s conflict with
the general.  “It is not enough to simply alter the balance of military
power without careful consideration of what is necessary in
order to preserve a functioning state,” Dempsey said in the
letter, dated July 19. “We must anticipate and be prepared for
the unintended consequences of our action.”  Commanders’ Views  Dempsey said that training and advising the Syrian
opposition would cost $500 million a year, while the cost of
conducting stand-off strikes against Assad’s military “would be
in the billions.”  Dempsey’s comments reflect the views of commanders, who
have been critical of proposals to intervene in Syria.  Retired Marine Corps General James Mattis, who was
commander of U.S. Central Command from August 2010 until March,
said a no-fly zone would have little effect in reducing civilian
causalities because most deaths are from regime artillery,
machine guns and sniper fire, not air strikes.  A no-fly zone also would be “very expensive,” Mattis said
July 20 at a security conference in Aspen,  Colorado . “It will
have tankers. It will have fighter planes up constantly. It will
drain the Treasury. It will take our hard-pressed military into
one more fray. It’s going to require helicopters and special
forces to recover the pilots who get shot down.”  “Can we do it? Absolutely,” he said. “And the killing
will go on on the ground because they are not using aircraft to
do most of the killing.”  ‘Full-Throated’ War  Mattis said U.S. intervention risked drawing America into
another Mideast war.  “If the Americans take ownership of this, it is going to
be a full-throated, very, very serious war,” he said at the
Aspen Security Forum. “And anyone who said this is going to be
easy, that we can do a no-fly zone and it will be cheap, I would
discount that at the outset.”  Mattis also raised the perils of helping arm the opposition
forces, even assuming steps are taken to prevent the weapons
from falling into the hands of Islamist radicals allied with al-Qaeda.  “We could just increase the savagery if we don’t do it
right,” he said.  After early successes by the opposition, Assad’s regime has
made military advances with the help of weapons, training and
fighters from  Iran  and its ally, Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite
Muslim group that the U.S. and Israel regard as a terrorist
organization. The European Union yesterday labeled Hezbollah’s
military wing as terrorists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  