-- Detroit’s Bankruptcy Reveals Dysfunction Common in Cities
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-07-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/detroit-s-bankruptcy-reveals-dysfunction-common-in-cities.html
No city was hit as hard by the
recession as Detroit, America’s one-time industrial capital
whose decades-long decline cut its population in half and left
$18 billion in debt it can’t afford to pay.  Even so, the pressures that pushed Detroit into the largest
municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history are playing out on a
smaller scale around the nation. Diminished  tax revenue  and
rising labor costs have left four cities insolvent since 2007.
Service cuts were made by others such as Detroit, where street
lights are dark and police are scarce.  “None of the other cities are as far along, but there are
dozens, if not hundreds of cities that have similar issues,”
said Alan Mallach, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution ,
a public-policy research organization in Washington. “Every
other industrial city has problems that could send them down the
same path.”  U.S. municipalities have recovered slowly from the 18-month
recession that ended four years ago, depressing property-tax
revenue and leading to investment losses for pensions that many
cities haven’t fully funded for years. Projected pension and
health-care obligations for the 61 biggest cities will top
assets by about $217 billion, according to a study by the Pew
Charitable Trusts, a Philadelphia-based research and public-policy group.  Not Unique  “ Detroit  is a very high-profile example of some of the
challenges our cities continue to face, but it’s by no means
unique,” said Kil Huh, an analyst who tracks local finances for
Pew. “Detroit is indicative of governments living beyond their
means -- and they are going to eventually have to pay the
piper.”  Detroit’s bankruptcy capped a decades-long slide for a city
that once symbolized U.S. industrial might and the union-covered
manufacturing jobs that propelled the growth of America’s
middle-income families.  The Motor City’s fortunes ebbed along with the nation’s
automotive industry. The tax base dwindled starting in the 1950s
as more than 1 million residents left, an unprecedented exodus
that left about 40 percent of the city’s lots vacant or unused.
In the decade through 2010, Detroit lost a quarter of its
population, dropping it to about 700,000.  On July 18, the city sought court protection, a step
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr said was the only way to deal with
$18 billion in long-term obligations, including more than $3
billion owed to its retirement system. Detroit borrowed, skipped
pension contributions and put off paying bills, deepening its
insolvency, Orr said at a news briefing last week.  Upends Assumptions  The bankruptcy challenges a long-held assumption in the
$3.7 trillion municipal-bond market that large cities will take
whatever steps necessary, including raising taxes, to cover
their debts. The move is opposed by unions seeking to protect
retiree benefits from cuts so other obligations can be paid.  Since the beginning of the recession, three cities in
 California  -- Vallejo, Stockton and San Bernardino -- and
 Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , all sought court protection because
they couldn’t cover their bills. Last year, a judge approved
cutting pension payments to Central Falls retirees by as much as
55 percent as part of the city’s debt reorganization plan.  Municipal bankruptcies are rare. There were 54 from 1970 to
2009, only four of which were cities or counties, according to
the Washington-based  National League of Cities . Analysts said
they don’t expect many to follow Detroit.  No Trend  “We view Detroit’s default and subsequent bankruptcy
filing as idiosyncratic, and not as a symptom of a wider issue
in the municipal market,” Jane Hudson Ridley, a credit analyst
with  Standard & Poor’s , said in a July 19 statement. “Although
we have seen isolated pockets of distress across the country, we
do not view bankruptcy filings or defaults as a trend.”  Detroit’s situation is being watched closely by investors,
who’ve pushed borrowing costs higher for  Michigan  relative to
similarly rated states, and by union leaders concerned that its
bankruptcy may inspire other cash-strapped cities.  “It’s more than troubling,” said Harold Schaitberger, the
president of the International Association of Fire Fighters
union in Washington. “If they can see that a major city in this
country can simply use the  bankruptcy code  as a way to walk away
from all of its obligations to thousands of workers and tens of
thousands of retirees, we’re very concerned about what signal
that sends.”  No Panacea  Prices in the broader municipal  debt market  were little
changed after Detroit’s bankruptcy, with benchmark 10-year
yields rising 0.02 percent to 2.79 percent on July 19, according
to Municipal Market Advisors Inc.’s indexes.  Bankruptcy isn’t a cure-all. Both Vallejo and Stockton had
difficulty dealing with crime after reducing their police
forces. Jefferson County,  Alabama , scaled back hospital
services, fired hundreds of employees, and curbed road clean up,
leaving dead animals to rot on the street.  “If you’re a community, you don’t want to go into
bankruptcy,” said Chris Mier, the chief municipal strategist
for Loop Capital Markets in  Chicago , a bond underwriter. “It’s
expensive. It’s lengthy. It’s a black eye.”  Some localities, including Providence, Rhode Island, have
taken steps to shore up pensions by paring employee benefits.
Last year,  San Diego  and  San Jose , California, voters approved
measures to bolster pensions and steer new workers into 401(k)-
style savings plans, which don’t offer lifelong payments like
those in Detroit. Baltimore, struggling to reverse years of
population declines, is pressing for similar steps.  Higher Contributions  Costs for some cities will keep rising as they make up for
years of failing to contribute enough to pensions. In April, the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  said it may need
to raise municipal pension contributions by 50 percent.  In Syracuse,  New York , a $30.1 million pension bill in
fiscal 2013 was twice what it paid five years earlier, according
to city budget documents. Mayor Stephanie Miner told reporters
last year that she hired outside legal help for advice on the
municipal bankruptcy process, though she didn’t expect to have
need of it.  In most cities, revenue is stabilizing as  home prices  rise,
increasing real-estate tax receipts, said Donald Boyd, a senior
fellow at the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government in
 Albany , New York.  “A lot of cities have more robust economic foundations
that are more likely to rebound,” compared with Detroit, Boyd
said. “To say bankruptcy is the new norm or the new widespread
phenomena, it’s just too soon to say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  