-- Detroit Post-Bankruptcy Debt Trades Show Improved Recovery Bets
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-22T15:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/detroit-post-bankruptcy-debt-trades-show-improved-recovery-bets.html
Detroit ’s bankruptcy has led some
investors to bet that Emergency Financial Manager Kevyn Orr’s
plan to give bondholders less than 20 cents on the dollar won’t
hold up in court.  Some city limited-tax bonds maturing in April 2020 traded
July 19 at an average price of 74 cents on the dollar, up from
68 cents earlier in the week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The debt, insured by Ambac Assurance Corp., was one of at least
10 series of Detroit general obligations that traded at a higher
price after Orr sought court protection from creditors on July
18.  The price fluctuation reflects the unprecedented nature of
Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing. Stockton,  California , previously the
biggest U.S. city to seek protection, doesn’t have general
obligations. While bondholders were repaid about 96 cents on the
dollar after municipal defaults during the Great Depression,
today’s investors should expect a 50 percent recovery rate,
similar to company debt, Moody’s Investors Service said in May.  “Just on the face of it, the Chapter 9 filing could be
viewed as a mild positive for G.O. bondholders” because the
bankruptcy judge has more control, Vikram Rai, a fixed-income
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , wrote in a report the
day after Detroit filed.  “It is still early in the process to predict recovery
rates,” Rai said. “There is no precedent for a large city with
this level of financial distress.”  Legal Divide  Detroit’s filing last week came after decades of decline
left the city too poor to pay billions owed to bondholders,
retired police officers and city workers. Too few creditors
would accept a plan that Orr offered to repay $11.5 billion in
unsecured debt -- including unlimited-tax and limited-tax
general obligations -- with $2 billion in borrowed money.  Bankruptcy lawyers are divided about whether general
obligations, which are backed by the taxing power of a local
government, can be treated as unsecured debt, forcing investors
to take less than full repayment. No municipality has used
bankruptcy to force such bondholders to take a cut in principal.  By classifying the obligations as unsecured and with no
collateral rights, Orr is arguing that a federal judge has the
right to impose losses on bondholders.  “This filing will be the first major case in which G.O.
bonds are likely to be challenged,”  Peter Hayes , head of munis
at New York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money
manager, said in a report last week. “Chapter 9 bankruptcy is
not well understood, partly because it happens so
infrequently.”  At least 37 series of general-obligation bonds traded the
day after the filing, Bloomberg  data  show. The average price
rose only in about one of every four trades, indicating that
more buyers wanted extra yield to own the city’s debt after
Orr’s filing. Prices move inversely to yields.  Hedge funds  were among those buying Detroit obligations,
according to a report today from Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  