-- Deutsche Bank Rises After Report of Plan to Cut Leverage
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-22T08:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/deutsche-bank-rises-after-report-of-plan-to-cut-leverage.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
 Europe ’s biggest bank, rose in Frankfurt trading after a report
that the company plans to shrink its balance sheet by as much as
20 percent to comply with stricter standards on leverage.  Deutsche Bank advanced as much as 2 percent to 35.79 euros,
the highest level in more than a month. The shares climbed 1.7
percent to 35.69 euros at 9:58 a.m., valuing the company at 36.4
billion euros ($47.9 billion).  The bank is aiming to complete the balance sheet reduction
by 2015 to meet a 3 percent equity-to-assets ratio requirement,
the Financial Times reported, citing unidentified people briefed
on the plans. Deutsche Bank is also considering selling at least
6 billion euros of hybrid capital, the FT said.  Ronald Weichert ,
a Frankfurt-based spokesman for the company, declined to comment
on the FT report.  “They know they have to do something,”  Andreas Plaesier ,
an analyst at at M.M. Warburg in Hamburg who recommends
investors buy Deutsche Bank shares, said by telephone. “The
measures the bank has suggested address the issue. They have no
problem raising hybrid debt and if that happens, it wouldn’t be
too tough on shareholders.”  U.S. and European regulators are increasingly looking at
leverage, or the relation of equity to assets, to gauge banks’
financial strength as they seek to prevent a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis. Tighter regulatory requirements risk hurting
investor confidence in banks should they decide to withhold
dividends or raise capital by issuing more stock.  Deutsche Bank will cut assets by selling a portfolio of
loans and securities it deems not to be central to its business
as well as lowering cash reserves and making changes to the way
derivatives are accounted for, Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said earlier this month. Krause said at the time that he
couldn’t comment on the size of the reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  