-- Dollar-Funding Stress Unchanged, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-07-22T13:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/dollar-funding-stress-unchanged-money-market-indicators-show.html
Forward money-market indicators
signaled short-term dollar funding conditions were mixed as the
rate banks say it would cost to borrow from one another for
three months held at the lowest in almost two years.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or  Libor (US0003M) , was
unchanged at 0.2647 percent, holding for a second day at the
lowest since Aug. 2, 2011, according to the British Bankers’
Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance
to lend, narrowed to 16 basis points from 16.2 basis points on
July 19.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, rose to 20 basis points from 19.3 basis
points, according to the second rolling three-month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.45 basis point to 17.8 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $8.8 billion to $999.2 billion in the week ended July 17,
according to Federal Reserve data.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased after reaching on July 19 its
least since May 2011. The three-month cross-currency basis swap
was 9.35 basis points below Euribor, from 9.1 basis points
below.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, edged wider.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 11.5
basis points compared with 11.1 basis points on July 19.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.05 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.033 percent on July 19,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.09 percent on July 19. The rate opened
today at 0.1 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  