-- DreamWorks Declines on Forecast of ‘Turbo’ Writedown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-07-22T20:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/dreamworks-declines-on-forecast-of-turbo-writedown.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  fell
4.5 percent after an analyst predicted a writedown of as much as
$50 million on the new movie “Turbo,” citing a disappointing
opening at the box office.  DreamWorks Animation, based in Glendale,  California ,
 declined  to $23.77 at the close in  New York . Shares of the
independent film studio, which fell 6 percent on July 16 as
analysts lowered estimates for “Turbo” in its debut, have
advanced 43 percent this year.  With sales of $21.5 million this past weekend, “Turbo”
may not reach $100 million during its run in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, James Marsh, a Piper Jaffray analyst in New York,
wrote today in a research note. The film had a slower start than
“Rise of the Guardians,” DreamWorks Animation’s November 2012
release that opened with $23.8 million and led to an $87 million
writedown.  “While reviews have been positive for the film and could
help build word of mouth, at this stage we think it will be
lucky to hit $100 million in the current competitive
environment,” Marsh wrote.  The analyst, who previously had estimated a $140 million
total domestic take for “Turbo,” dropped his forecast for
international receipts to $225 million from $260 million.  Opening-weekend figures don’t reflect the movie’s
potential, particularly in markets outside the U.S., Allison
Rawlings, a DreamWorks Animation spokeswoman, said in an
interview. “Turbo” has yet to open in  Europe ,  Korea  and  China .
The film opened on a crowded weekend with four new movies plus
the animated holdover hit “Despicable Me,” she said.  ‘Too Early’  “It’s certainly too early to tell” about the movie’s
performance, Rawlings said. “The film resonates really well
with our core audience.”  “Turbo” won a top “A” rating from  CinemaScore , a Las
Vegas-based research firm that asked audience members to grade
movies from “A” to “F” after seeing them on opening day.  Since the July 17 opening, “Turbo” has generated an
estimated $31.2 million at domestic theaters, according to
researcher  Box Office Mojo .  Benjamin Mogil , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., had originally estimated $40 million at this
point.  Fox, Merchandise  Merchandising and better terms with new distributor 21st
Century Fox Inc. may help DreamWorks Animation avoid a writedown
on the scale of “Guardians,” Piper’s Marsh wrote. That movie
generated $303.1 million worldwide, including $103.4 million
domestically, according to  Box Office Mojo .  DreamWorks Animation signed a five-year film distribution
agreement with Fox last August, ending a six-year pact with
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures. The Fox deal allows DreamWorks
Animation to keep rights to domestic television revenue and
provides lower digital distribution costs.  Merchandising for “Turbo,” about a speedy snail who
aspires to compete in the Indianapolis 500, will benefit from
cross-promotion with a planned television show based on the
characters that will appear on  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s Web-based
subscription service, Marsh said. The movie also will appear on
Netflix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  