-- MillerCoors Sees Metal-Warehouse Delay Costing Buyers $3 Billion
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-07-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/lme-rules-seen-by-millercoors-costing-aluminum-buyers-3-billion.html
Global aluminum costs were inflated
by $3 billion in the past year through unfair rules that allow
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.,  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. and other 
warehouse owners to slow deliveries, said a risk executive at
brewer MillerCoors LLC.  The practices of warehouse owners authorized to hold
aluminum by the London Metal Exchange created artificial limits
on available supply, leaving prices “inflated relative to the
massive oversupply and record production,” Tim Weiner, a global
risk manager at Chicago-based MillerCoors, said in written
testimony before his appearance today at a U.S. Senate
subcommittee  hearing  in  Washington .  MillerCoors, a joint venture of SABMiller Plc and Molson
Coors Brewing Co., uses aluminum to produce cans for about 36
million barrels of beer annually, and the metal represents the
company’s biggest single price risk, Weiner said. The brewers
concerns are shared by metal buyers including beverage makers
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Dr. Pepper Snapple Group Inc. and
manufacturers Novelis Inc. and Ball Corp., he said.  “We are challenged in managing our aluminum costs due to
these LME warehouse practices,” Weiner said in the prepared
remarks, which were posted yesterday on the subcommittee’s
 website . “The aluminum we are purchasing is being held up in
warehouses controlled and owned by U.S. bank holding companies,
who are members of the LME, and set the rules for their own
warehouses.”  Bank Ownership  A Senate Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs Committee panel
will examine whether banks should control commodities storage,
power plants and refineries. Regulators need to take a “long,
hard look at the practice of banks holding physical
commodities,” the subcommittee’s chairman, U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said in a statement.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  The inquiry comes three weeks after the LME said it wants
to help unclog growing queues at the repositories, which
companies ranging from beer makers to wire fabricators say have
reduced availability of aluminum and  copper . Backlogs have grown
as more metal gets tied up in financing deals that typically
involve the purchase of metal for nearby delivery and a forward
sale to take advantage of a market contango, where prices rise
into the future.  Aluminum users are sometimes forced to wait more than 18
months for delivery because of “unfair” warehouse practices,
Weiner said.  Limit Delays  The LME said it’s trying to speed up withdrawals from
warehouses where waiting times exceed 100 calendar days. Those
warehouses would have to deliver more metal than they take in,
based on a formula, the LME  said  in a statement July 1. Market
participants are being consulted until Sept. 30, the exchange
said. Its board is expected to review the plan in October, and
the proposal would take effect April 1 if approved.  Premiums added to aluminum on the LME surged to a record 12
cents to 13 cents a pound in June, almost doubling from 6.5
cents in the summer of 2010, according to the most recent data
available from Austin, Texas-based researcher  Harbor
Intelligence .  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388)  bought the LME for $2.2
billion last year.  The Senate hearing adds to scrutiny from lawmakers and
regulators on the participation of banks in  commodities markets 
traditionally dominated by producers and consumers of natural
resources.  Commodity Assets  JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs are among the
lenders whose commodity-trading is in jeopardy as the Federal
Reserve reconsiders letting banks ship oil and store metal. The
central bank says it’s reviewing a decade-old ruling to let
deposit-taking banks trade physical commodities.  The banks own and control a wide-ranging portfolio of
energy assets, from fuel terminals to oil tankers to solar-power
plants. Goldman has contracts to buy fuel from at least five
U.S. refineries, totaling 586,200 barrels a day in capacity.
Morgan Stanley’s  TransMontaigne Partners LP (TLP)  runs oil terminals
across the U.S., and JPMorgan has rights to electricity from
three Southern  California  power plants.  “I don’t know why that’s a bad thing,”  David Hackett ,
president of energy consultant Stillwater Associates in  Irvine ,
California, said by telephone. “It adds liquidity.”  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
referred to company regulatory filings that said the bank didn’t
expect to have to divest any of its businesses after a grace
period given by the Fed ends in September. He declined to
elaborate or to comment on the Fed’s announced rule review.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the review.  ‘Painful Implications’  The Fed review and Senate hearing “mark the beginning of
the end for the warehousing issue and may have far more painful
implications for the banks in the future,” said Nick Madden,
senior vice president and supply-chain officer of Novelis, the
aluminum parts producer whose customers include Coca Cola and
Ford Motor Co. He made the comments in a  blog  posting.  A “thoughtful review” of commodity warehousing is needed,
based on how users say it is affecting markets, said  Bart Chilton , a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. The regulator, in a letter to companies, asked them
not to destroy any documents relating to warehouses registered
by exchanges such as the LME or Chicago Mercantile Exchange
dating to January 2010, according to a copy of the letter
obtained by Bloomberg.  “I doubt that there will be any immediate change -- phased
change is more likely,” Mo Ahmadzadeh, a managing partner at
Southold Capital in New York, said in an e-mail. “Certainly the
confluence of attention from the Senate, the CFTC and the media
will concentrate the minds of those who might imagine that their
banking business may now have better points of focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  