-- China Dispatches Thousands to Rescue Gansu Quake Survivors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-23T09:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/earthquake-in-china-s-gansu-province-kills-47-agency-says-1-.html
China  dispatched thousands of
police, soldiers and government officials to search for
survivors of an earthquake that struck the northwestern province
of Gansu yesterday as the death toll rose to 94.  The 5.9-magnitude quake struck at 7:45 a.m. local time
yesterday, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The official
Xinhua News Agency said the temblor hit near the city of Dingxi
and measured it at magnitude 6.6, citing the China Earthquake
Networks Center.  Gansu’s Communist Party Secretary Wang Sanyun, the
province’s most-senior official, visited villages damaged by the
quake yesterday and called on rescuers to bolster their efforts
and to “reduce the loss to the lowest level,” the Gansu Daily
newspaper reported today. Chinese President Xi Jinping called
yesterday for an “all-out” rescue effort and to make saving
lives the top priority, Xinhua reported.  The temblor injured 1,001 people, left one missing and
caused the collapse or severely damaged 127,000 homes, the
Ministry of Civil Affairs said on its website, citing statistics
gathered as of 2 p.m. today. The quake, which lasted about a
minute, was felt in Lanzhou as well as in Xi’an, the capital of
neighboring Shaanxi province, Xinhua said.  Gansu’s Wang also called on doctors and nurses at a local
hospital to helped those injured by the quake. Most of those
affected were from poor families, for whom a permanent
disability could hurt their ability to work, Wang was cited by
the Gansu Daily as saying.  Deadly Quakes  Western China has been struck by several deadly earthquakes
in the past five years. An April quake that hit Sichuan province
killed at least 196 people. In 2010, a 6.9-magnitude quake in
Qinghai province killed about 2,700 people and a 7.9-magnitude
quake that struck Sichuan in 2008 left more than 87,000 people
dead or missing.  Chinese authorities yesterday dispatched two helicopters
and 6,000 rescuers, including armed police, firefighters,
militiamen and local government workers, to the quake area to
help with rescue efforts, according to Xinhua.  Some rescue efforts were hampered by breakdowns in
communication services and blocked roads as soldiers were forced
to abandon their trucks and proceed on foot, China National
Radio reported. Rain is forecast for today, which may complicate
rescue efforts, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  