-- EBay Eyes China as Global Commerce Seen at $307 Billion
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-07-22T23:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/ebay-eyes-china-as-global-commerce-seen-at-307-billion.html
Online sales of goods between
countries will almost triple over the next five years as more
people shop on the Web and merchants seek consumers across
globe, a study commissioned by  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal found.  Cross-border Internet commerce between  Australia ,  Brazil ,
 China ,  Germany , U.K. and U.S. will jump to $307 billion in 2018
from $105 billion this year, according to a Nielsen study
published today. The top categories of goods that will be traded
includes clothing, shoes and accessories, followed by health and
beauty products, and personal electronics, the report said.  EBay, the world’s biggest online marketplace, has been
seeking growth abroad by adding staff in  emerging markets  to
compete in countries that are showing big increases in online
commerce. About a quarter of marketplaces revenue and more than
half of PayPal’s sales came from international operations last
year. PayPal is investing more of its time promoting cross-border commerce with China, according to David Marcus, the
unit’s president.  “If you look at the Chinese opportunities -- there are 40
million small businesses in China and only 5 million of them are
actually exporting goods online,” Marcus said in an interview.
“So there’s a huge upside opportunity.”  The Chinese were some of the biggest shoppers for American
goods, with 84 percent of them currently buying from U.S.
websites, the report said.  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  analyzed the
buying habits of more than 6,000 consumers in the six markets
over the past 12 months.  An estimated $106 billion worth of international
transactions will take place via mobile devices in 2018, up from
$36.4 billion this year, the study said.  The U.S. was the top exporter to markets abroad, with 45
percent of those surveyed saying that’s where they shopped,
followed by the U.K, at 37 percent.  PayPal was the top method of cross-border payment in the
markets surveyed, with 79 percent of respondents saying they’ve
used it in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  