-- Emerging Stocks Halt Two-Day Decline as Materials Shares Advance
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-22T22:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/emerging-stocks-advance-led-by-shipbuilders-minsheng-declines.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in three days, led by Brazilian shares, after
higher commodities prices lifted producers. South Korean
shipbuilders jumped, while Poland’s zloty paced a rally in
currencies.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. and Gold Fields Ltd. advanced more
than 7 percent in Johannesburg as bullion reached a one-month
high. Brazil’s Ibovespa gained as miner MMX Mineracao e
Metalicos SA gained.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540)  rose to the
highest since April in  Seoul  after LIG Investment & Securities
Co. said the industry outlook will improve. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd. fell in  Hong Kong  following a move
by Chinese policy makers to scrap a floor on lending rates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.4 percent to 954.
The gauge has risen 5.3 percent in the past two weeks as
concerns eased that the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare monetary
stimulus. The  People’s Bank of China  is ending a lower limit on
borrowing costs while keeping a cap on deposit rates, it said
July 19, raising speculation looser interest-rate controls will
benefit smaller companies and hurt banks’ margins.  “We had oversold positions in a lot of things related to
 emerging markets ,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage
$17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
Alabama, said by phone. “There are still concerns about global
growth, but we see some of the commodities up, the dollar is a
little bit weaker. The rally could last several days.”  A gauge of raw-material producers rose 1.2 percent, leading
gains among 10  industry groups . Harmony Gold climbed 8.9 percent
and Gold Fields jumped 7.2 percent. The FTSE/JSE Africa All
Shares Index advanced 0.9 percent.  Metals Climb  Gold climbed 3.3 percent and copper gained 1.4 percent,
leading industrial metals higher. A report today showed sales of
previously owned U.S. houses unexpectedly dropped in June, hurt
by a lack of supply and rising mortgage rates.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA,  Poland  sole copper producer, advanced
for a second day, gaining 0.7 percent. Russia’s Micex Index
slipped 0.4 percent.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
 fund  climbed 1 percent to $39.67. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 6.1 percent to 23.19.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose 2.5 percent, the most among major
equity gauges. MMX jumped 9.6 percent, while iron ore producer
Vale SA climbed 1.9 percent to a one-month high. Phone company
Oi SA surged 16 percent, leading advances on the MSCI gauge.  Mexican Stocks  The IPC Index climbed 0.6 percent in Mexico City as mining
company Industrias Penoles SAB rose 2.2 percent, snapping three
days of losses.  The  Hungarian forint  gained 0.9 percent against the dollar
before Hungary’s central bank rate decision tomorrow, leading
gains among emerging market currencies along with the Polish
zloty.  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge has lost 9.6 percent this
year and  trades  at about 10 times its 12-month projected
earnings. The MSCI World Index of developed nations has
increased 14 percent in 2013 and trades at 13.9 times, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Fed has sent a message that markets should not be
“overly fearful” of tapering, better data is needed from China
to support a more sustained recovery in emerging-market stocks,
 Christian Keller , the head of emerging-market research at
Barclays Plc in  London , said by e-mail.  Pimco Outlook  “In general, there is little data that would actually
support a significant sentiment shift in favor of EM equities,”
he said.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said he
expects the Fed won’t tighten monetary policy until 2016 at the
earliest.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 309 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  Hyundai Heavy surged the most since May 9 while  Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660)  rose 3.1 percent to the
highest level in four months. The outlook for South Korean
shipbuilders will improve in the second half as prices for new
vessels increase, LIG Investment said in a report. The country’s
Kospi index added 0.5 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.6 percent, its first
gain in four days. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies traded in Hong Kong fell 0.4 percent.  China
Minsheng Banking (600016)  Corp. fell to a two-week low as Moody’s
Investors Service said it will face increased competition for
loans to small and medium enterprises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  