-- Emirates NBD Second-Quarter Profit Gains 50% on Fee Income
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-07-22T08:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/emirates-nbd-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-as-dubai-recovers.html
Emirates NBD PJSC, (EMIRATES)  Dubai’s biggest
bank, reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates as fee income climbed amid the emirate’s economic
recovery. The shares surged.  Net income  rose 50 percent to 972 million dirhams ($265
million) from 647 million dirhams a year earlier, the Dubai
government-controlled lender said in a  regulatory filing  today.
The mean estimate of six analysts was for a profit of 799
million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net
interest income and non-interest income each climbed 17 percent.  Emirates NBD, which last month hired Shayne Nelson from
Standard Chartered Private Bank as chief executive officer, is
recovering from a real-estate crash in Dubai after the 2008
global credit crisis triggered a rise in debt defaults. The
bank’s impaired-loan ratio declined to 13.9 percent at the end
of June from 14.3 percent on Dec. 31.  “Emirates NBD reported strong lending growth coming out of
three sectors,” Chiradeep Ghosh, an analyst at Securities &
Investment Co. BSC, said today by phone from Manama. “Retail,
sovereign and services. The focus on these sectors shows it is
down to Dubai’s revival.”  The stock jumped 7.9 percent to 5.20 dirhams at 12:08 p.m.
in Dubai and has gained about 83 percent this year as Dubai’s
economy rebounds, with the government forecasting an average
economic growth of 4.6 percent between 2012 and 2015.  Lending Limits  The results are “a reflection of positive momentum in the
U.A.E. economy, which has continued to be resilient despite the
continued uncertain global economic climate,” outgoing CEO  Rick Pudner  said in the statement. Mortgage bookings continued steady
growth from the end of last year, the bank said, without giving
further details.  Emirates NBD is among U.A.E. lenders which are seeking a
five-year grace period from the central bank to comply with new
rules to limit lending to government and government-related
entities. The bank is 56 percent state owned.  Last month Emirates NBD said Pudner will leave the U.A.E.’s
second-biggest bank by assets at the end of the year after eight
years. The lender this month hired  Arjuna Mahendran  as chief
investment officer of its wealth management division from HSBC
Holdings Plc as it seeks to expand the business of managing
money for the rich.  The U.A.E., the second-largest Arab economy, has the
biggest banking market in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which also includes Saudi Arabia. Annual profit at
Emirates NBD may climb 15 percent to 2.95 billion dirhams,
according to the average estimate of seven analysts.  Emirates NBD in December acquired the Egyptian unit of BNP
Paribas SA in a $500 million deal, helping it enter the most-populous Arab country. The bank is keen to expand in the Middle
East, North Africa,  Turkey  and Islamic nations in south and
south east Asia, it said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  