-- Emirates NBD Jumps to Highest in Month on Profit: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-07-22T10:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/emirates-nbd-set-to-jump-most-since-april-on-profit-dubai-mover.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  surged to the
highest level in more than a month as investors deemed shares of
Dubai’s biggest bank were cheap after the lender’s second-quarter profit  beat  analysts’ estimates.  The Dubai government-controlled bank’s stock  jumped  6
percent to 5.11 dirhams, the strongest since June 20, at the
close in Dubai as volume increased to 2.4 times its three-month
daily average. Emirates NBD’s shares, which are up 79 percent
this year, were the biggest gainers on the benchmark  DFM General
Index (DFMGI) , which rose 0.2 percent.  Emirates NBD said  net income  increased to 972 million
dirhams ($265 million), topping the 799 million-dirham average
estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The stock trades
at  10.8 times  estimated earnings, compared with 12.2 times for
the Bloomberg GCC 200 Financial Index and competitor Dubai
Islamic Bank, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The results are solid at a time lots of investors were
underweight the stock, which was trading on stretched valuations
compared to peers,” Tariq Qaqish, head of asset management at
Dubai-based Al Mal Capital PSC, said by phone. “Asset managers
will be looking at buying.”  The bank’s fee income increased as Dubai’s economy recovers
from a property-market crash, with the government forecasting
average economic growth of 4.6 percent between 2012 and 2015.
Emirates NBD, which suffered from an increase of bad loans
during the crash, said its impaired-loan ratio fell to 13.9
percent at the end of June from 14.3 percent on Dec. 31.  The U.A.E., the second-largest Arab economy, has the
biggest banking market in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which also includes Saudi Arabia. Emirates NBD’s annual
profit may climb 15 percent to 2.95 billion dirhams, according
to the average estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
 Three analysts  have a buy recommendation on the shares, while
five say hold and one says sell, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  