-- Merkel to Criss-Cross Germany During Six-Week Campaign Tour
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-22T14:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/merkel-to-criss-cross-germany-during-six-week-campaign-tour.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  embarks on
a six-week campaign tour next month that will take her to 56
cities and towns and all 16 of  Germany ’s states as she seeks re-election to a third term on Sept. 22.  The tour begins on Aug. 14 in the central state of Hesse in
Seligenstadt, a town which dates back to Roman times. It winds
up the day before the vote with appearances in Berlin and then
in her electoral district of Stralsund on the Baltic Sea coast,
according to a schedule e-mailed today by her  Christian
Democratic Union  party.  Two months to the day before the federal election, Merkel’s
CDU and its Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union ,
lead the opposition  Social Democrats  by as many as 18 percentage
points  in polls  amid joblessness near a two-decade low and voter
approval of the chancellor’s handling of the debt crisis.  The 31-day tour takes in two campaign rallies most days and
includes eight stops in Germany’s largest state and industrial
heartland, North Rhine-Westphalia, as well as seven stops each
in Bavaria and Hesse. She’ll visit Bonn, the former West German
capital, on Aug. 24, and hold a rally in  Frankfurt , Germany’s
banking capital, on Aug. 30.  Merkel begins the “hot phase” of the campaign on Sept. 8
in the western city of Dusseldorf on the River Rhine, and
campaigns daily from Sept. 10, the CDU schedule showed.  Latest Polls  Support for Merkel’s CDU-led bloc dropped one percentage
point to 40 percent in a poll published  yesterday by Emnid  that
showed the SPD also down a point at 25 percent. Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party allies gained a point to 6 percent, while the
SPD’s Green Party allies were also up a point at 13 percent.  The anti-capitalist Left Party had 8 percent, while neither
the Pirate party with 3 percent, nor the anti-euro AfD with 2
percent had enough support to win seats in parliament. Emnid
polled 1,854 votes on July 11-17. No margin of error was given.  The proliferation of “other parties” taking votes without
gaining seats means that a combined 46 percent on Election Day
may be enough for Merkel to continue her current coalition,
Deutsche Bank AG said in a note to clients today.  “While chances have increased that the new government will
be the old one -- implying a very broad continuity in terms of
policy and personnel terms -- the uncertainties attached to
polls leave a grand coalition between CDU/CSU and SPD a valid
option,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  