-- Merkel Makes Case for European Unity in Baltic Campaign Stop
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-07-22T22:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/merkel-makes-case-for-european-unity-in-baltic-campaign-stop.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  pledged to
keep Europe whole as she presses the euro area to become as
competitive as Germany, honing her campaign message at a seaside
rally in her home district two months before federal elections.  Addressing a sun-drenched rally of her  Christian Democratic
Union  in the Baltic Sea resort town of Zingst yesterday, Merkel
said that growing up under Communism underpins her defense of
European values. Europeans must stand together to compete in the
global economy and to regulate financial markets, she said.  “These are Europe’s treasures and we want to preserve them
-- that’s why it’s worth standing up for Europe,” she told the
crowd of about 1,500. “I and the CDU will fight for a  Europe 
that’s fit for global competition but also a Europe that is our
home, because that makes us stronger. Because how do we want to
achieve goals -- how can we make sure that financial markets are
regulated -- if we don’t speak with one voice in Europe?”  Merkel, 59, is seeking a third term as leader of Europe’s
biggest economy on the strength of shielding Germany from the
worst of the euro-region debt crisis and presiding over the
lowest unemployment in about two decades. While her bloc leads
 Peer Steinbrueck ’s opposition  Social Democrats  by as many as 18
percentage points in polls, Germany’s electoral system means she
needs a coalition partner to govern and cannot rely on victory.  Tricks Learned  “Angela Merkel has momentum for her current government but
she’s not there yet,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “She seems to have learned some of the
tricks” of campaigning compared to previous elections, and “so
far in this campaign she’s doing OK,” he said.  Taking her re-election bid to the former East German region
where she holds her parliamentary seat for the first time in the
campaign for the Sept. 22 elections, Merkel said that Germany
has achieved a lot in the past four years, yet the project is
far from completed.  Evoking her message at the European Union level that
there’s no quick way out of the debt crisis, she acknowledged
the region’s economic struggles including “great fears” for
the future of shipbuilding at Stralsund, her district’s biggest
city, and a lack of jobs that’s driving young people to leave
and seek work in southern  Germany .  “On the other hand, we see here how much has been achieved
since German reunification,” including with the help of
government aid for the formerly Communist east, she said.
Education is the key to doing well, she said, just as there’s no
substitute to working hard to stay ahead in the global economy.  Merkel’s ‘Offer’  She touted her government’s efforts in moving Germany
toward a balanced budget, saying it’s “a deeply moral matter”
that an aging society doesn’t spend at the expense of future
generations. That, Merkel said, is “the offer” she and her
party are making to voters.  Merkel spoke in Zingst on the first of three Baltic
campaign rallies yesterday after three North Sea appearances on
July 19. CDU officials meanwhile announced a schedule of 56
Merkel rallies over 31 days starting Aug. 14 as she seeks to
fend off Steinbrueck, her first-term finance minister turned
challenger, and win enough support for a rerun of her current
coalition with the Free Democrats.  As during her rally last week, Merkel didn’t mention
Steinbrueck by name, although she praised her Social Democratic
predecessor  Gerhard Schroeder  for pushing through labor-market
and welfare and tax changes the SPD now says it would partly
reverse if elected. “It’s gotten to the point where I have to
praise my predecessor because the others won’t do it,” she
said, referring to the Social Democrats.  Poll Support  Support for Merkel’s CDU-led bloc dropped one percentage
point to 40 percent in an Emnid poll published  two days ago  that
showed the SPD also down a point at 25 percent. Merkel’s Free
Democratic partner gained a point to 6 percent, while the SPD’s
Green party allies were also up a point at 13 percent. Emnid
polled 1,854 voters on July 11-17. No margin of error was given.  The proliferation of “other parties” taking votes without
gaining seats means that a combined 46 percent on Election Day
may be enough for Merkel to continue her current coalition,
Deutsche Bank AG said in a note to clients.  “While chances have increased that the new government will
be the old one -- implying a very broad continuity in terms of
policy and personnel terms -- the uncertainties attached to
polls leave a grand coalition between CDU/CSU and SPD a valid
option,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Zingst, northern Germany at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  