-- ESPN Hires Statistics Blogger Silver From New York Times
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-07-22T20:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/espn-sets-call-to-announce-hiring-of-statistics-blogger-silver.html
Nate Silver, the statistics blogger
who correctly called every U.S. state in the last presidential
election, will leave the New York Times to join  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN network, taking his  FiveThirtyEight  website with him.  Silver will join ESPN this year, covering sports and topics
such as economics, culture and science, according to a  statement 
today on the network’s website. He will also provide political
analysis for Disney’s ABC and continue to forecast election
results. Disney bought FiveThirtyEight, company officials said
on a conference call without disclosing terms.  Hiring Silver bolsters the lineup at ESPN, the most-watched
sports channel, as it prepares for battle with 21st Century Fox
Inc.’s coming Fox Sports 1 in August. Silver rose to prominence
during the 2012 election, driving Web traffic to the  New York
Times (NYT)  with his data-driven approach. In addition to Silver, ESPN
this month said ex-MSNBC commentator Keith Olbermann will rejoin
the sports network.  “We really care about smart, talented individuals,” ESPN
President John Skipper said on the conference call. “Nate has a
unique blend of creativity and journalism -- this will extend
our leadership.”  Silver’s state-by-state forecast in the last election was
perfect, outperforming established pollsters including Gallup.
He cited Grantland, Bill Simmons’ sports website noted for its
long-form journalism, as one reason he joined ESPN.  “Grantland is a pretty good precedent for our size,”
Silver said on the call. “It’s built around someone’s
sensibility and it’s an independent voice within ESPN.”  The New York Times reported last week that Silver will join
ESPN after his contract with the newspaper runs out next month.  “We valued our partnership with Nate, particularly during
the 2012 election campaign, and we wish him every success in the
future,” the New York Times Co. said today in a statement.  Times Co. fell 0.3 percent to $12.03 at the close today in
New York. Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , fell 1.2 percent
to $64.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  