-- EU Brands Hezbollah’s Military Wing as Terrorists
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-07-22T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/eu-to-list-hezbollah-military-arm-as-terrorist-group-dutch-say.html
The European Union’s 28 governments
blacklisted the military wing of Hezbollah, striking a political
blow against the Iranian-backed Shiite group that is helping
President Bashar al-Assad cling to power in  Syria .  Britain and the Netherlands led the push for the EU to
brand the Lebanese group’s military arm a terrorist
organization, making it harder for it to raise funds and recruit
in  Europe . The EU stopped short of the U.S. and Israeli policy
of proscribing all of Hezbollah, seeking to maintain leverage in
Lebanon by not cutting off contact with the group’s officials in
the  Beirut  government.  The move by EU foreign ministers in Brussels “is added
pressure on Hezbollah,” said Magnus Ranstorp, research director
at the Swedish National Defence College in  Stockholm . “It
restricts the movements of the individuals, it damps their
legitimacy.”  Hezbollah portrays itself as an anti- Israel  resistance
group, waging an inconclusive war against Israel in 2006 and now
aiding Assad in fighting rebels in Syria in a civil war that the
United Nations estimates has claimed 93,000 lives. Sunni-ruled
Gulf Cooperation Council countries including Saudi Arabia
blacklisted Hezbollah last month.  EU foreign ministers justified the ban as a defense of
European territory after Hezbollah was implicated in the killing
of five Israelis in the bombing of a tourist bus in  Bulgaria  in
2012. In March, a Hezbollah operative was convicted of plotting
a similar attack in Cyprus.  ‘United, Strong’  “It’s important to show we are united and strong in facing
terrorism,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said at the
Brussels meeting. “We don’t think this will adversely affect
the stability of Lebanon.”  Israel welcomed the decision, which came just days after
tensions flared over the European Commission’s barring of the
use of EU funds for research projects and grants to Israeli
organizations operating in territories Israel occupied in 1967.  In a text message, Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the EU did the right thing by punishing a group
with a record of “attacks against innocent civilians across the
world.”  In the U.S., Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the
designation sends “a strong message to Hezbollah that it cannot
operate with impunity and that there are consequences for its
actions.”  “A growing number of governments are recognizing Hezbollah
as the dangerous and destabilizing terrorist organization that
it is,” Kerry said in a statement. “We call on other
governments to follow the EU’s lead and to take steps to begin
reining in Hezbollah’s terrorist and criminal activities.”  Dialogue Sought  Legal measures will be in force in a matter of days, EU
officials said. A small group of EU countries had been hostile
to the anti-terror move, endorsing it today only after obtaining
guarantees that the EU will continue to provide political and
financial support for the Lebanese government.  Czech Foreign Minister Jan Kohout said he gave the go-ahead
for the decision, which required unanimity, in exchange for a
pledge that the EU will “keep the dialogue with other political
parties, with financial support.” The EU will review the
listing every six months.  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of
the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, saluted the EU
move. While the whole organization deserves to be banned, the EU
still sent “a clear message to Hezbollah, and to their primary
backer  Iran , that Europe is not a safe haven for terrorists,”
he said in an e-mailed statement in  Washington .  ‘Too Big’  EU governments will continue to do business with the
civilian side of Hezbollah. Some EU countries have questioned
whether it is possible to distinguish between the political and
military wings. Today’s move came after the Lebanese government
last week called the group an “essential component of Lebanese
society.”  Hezbollah anticipated the Brussels announcement with a
brushoff. The group is “too big to be isolated,” Sheik Nabil
Qawooq, deputy chief of its executive council, said in the
southern Lebanese village of Selaa, the official National News
Agency reported. Hezbollah “will stand firm,” he said.  Hezbollah’s financial network throughout the  Middle East 
will limit the practical impact of the EU sanctions, said  Paul Salem , director of the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace’s Middle East Center in Beirut.  “This group’s financial, military, security and political
access is well-known and it runs from Tehran, through  Baghdad ,
Damascus, Lebanon and it never relied on Europe for anything
important,” Salem said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  