-- EU Wheat-Yield Forecast Raised by MARS on Better Weather
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-22T15:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/eu-wheat-yield-forecast-raised-by-mars-on-better-weather.html
Wheat, barley and corn yields in the
European Union will be higher than predicted last month on
favorable growing conditions across the region, the 28-nation
bloc’s crop-forecasting unit wrote.  EU soft-wheat yields are seen rising to 5.69 metric tons
per hectare (2.47 acres) from 5.42 tons per hectare in 2012, the
EU’s Monitoring Agricultural Resources unit wrote in an  online
report . The outlook was raised from 5.55 tons previously.  The EU is the world’s biggest wheat grower with about 20
percent of global output. Milling wheat futures in Paris have
slumped 22 percent this year on expectations for bigger crops in
the EU as well as in Black Sea region producers Ukraine and
 Russia .  “After the heavy rains of the end of May and beginning of
June, Europe experienced rather beneficial conditions for crop
growth,” MARS wrote. “The yield forecast for soft wheat was
raised for all EU-28 countries with the exception of  Italy ,
 Bulgaria ,  Finland  and  Greece .”  EU barley yields are now forecast to climb to 4.78 tons per
hectare from 4.38 tons per hectare last year, and up from a
previous outlook for farmers to harvest 4.68 tons per hectare.  Corn yields are seen at 7.22 tons per hectare from 6.08
tons in 2012, when Black Sea region producers suffered from a
heatwave that harmed crops. The outlook was raised from 7.13
tons per hectare in June.  In  France , the EU’s biggest grower of wheat, barley and
corn, crop conditions at the start of June were optimal, after a
cold and rainy spring, MARS wrote.  Germany  had good conditions
for filling of winter grains, the researcher said.  In Ukraine, warm temperatures shortened crop development in
the east and south, hurting the outlook for wheat and barley
yields, according to MARS. European Russia is expected to have
above-average winter-wheat yields, it said.  EU rapeseed yields are predicted to fall to 3.08 tons per
hectare from 3.11 tons last year, and compared with last month’s
outlook for 3.02 tons per hectare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  