-- European Stocks Rise for Fourth Day as UBS, Philips Gain
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-22T16:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-ubs-may-move.html
European stocks  rose for a fourth
day, extending a seven-week high, as companies from UBS AG to
Royal  Philips (PHIA)  Electronics NV reported increased profit.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, rallied to a two-year
high. Philips, the Dutch maker of  light bulbs  and electric
toothbrushes, gained for an eighth day.  Portugal ’s  PSI-20 Index (PSI20) 
advanced 2.3 percent as President Anibal  Cavaco Silva  affirmed
that he doesn’t want to call early elections.  Mobistar (MOBB)  SA
slumped the most on record after the Belgian mobile-phone
company cut profit forecasts and suspended its dividend.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.2 percent to 300.3 at the
close of trading, having swung between gains and losses at least
20 times. The gauge increased 1.2 percent last week on economic-growth data from  China  and assurances from the U.S. Federal
Reserve that its stimulus program remains flexible.  “The Fed was able to calm markets, which has led to some
strong gains,” said Andreas Nigg, head of equity and commodity
strategy at Vontobel Asset Management in Zurich. “Earnings out
of  Europe  so far look good at first glance, but it’s also
important to remember that markets aren’t dirt cheap anymore.”  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 7.4 percent this year, pushing
its valuation to 13.4 times  estimated earnings , compared with an
average ratio of 11.4 over the past three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of shares changing hands
in Stoxx 600 companies was 24 percent lower than the average of
the last 30 days, Bloomberg data show.  U.S. Earnings  Companies from Apple Inc. to Ford Motor Co. are set to  post
earnings  in the U.S. this week. About 71 percent of Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index members that have reported second-quarter
results so far topped analysts’ income estimates, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets today.  France ’s CAC 40 added 0.4 percent, while
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped 0.1 percent and  Germany ’s  DAX (DAX)  was
little changed.  UBS advanced 2.5 percent to 18.05 Swiss francs, the highest
since March 2011, after reporting second-quarter net income of
690 million francs ($734 million). The company also said it
reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. Federal Housing
Finance Agency to settle claims related to residential mortgage-backed securities offerings between 2004 and 2007.  Philips added 2.1 percent to 23.91 euros. Earnings before
interest, taxes, amortization and one-time items amounted to 530
million euros ($697 million), compared with 408 million euros a
year earlier. Profit matched the average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Banks Advance  Banco Espirito Santo SA and Banco Comercial Portugues SA
led Portuguese shares higher, jumping 10 percent to 68.5 euro
cents and 6.7 percent to 9.6 cents, respectively. Cavaco Silva
said the government of Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has
the support of a majority in parliament and will stay in office
until its term ends in 2015.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  rallied 5.7 percent to 42.04 francs.
Switzerland’s third-biggest wealth manager said increased client
trading boosted margins as it integrated Merrill Lynch
businesses acquired from Bank of America Corp. last year. The
gross margin, which reflects how much the bank makes in revenue
on managed client assets, rose to 102 basis points in the first
half, from 98 basis points in the year-earlier period.  “The first-half results are strongly influenced by the
integration of a significant part of the Merrill Lynch units,
and therefore not comparable to the previous years,” Andreas Brun, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank AG in Zurich, wrote in
a report today. “The results are to be assessed positively
compared to the consensus estimates.”  KPN, Telefonica  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the former Dutch phone monopoly, surged 13
percent to 1.80 euros as three people familiar with the matter
said Telefonica SA is in advanced talks to take over its German
mobile-phone business.  The companies had a pre-agreement last year to combine
their German phone units before negotiations fell through, said
the people, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations are confidential. Talks have resumed in the past
month, said one of the people. A deal, which is likely to be a
cash and share transaction, could be announced as early as
today, another person said.  Mobistar plummeted 31 percent to 10.92 euros, the biggest
drop since its initial public offering in 1998. Belgium’s
second-biggest mobile-phone company said 2013 revenue will
probably fall as much as 12 percent with earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will be at least
300 million euros.  Belgacom SA, the nation’s largest phone company, slid 5.6
percent to 16.32 euros, the lowest price since its 2004 IPO.  Glaxo Slips  GlaxoSmithKline Plc declined 1.2 percent to 1,694 pence,
for the biggest drag on the Stoxx 600. Abbas Hussain, the
company’s head of  emerging markets , said after meeting Chinese
officials that some employees may have broken laws in that
country. China’s Public Security Ministry last week accused
Glaxo officials of economic crimes involving 3 billion  yuan 
($489 million) and detained four senior executives.  Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker that reported worse-than-estimated earnings last week, fell 5.3 percent to 134.10 kronor,
the most since October 2011.  UBS (UBSN)  cut the stock to sell from
neutral and lowered its earnings forecasts, saying truck demand
in  Brazil  will probably fall sharply from current levels.  “The truck cycle has disconnected from the wider economy,
plagued by lower growth, inflation and waning confidence,”
Fredric Stahl, a UBS analyst, wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  