-- Ex-ISoft Executives Won’t Be Retried as U.K. FCA Case Fails
-- B y   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r
-- 2013-07-22T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/ex-isoft-executives-won-t-be-retried-as-u-k-fca-case-collapses.html
The former chief executive officer
and two former directors of iSoft Group Plc, who were accused by
the U.K. finance regulator of lying to the market about revenue,
won’t be retried after the case collapsed for the second time.  Timothy Whiston, the former CEO of the  software company ,
 Stephen Graham , the company’s ex-commercial director, and John Whelan, its former finance director, won’t face a third trial,
lawyers for the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority told a London
criminal court today. Patrick Cryne, the former chairman of the
company, also won’t be prosecuted.  The first trial failed in August last year after the jury
couldn’t reach a verdict. The second trial collapsed earlier
this month after the judge dismissed the jury because the FCA
made disclosure errors.  The case is “now stale,”  Richard Latham , a lawyer for the
FCA, told the court. A third trial would be “a huge cost to the
public purse.”  The regulator had accused them of misstating iSoft interim
reports and year-end financial statements from October 2003
until July 2006, and lying to external auditors, saying the
company had won a contract to supply software to an Irish
hospital system when it hadn’t yet.  The defendants made the statements to win a contract from
the U.K.’s  National Health Service  and encourage 2003 merger
talks with another company, the regulator said. The men were
charged in January 2010. Cryne didn’t face trial with the other
three men because of health problems.  ‘A Relief’  “This is of course a disappointing outcome,” Tracey McDermott, director of enforcement and financial crime for the
FCA, said in a statement. “The problems that have arisen in
this case result from a particularly unusual set of
circumstances, which are unlikely to recur.”  Whiston said the verdict comes “as a relief as my name is
finally cleared after seven years of investigation and
prosecution.”  The defendants will have their legal costs paid for them by
the FCA, Anthony Barnfather, a lawyer for Whelan, said in a
statement.  Whelan “has always strenuously denied the allegations and
is delighted he can now finally begin to rebuild his life.”  Australia ’s iSoft Group Ltd., which develops and markets
health information computer software, acquired U.K.-based iSoft
Group Plc in October 2007 after the events that were the subject
of the investigation. ISoft was later bought by  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  