-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-23T14:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/texas-instruments-forecasts-miss-analysts-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
analog-chip maker, forecast third-quarter sales and profit that
may exceed analysts’ estimates as demand from the automotive and
industrial markets helps counter a personal-computer slump.  Revenue will be $3.09 billion to $3.35 billion, the Dallas-based company said yesterday in a statement. On average,
analysts had projected sales of $3.2 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings will be 49 cents to 57 cents a
share, compared with estimates for 51 cents.  Texas Instruments, whose chips convert touch and sound into
electronic signals, is benefiting as makers of industrial
equipment, cars and mobile-phone systems order more parts, Chief
Financial Officer Kevin March said. That improvement in demand
is buoying the company’s results even as PC sales continue their
longest slump on record.  “Other than PCs, we’re generally expecting most of those
markets to show growth,” March said in a telephone interview.
“Automotive and industrial will continue to grow and we saw
late signs of communications-infrastructure beginning to pick
up. We expect that to continue.”  Texas Instruments  shares  rose 5 percent to $39.30 at 10:07
a.m.  New York , and earlier touched $39.74 for the biggest
intraday gain since June 2012. The stock had advanced 21 percent
this year through yesterday, compared with a 26 percent increase
in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  Second Quarter  Second-quarter net income rose 48 percent to $660 million,
or 58 cents a share, from $446 million, or 38 cents, a year
earlier, the company said. In the recent quarter, earnings
included a gain of 16 cents related to the transfer of
technology to a customer. Excluding the gain, profit would have
been 42 cents, compared with the average analyst prediction for
41 cents. Revenue fell 8.6 percent to $3.05 billion. Analysts
had  estimated  sales of $3.06 billion.  “It appears the company is executing well,” said  Bill Kreher , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. He has a hold rating on
the shares. “Industrial and automotive markets remain
healthy.”  Texas Instruments’  product  range spans almost every market
that relies on semiconductors, from chips for electronic cash
registers to missile-guidance-system components, making its
earnings a closely watched indicator of demand across the
electronics industry.  Car Market  In the automotive market, the company’s chips do everything
from controlling in-dash entertainment and navigation systems to
processing the signals from rear-view cameras. Texas Instruments
got 35 percent of its revenue from the automotive and industrial
markets in the first half of 2013, Vice President  Ron Slaymaker 
said on a conference call yesterday.  Under Chief Executive Officer Richard Templeton, Texas
Instruments is exiting the market for digital chips used in
smartphones and tablets. Cutting that division has been reducing
total sales since last year.  While the shift has lessened the company’s dependence on
the mobile-device market, Texas Instruments still supplies
cheaper components such as power-regulation chips and audio
processors for phones. Its products are also used as power
regulators in PCs.  Global PC shipments fell 10.9 percent to 76 million units
in the second quarter, the fifth consecutive drop, market
researcher Gartner Inc. said earlier this month. Unit sales slid
from a year earlier in all regions, including a 1.4 percent
decline in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  