-- Exchanges to Delay Limit Up/Limit Down Curbs From Trading Close
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-07-22T21:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/exchanges-to-delay-limit-up-limit-down-curbs-from-trading-close.html
The biggest U.S. exchange owners
will postpone full implementation of the limit up/limit down
system of volatility curbs after alerting securities regulators
to concern about how it will work at the close of trading.  NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  will hold off
extending the program to the last 15 minutes of trading days,
according to an  equity regulatory alert  on  Nasdaq ’s website. The
exchanges want more tests to gauge its effect on procedures used
to establish closing prices,  Bloomberg News  reported July 3.  Regulators have been fine-tuning systems for curbing
volatility since the so-called flash crash of May 2010 briefly
erased $862 billion from equity markets. The limit-up/limit-down
initiative replaces a system of share halts known as circuit
breakers and has been phased-in gradually since April.  “Providing additional time for the participants and the
securities industry to test the manner by which the plan
operates around the close, particularly when there is a trading
pause less than five minutes before the scheduled close of
trading, is necessary,” wrote Janet McGinness, executive vice
president of NYSE Euronext, in a July 17 letter on behalf of the
exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Since it was implemented in April, limit-up/limit-down has
been in effect from 9:45 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., avoiding the trading
periods when volume is greatest. Exchange officials are
concerned that enabling it in the last 15 minutes will make an
orderly close difficult by preventing some stocks from reopening
after they are paused.  Under the updated plans, limit up/limit down will be
extended to cover trading from 9:30 a.m. to 3:45 p.m.  New York 
time. In the statement on its website, Nasdaq said limit
up/limit down will be extended to 4 p.m. by Dec. 8. It added the
extension to 9:30 a.m. and 3:45 p.m. will take place on Aug. 5,
a Monday, rather than the previous Aug. 1 date.  Under limit up/limit down, there is a 15-second pause in
trading if orders to buy or sell a stock are outside an
established price band. If subsequent bids and offers remain
outside the band, the stock is halted for five minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  