-- Extended Stay Hotels Said to Plan IPO Filing Later Today
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-07-22T05:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/extended-stay-hotels-said-to-plan-ipo-filing-later-today.html
Extended Stay Hotels, the lodging
chain owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Centerbridge Partners LP and
Paulson & Co., plans to file today for an initial public
offering later this year, said a person with knowledge of the
situation.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company hasn’t decided
how many shares will be sold or at what price, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the process is private.
Extended Stay is owned in equal thirds by its private-equity and
hedge-fund shareholders.  The IPO could raise about $500 million, based on the
midpoint of the typical 10 percent to 20 percent of a company’s
value sold in IPOs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Extended Stay is valued at about $3 billion to $4 billion,
before debt, the person familiar with the process said. The
company has debt of about $3.6 billion, according to the person.  Plans for the IPO filing were reported earlier today by the
Wall Street Journal.  Blackstone, the largest U.S. hotelier with holdings
including Hilton Worldwide Inc., has said it plans to sell real
estate holdings as markets recover from the financial crisis.
The company’s shopping center unit Brixmor Property Group filed
last week for an IPO. Blackstone has said it expects to take
Hilton public over the next 12 to 18 months.  Blackstone created Extended Stay Hotels through a series of
investments totaling about $4.9 billion, including the $3
billion purchase of Extended Stay America in 2004, after lodging
revenue and property values had been depressed by the 2001
terrorist attacks.  Blackstone later sold Extended Stay for $8 billion in 2007
to Lightstone Group LLC. After the credit crisis hit, Extended
Stay filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2009 with $7.6 billion
in debt. Blackstone then joined Centerbridge and Paulson to buy
back the hotel chain out of bankruptcy for about $3.9 billion in
2010.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone; Mark Gallogly, co-founder of Centerbridge; and  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for
Paulson, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and phone calls
placed outside regular business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  