-- Ford Leads $4.78 Billion of Asset-Backed Deals as Sales Jump
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-07-22T21:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/ford-leads-4-78-billion-of-asset-backed-deals-as-sales-surge.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  leads companies
selling $4.78 billion in asset-backed offerings as issuance
revives following a pullback amid concern that the  Federal
Reserve  was poised to start winding down stimulus efforts.  The automaker is marketing $1.34 billion of bonds linked to
auto loans through its finance unit, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t public. The offering may be sold as soon as
tomorrow, the person said.  The pace of new asset-backed securities deals is
accelerating as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  seeks to calm
markets roiled by the specter of the central bank paring its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases. Companies sold about $5
billion in bonds linked to everything from auto loans to
timeshare payments last week, breaking a two-week drought,
according to Bank of America Corp. analysts.  The issues “provided much needed clarity to ABS pricing
levels,” the analysts led by Theresa O’Neill in New York said
in a July 19 report.  Ford is marketing top-ranked bonds maturing in 2.25 years
to pay as much as 29 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, the people said. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker
sold similar debt to yield 16 basis points more than swaps on
May 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  American Express  Other companies selling the debt this week include  American
Express Co. (AXP) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz unit,  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and Nissan Motor Co., people with knowledge of the sales
said.  Daimler is issuing $975 million of notes linked to auto
loans, while Nissan’s finance unit plans a $1 billion sale of
similar debt. General Electric is marketing $508 million of
bonds tied to equipment loans.  American Express today sold $1 billion in bonds tied to
credit-card payments, the New York-based company’s first deal
this year, Bloomberg data show. The sale was increased from $526
million. The lender paid 42 basis points more than the one-month
London interbank offered rate to issue top-ranked bonds maturing
in five years, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  