-- Former Auburn Basketball Player’s Body Found on Beach in Florida
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-22T14:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/former-auburn-basketball-player-s-body-found-on-beach-in-florida.html
Former  Auburn University  basketball
player Korvotney Barber is believed to have drowned in a riptide
after his body was found on a beach yesterday in  Florida ,
according to police. He was 26.  Barber was reported missing the evening of July 20 while
swimming in the  Gulf of Mexico , Panama City Beach Chief of
Police Drew Whitman said today in a telephone interview. His
body was discovered yesterday around 3:30 p.m. local time about
100 yards from where he entered the water, Whitman said.  Police believe Barber drowned and do not suspect foul play,
Whitman said. A medical examiner will perform an autopsy this
week to determine the official cause of death.  “The Auburn family remembers Vot as a relentless
competitor with the heart of a champion,” Auburn Athletic
Director Jay Jacobs said in a statement on the school’s
athletics website. “More importantly, those who knew him best
remember him as a caring father who deeply loved his children
and his family.”  A former McDonald’s All-American from Manchester,  Georgia ,
Barber averaged 10.9 points and 7.2 rebounds per game with the
Tigers from 2005-2009. He later played professionally in France,
Turkey and  Switzerland , the website said.  The beaches were flying  double red flags  when Barber went
swimming, Whitman said, which means the water is closed to the
public because of the dangerous undertow and rip current. Search
and rescue efforts, including helicopter fly-overs and the
department’s marine unit, were unable to find Barber the evening
he went missing or yesterday morning.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Christopher Elser  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  