-- France Said to Plan Backing Argentina in Debt Case
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-22T16:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/france-said-to-plan-backing-argentina-in-debt-case.html
The French government plans to
support Argentina’s bid for U.S.  Supreme Court  review in a legal
battle over its defaulted debt, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Attorneys for France notified lawyers for both sides that
it plans to submit a friend-of-the-court brief in support of
Argentina’s June 24 request to the Supreme Court, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter. The case involves
holdout creditors from the nation’s $95 billion default in 2001.  The South American nation contends that a federal appeals
court in  New York  was wrong when it ruled in October that
investors in restructured Argentine debt can’t be paid unless
holders of the nation’s defaulted bonds are also paid. The
defaulted-bond holders are led by billionaire  Paul Singer ’s
Elliott Management Corp. and its NML Capital Ltd. unit.  In asking the Supreme Court to take the case, Argentina
argued that the lower-court ruling “represents an unprecedented
intrusion into the activities of a foreign state within its own
territory that raises significant foreign relations concerns for
the  United States .”  Phone calls seeking comment from France’s finance ministry
weren’t returned. Alfredo Scoccimarro, a spokesman for Argentine
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Detrimental Consequences’  The  International Monetary Fund  is also considering backing
Argentina’s bid for review. The ruling could have “detrimental
consequences” for global financial stability,  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the Washington-based lender, said
July 20 after a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs in Moscow.  Last week, the Obama administration said it won’t file a
brief at this stage urging the Supreme Court to hear  Argentina ’s
appeal. The justices could seek the government’s views before
acting in the case, potentially giving the administration
another chance to make a recommendation. The administration
backed Argentina at the appeals court.  Part of the case is still pending in the appeals court.
That aspect stems from U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa’s order
that Argentina must pay defaulted bondholders the entire amount
they’re owed whenever the nation makes a required payment to
holders of the restructured debt.  Griesa also said his earlier order barring third parties
from helping Argentina avoid payment applies to Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., indenture trustee for the restructured bonds, and
others. The appeals court decision on Griesa’s orders may come
at any time.  The Supreme Court case is Argentina v. NML Capital, 12-1494. The appeals court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (New York). The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  