-- Abenomics Goal No Deterrent to Fukuoka Financial Buying JGBs
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-07-22T07:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/fukuoka-financial-weighs-jgb-purchases-amid-abe-inflation-risk.html
Fukuoka Financial Group Inc. (8354)  is
considering adding to its Japanese government bond holdings,
potentially easing concern that regional banks may dump the
notes in anticipation of an end to deflation.  The nation’s second-largest regional bank by assets sold a
net 100 billion yen ($1 billion) of JGBs after the Bank of
 Japan ’s unprecedented monetary stimulus in April sent yields on
benchmark 10-year bonds to a record low that month, President
Masaaki Tani said in an interview in Tokyo.  “We’re considering buying JGBs if long-term yields climb
above 1 percent,” Tani, 70, said on July 18. “There’s no plan
to change our JGB-centered portfolio.”  The lender contrasts with  Bank of Yokohama Ltd. , Japan’s
biggest regional bank, which is seeking to diversify assets away
from sovereign debt as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to
stoke inflation risks eroding the value of JGBs. Tani, who said
Abe’s policies have yet to benefit rural areas, is targeting a
13 percent increase in loans over three years.  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year notes fell 2 basis
points to 0.785 percent today, the lowest since May 14, after
Abe’s ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  won control of the upper
house in elections yesterday. Yields swung between an all-time
low of 0.315 percent on April 5, the day after the Bank of Japan
announced a plan to double bond purchases, to as high as 1
percent in May.  Bond Danger  Fukuoka Financial, based on the southern island of Kyushu,
held 1.59 trillion yen of JGBs as of March 31, accounting for
about 60 percent of its 2.6 trillion yen securities portfolio,
which also includes foreign bonds and stocks, company data show.
The impact of any  yield increase  is limited for the bank as it
usually holds notes until they mature to receive coupon payments
and the principal, Tani said.  “People say it’s dangerous to hold large amounts of JGBs
when yields rise,” he said. “But that just gives you
unrealized losses, which aren’t reflected in the income
statement.”  Japanese banks accumulated government debt over the past 15
years as deflation and economic stagnation caused deposits to
pile up and  loans  to decline. That strategy has come into
question as the public debt swells to the highest in the world
and Abe tries to spur prices with fiscal and monetary stimulus
combined with deregulation.  Consumer prices  exceeding fresh food in Japan probably rose
0.3 percent in June from a year earlier, the first increase in
14 months, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed before government figures due on July 26.  Yokohama Bank  Local banks’ sovereign debt  holdings  swelled 49 percent
over the past five years to 43.4 trillion yen in May,  Bank of
Japan  data show. Bank of Yokohama President Tatsumaro Terazawa
said last month that his company sold all Japanese government
notes with a maturity longer than five years to counter the risk
of yields rising. Bond prices fall as yields climb.  “What is most important is whether regional banks are
prepared to manage risks when yields increase,” said Tani, who
is also chairman of Japan’s main regional bank lobby group.
“And I believe most of them are.”  Shares of Fukuoka Financial rose 0.2 percent to 460 yen at
the close of trading in Tokyo. They have gained 34 percent this
year, less than the 45 percent advance of the 85-stock Topix
Banks Index.  Fukuoka Financial plans to increase corporate and retail
banking staff and expand  consumer credit  to increase loans by
1.2 trillion yen by March 2016, Tani said. The bank had 8.9
trillion yen in loans outstanding as of March 31.  “We have yet to see the effect of Abenomics, but
expectations are there,” said Tani, referring to the moniker
for the prime minister’s policies. “We need to revitalize local
regions to revive the Japanese economy. Our role is to support
this through financing.”  Fukuoka Financial was created in April 2007 after Bank of
Fukuoka Ltd. paid 90 billion yen to buy Kumamoto Family Bank
Ltd. The group agreed a month later to purchase Shinwa Bank
Ltd., also based on Kyushu Island, for 76 billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  