-- Fur Coats in Stores as Sweltering Britons Seek Bikinis
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-07-23T08:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/fur-coats-in-stores-as-sweltering-britons-seek-bikinis.html
Finding t-shirts and bikinis during
the U.K.’s longest heat wave in 18 years is presenting an
unlikely fashion emergency for British shoppers.  Even as temperatures have topped 28 degrees Celsius (82
degrees Fahrenheit) for 17 consecutive days, coats and sweaters
are starting to replace shorts and flip-flops in store displays
as retailers roll out fall fashions, leaving little choice for
customers seeking to replenish their wardrobes after two years
of summer washouts.  “I want to buy summer clothes now and they’re all gone,”
James Arscott, a 52-year-old data analyst, said in London.
“They sell summer clothes in the spring and now they’re selling
autumn clothes. It’s almost like they expect people to buy
things too soon.”  Stores and shoppers alike have been caught out by weeks of
blazing heat. As  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  starts to make room
in its stores for fake-fur winter coats, customers who manage to
hoist themselves from their sun-loungers are more likely to want
swimwear. John Lewis, the largest U.K. department-store chain,
said sales fell 8.7 percent in the first week of the heat wave.  “Nobody really wants to look at fake fur winter coats when
it’s 30 degrees and sticky out there,” said Bryan Roberts,
senior analyst at Kantar Retail in London. Clothing retailers
“are starting to miss out on sales.”  Cycling Shorts  Unlike supermarkets, which can bring in barbeques, cold
beer and salads with only a few days’ notice, fashion stores
have more difficulty meeting demand brought on by hot weather,
according to Roberts. Most order inventory months in advance and
manufacture far away in Asia or  Africa .  “Once you have committed, it’s on a ship on the way to
your warehouse, regardless of what the thermometer says,” said
Tristan Rogers, chief executive officer at  Concrete Platform,  a
retail Web technology company that works for Marks & Spencer,
Gap Inc.,  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  and Levi Strauss & Co.  Rogers copes with the heat by donning shorts to cycle to
client meetings and changing into a suit once on arrival. While
his suits and shirts are custom-made, shoppers who buy clothing
off the rack are frustrated with a lack of choice in the stores,
caused partly by discounts to get rid of summer fashions.  Mango’s store on  London ’s Oxford Street is offering 50
percent off the price of summer clothes, which have been
banished upstairs as the ground floor has been cleared for the
fall/winter collection.  Summer Discounts  Seasonal clothing in most fashion stores “is reduced to
the last pieces, so it’s difficult to find what you want,” said
Mariel Capisciolto, 26, who originally hails from Argentina and
now lives in London.  Since she doesn’t know how long the hot weather will last
“I try to re-use the clothes that I have.”  At  Inditex SA, (ITX)  whose Zara chain is famed for quickly
getting clothes from design-board to store, all spring and
summer season items are now discounted, the company said in an
e-mail. Some fall and winter items are already in stores, though
the full range won’t be available for another month or so. Marks
& Spencer’s fall fashions start arriving in stores July 25 as
the retailer seeks to halt two years of falling non-food sales.  “The fashion retail calendar does seem increasingly out of
sync with the weather,” said Nick Bubb, an independent analyst
who is a member of the KPMG/Ipsos  U.K. Retail Think Tank .  Undressing Mannequins  Hennes & Mauritz AB, (HMB)  Europe’s second-largest fashion chain,
has made “no changes to the stock due to the weather,”
spokeswoman Chloe Bowers said. Nonetheless, the retailer’s store
on Oxford Street removed notices promoting fall and winter
clothing and has given mannequins a more appropriate wardrobe
for the season.  “We took off jackets and trousers and replaced them with
t-shirts and skirts or shorts so they are more related to the
climate,” said the store’s visual merchandiser Alan Yau.  The hot spell is the longest since 1995, according to the
U.K.’s Met Office, which forecasts that temperatures will cool
only slightly later this week, even as thunderstorms strike.  The heat has spurred some surprising fashion choices. Like
man-caftans, a thin robe traditionally reaching to the ankles
that’s favored by 22-year-old Kenny Foot, a worker at Apple
Inc.’s flagship store in Oxford Street.  “The real loose, billowy types, they are really
comfortable and cool,” Foot said.  G-Strings  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg admitted to “padding
around the office without my shoes” on July 17, the hottest day
of the year before yesterday, while Guardian columnist Hadley
Freeman chastised readers for confusing hot-weather dressing
with beach attire, citing g-strings in London parks.  “I can’t buy anything at the moment,” said  Charlotte 
Ryan, 34, as she smoked a cigarette outside the Banglers pub in
London where she works as a waitress. “There’s the denim thing
going on at the moment, like denim shirts and denim dresses, but
no-one fancies wearing that in the summer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  