-- MMG Says Review of A$1.5 Billion Zinc Project May Alter Budget
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-22T06:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/mmg-says-review-of-a-1-5-billion-zinc-project-may-alter-budget.html
MMG Ltd. (1208) , the listed unit of  China ’s
biggest state-owned metals trader, may revise the cost and
schedule for a planned A$1.5 billion ($1.4 billion) zinc project
in Australia after it identified complexities in the ore body.  Melbourne-based MMG, in which China Minmetals Corp. has a
 73 percent stake , will review its planned mining method,
production volumes and processing facilities at the Dugald River
project in Queensland state, where it plans to begin shipments
from late 2015, it said today in a statement.  “The bottom line is that it’s too early to say,” whether
the project will face cost overruns or a delay, MMG Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Michelmore said today on a call with
analysts and reporters. “We are still running with those
timetables as we do this work.”  The Dugald River development is intended to replace output
at MMG’s Century site,  Australia ’s largest open-cut zinc mine,
which is scheduled to end production in around 2016. The company
plans to complete the review of the project by year end.  Areas of shale at the top of the ore body may need
additional ground support, while the company has discovered some
crisscrossing of faults which could require changes to the
technique used to mine the Dugald River site, Michelmore said on
the call. MMG will process around 100,000 metric tons of Dugald
River ore at its Century mine as part of the review.  MMG will make a final decision on the development of Dugald
River after it considers the review and processing trial, it
said.  The producer entered an agreement last month for as much as
$1 billion of financing for a term of 13 years to develop Dugald
River. In May, MMG awarded a A$290 million contract to  Forge
Group Ltd. (FGE)  for the design and construction of a zinc-lead-silver
concentrator and associated facilities at the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  