-- Gannett Posts Profit in Line With Estimates as TV Grows
-- B y   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-07-22T20:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/gannett-posts-profit-in-line-with-estimates-as-tv-revenue-grows.html
Gannett Co. (GCI)  reported a drop of less
than 1 percent in second-quarter sales as declining print
advertising held back growth for the USA Today publisher, which
is increasingly focused on the television industry.  Even as licensing fees for its TV stations gained 62
percent from a year earlier, print ads continue to slump,
falling 5.3 percent to $562.5 million, the company said in a
statement. Excluding some items, earnings were 58 cents a share,
in line with the average analyst estimate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Gracia Martore is shifting the
company’s core business to television to help overcome the
decline in newspapers. The McLean, Virginia-based publisher
agreed to buy  Belo Corp. (BLC)  for about $1.5 billion on June 13,
almost doubling the TV stations it owns to 43.  “I don’t think I was the only person looking at this
quarter and not cheering,” said  Ed Atorino , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in New York. “Gannett shows that the newspaper
business as a whole won’t be as good as anticipated.”  The shares  fell  1.9 percent to $25.87 at the close in New
York. The stock rose 34 percent on June 13 after the Belo deal
was announced, the biggest one-day gain since 2009, and is up 44
percent this year. The deal will make Gannett the fourth-largest
owner of major network affiliates, giving it leverage with cable
and satellite distributors when they renegotiate licensing fees.  The deal is expected to increase earnings by about 50 cents
a share within 12 months, Gannett said at the time.  Spinoff Possible?  News Corp ., the biggest U.S. newspaper publisher by market
value, spun off its print division almost a month ago to focus
on TV, and  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  announced plans this month to do the
same. Martore said on a conference call that while Gannett
executives are focusing on integrating Gannett and Belo for now,
“we will never rule anything out.”  Second-quarter TV revenue totaled $212 million, a 3.2
percent gain from last year. The company also said it plans to
begin a $300 million, two-year share buyback to replace its
current one, while leaving its dividend program unchanged.  Net income fell 5.2 percent to $113.6 million, or 48 cents
a share, from $120 million, or 51 cents, a year earlier. Sales
were $1.3 billion, down from $1.31 billion in the second quarter
of 2012.  The company said it expects a “mid-teens” percentage
decrease in TV revenue for the third quarter because the same
period last year was lifted by political advertising and Olympic
spending.  (Gannett held a conference call today to discuss its
results. For details, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madeline McMahon in  New York  at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  