-- Ghana Cedi Sinks to Low as State-Owned Shares Fall on Vote Trial
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-07-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/ghana-cedi-sinks-to-low-as-state-owned-shares-fall-on-vote-trial.html
Ghana’s cedi is sinking to record
lows and shares of state-run companies are falling on prospects
that Ghana’s  Supreme Court  will cancel President John Dramani Mahama’s election win and put at risk an improving economy.  “If there’s going to be another election, what is going to
happen to the fiscal situation?”  Stuart Culverhouse , London-based chief economist at Exotix Ltd., said by phone on July 19.
“I don’t think people are going to be thinking about whether
there’s going to be any unrest or volatility. People are more
concerned about what that means for economic stability.”  Yields on Ghana’s dollar-denominated bonds due in 2017
barely budged after scuffles among security forces and
opposition protesters broke out following 54-year-old Mahama’s
victory in December and the debt is outperforming emerging-market securities this year. The Supreme Court is considering a
challenge by opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo, 69, who said the
vote was marred by counting abnormalities. Testimony in the
three-month trial ended on July 17 and lawyers have until July
30 to submit last arguments.  The cedi fell to a record low on July 19 and is  Africa ’s
worst performer against the dollar this month after  Kenya ’s
shilling. Three of the biggest decliners on the Ghana Stock
Exchange  Composite Index (GGSECI)  this month have the government among
their top two shareholders.  The Finance Ministry forecasts Ghana’s budget deficit,
which ballooned last year to about triple the level of the year
before, will narrow in 2013 and the $41 billion economy will
expand 8 percent from 7.9 percent growth in 2012. Output shrank
a quarterly 3.1 percent in the first three months of the year
from a 2.1 percent expansion in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Stockpile Dollars  The cedi gained 0.5 percent to 2.055 per dollar by 2:24
p.m. yesterday in Accra, paring its depreciation this year to
7.3 percent. The currency may drop to between 2.1 per dollar and
2.2 per dollar in the next six months as investors and companies
continue to stockpile dollars, Kofi Pianim, a bond trader at the
Ghanaian unit of Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone on July
17.  “Importers are buying dollars ahead of time and investors
are also holding on to dollars as a precautionary measure,” he
said. “It’s driving the cedi weaker.”  Deputy Finance Minister Cassiel Ato Forson declined to
comment on the effect of the court case on the currency in an
interview on July 19.  Deficit Widened  As post-election protests broke out, yields on Ghana’s $750
million Eurobonds rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 4.96 percent on Dec. 12, a day after Akufo-Addo told a
rally of supporters he would dispute the results in court.
Yields on the debt due October 2017 retreated 20 basis points
yesterday to 5.68 percent by 5:20 p.m. in  London . The yields
have climbed 80 basis points this year, compared with a 113
basis-point increase in emerging-market  bonds , JPMorgan Chase &
Co. data show.  “The trial inspired confidence in Ghana’s democracy, but
there are concerns about how the outcome of the trial will be
handled,” said Kissy Agyeman-Togobo, Accra-based analyst with
Songhai Advisory LLP. “There are questions about how Ghana’s
security will be managed after the court’s ruling.”  Ghana’s budget deficit jumped to 12.1 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 from 4.3 percent the previous year as
the government boosted salaries for civil servants. The Finance
Ministry is forecasting the gap will narrow to 9 percent this
year. In the first four months of 2013, the shortfall was 3.8
percent of GDP, compared with a forecast of 3 percent, the
central bank said in May.  The deficit on the nation’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, widened to 12.3 percent
of GDP last year from 9 percent in 2011, according to the Bank
of Ghana. It may narrow to 11.3 percent this year, according to
the  Finance Ministry .  Contested Papers  South Africa ’s budget deficit is forecast to narrow to 4.6
percent of GDP in the 2013-14 fiscal year, according to the
Finance Ministry in the continent’s biggest economy, from 6.3
percent in the previous period, Reserve Bank figures show. The
current-account gap is expected to be 6.2 percent of GDP,
compared with a 6.1 percent shortfall last year.  “There is an element of nervousness,” Randy Mensah, a
stock trader at Ecobank Development Corp., said by phone on July
16. “The Supreme Court decision could lead to a rerun of the
December 2012 elections or a change in government.”  The court hearing, which began in April, included weeks of
testimony from Akufo-Addo’s vice presidential candidate, former
 Bank of Ghana  Deputy Governor Mahamudu Bawumia, and Kwadwo Afari-Gyan, head of the  Electoral Commission , as they poured
through contested papers from thousands of polling stations,
with the trial broadcast daily on television and radio.  Final Hearing  The pending decision prompted investors to sell shares in
companies where the government holds major stakes, Mensah said.
“The heads and boards of the companies can change if the
court’s ruling should lead to a change in government.”  Ghana Oil Co., which runs gasoline stations and is 51
percent owned by the government, posted the biggest decline on
the Accra bourse this month, falling 31 percent. PBC Ltd., the
biggest purchaser of cocoa from farmers in the country with the
state and the Social Security and National Insurance Trust
pension fund holding a combined 75 percent, is down 8.3 percent.
SIC Insurance Co., the country’s largest insurer, retreated 7
percent. The government holds 40 percent of SIC.  Ghana  Oil Managing Director Patrick Akorli didn’t answer
two calls made to his mobile phone on July 19 and two calls made
yesterday. SIC Chairman Max Cobbinah was in a meeting and
couldn’t comment, according to a company official who answered
the phone at his office on July 19. Doris Awo-Nkani, SIC’s
managing director, was in a meeting, a company official who
answered the phone at her office, said yesterday.  “Whichever way the decision of the court goes does not
matter to PBC,” Kojo Atta-Krah, PBC’s managing director, said
by phone yesterday. “PBC is a public listed company. I’ve seen
government come to understand what that means.”  The court adjourned until July 31, Justice William Atuguba
said during proceedings. The judges have 15 days to announce
their decision after the final hearing, Sam Okudzeto, a former
president of the Ghana Bar Association, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  