-- Glaxo Executive Says Changes in China to Cut Drug Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-22T16:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/glaxo-executives-may-have-violated-laws-china-ministry-says.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s head of
 emerging markets  said after meeting with government officials in
Beijing some employees may have broken  China ’s laws and pledged
corporate changes that will deliver cheaper medicines.  Abbas Hussain, who was sent to China to help with the
probe, said he had a “very constructive meeting” with
officials from the Ministry of Public Security. Glaxo faces
allegations of economic crimes involving 3 billion  yuan  ($489
million) of spurious travel and meeting expenses as well as
trade in sexual favors, the ministry said last week.  “Certain senior executives of GSK China who know our
systems well, appear to have acted outside of our processes and
controls which breaches Chinese law,” Hussain said in an e-mailed statement. “We have zero tolerance for any behavior of
this nature.”  Separately,  Peter Humphrey , founder of a Shanghai-based
company that worked with the U.K.’s largest drugmaker to
organize an anti-corruption seminar, has been detained in
Beijing since July 10, a spokeswoman for the Foreign Office in
London said by phone. The spokeswoman, who asked to remain
unidentified citing the department’s policy, didn’t specify
whether the detention was linked to the probe into Glaxo.  ‘Local Matter’  The probe may be widening, given that at least six other
global drugmakers, including  Merck & Co. (MRK) , Novartis AG,  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  and Sanofi, used the same travel agency to make
arrangements for events and conferences in the last three years,
the  New York  Times reported, citing documents it obtained.  Sanofi and Roche today confirmed they had worked with the
travel agency, called  Shanghai  Linjiang. Both said they had
stopped once the allegations of wrongdoing surfaced.  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN)  also today said police had visited its offices in Shanghai,
though it believes that was related to “a local police matter
focused on a sales representative.”  China detained four senior Glaxo executives on suspicion of
economic crimes, the ministry said July 15. Its finance chief in
China, Steve Nechelput, has been unable to leave the country
since the end of June because of the investigation, though he
hasn’t been arrested or questioned, Simon Steel, a Glaxo
spokesman in  London , said July 18.  Glaxo’s executives “violated China’s laws and damaged
markets by engaging in bribery to raise drug prices, expand
sales and reap inappropriate profits,” the Public Security
Ministry said in a  statement  posted on its website today.
Hussain apologized on behalf of London-based Glaxo and pledged
to cooperate with the investigation, the ministry said, citing a
recent meeting with the executive and his colleagues.  Travel Centers  Glaxo is reviewing how it operates in China, according to
Hussain. “Savings made as a result of proposed changes to our
operational model will be passed on in the form of price
reductions, ensuring our medicines are more affordable to
Chinese patients,” he said.  The company, which made about 1 billion pounds ($1.5
billion) of  revenue  in China last year, had said in June that it
found “no evidence of corruption or bribery” there after a
four-month internal investigation.  Glaxo fell as much as 1.2 percent to 1,694 pence in London
trading. The stock has gained 27 percent so far this year.  State-owned  China Central Television  aired a prime-time
segment on July 16 detailing how Glaxo executives used travel
centers including Shanghai Linjiang International Travel Agency
to funnel bribes to government officials, hospitals and doctors.  Liang Hong, an operations manager for Glaxo China and one
of the executives detained, said consumers were paying 20 to 30
percent more for drugs because of the bribery, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported on July 15.  Humphrey, the British national detained in Shanghai, is the
founder of risk management advisory ChinaWhys, according to the
consultancy’s website. ChinaWhys teamed up with Glaxo in 2004 to
produce a seminar for the European Chamber of Commerce in
Shanghai on fraud, corruption and intellectual property issues,
according to the  website .  The Foreign Office is providing consular assistance to
Humphrey’s family, the spokeswoman said. Calls to a mobile
number for the  Shanghai police  press office weren’t answered.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  