-- Glencore Said to Work With Bank of America on Frieda River Sale
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-07-22T08:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/glencore-said-to-work-with-bank-of-america-on-frieda-river-sale.html
Glencore Xstrata International Plc (GLEN) ,
the world’s biggest publicly traded commodities supplier, is
working with  Bank of America Corp.  to find buyers for its stake
in a copper and gold project in  Papua New Guinea , a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Baar, Switzerland-based company hasn’t made a final
decision to sell the Frieda River project, said the person,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.  Frieda River was being developed by Xstrata Plc, which
Glencore acquired in May. Glencore now owns about 82 percent of
the project, according to its  website .  Highlands Pacific Ltd. (HIG) ,
which owns the rest, said last week that Glencore is continuing
the sale process and that the PNG government is interested in
taking over the project. Xstrata initially announced plans to
sell all or part of Frieda River in June last year.  A spokesman for Glencore declined to comment on its plans
for the mine.  Xstrata has estimated the cost of building the Frieda River
project at $5.2 billion. If developed, Frieda River is projected
to produce 204,000 metric tons of copper and 305,000 ounces of
gold over a 20-year mine life, according to the project’s
 website . Glencore has yet to decide whether to continue
developing Frieda River.  Frieda River is one of four mines that Glencore could sell
if it is unable to divest the Las Bambas copper mine in  Peru  by
Sept. 30 next year, under an agreement with China’s Ministry of
Commerce in April. The other three are Tampakan in the
Philippines and El Pachon and Alumbrera in Argentina.  Glencore agreed to sell Las Bambas to secure China’s
approval of the Xstrata takeover.  Glencore, which added coal, copper, zinc and nickel mines
to its commodities trading operations with the Xstrata takeover,
joins companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  in
evaluating assets for divestment and rationing capital spending
after a slump in commodity prices crimped margins.  Melbourne-based BHP sold its Pinto Valley copper mine and
railroad in the U.S. to  Capstone Mining Corp. (CS)  in April for $650
million. Rio last month sold its Eagle nickel and copper project
in Michigan to  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  for $325 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  