-- Google, Amazon.com Win Appeal to Toss Internet Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-07-22T16:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/google-amazon-com-win-appeal-to-toss-internet-patents.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  won
a U.S. appeals court ruling in a case of a former university
researcher who claimed his patents covered some of the
Internet’s most basic interactive functions.  The two patents owned by  Eolas Technologies Inc.  of Tyler,
 Texas , and the  University of California  are invalid, the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  today
ruled. The  decision , issued without a formal opinion, upholds a
jury verdict won by Google, Amazon.com, JC Penney Co. and  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  last year in Tyler.  Eolas founder Michael Doyle claimed functions including
music clips, search features, maps and embedded applications
used his inventions. Tim Berners-Lee, the British computer
scientist credited with inventing the World Wide Web, was among
those testifying against him in the trial.  Eolas, in court papers, claimed the patents covered
inventions that “took the Web from a primitive and static world
to today’s seamlessly interactive environment.”  In its own filing with the court,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google and Plano, Texas-based JC Penney said
Eolas’s claim was a “fantastic assertion” rejected by the jury
“after hearing from the scientists who are actually responsible
for that achievement, including the father of the World Wide
Web.”  More than a dozen companies had been named in the original
complaint, including Apple Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and Citigroup Inc.
Most settled before the trial. Cases against  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Walt Disney Co. were stayed pending appeal.  In 2003, Eolas won a $521 million verdict against Microsoft
Corp. that was thrown out on appeal for a retrial on the
validity of the patents. The two companies settled before a new
trial could be held.  The case is Eolas Technologies v. Amazon.com Inc., 12-1632,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Eolas Technologies Inc. v.  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE) , 09cv446, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  