-- Gulf’s Crackdown on Hezbollah May Endanger Lebanon Cash Flow
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-07-23T08:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/gulf-s-crackdown-on-hezbollah-may-endanger-lebanon-cash-pipeline.html
Plans by Persian Gulf countries to
crack down on Hezbollah may pose a bigger threat to Lebanon’s
fragile public finances than to the Shiite militant group.  Officials from the Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, met this month to
coordinate action against Hezbollah supporters in the region,
after labeling it a terrorist group last month, a move matched
by the European Union yesterday. The Shiite Muslim Hezbollah and
the mostly Sunni Muslim GCC are on opposite sides of the Syrian
civil war, with the Lebanese group fighting alongside President
Bashar al-Assad while Gulf countries finance his opponents.  The oil-rich GCC employs millions of Arabs from poorer
countries, including Lebanese Shiites who may find it harder to
get visas or renew residency permits under the proposed curbs.
That would cut off some of the remittances that help Lebanon
finance one of the world’s biggest debt burdens and keep its
currency stable.  “Lebanon does depend on a free flow of people and capital
and if this is a seriously applied restriction, then it’s bound
to have some sort of effect,” said David Butter, Middle East
analyst and associate fellow at foreign policy research group
Chatham House in  London .  Remittances Crucial  There are about 500,000 Lebanese in the Gulf. The money
they send home, according to Raza Agha, London-based chief
Middle East and Africa economist at VTB Capital Plc, has
accounted for about 60 percent of remittances flowing to the
country in the recent past. That’s about $4.6 billion, according
to World Bank data, or more than a tenth of the nation’s $43.8
billion  gross domestic product .  The GCC hasn’t said what concrete steps it will take
against Hezbollah, which together with allies dominates
Lebanon’s caretaker government. The EU yesterday designated the
group’s military wing a terrorist organization, without
proscribing the entire movement as the U.S. and  Israel  do.  In an e-mailed statement, Hezbollah rejected the EU
decision, calling it “aggressive, unjust and not based on any
justifications or evidence.”  “It looks like the decision was written by American hands
and with Israeli ink,” the statement said. “The EU only had to
add its signature in approval.”  ‘Right Track’  Hezbollah, meanwhile, has shrugged off the GCC’s decision,
saying it doesn’t have a presence in those countries. Leader
Hassan Nasrallah said on June 14 the group has no “projects in
the Gulf or anywhere else,” and the threatened measures “will
only strengthen our conviction that we’re on the right track.”  A special GCC team will implement guidelines set out by the
region’s interior ministers on issues including visas and
assets,  Kuwait ’s state-run news agency KUNA  reported  on July 4.
Qatar deported 18 Hezbollah supporters in June.  Hezbollah gets funds from Shiite-ruled  Iran . It’s viewed by
Gulf Arab states as “the henchman of the regional bogeyman,”
yet it probably won’t be affected by their actions, said Taufiq
Rahim, a Dubai-based political analyst at research company
GlobeSight.  Broader Damage  The strains in Lebanon’s ties with the GCC may do broader
damage to an economy already struggling with a slump in tourism,
which accounts for about one-fifth of GDP. It dropped 20 percent
in 2012 and an additional 13 percent in the first five months of
this year, according to Tourism Minister Fadi Abboud, as the war
in  Syria  spilled into Lebanon, which has a history of similar
sectarian conflicts.  Abboud said Gulf nationals ordinarily make up 40 percent of
visitors and account for 60 percent of tourism spending.
Economic growth this year won’t exceed 2 percent, Lebanese
Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi said last month.  “Blanket moves to restrict visa issuance to the Lebanese
will be negative, and not just in terms of remittances,” VTB’s
Agha said. The Gulf countries “also dominate foreign
investment, tourism and exports.” He estimates they used to
supply 60 percent of  foreign direct investment .  The Lebanese diaspora transferred $7.6 billion home in
2011, according to the World Bank. Those working in the Gulf are
more likely to save and send money back than compatriots
elsewhere because wages are usually higher and taxes lower,
according to Kamal Hamdan, managing director of the Consultation
and Research Institute in Beirut.  Expat Savings Key  The expatriate savings are key to the financial system.
Lebanon’s banks lure them with interest rates that have averaged
about 5.5 percent for the past two years, according to  central
bank data , while the pound has been pegged at about 1,500 to the
dollar since the 1990s. Non-residents held 5 trillion Lebanese
pounds ($3.3 billion) of deposits in April.  Those deposits help finance the purchase of government
bonds. Local banks held 54 percent of Lebanon’s public debt last
year, Fitch Ratings said July 1. The country’s debt-to-GDP ratio
was  128 percent  at the end of 2012, and the CIA’s World Factbook
ranked it as the sixth-highest globally.  It’s not clear how many Lebanese expat workers in the Gulf
are Shiites, a group that makes up about one-third of Lebanon’s
population.  Lebanese Shiites without any ties to Hezbollah “will
suffer directly” from the GCC action, said Jihad Azour, a
former Lebanese finance minister who’s now vice president of
advisory firm Booz & Co. in  Beirut .  That may already be happening. A Dubai-based human-resource
executive said her company now struggles to secure or renew work
visas for Lebanese Shiites. Even when applicants aren’t
rejected, they have to wait at least five weeks to get residency
compared with about four days for others, said Joumana, who
declined to provide her last name or her company’s name, citing
security concerns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  