-- Michigan Sales Slow Most Since April After Detroit: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-07-22T14:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/michigan-sales-slow-most-since-april-after-detroit-muni-credit.html
Michigan  municipalities are set to
borrow the least in three months as  Detroit ’s bankruptcy shakes
investor confidence, exacerbating the steepest borrowing
slowdown this year among the 10 most populous states.  Governments in the state, including school and water
districts and the city of Portage west of Detroit, plan to offer
about $13 million of debt this week. It’s the  least  since April
for a non-holiday week and about 10 percent of the same period
of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Localities are pulling back as investors, including Nuveen
Asset Management, question the value of a general-obligation
pledge from borrowers in the eighth-largest state by population.
Buyers may demand extra yield from Michigan issuers after
Detroit’s decision, said Jim D’Arcy, who helps oversee about $48
billion of munis at Vanguard Group Inc.  In particular for cities around Detroit, “the guilt-by-association factor is going to start to creep in to the deal
because Michigan will have more of a taint on it now,” said
Patrick Morrissey, who helps manage about $3 billion in fixed
income at Great Lakes Advisors in  Chicago .  Clouded View  The move by Detroit, which Republican Governor  Rick Snyder 
backed, is clouding investors’ view of Michigan even as the
state’s economy is strengthening, leaving it poised for higher
credit ratings. Debt sold in the state is trailing the $3.7
trillion municipal market by the most in two years, Barclays Plc
data show.  Investors are focusing on Detroit’s approach to what is
typically considered the safest form of muni debt, which
municipalities use to finance roads and schools. In a June
restructuring proposal, Detroit Emergency Financial Manager
Kevyn Orr tried to persuade holders of $369 million of unlimited
general obligations to accept less than 20 cents on the dollar.
The debt is supposed to have the full backing of taxpayers.  “If you’re a bondholder in the state of Michigan, why do
you buy a Michigan state G.O. or any G.O. debt in the state?”
said Lyle Fitterer, who helps oversee $31 billion in munis at
Wells Capital Management in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .  State’s Role  “You need to come out as a state and effectively say,
‘Here’s what we’re going to do to make sure you, the bond
investor, know the security pledge you have,’” Fitterer said.  Now that Snyder has approved Detroit’s bankruptcy filing,
Nuveen, which holds $62 million of the city’s general-obligation
bonds, says investors should view such debt as having no greater
standing than vendor contracts, leases and retirement
liabilities, Shawn O’Leary and Molly Shellhorn, research
analysts at the company, wrote in a July 19 report.  Investors should question “whether they should pay any
form of safety premium for Michigan general obligation bonds
relative to other forms of municipal liabilities in a state
where the governor has granted his implicit blessing to such
drastic treatment of full faith and credit obligations,” the
analysts wrote.  Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said in a report today that
investors should reduce holdings of lower-rated munis from
Michigan because their yield spreads should grow. Buyers have
been “pulling away” from debt sold in Michigan, which would
result in a thinner base of investors, he wrote.  Generalization Risk  Snyder said speculation that Detroit’s bankruptcy would
adversely affect borrowing costs of other Michigan
municipalities is “stirring the pot.”  “Each city should stand on its own,” he said in an
interview last week in Detroit. “What’s going on in Detroit
shouldn’t be generalized to other jurisdictions.”  Portage plans to sell $3.1 million of general obligations
tomorrow through competitive bid, Bloomberg data show. While
Detroit’s filing may influence the sale, Portage’s pension plan
is fully funded and the city is rated two steps below the top
grade by  Standard & Poor’s , Daniel Foecking, director of
finance, said in an interview.  “Yes, we’re in Michigan, so it’s possible that it could
affect it,” Foecking said. “On the other hand, we have good
financials.”  2013 Loss  Bonds of Michigan and its localities have lost 3.6 percent this
year, surpassing the 3.4 percent decline for all munis, the
first time the state has trailed the market since 2011, Barclays
data show.  After Illinois and  California , Michigan general obligations
offer the most extra yield above top-rated munis among the 17
states tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on Michigan general
obligations maturing in 10 years are 0.32 percentage point above
an index of benchmark munis.  Potential yield-spread widening for some Michigan
localities may offer a chance to buy, Vanguard’s D’Arcy said.  “If you see an event like this, you do see credit spreads
widen out” for other issuers in the state, D’Arcy said. The
firm will “try and find opportunities where other people are
maybe worried about headline risk and you can find some good
opportunities away from Detroit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  