-- High-Yield Companies Debut Bonds in Europe as Credit Risk Falls
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-22T14:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/high-yield-companies-debut-bonds-in-europe-as-credit-risk-falls.html
Maisons du Monde SAS, the French
home furnishings retailer, and Italian gambling company Gamenet
SpA are selling their first bonds as the cost of insuring
European debt against losses fell for a fourth day.  Maisons du Monde priced 325 million euros ($429 million) of
9 percent notes due August 2020 while Rome-based Gamenet is
meeting investors for a potential sale of 200 million euros of
securities. The Markit iTraxx Crossover index of credit-default
swaps on 50 companies with high-yield credit ratings fell 3
basis points to 396 basis points at 3:12 p.m. in  London , the
lowest since May 28.  Bill Gross , who manages the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said he expects the  Federal
Reserve  to maintain stimulus measures until at least 2016. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week it was “way
too early to make any judgment” on whether the central bank
will begin cutting back quantitative easing in September.  “Credit markets are now quite positive and so it’s now a
good time to issue,” said Andrea Cicione, a strategist at
Lombard Street Research Ltd. in London. “A few high-yield
companies have been waiting to issue. They have been holding on
for a while for markets to be in a better shape.”  A spokeswoman for Maisons du Monde was not immediately
available to comment on the bond sale.  The average yield investors demand to hold junk-rated bonds
from non-financial companies fell to 5.74 percent, the lowest
since June 6, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
High-Yield Constrained index.  Maisons du Monde, based in Nantes, sold the bonds through
its parent company Magnolia SA to finance its acquisition by
Bain Capital Partners LLC and its managers. The notes were
assigned a provisional B rating by  Standard & Poor’s  and an
equivalent B2 by Moody’s Investors Service, five levels below
investment grade.  Investor Meetings  Gamenet is meeting investors today in London and in
Amsterdam on July 25. Proceeds from the bond sale will be used
to repay existing debt and for general corporate purposes,
according to a statement on the company’s  website . The deal is
being coordinated by UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, along
with UniCredit SpA and Banca IMI SpA, according to a person
familiar with the deal.  Manutencoop Facility Management SpA, an Italian property
manager, plans to meet investors this week for a high-yield bond
sale in two parts, according to a person familiar with the deal.
The Bologna-based company is seeking to issue a total 450
million euros of seven-year, fixed-rate notes and six-year,
floating-rate notes to repay existing debt and fund working
capital. The securities may be rated B2 by Moody’s.  Also in the market today,  Tag Immobilien AG (TEG) ,  Germany ’s
third-largest publicly traded residential landlord, has mandated
banks for a possible sale of euro-denominated bonds, a person
with knowledge of the matter said. The Hamburg-based company
will begin meeting investors tomorrow, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the details are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  