-- Ryan Braun’s 65-Game Ban Seen as Prelude in Wider MLB Probe
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-23T13:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/milwaukee-brewers-braun-suspended-for-rest-of-baseball-season.html
Ryan Braun  will miss the final 65
games of the season after becoming the first in a potential
group of Major League Baseball players to be banned for their
connections to a clinic accused of distributing performance-enhancing drugs.  The Milwaukee Brewers’ outfielder, who repeatedly denied
doping after failing a test during the 2011 postseason, said he
“made some mistakes” after being suspended without pay for the
rest of the season by MLB for unspecified drug violations. He’ll
forfeit $3.4 million of his $8.5 million salary for this season.  “We’ve scratched the tip of the iceberg,” said MLB
Network analyst Mitch Williams, a former All-Star who pitched in
the major leagues from 1986-97. “There’s going to be a whole
lot more suspensions after this.”  Braun, the National League’s Most Valuable Player in 2011,
was among a group of All-Stars being investigated for links to
Biogenesis of America LLC, a Miami-area anti-aging clinic that
MLB said supplied performance-enhancing substances to players.  Three-time American League MVP  Alex Rodriguez  of the  New
York Yankees  and All-Star outfielder  Nelson Cruz  of the  Texas
Rangers  are among approximately 20 major-leaguers who are also
facing suspensions from MLB, ESPN has reported.  MLB spokesman Pat Courtney said in an e-mail the
commissioner’s office can’t comment on the potential of other
player suspensions because “we are still in the midst of an
active investigation.”  League Investigation  MLB began probing Biogenesis after the Miami New Times in
January reported that it obtained medical records linking banned
substances from the now-closed clinic to players including
Braun, Rodriguez, Cruz, Toronto Blue Jays outfielder Melky Cabrera, Oakland Athletics pitcher  Bartolo Colon , San Diego
Padres shortstop Everth Cabrera, Detroit Tigers shortstop Jhonny Peralta and Yankees catcher  Francisco Cervelli .  Baseball also sued Biogenesis for allegedly helping players
obtain banned drugs and damaging the sport’s reputation by
inducing players to violate contractual obligations. Clinic
founder Tony Bosch last month reached an agreement to cooperate
with league investigators, ESPN reported, citing two
unidentified people familiar with the case.  Braun, 29, apologized to baseball fans and his teammates in
his statement and said he’s “glad to have this matter behind me
once and for all.”  Braun’s Appeal  Braun in February 2012 had a 50-game drug suspension for
elevated testosterone levels overturned by an arbitration panel
after he argued his urine test sample had been mishandled and
publicly criticized the man who collected it.  Three months later, MLB fired Shyam Das, who had the
deciding vote on the three-person panel and had been the sport’s
permanent arbitrator since 1999. Braun was the first player to
successfully appeal a drug suspension.  “It’s sad that one of the young faces of our game has
proved to be a cheater and has violated the system,” said ESPN
baseball analyst Aaron Boone, who played 12 seasons in the major
leagues. “There was a feeling from a lot of us that he had
always gotten off on a technicality.”  Boone and fellow ESPN analyst  Curt Schilling  said Braun’s
apology needs to extend to the collector he attacked, comparing
it to cyclist  Lance Armstrong ’s verbal bullying of those who
confronted him during 13 years of denials about doping.
Armstrong in January admitted to using performance-enhancing
drugs.  Armstrong Comparison  “What I want to know is did he fail the test two years
ago, because now I assume he did and he’s been lying to us for
two years,” Schilling, one of 16 pitchers in baseball history
with more than 3,000 career strikeouts, said on ESPN. “This
feels very Lance Armstrong to me because he went out of his way
to ruin a man’s life who had nothing to do with baseball and was
delivering a sample for his job.”  Brewers owner  Mark Attanasio  said in a statement that he
was disappointed with Braun’s actions. He also praised
baseball’s testing program as an initiative that ensures “the
integrity of the game.”  “It’s clear that Ryan used bad judgment, but we accept his
apology and believe that he should be given the opportunity to
redeem himself,” Attanasio said.  Braun’s suspension comes with the Brewers in last place in
the NL’s Central Division. Brewers General Manager Doug Melvin
said Braun addressed his teammates before yesterday’s game and
said the team is looking to move forward after having “a cloud
over the ballclub not knowing what’s going to happen.”  Braun was hitting .298 with nine home runs and 38 runs
batted in this season while missing 36 games, in part because of
an injured thumb. He has seven years and more than $120 million
left on his contract with the Brewers.  MLB Players Association Executive Director  Michael Weiner 
and MLB Vice President  Rob Manfred  commended Braun in separate
statements for accepting the suspension and for taking
responsibility for his past actions.  MLB Network’s Williams said other players connected to the
Biogenesis probe may soon accept suspensions after being
presented with evidence from the league.  “You see he negotiated the deal, that they came to this
conclusion,” Williams said of the agreement between Braun and
MLB. “There’s other big names out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  