-- Time Warner Names OneSource’s Joseph Ripp as Time Inc.’s CEO
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-22T20:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/time-warner-names-onesource-s-joseph-ripp-as-time-inc-s-ceo.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  named Joseph Ripp
chief executive officer of Time Inc., the magazine unit that
will be spun off as a separate company later this year amid an
industrywide decline in print advertising.  Ripp, 61, is the CEO of OneSource Information Services
Inc., a provider of data on companies, and previously held a
series of senior positions at Time Warner, including as chief
financial officer when it was part of the much larger company
that had merged with AOL Inc. He’ll begin his new role in
September, the company said today in a statement.  “We have to reignite the spark at Time Inc.,” Ripp said
in an interview. “There are lots of challenges, and we need to
identify the things we need to stop doing and identify areas for
growth.”  Time Warner CEO  Jeff Bewkes  decided earlier this year to
cleave off the shrinking magazine business to focus on the
company’s more valuable television and film divisions. The move
mirrors plans by other major media companies.  News Corp . split
in two at the end of last month to form a separate newspaper
business, and  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  announced this month it would spin off
its newspapers, which include the Los Angeles Times.  Time Inc.’s sales have fallen in five of the last seven
years, making it the biggest laggard among Time Warner’s
divisions. The unit’s revenue of $3.4 billion in 2012
represented more than 11 percent of Time Warner’s total sales,
according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Time Warner rose less than 1 percent to $62.22 at the close
in  New York . The shares have gained 30 percent this year.  More Freedom  Ripp said the plan to make Time Inc. independent gives it
more freedom to make investments and to more rapidly transform
the business into digital publishing at a time when fewer people
are reading print media.  “We’re no longer going to be the magazine division of Time
Warner,” he said. “We’re not going to be a magazine company at
all.”  Ripp, who left Time Warner in 2004, was named in a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation that alleged
Ripp, along with seven other executives, had fraudulently
overstated ad revenue at AOL.  SEC Investigation  While Ripp  settled  the claims for $150,000 in 2010, neither
admitting nor denying the allegations, he was described as the
“whistle-blower” in a New York Times  article  about the
investigation.  “Joe Ripp is as far from being a crook as anyone you’ll
ever know,” John Huey, then editor-in-chief of Time Inc., told
the Times.  Time Warner announced its spinoff plans in March after
talks fell apart for a joint venture with  Meredith Corp. (MDP) ,
publisher of primarily women’s titles such as Ladies’ Home
Journal and Family Circle. The venture would have folded in Time
Inc.’s women’s-focused magazines, such as InStyle and People,
while leaving the news and sports titles such as Time and  Sports
Illustrated  with Time Warner. The talks faltered after Bewkes
decided he wanted to unload all 21 publications at once, a
person familiar with the process said at the time.  Resuming Talks?  Meredith CEO Stephen Lacy said then that the company
remained open “to continuing a dialogue on how our companies
might work together on future opportunities.”  While Ripp is open to talking to Lacy, it’s unlikely the
two companies will enter into any merger discussions, the new
Time Inc. CEO said today in the interview.  With analysts estimating an enterprise value of about  $3.9
billion , Time Inc. would be bigger than any other publicly held
company focused on magazine publishing after it separates from
Time Warner, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As a public company, projections for Time Inc.’s enterprise
value -- or the sum of its equity and debt minus cash -- range
from $2.7 billion to about $4.9 billion, according to six
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The average estimate
of about $3.9 billion would outstrip Meredith’s enterprise value
of $1.97 billion. About three-quarters of Meredith’s revenue
comes from national magazines, with the remainder from local
television stations.  Debt Burden  Many of Time Inc.’s magazine rivals are closely held,
including Advance Publications Inc., owner of Vogue and Vanity
Fair publisher  Conde Nast , and Hearst Corp., which publishes
Cosmopolitan.  Time Warner executives are looking at starting Time Inc.’s
debt at about three times its annual operating income, which
would amount to about $1.2 billion, two people familiar with the
discussions  told Bloomberg News  in March.  The Time Inc. spinoff would rid Time Warner of its original
business, ending its long history in magazine publishing. Time
Inc., which was founded by Henry Luce and Briton Hadden in 1922,
became the foundation for Time Warner, one of the largest media
companies in the world. After entering the television business,
the company eventually acquired a controlling stake in movie
studio Warner Communications in 1989 and became Time Warner the
following year.  The separation of Time Inc. also marks Time Warner’s third
major spinoff since Bewkes became CEO in 2008.  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable company, became independent
in March 2009, while AOL Inc. was spun off later that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  