-- IMF Made More Deletions to Reports During European Crisis
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-22T21:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/imf-made-more-deletions-to-reports-during-financial-crisis.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it more frequently agreed to delete information from staff
reports in response to member countries’ requests during the
global financial crisis and the European debt turmoil.  In a  review  of its transparency policy, the Washington-based IMF said 17 percent of published staff reports were
subject to deletions in 2012, compared with 10 percent before
the last review, which was done in 2009. The rate was highest
among advanced economies, with a 35 percent average in the
2009-2012 period, according to the report.  “During the crisis, markets have become more volatile, and
economies have become more vulnerable to adverse news,” IMF
staff wrote. “Members facing vulnerabilities have requested
more deletions, and within the group of advanced markets, a
large share of the countries requesting the largest number of
deletions on grounds of market sensitivity are the European
crisis countries.”  The IMF, which over the past three years has helped bail
out countries from Ireland to  Tunisia , has been changing its
rules to publish more of its work and with shorter delays. At
the same time, the push for transparency is making some
countries reluctant to discuss sensitive issues with the fund,
fearing the information will be made public, according to the
report.  Fund’s Mandate  “The fund’s mandate, to foster global growth and economic
stability, requires candid discussions with members and the
board, as well as with the public, without disrupting markets,”
staff wrote. “At the same time, protecting information that is
provided by members on a confidential basis is an important
element of the trust between the fund and its members, and trust
builds traction.”  The IMF also conducted separate surveys to assess how the
fund’s work is perceived. Among respondents, half of the
executive directors, who represent the IMF’s 188 member
countries at the board, disagreed that IMF policy was applied
evenhandedly, according to the report. Thirty percent of mission
chiefs expressed the same thought, it said.  The report was written in May and discussed by the board of
directors last month. Directors on the 24-person board agreed to
additional measures to further improve transparency, the fund
said in a press release today.  Among them, the IMF set an expectation that most documents
will be published within 14 calendar days of the board meetings
where they were discussed. The IMF will also provide stronger
assurances to countries on the treatment of confidential
information, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  