-- Indonesia Shows Lira Risk Doesn’t End With Rates: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-07-23T07:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/indonesia-shows-lira-risk-doesn-t-end-with-rates-turkey-credit.html
The slump in  Indonesia ’s rupiah this
month following a 50 basis-point increase in interest rates
highlights the risk for Turkey’s central bank should it fail to
raise borrowing costs sufficiently to curb outflows.  Turkey’s central bank will boost the top rate of its three-pronged policy today by between 50 and 100 basis points, keeping
the others unchanged, surveys of economists by Bloomberg show.
Governor Erdem Basci needs to exercise boldness because an
increase seen as too small risks fueling a selloff in lira
assets while two-year yields are the third highest in  emerging
markets , according to Julian Rimmer at CF Global Trading U.K.
Ltd.  “The bigger the hike the better,” Rimmer, a broker in
London, said by e-mail yesterday. “Anything less than 100 basis
points will smack of political bias or timidity.”  Turkey  and Indonesia are facing pressure on their
currencies as rising U.S.  Treasury yields  attract capital out of
emerging markets, with the two countries using the inflows to
fund their current-account deficits. The rupiah had the biggest
decline this month among 24 emerging markets, while the lira
gained. Both countries have the lowest investment-grade rating
from Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  Rupiah Slides  Bank Indonesia is confident the currency will stabilize
after the changes, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said in a
mobile-phone text message on July 15. The rupiah weakened 1
percent since policy makers raised the reference rate July 11.  “The market doesn’t think 50 basis points is enough,”
 Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based fund manager at  Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc (ADN) , said by e-mail yesterday. “Many houses
are calling for further rate hikes” even though Indonesia’s
central bank is trying to signal that they are not necessary, he
said.  Foreign investors need Turkey’s central bank to raise
interest rates by at least 1 percentage point to restore a rally
in the bond market and lira, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Commerzbank AG analysts last week. Those investors sold $1.3
billion in stocks and bonds in the two weeks to July 12, and the
central bank has sold $6.55 billion of foreign exchange
defending the lira since June 11, leaving reserves at $103.4
billion, the lowest level since January.  Foreign Reserves  “The central bank’s net reserves can finance only 10
months of external financing needs,” JPMorgan economist  Yarkin Cebeci  said in a report yesterday. “Higher domestic rates are
required to attract much-needed portfolio inflows.”  The central bank will probably keep its overnight borrowing
rate at 3.5 percent today and its one-week repo rate at 4.5
percent, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Turkey’s  current-account deficit  will be 6.8 percent of
gross domestic product this year, according to the median of 22
economist estimates on Bloomberg. That compares with a 2.1
percent gap for Indonesia, another survey showed.  While Indonesia’s deficit is smaller, “we expect it to be
quite persistent this time round,”  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , South
Asia economist for Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 Singapore , said by e-mail yesterday. Like Turkey, Indonesia
faces a choice between higher rates to stabilize the currency or
lower rates to boost growth, and Indonesia’s central bank will
go for growth, he said.  Economic Growth  Indonesia’s economy will probably expand 6.05 percent this
year, more than the 4 percent growth forecast for Turkey,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  The lira was little changed at 1.9115 per dollar at 10:05
a.m. in Istanbul today. The currency weakened 3.6 percent since
May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he
was considering scaling back the central bank’s $85 billion a
month in bond purchases. The rupiah lost 4.3 percent in the
period and  Brazil ’s real tumbled 8.6 percent, the biggest drop
among emerging-market currencies. Brazil’s central bank raised
its main interest rate by 50 basis points on July 11.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Turkish dollar-denominated debt over Treasuries fell one basis point to 230
basis points yesterday, compared with 281 in Indonesia and 211
for Brazil.  The yield on two-year  lira bonds  rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.91 percent, the highest among
major emerging markets after Brazil and  India . Indonesia’s yield
at 7.16 percent ranked fourth.  “Turkey’s current-account deficit leaves it vulnerable in
the event of a fresh deterioration in investor sentiment,” Neil Shearing, chief emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics
in  London , said in an e-mailed report yesterday. He predicted a
100 basis-point increase in the overnight lending rate today.
“Changes thereafter will be determined by movements in the
lira.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  