-- Iranian Guards Say Its Biggest Issue Is Poor Communication
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-07-22T14:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/iranian-guards-say-its-biggest-issue-is-poor-communication.html
Iran ’s Revolutionary Guards, the
elite military corps feared for its crackdowns on internal
dissent and pervasive presence in Iranian society, says it
hasn’t been a good communicator.  Its spokesman, in rare comments about the Guards’ work
published today in the Shargh newspaper, wants it to do a better
job trumpeting its achievements.  “I see the most important weakness of the Guards as being
in the information arena,” Ramezan Sharif told the Tehran-based
newspaper. “Despite much effort, we haven’t been able to
present correctly the work and actions of this popular and
revolutionary entity.”  Sharif said the Guards, apart from keeping foreign
aggressors at bay, has been a key driver of the country’s
economy, pressing ahead on infrastructure and energy projects
even after international sanctions over  Iran’s nuclear program 
restricted foreign investment and operations.  “Despite certain political propaganda, it isn’t the Guards
that is seeking to take on projects, it’s been governments that
have tried to make better use of its potential,” Sharif said.  The unusual glimpse into the Guards came less than two
weeks before Hassan Rohani is scheduled to replace President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who promoted the Guards’ influence during
his eight-year tenure.  Iran’s clerical rulers created the Guards after the 1979
 Islamic Revolution  that toppled the monarchy to safeguard the
Islamic Republic’s core principles. Over time, it became an
increasingly powerful force in Iran’s economy and political
life, with many top officials in Ahmadinejad’s government having
been members.  The Guards and its militia, the Basij, played a key role in
suppressing mass protests that broke out over after the disputed
2009 presidential election. Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  and the Guards said protesters played into the hands of
Western powers plotting to topple the Islamic Republic regime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  