-- Iraq Crude Exports Fall for Second Month on Attacks, Bad Weather
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y ,   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-07-22T14:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/iraq-crude-exports-fall-for-second-month-on-attacks-bad-weather.html
Iraq ’s crude exports and oil revenue
declined in June for the second consecutive month because of
foul weather at the country’s ports and attacks on northern
pipelines, the oil ministry said.  Shipments from OPEC’s second-largest producer after  Saudi
Arabia  dropped to 69.8 million barrels,  Asim Jihad , a ministry
spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement. Exports in June
generated $6.8 billion in revenue, he said, and equalled 2.33
million barrels a day. Iraq shipped 76.9 million barrels in May
and 78.7 million in April, earning $7.48 billion and $7.76
billion, respectively, according to the ministry’s website.  Last month’s decrease in sales stemmed from sabotage of the
pipeline network from Iraq’s northern oil hub of Kirkuk to the
Turkish port of Ceyhan, together with high winds and dust storms
that halted tanker loadings at southern terminals, Jihad said.
In addition, the country’s self-governing Kurdish region has
stopped exporting since December amid a dispute between Kurdish
authorities and the central government.  “I expect July crude exports to drop also, because of the
continued attacks on the pipeline and as repair works and
maintenance seem to be struggling to maintain the integrity of
the line,” said Saadallah al-Fathi, a Dubai-based former head
of the Energy Studies Department at the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna. “Any halt to the
exports, even for one day, is a concern for Iraq and benefits
other producers because there is plenty of crude in the world.”  Crude Reserves  Iraq, with the world’s fifth-largest proven oil reserves,
has been boosting output and rebuilding its economy.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and other international companies helped boost
crude production by 24 percent in 2012. Monthly exports reached
81.3 million barrels last October, the most since U.S.-led
forces toppled  Saddam Hussein  from power in 2003.  The government said today it plans to set up three new
companies to provide oil and natural gas services and
transportation with a combined capital of 500 billion dinars
($429 million), according to its official website.  Iraq last month exported 64 million barrels from the
southern port of Basra and 5.8 million barrels from Kirkuk,
according to Jihad, the spokesman. It earned an average price of
$97.41 a barrel in June, he said.  “It is known that Iraq has an average of 50 days of bad
weather a year in the south, but what is worrying is the attacks
and the maintenance works in the north,” said al-Fathi, a
former adviser to Iraq’s oil ministry.  Car bombings and other violent acts are threatening to
undermine the country’s stability and reconstruction efforts
after decades of economic sanctions, conflict and neglect. Apart
from attacking pipelines, insurgents have escalated strikes
against government targets and civilians.  Hundreds of extremists, including many from the al-Qaeda
terror network, escaped from two jails yesterday after
coordinated deadly attacks on the facilities, lawmaker Hakem al-Zamli told reporters in  Baghdad .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  