-- Liverpool, Chelsea Are Concerned Amid Billionaires’ Soccer Spree
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-22T23:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/liverpool-chelsea-concerned-amid-billionaires-soccer-spree.html
Liverpool and Chelsea executives say
they aren’t confident that European soccer’s governing body can
administer new cost-control regulations amid lavish spending by
clubs backed by wealthy owners.  UEFA  is looking at teams across  Europe  as part of its so-called financial fair-play rules. From next season, clubs that
breach the regulations face sanctions that the Nyon,
Switzerland-based body says will include fines, transfer
embargoes and even suspension from the elite Champions League.  “We have to see the application by UEFA, we have to wait
and see how fair they really play it,” Liverpool Managing
Director  Ian Ayre  said in a telephone interview. “I have to say
my level of confidence in it isn’t very high.”  Even amid the rules aimed at taming Europe-wide soccer
losses of more than $2 billion,  Manchester City  and Paris Saint-Germain, both owned by Gulf royalty, and  Monaco , backed by a
Russian billionaire, have continued to spend while losing money.
Monaco signed  Radamel Falcao  from  Atletico Madrid  for a reported
60 million euros ($79 million), while PSG spent 64 million euros
on Edinson Cavani, and City paid 28 million pounds ($43 million)
for Stevan Jovetic.  West London club Chelsea was one of the teams under the
focus of regulators after Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich 
arrived in 2003. The 46-year-old has converted almost 1 billion
pounds into equity in a decade that’s seen Chelsea win 11 major
trophies, including three Premier League titles and the club’s
first European Cup in 2012.  Level Playing Field  Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said the team,
which announced its first profit in the Abramovich era last
year, is focused on complying with the rules even though it was
“among the clubs targeted” by UEFA when the changes were
announced in 2009.  “It’s UEFA’S competition so we want to make sure that we
comply,” Gourlay said in an interview. “All we’ve asked for is
that UEFA police and manage the process with a clear, even
playing field.”  Gourlay said he was concerned about teams boosting their
balance sheets through “arm’s length” contracts with companies
connected to their owners. City, which was bought by Abu Dhabi-based Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan in 2008, has four
sponsors related to the emirate including airline Etihad, which
in 2011 agreed to pay 350 million pounds over 10 years to put
its name on the team’s stadium, jerseys and new training campus.  Ticket Sales  PSG, owned by Qatar, will get as much as 200 million euros
a year from Qatar Tourism Authority through 2016, according to
Le Parisien. The French champion made just 97 million euros from
television rights, sponsorships and ticket sales in the 2011-12
season, according to figures published by French soccer’s
licensing authority, the DNCG. The figures also showed the team
earned 125.4 million euros from “other products.”  Spokespeople for City and PSG didn’t respond to requests
for comment.  “If we’re going to have a fair-play system, everyone’s
going to have to play fair,” Ayre said, adding that failure to
sanction rule-breakers “makes a mockery of the whole thing.”  UEFA ’s Club Financial Control Body, responsible for
administering the rules, will “benchmark” all deals and only
the fair value will be taken into account for the purpose of the
break-even reporting, the soccer body said in an e-mailed
statement.  “If clubs do not abide by the rules, the CFCB will use the
list of sanctions at its disposal, irrespective of which clubs
are not in line with the regulations,” UEFA said.  ‘Huge Checks’  Liverpool, an 18-time English champion and five-time
European Cup winner, has had little success in recent years.
It’s not qualified for the Champions League since 2009, and
won’t appear in continental competition next season after
finishing seventh in the Premier League. Owned by Major League
Baseball’s Boston Red Sox proprietor Fenway Sports Group, the
soccer team can’t turn to wealthy backers to return to glory,
making financial fair play critical to the team’s future.  Russian magnate  Dmitry Rybolovlev  has been the biggest
spender in anticipation of Monaco’s first season back in
 France ’s top flight. After parting with 70 million euros for
Porto duo Joao Moutinho and James Rodriguez in May, the team
added Colombian striker Falcao last month.  “We can never compete with just writing huge checks for
players here, there and everywhere,” Ayre said.  With “the
amount of time, money and effort that’s been put into this
initiative, I think it would be an absolute tragedy if they
don’t apply the rules strongly and firmly.”  Under UEFA’s break-even rule, clubs with a loss of more
than 5 million euros last season or this campaign risk exclusion
from the  Champions League  and Europa League, the continent’s top
club competitions. Clubs can have a loss of up to 45 million
euros a season if shareholders cover it. The UEFA sanctions
don’t apply to domestic championships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  