-- Japan Shares Climb After Abe’s Coalition Wins Elections
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-07-22T07:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/japan-shares-rise-after-abe-s-ruling-coalition-wins-polls.html
Japanese  shares  rose, with the  Topix (TPX) 
index climbing for the fifth time in six days, after Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s ruling coalition solidified control of
parliament in elections yesterday.  NEC Corp. jumped the most on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
on a report the computer manufacturer will form a server
partnership with Hewlett-Packard Co.  Nippon Paint Co. (4612)  surged to
its highest in 23 years after the maker of automotive and
household coatings raised its profit forecast. Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. dropped 4.1 percent after Southern California
Edison Co. said the Japanese machinery maker breached a contract
on a generator. Yaskawa Electric Corp. sank 3.9 percent after
Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the motor maker’s shares.  The Topix climbed 0.4 percent to 1,216.53 at the close of
trading in  Tokyo , after falling as much as 0.4 percent earlier.
Volume was about 18 percent below the 30-day average. The Nikkei
225 added 0.5 percent to 14,658.04.  “Considering there was no surprise from the election, it’s
hard to have a particular position either way on a short-term
basis,” said Nobuyuki Kashihara, who helps oversee $26 billion
at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “However, at least the
fact that Abe’s administration will be stable is a positive
factor for stocks. From now on the focus will be on the
realization of his growth strategies as well as the  U.S.
economy , domestic earnings. But stocks are likely to slowly
advance.”  The upper-house election victory gives Abe’s ruling
coalition a majority in both houses of parliament, enabling
faster policy making as it seeks to deliver on promises for
structural reforms. The Liberal Democratic Party-led government
controls both legislative chambers for the first time since 2007
and need not face another election for three years.  Overwhelming Victory  “The government has the stability to implement its growth
strategy,” said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in Tokyo at
Resona Bank Ltd.,  Japan ’s fifth-largest lender by market value.
“Investors are taking the election results as good news and
buying individual shares that will benefit. The stronger yen is
weighing on gains.”  After plunging as much as 18 percent from a May 22 high,
the Topix rebounded amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will
push through reforms following the polls. The gauge added 15
percent over the past five weeks, the biggest such advance since
April 2009.  Investor attention will now shift to whether the government
will cut corporate taxes, ease regulations, loosen  labor laws 
and join the Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade agreement.  Sales Tax  Another focus will be whether to raise the  consumption tax 
as planned in April 2014 to rein in Japan’s fiscal deficit and
national debt. Abe wants to make a decision on the tax this
autumn, he said on TV Asahi on July 21. Finance Minister Taro
Aso said a decision will be made around October.  “We all thought he would win, so it’s now all about the
implementation, being committed to the economy and the move
forward,” said Stuart Beavis, head of institutional equity
derivatives at Vantage Capital Markets in  Hong Kong . “Abe has
been nothing but vague on the ‘Third Arrow.’ The market wants to
see details. The easy part is over.”  NEC jumped 4.2 percent to 246 yen, the biggest gain on the
 Nikkei 225 . The Japanese computer maker, which gets most of its
revenue from Japan, will announce partnership details with
Hewlett-Packard after completing preparations, NEC spokesman
Seiichiro Toda said by phone today, without giving a timeframe.  Nippon Paint  Nippon Paint jumped 6.6 percent to 1,318 yen, its highest
level since March 1990. The Osaka-based company raised its net-income forecast by 21 percent to 25.5 billion yen for the year
ending March 2014.  Among shares that fell, Mitsubishi Heavy dropped 4.1
percent to 608 yen, the biggest drop on the Nikkei 225. Southern
California Edison served a Notice of Dispute, saying Mitsubishi
Heavy should take responsibility for allegedly providing a
defective steam generator to the U.S. company. Mitsubishi Heavy
said it disputes the claim and has “appropriately” fulfilled
the contract.  Yaskawa Electric (6506)  sank 3.9 percent to 1,221 yen. The Kyushu-based company, which is up 48 percent this year, was cut to
neutral from outperform by Credit Suisse. The brokerage cited a
“slowdown in monthly order momentum, particularly for
servomotors” and said it was awaiting new earnings drivers.  The Topix traded at 1.31 times  book value  today, compared
with 2.49 for the S&P 500 and 1.69 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index yesterday. The gauge’s 30-day historic volatility was at
25.93 today, down 40 percent from its July 2 high of 43.22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  