-- Japan Air to Continue Using 787 Beacons After Completing Checks
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-07-22T06:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/japan-air-to-continue-using-787-beacons-after-completing-checks.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , the second-biggest  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 operator, said it finished checks on the
emergency beacons on its fleet of nine Dreamliners and is
maintaining their use on the aircraft.  Japan Airlines found no faults with the beacons after
starting a self-inspection on July 19, Taro Namba, a Tokyo-based
spokesman at the carrier, said by telephone today.  ANA Holdings
Inc. (9202)  is still carrying out checks on its 20 Dreamliner planes
and may not finish the process till next week, Ryosei Nomura, a
company spokesman, said.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  said last week it
is working with Chicago-based Boeing to develop instructions for
beacon inspections as investigators probe reasons for a July 12
fire on one of the 787s in London. The U.S., which hasn’t called
for the deactivation of the beacon as U.K. safety authorities
did, said the checks will be made mandatory through an
airworthiness directive to be issued “in the coming days.”  The directive would apply only to the six 787s flown by
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  since no other U.S. carrier
operates the jet. Other nations’ aviation regulators typically
follow the agency’s lead, as they did in January when the FAA
grounded the aircraft after  lithium-ion batteries  melted down in
two 787s’ power systems.  Smashed Wire  A blaze scorched the composite skin of an Ethiopian
Airlines Enterprise 787 on July 12, which was parked at London’s
Heathrow airport with its ground power switched off.
Investigators are examining whether a wire smashed under a
beacon battery cover caused a short-circuit, a person familiar
with the probe said.  The emergency locator transmitter beacon, using lithium-batteries, is a suspect because it’s the only  power source  in
the area of the fire, though investigators are still probing
whether the device combusted or was set alight by an outside
source. The incident is the first involving more than 6,000 such
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  devices, the U.K. Air Accidents
Investigation Branch said.  Thomson Airways, based in the U.K., removed the beacons
within hours of recommendations to do so from the U.K. safety
authorities.  United had performed checks on the emergency locators
without finding anything, spokeswoman Christen David said last
week. LOT Polish Airlines SA, the first European carrier to get
the 787, had also checked the beacons and was not deactivating
them as they were fine, spokesman Robert Moren said.  China  Southern Airlines Co., one of the two 787 operators
in China, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed Bloomberg News
questionnaire today. Hainan Airlines Co., the other airline
flying the Dreamliner, had received Boeing’s briefing on the ELT
investigation, it said in an e-mail. The carrier will keep
monitoring the progress of the investigation, it said.  Rohit Nandan, chairman of Air India Ltd., which operates
seven Dreamliners, today didn’t respond to two calls and a text
message to his mobile phone seeking comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  