-- Julius Baer Reports Client Trading Boosts First-Half Margins
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-07-22T14:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/julius-baer-net-falls-30-amid-higher-merrill-integration-costs.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  said
increased client trading boosted margins as  Switzerland ’s third-biggest wealth manager integrated Merrill Lynch businesses
acquired from Bank of America Corp. last year.  The gross margin, which reflects how much the bank makes in
revenue on managed client assets, rose to 102 basis points in
the first half of the year, from 98 basis points in the year-earlier period, the Zurich-based bank said in a statement today.
A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. Julius
Baer jumped the most in 21 months in Zurich trading.  “First-half results were better than expected, supported
by stronger revenue from increased trading volumes and client
activity,”  Teresa Nielsen , a Zurich-based analyst at Vontobel
Holding AG, said in a note to clients.  Julius Baer  has said the wealth units purchased last year
may boost client assets by as much as 72 billion Swiss francs
($76.6 billion) by 2015. While the bank makes acquisitions to
compete with larger rivals, the Merrill Lynch business outside
the U.S., which was unprofitable in 2011, may increase margin
pressure in the second half, Julius Baer said.  Julius Baer rose as much as 6 percent and was 5.9 percent
higher at 42.11 francs at 3:44 p.m. in Zurich. UBS AG shares
gained 2.8 percent after Switzerland’s largest bank reported
second-quarter profit of about 690 million francs and net
inflows of about 12.8 billion francs in  wealth management .  Profit Margin  Julius Baer’s pretax profit margin rose above 30 basis
points as client interest in foreign exchange services helped
more than triple net trading income to 185 million francs,
according to the bank.  Net income dropped 30 percent to 114 million francs from a
year earlier as Julius Baer reported 99 million francs of
integration and restructuring costs. Julius Baer increased its
estimate for the cost of the Merrill acquisition to about 455
million francs, from 400 million francs because of higher
expenses related to transferring clients to the Swiss bank’s
systems, Chief Financial Officer Dieter Enkelmann said.  The gross margin on the reported Merrill assets was 93
basis points and the acquired businesses will weigh on the
combined figures in the second half, the firm said. Merrill
Lynch’s non-U.S. international wealth management units recorded
a pretax loss in 2011 with a cost-to-income ratio of 114
percent.  Integration  “Growth in the underlying business may suffer as
management attention is focused on the integration, but the deal
is on track and the results so far are encouraging,”  Andrew Stimpson , a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods,
said in a note to clients today.  Assets under management declined to 218 billion francs at
the end of June, from 220 billion francs in April. Julius Baer
added 24 billion francs in the first four months of this year as
the bank absorbed businesses in Switzerland, Uruguay,  Chile ,
 Monaco  and Luxembourg.  A total of 47 billion francs of Merrill Lynch assets have
been transferred to date, the bank said. More than 1,000 Merrill
Lynch employees, including 272 client advisers, have joined
Julius Baer.  “On the back of a recovery in client activity and better
cost efficiency, our group markedly improved its operational
performance,” Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  said in
the statement. “We made tremendous progress in the
integration.”  Net Inflows  Julius Baer reiterated the firm is cutting more than 1,000
jobs at the combined businesses as it seeks to boost earnings
from the Merrill transaction by 2015.  Net new money at Julius Baer was 3.4 billion francs in the
first six months, representing 3.6 percent annualized growth.
That missed the firm’s 4 percent to 6 percent target range.  The Merrill businesses in about 20 locations will help
“stabilize” Julius Baer as a crackdown on offshore tax evasion
pushes European and American clients to pull money from Swiss
bank accounts, Honorary Chairman Raymond Baer said on May 30.  Julius Baer is one of at least 12 Swiss banks under
investigation by the  Department of Justice  for allegedly helping
Americans hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  “I’m hopeful that now we should have reached the final
chapter hopefully in this negotiation,” Collardi told reporters
on a conference call today. “We are in a position to basically
settle a U.S. fine,” the CEO said, adding that he expects to
know more about the size of a financial penalty later this year.  Legal and consulting costs related to the U.S. tax matter
climbed to 54 million francs, Julius Baer said.  The firm also made a provision of 28 million francs because
the tax raised from the offshore accounts of British clients,
under a Swiss-U.K. agreement that started this year, won’t cover
a 500 million-franc guarantee payment made by Swiss banks. UBS
set aside about 100 million francs after an accord that settled
a dispute over  tax evasion  by wealthy Britons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  