-- Julius Baer CEO Expects Swiss-U.S Tax Dispute Agreement
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-07-22T13:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/julius-baer-ceo-expects-swiss-u-s-tax-dispute-agreement.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  Chief
Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  expects talks between the U.S.
and  Switzerland  to produce an agreement that will allow Swiss
banks to resolve a tax-evasion dispute.  “I think we’re getting into the final chapter of
discussions between the two governments,” the CEO of
Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager said at an investor
presentation in Zurich today. “That should result in some kind
of framework agreement.”  Julius Baer and others among the at least 12 Swiss banks
being probed by the  Department of Justice  on suspicion of
helping Americans dodge taxes were authorized by the Swiss
government to cooperate with the U.S. in April 2012. Switzerland
and the U.S. are discussing a plan for other banks that may not
be under investigation to resolve disputes.  Officials from the two countries held talks on July 10 in
 Washington  and will publish a joint statement once they agree on
the conditions under which banks can seek resolutions, Mario Tuor, a spokesman for Switzerland’s State Secretariat for
Financial Matters in Bern, said today by phone.  “We’re doing what we can,” he said. “We want a solution
as quickly as possible.”  The U.S. wants the Swiss government to guarantee that banks
fully comply with the settlement program agreed between the two
countries, NZZ reported on July 3. The U.S. wants to include a
provision whereby it would terminate the program if a Swiss
court stopped a bank handing over data, the newspaper said.  More Advanced  The Swiss government is giving authorization to other
banks, enabling them to bypass laws on assisting foreign
criminal inquiries as the U.S. widens its probe.  Julius Baer  is “more advanced” than other Swiss banks in
nearing a settlement and the firm has handed over client
information for the Swiss tax authority to pass on to the U.S.,
Collardi said today. Julius Baer expects to pay an
“affordable” fine to settle the probe this year, he said.  Wegelin & Co., established in 1741, agreed to pay $74
million in fines and closed its doors to clients after it became
the first Swiss lender to face criminal charges in the U.S.
crackdown. The bank pleaded guilty in  Manhattan  in January to
conspiring to help hide more than $1.2 billion in assets from
the  Internal Revenue Service  while opening undeclared accounts
for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers who were former clients of UBS
AG, Switzerland’s largest bank.  UBS avoided criminal prosecution in February 2009 by paying
$780 million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion  and giving the
IRS data on more than 250 accounts to avoid prosecution. It
later turned over data on another 4,450 accounts and in October
2010 the U.S. dropped its criminal case against UBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  