-- Kenya Finds No End to Fighting Against Somali Militants
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-07-23T12:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/kenya-finds-no-end-to-fighting-against-somali-militants.html
When  Kenya  sent troops to  Somalia  in
October 2011 to fight al-Qaeda-inspired al-Shabaab militants, it
vowed to pull them out by Christmas. More than 20 months on,
there’s no sign they’ll leave soon.  Kenya’s 700-kilometer (435-mile) eastern border is full of
menace: from the south near the Somali port of Kismayo that’s in
striking distance of its white-sand beaches, to the arid
northeast, which has been hit by bombings, kidnappings and clan
violence over politics, land and water. Zaddock Syong’oh, a
Kenyan Foreign Ministry policy adviser, says Kenya won’t leave
until Somalia is stable.  The longer Kenya stays, the weaker its relations with the
Somali government. It supports the creation of a semi-autonomous
state of Jubaland in the south as a buffer zone along its
border. Somalia has asked Kenyan troops to withdraw from
Kismayo, saying they backed a militia involved in fighting last
month that the  United Nations  says killed 71 civilians.  “If Kenya makes a hasty decision to pull out, we will go
back to square one with al-Shabaab returning to Jubaland,
because the current government doesn’t have the capability to
keep them out yet,”  Rashid Abdi , a Nairobi-based Somalia
analyst, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Al-Shabaab has
been degraded but not totally defeated.”  Somalia Security  The authorities in the capital, Nairobi, dispatched troops
to Somalia after they blamed a series of kidnappings of
foreigners and the murder of a British tourist in Kenya on al-Shabaab. Tourism competes with tea and horticulture as the
biggest source of foreign exchange for  East Africa ’s largest
economy. More than half a million mainly Somali refugees live in
the United Nations-run Dabaab camp in northeastern Kenya.  While Kenya initially sent troops of its own accord, the UN
decided in February 2012 to absorb them into the African Union
force. They now number 4,040 and join 6,223 Ugandans, 5,432
Burundians, 850 from  Sierra Leone  and 999 from Djibouti,
according to the AU.  “Kenya’s security along the border with Somalia is
intractably linked to peace and stability in that country,”
Syong’oh said in a July 12 interview in Nairobi. “Kenya’s
military will not therefore leave Somalia until it is stable and
secure.”  In the northeast, Kenya is concerned that clan violence
fueled by instability in Somalia may jeopardize future
exploration for oil and the planned LAPSSET transportation
corridor to link  Ethiopia  and newly independent  South Sudan  to
the port of Lamu.  Illegal Arms  A Kenyan panel investigating clashes in the Tana River
coastal region that left 164 people dead since last year said
the flow of illegal arms from Somalia played a part in fueling
the violence. The feuding communities of the Pokomo farming
community and the Orma, who are nomadic livestock herders, got
weapons from arms traders on the Somali border, it said.  For now, Kenyan forces operate mainly in the south near
Kismayo, which served as a supply route and a key source of the
estimated $50 million a year the al-Shabaab militia earned from
taxes on Somalia’s harbors before it fled the city in October.  Somalia’s federal government, which is making a 16th
attempt to impose a central administration on the Horn of Africa
nation since former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted in
1991, doesn’t control the southern region of Kismayo, according
to  Ahmed Soliman , Horn of Africa analyst at  Chatham House , the
London-based research group.  ‘Little Legitimacy’  “The federal government of Somalia recognizes the
importance of Kenyan troops in stabilizing Kismayo,” he said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “But if the federal model of
governance is to work the government also needs to be able to
have a say in the shape of the political future of the region,
and importantly, in shaping security in the region. At the
moment, the government has very little legitimacy in Kismayo.”  Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said on April 9 his country
has “invested immense diplomatic energy and resources in the
quest for a stable Somalia,” and will support the African Union
peace process there because “a stable and prosperous Somalia is
in the interest of all nations.”  The renewed fighting in Kismayo started after regional
delegates attending a May 15 conference elected the head of the
Ras Kamboni militia, Sheikh Ahmed Mohamed Islam, who’s also
known as Madobe, as leader of Jubaland, according to the  African
Union . Shortly afterward, Barre Adam Shire Hirrale, a former
Somali defense minister, declared himself president of the
region, according to the African Union.  Nascent Government  “The crisis in Kismayo has the potential to undermine the
nascent Somali federal government,” Soliman said. “It also
threatens the fragile recovery of the country by balkanizing
southern Somalia, and creating an opening for al-Shabaab to
reassert control in recently recovered areas.”  Kenya regards Kismayo as strategic because of the port and
its proximity to the heart of its tourist trade on the Indian
Ocean coast. Control of the city also gives access to Somalia’s
most fertile lands in Lower Jubaland, and abundant marine
resources including probable  oil deposits , according to Soliman.  “Jubaland is the wealthiest region in Somalia and has been
the country’s bread basket for centuries,” Abdi said. “It has
huge agricultural potential, marine resources and potential for
finding hydrocarbons.”  Some Kenyan business people, aided by Madobe’s Ras Kamboni
militia, may have benefited from Kismayo too through selling
charcoal at a time when the trade has been banned by the Somali
government and the UN, Soliman said. The interim Jubaland
administration denies involvement in the business, according to
a July 16 e-mailed statement.  About 4 million to 6 million metric tons of charcoal that
may be worth as much as $40 million are piled up at the port in
Kismayo due to the trade ban, he said.  “The dispute on Kismayo is hugely distracting the struggle
against al-Shabaab,” Abdi said. “Although al-Shabaab is weak
and fragmented, they are looking, and will capitalize on any
opportunity to return to the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  