-- Korea Bonds, Won Gain After G-20 Vows to Fight Tapering Fallout
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-22T01:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/korea-bonds-won-gain-after-g-20-vows-to-fight-tapering-fallout.html
 South Korean bonds gained, pushing
the three-year yield to the lowest in a month, and the won rose
after global finance chiefs pledged to combat cross-border
damage if the U.S. and  Japan  start rolling back stimulus.  Group of 20 nations will pursue “carefully calibrated and
clearly communicated” policy moves, they said after a two-day
meeting in Moscow.  China  and South Korea separately agreed on
the need for global coordination to minimize “adverse spill-over” effects on other countries, such as rising interest rates
and increasing volatility in capital flows, if the U.S. scales
back stimulus.  “Concern on the Fed’s tapering effect has calmed and the
G-20 outcome helped ease worries,” said Kim Do Hee, a Seoul-based currency trader at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due June
2016 fell one basis point to 2.83 percent as of 10:27 a.m. in
Seoul, the lowest level since June 19, according to Korea
Exchange Inc. prices. The won rose 0.3 percent to 1,119 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week that the
monetary authority’s $85 billion monthly bond purchases, which
have driven the flow of funds to  emerging markets , “are by no
means on a preset course” and may be reduced or expanded
according to economic conditions.  The central bank in China, South Korea’s largest export
market, eliminated the lower limit on lending rates at its
financial institutions last week in a move to address slowing
growth and expand the role of markets. Foreign funds bought more
South Korean shares than they sold today, after two days of net
sales, exchange data show.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, fell 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.85 percent in the third day of
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  