-- Navalny’s Reprieve Confounds Russians
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-07-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/navalny-s-reprieve-confounds-russians.html
Less than 24 hours after Alexei Navalny, corruption fighter and President  Vladimir Putin ’s
fierce opponent, was handcuffed and led away to serve a five-year prison sentence, he was free again to run for mayor of
Moscow. Guessing at the reasons for the turnaround has become
the Moscow political community’s favorite game in recent days,
showing that no one really understands the workings of the
nation’s Byzantine government.  On July 18, Navalny and his friend, businessman Pyotr
Ofitserov, were convicted of stealing about $500,000 worth of
lumber from a state-owned company in Kirov, a city where Navalny
once served as an unpaid adviser to the governor. The flimsiness
of the charges, and the predetermined verdict, left little doubt
that Navalny was being punished for his criticism of Putin’s
regime.  The thousands of Russians who took to the streets to demand
Navalny’s release could not have expected it to come so soon or
in such a bizarre fashion. The same prosecutor who demanded a
prison term for Navalny petitioned the court for his release. On
July 19, after a court session in which both sides and the judge
were in surreal agreement, Navalny was set free until his appeal
is heard. That allows him to continue campaigning in the Moscow
mayoral election, set for September 8.  There is a simple legal explanation for the reprieve.
Technically, the judge’s decision to send Navalny directly to
prison  violated  the Russian Criminal Procedure Code, which
requires an appellate court to confirm the sentence in such
cases. So the prosecutor’s move could be seen as an effort to
correct the judge’s error. But since the entire trial was a
farce, few people see Navalny’s unexpected liberation as a
triumph of due process.  The independent daily Vedomosti reported on July 22,
quoting a spokesman for incumbent mayor  Sergei Sobyanin , that
the mayor had “asked the country’s leadership to help free
Navalny.” That falls in with the theory that Sobyanin is seeking
a legitimate election victory so he can get in line for the
nation’s top job once Putin decides to relinquish power.  “Imagine for a moment that Sobyanin wins a fair, unrigged
election against Navalny,”  wrote  opposition activist Ksenia Sobchak in the magazine Snob. “He would become the only
legitimate politician in Moscow and the entire nation.”  Another hypothesis is that the Navalny confusion reflects a
continuing struggle between liberals and hardliners within
Putin’s entourage. The liberals -- a relative term in this
context -- want to keep up the appearance of democratic
fairness, while the hardliners are in favor of straightforward
repression and a police state. In Navalny’s case, the liberals
are represented by Sobyanin, and the hardliners by  Alexander Bastrykin , head of the Investigative Committee, Russia’s version
of the FBI. Navalny has written in his blog that Bastrykin set
up a company in the Czech republic and failed to declare it to
the Russian authorities. Bastrykin ordered the investigation
that led to Navalny’s conviction.  “We do not know how the intrigue will unfold but it is
obvious that the system is in disarray,” Sobchak wrote.  Other theories are more outlandish. Yevgeny Fyodorov, a
parliament deputy from Putin’s United Russia party,  said  that
U.S. President  Barack Obama  had persuaded the Russian
authorities to release Navalny. “Now Navalny can walk the
streets and beat people up and nothing is going to happen to
him, because he is guaranteed immunity by the  United States ,”
Fedorov said.  Some commentators have suggested that Navalny was a Kremlin
project from the start. “Has Navalny made a deal with the
government from jail?” ultra-nationalist novelist  Eduard Limonov 
 wrote  in the pro-Putin newspaper Izvestia. “This whole Navalny
story is beginning to smell really bad.”  Whether there is any truth to any of the theories, Navalny
appears to be gaining in popularity. The Comcon polling service
 reported  that even before the prison sentence and the unexpected
liberation, he was gaining momentum in the Moscow mayoral race.
In the week of July 11-16, Navalny was in second place after the
incumbent with 14.4 percent of the vote, up from 10.7 percent
the week before. The day after his release, Navalny received a
hero’s welcome in Moscow as hundreds of people  turned out  to
meet his train.  “Theoretically, every day of exposure in debates and the
media means an additional one or two percentage points for
Navalny’s ratings,” political scientist Dmitri Oreshkin  told  the
website Slon.ru. “In the end, Sobyanin will find himself in a
bad situation in which he may have to struggle to get Navalny
off the ballot before the election if he gets too popular in the
capital. After the sentencing, public awareness of Navalny has
increased sharply.”  A triumphant Navalny winning millions of votes in Moscow
despite the best efforts of his persecutors and alleged
puppeteers would make a fairytale ending worthy of a Hollywood
movie. In reality, the five-year sentence still hangs over
Navalny’s head, and his support is still too low to present a
serious challenge to Sobyanin. The current turbulence plays into
the 37-year-old opposition leader’s hands, but a quick victory
is as unlikely for him as winning the lottery.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 