-- Nigeria May Devalue Naira Target Range as Currency Drops
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-07-22T10:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/nigeria-seen-devaluing-naira-target-range-as-currency-drops-1-.html
Nigeria’s central bank will probably
lower its targeted trading range for the naira as dwindling
foreign-exchange reserves and falling oil prices undermine its
ability to halt the currency’s slide, FBN Capital Ltd. said.  Policy makers may adjust the exchange rate to within a 3
percentage-point band of 160 per dollar from 155 over the next
six to nine months, Gregory Kronsten, an analyst at Lagos-based
FBN Capital, said in an e-mailed response to questions July 18.
Lower crude prices are making “it more difficult for the
central bank to hold the line on the naira exchange rate,” he
said. FBN Capital is Nigeria’s fourth-biggest broker by trading
value on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, according to the bourse.  The naira traded above the band for the first time on a
closing basis on June 7 on the interbank market and has ended
trading above the peg each day since June 25. Nigeria’s central
bank, which sells dollars at auctions on Mondays and Wednesdays
to support the naira, sold $700 million last week, compared with
$600 million the previous week, at 155.76 to 155.79 per dollar.  Nigeria Central Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi, 51, in
November 2011 devalued the midpoint of the bank’s exchange-rate
range at its twice-weekly auctions from 150 naira. International
reserves of  Africa ’s second-biggest economy have declined more
than 2 percent this month to $46.9 billion on July 18 as the
central bank boosted sales to meet demand amid declining oil
prices, the source of more than 95 percent of Nigeria’s foreign
exchange income.  Oil Output  The naira strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 161.18 per
dollar as of 10:56 a.m. in Lagos. The currency has weakened 3
percent this year compared with a 0.5 percent decrease in the
currency of  Angola , which vies with Nigeria as Africa’s top oil
producer.  Two calls to Ugochukwu Okoroafor, a spokesman for the
Abuja-based Central Bank of Nigeria, weren’t answered July 19.
Another call today didn’t connect.  Bonny Light crude , Nigeria’s main export, rose 0.1 percent
to $109.98 per barrel last week. The grade climbed to as high as
$120.54 on Feb. 8 and fell as low as $100.31. Nigeria’s oil
output slid for a third month in June, dropping by 70,000
barrels a day to 1.88 million barrels amid theft and damage to
infrastructure, the International Energy Agency said July 11.  Supply Mismatch  “The oil price has rebounded lately and looks more
supported” even though “crude oil production reached new lows
in June,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist with
Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s London-based unit, said in e-mailed
comments. “In the absence of capital inflows over the past two
months, the CBN has had to step up its foreign currency auction
and direct sales to banks to address the dollar demand-supply
mismatch.”  Sanusi held the  benchmark  interest rate at a record 12
percent for the 10th consecutive meeting on May 21, to check
inflation and stabilize the naira. The Monetary Policy Committee
will probably hold the rate when it announces the outcome of its
latest decision tomorrow, according to all 14 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  “Despite the recent moderate decline in foreign exchange
reserves, the central bank still has enough ammunition to defend
the naira for some time,” said Gadio. “The risk is also that
the CBN may be tempted to tighten liquidity conditions further
at the next MPC or in coming weeks, although the surprisingly
low June inflation rate probably reduces the possibility of a
formal hike in the interest rate for now.”  Check Demand  The West African nation’s  inflation  rate fell to 8.4
percent in June from 9 percent in May, the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said July 16. Yields on the country’s $500 million of
Eurobonds due July 2023 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 5.89 percent.  The central bank may increase its exchange-rate band to 160
per dollar to increase costs for importers, Sewa Wusu, analyst
at Lagos-based Sterling Capital Ltd, said by phone. This step
“can serve as a check on dollar demand, thereby reducing
pressure on reserves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  