-- Nigeria to Hold Key Rate at Record 12% to Protect Naira
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-07-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/nigeria-to-hold-key-rate-at-record-12-to-protect-naira.html
The  Central Bank of Nigeria  will
probably keep its benchmark lending rate unchanged at a record
high to bolster the currency, even as inflation eased to its
lowest in five years.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold the  policy rate  at 12 percent for a 11th
consecutive meeting today, according to all 14 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . Sanusi is scheduled to announce the
decision at a televised press conference that begins at 2:30
p.m. in Abuja, the capital.  “The risk to the economy is the  exchange rate  and the
depletion of the exchange reserves,” Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, an
Africa strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in
phone interview. While economic growth has weakened, it hasn’t
“contracted to the extent that they need to accelerate demand
by cutting aggressively,” she said.  Sanusi, who won’t renew his contract when it expires in
June, targets the currency to keep  inflation (NGCPIYOY)  under control. The
central bank sells foreign exchange at twice-weekly auctions to
keep the naira within a range of 3 percent above or below 155
per dollar.  The naira has fallen 1.9 percent against the dollar on the
 interbank market  since the last MPC meeting in May and was
trading as low as 162.60 yesterday. Foreign-currency reserves
declined 2 percent this month to  $46.9 billion , according to
central bank  data .  “They’re trying to target more the exchange rate than they
are inflation,” Ramkhelawan-Bhana said.  Government Spending  Inflation eased to 8.4 percent last month, the lowest level
since April 2008, from 9 percent in May. The inflation rate has
stayed below the central bank’s 10 percent target this year.  Nigeria ’s central bank shouldn’t rush to cut  interest rates 
even as inflation is forecast to remain within the target this
year, Sanusi, 51, said in an interview in May. The bank’s room
to lower borrowing costs depends on  government spending , which
threatens to increase as the military battles Islamist
insurgents in the northeast, he said.  Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160 million
people relies on oil for as much as 95 percent of export
earnings and 80 percent of government revenue. Crude output has
been hampered by theft, vandalism of pipelines and shutdowns,
resulting in production of 1.83 million barrels a day in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The government had
projected output of 2.53 million barrels a day in this year’s
budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  