-- Nintendo Rises as New Titles Spur Overseas Sales: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-07-22T06:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/nintendo-rises-as-new-titles-spur-overseas-sales-tokyo-mover.html
Nintendo Co. (7974)  rose to its highest
level in almost two years in  Tokyo  trading on speculation new
video game titles are boosting overseas revenue and the shares
may join the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The world’s largest video-game console maker  jumped  4
percent to 14,050 yen, the highest close since July 2011.  Games including “Animal Crossing: New Leaf,” released in
the U.S. last month, helped Nintendo’s 3DS handheld player
maintain its position as the best-selling game platform in the
country, according to market researcher NPD Group Inc. The stock
may be included in the Nikkei index following the merger of
exchanges in Tokyo and Osaka while a report that a ban on
consoles may be lifted in China is also boosting the shares,
said Takashi Oba, a senior strategist at Okasan Securities Co.  “The stock is up from mixing all these factors,” said
Oba. “The stock is in a upward trend. There may be some
investors who are forced to buy back the shares.”  Nintendo is trying to revive sales by adding new titles for
the 3DS and Wii U home consoles. The Kyoto, Japan-based company
said last week it had sold 225,000 of its 3DS handheld consoles
in the U.S., the world’s biggest video-game market.  This month’s merger of the cash-equity trading platforms of
Tokyo Stock Exchange and Osaka Securities Exchange saw
Nintendo’s primary listing transferred to Tokyo making it
eligible for inclusion in the Nikkei.  “The integration fueled speculation that Nintendo will be
included,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co.
in Tokyo.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  last week raised its price
target for the console maker to 14,000 yen from 12,000, citing
higher 3DS sales. New titles may also increase sales for
Nintendo, Mizuho said.  China may end its 13-year ban on the sale of video-game
consoles, the South China Morning Post reported July 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  