-- Nomura Sees Rates Backfiring on Auction-Flop Costs: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-07-23T04:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/nomura-sees-rates-backfiring-on-auction-flop-costs-india-credit.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  India ’s surprise
policy reversal and the first government debt-sale failures in
10 months prompted Nomura Holdings Inc. to warn that plans
to cut the  budget deficit  are at risk.  Underwriters had to pick up 24 percent of the 150 billion
rupees ($2.5 billion) of bonds offered at a July 19 auction
after demand fell short. India didn’t sell any of the 120
billion rupees of bills it offered on July 17 and, a day
earlier, state governments met only 26 percent of their
borrowing target at a separate sale. Demand slumped after the
RBI raised two of its interest rates on July 15 to arrest a
slide in the rupee.  Policy tightening by the RBI, which cut  interest rates  as
recently as in May, will cool growth in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy that is already expanding at the slowest pace in a
decade and strain public finances, according to Nomura. Ten-year bond yields in India have jumped 86 basis points to 8.11 
percent since May 31, increasing costs for a government that
spends about 35 percent of revenue servicing its debt. Similar
rates climbed 32 basis points to 3.78 percent in  China .  “The combination of tight liquidity and low growth are
expected to persist and will probably be the most prominent
feature of the current economic cycle,” Vivek Rajpal, a
Singapore-based strategist at Nomura,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The rates markets are
currently being held hostage by the  currency markets .”  Inter-Bank Funds  The rupee’s 8.6 percent slide against the dollar last
quarter, the worst performance in Asia, prompted the RBI on July
15 to raise the two rates and cap lending through its daily
repurchase auctions at 750 billion rupees ($12.6 billion). The
central bank kept its benchmark rate unchanged.  The measures pushed up the  inter-bank lending  rate to an
intraday high of 9.25 percent on July 16 and 17, a level unseen
since Dec. 31. Three-month commercial-paper rates have surged
136 basis points since July 15. They touched 10.43 percent on
July 16, their highest level since April 2012.  Ten-year  government bonds   slumped  the most since 2009 on
July 16, a day after the tightening measures were announced,
with the yield touching a seven-month high of 8.10 percent.  “The jump in rates is a negative for the government in
terms of debt-servicing costs and the fiscal outlook,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The price the
authorities are paying for the stabilization of the currency is
very severe, and I don’t think they wanted that.”  Food Subsidy  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , facing elections by May,
decreed a Food Securities Bill that vows to provide cheap food
for the poor at a cost of $21 billion a year. For a government
that aims to cut its budget deficit to a six-year low of 4.8
percent of gross domestic product this financial year, Nomura
predicts this spending may boost food subsidies to as much 1.2
percent of GDP annually from 0.8 percent.  The administration plans to spend 5.3 trillion rupees on
debt servicing in the fiscal year to March, or 22 percent more
than a year ago, according to budget documents. About 3.7
trillion rupees are earmarked for interest payments and 1.67
trillion rupees for repayment of debt.  The government will find it “challenging” to meet its
budget goal without slicing spending, Nomura predicts.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is under pressure
to rein in the gap after  Standard & Poor’s  last year cut the
sovereign credit outlook to negative and a step closer to a junk
rating. The RBI’s measures last week don’t signal a shift toward
a tightening bias, he said in Moscow on July 20, while his
adviser  Raghuram Rajan  said they were temporary.  Waiting Mode  While an interest-rate increase is not on the cards, the
monetary authority may consider raising banks’  cash reserve
requirements  should the rupee threaten to depreciate further,
according to DBS Bank Ltd.  “The finance minister has always stressed the need for
more accommodative monetary policy as opposed to a more cautious
RBI, so this divergence remains,” Radhika Rao, an economist at
DBS in  Singapore , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The
recent squeeze in yields seems to have surprised the RBI, so it
may be on a wait-and-watch mode.”  Four days after the RBI raised the marginal standing
facility and the bank rates to 10.25 percent from 8.25 percent,
primary dealers had to buy 35.3 billion rupees of the planned
150 billion rupees of bonds at the auction. Two days earlier the
RBI rejected all the bids at an offering of treasury bills.  The yield on the benchmark 7.16 percent note due May 2023
rose two basis points to 8.11 percent as of 9:48 a.m. in Mumbai,
and the rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 59.625 per dollar.  Looking Good  Indian bonds offer good value at current levels, according
to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  The 10-year sovereign bond, which  offers  561 basis points over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, may yield 7.90 percent in about 10
days, N.S. Venkatesh, head of treasury at IDBI Bank in Mumbai,
said on July 17.  “On the likely assumption that the rupee would stabilize,
we believe that the RBI could start lowering the policy rate
possibly from September,” Sanjay Mathur, head of research and
strategy at RBS in Singapore, wrote in a research report
yesterday. “Bond yields are set to moderate. The process is
likely to be slow but nonetheless rewarding.”  Rupee-denominated bonds returned 1.59 percent this year,
Asia’s third-best performance after Philippine and Chinese debt,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Credit Risk  Credit risk has surged as the currency declined. Five-year
credit-default swap contracts insuring the debt of government-controlled  State Bank of India (SBIN) , considered a proxy for the
sovereign, rose to 242 on July 19 from this year’s low of 174 on
May 17, according to data provider CMA.  The RBI’s steps to bolster the rupee will “negatively
affect” growth if high market rates persist, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday. On July 19, Nomura cut its growth
estimate for the $1.9 trillion economy to 5 percent in the
current financial year from 5.6 percent, and matching last
year’s decade-low.  “These measures necessarily intensify downside risks
facing the economy,”  Richard Iley , chief Asia economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Singapore, wrote in a July 17 research note.
“Unless they are temporary, they risk backfiring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  