-- Norwegians Promised More Oil-Funded Welfare as Vote Nears
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-07-23T07:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/norwegians-promised-more-oil-funded-welfare-as-election-nears.html
Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg
pledged to build  Norway ’s welfare system, financed by the
nation’s $750 billion oil fund, as he trails in the polls behind
an opposition that’s promised tax cuts.  Stoltenberg, who is seeking an unprecedented third four-year term in September elections, said western Europe’s biggest
oil producer needs a more developed system of public benefits as
his Labor-led coalition raises spending by 19 percent in 2013.  “The main mission of the campaign is to tell voters why
ours is the best government to lead Norway in the future, both
when it comes to economic challenges and when it comes to
further developing the Norwegian welfare state,” Stoltenberg
said yesterday in an interview in Oslo. “It’s absolutely
possible to win three elections in a row in Norway and that’s
what I’m going to campaign for.”  Norway, where  survey unemployment  was 3.5 percent in April
and manufacturing labor costs are almost 70 percent above the
European Union average, is grappling with signs of overheating
as its oil wealth drives up asset prices. Stoltenberg and his
main rival, Conservative Party leader Erna Solberg, have both
sought to entice voters with campaign promises that risk stoking
demand further in the $480 billion economy.  ‘Massive’ Fund  Norway’s gross domestic product, excluding income from
offshore industries, will grow 3 percent in 2013, the central
bank estimates. That compares with a 0.4 percent contraction in
the euro area, the European Commission said in May.  Norway’s government uses money from its sovereign wealth
fund, the world’s biggest, to pad its budget. Though use of the
fund is limited to 4 percent, the amount of money that figure
represents is growing. The oil fund has quadrupled in size since
2005 and will grow a further 42 percent by 2020, the government
estimates.  “As long as they have this massive oil fund, which has
been growing steadily, it’s not difficult for a politician to
make that promise,” Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank
AB, said in a phone interview. “Too much spending, especially
when the rest of Europe is not growing fast, could overheat the
economy.”  Such policies risk putting pressure on the  central bank ,
which is struggling to set rates to keep credit growth in check
without fueling krone appreciation. The bank left its benchmark
deposit rate at 1.5 percent in June.  Stronger Krone  “You could cause inflation and then have to increase rates
faster, which would end up strengthening the krone,” Saltvedt
said. That’s “not what the industry wants,” she said.  Norway’s krone is 32 percent overvalued versus the dollar,
according to a gauge of purchasing power by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  The krone gained 0.2 percent against the dollar as of 9:25
a.m. in Oslo and traded as high as 5.9212, its strongest since
June 20, according to intraday prices tracked by Bloomberg. It
rose 0.12 percent versus the euro to 7.8149.  Stoltenberg’s approval rating as prime minister declined to
36 percent in June, from 43 percent in March, according to a
Respons Analyse poll in Aftenposten. Support for Solberg, who
leads a bloc that also comprises the anti-immigration Progress
Party, was unchanged at 50 percent.  Norwegians are set to oust Stoltenberg just because they
want a change, according to Johannes Bergh, an election
researcher at the Institute for Social Research in Oslo.  Voter Fatigue  “Voters aren’t all that disappointed,” he said by phone.
“It’s more that they’re fatigued with the current government.”  Stoltenberg, who spoke on the second anniversary of
Norway’s July 22 terrorist attacks, faced calls for his
resignation last year after a formal probe revealed the
government’s failure to prevent the 2011 hate killings by Anders Behring Breivik that left 77 dead.  Breivik was sentenced in August to 21 years in prison with
an option to extend his term.  A June 22 poll for Dagens Naeringsliv showed support for
Stoltenberg’s Labor Party slipped 0.3 point to 29.8 percent,
versus a 0.4 point gain for the Conservatives to 29.1 percent.  “There’s been a general move towards the right in
Norwegian politics for about a decade,” Bergh said. “People
are willing to experiment with the parties on the right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  