-- Loeb’s Third Point Has $655 Million Profit on Yahoo Stake
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-07-22T17:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/loeb-s-third-point-has-655-million-profit-on-yahoo-stake.html
Dan Loeb’s Third Point LLC, which
two years ago agitated for Yahoo! Inc.’s board to resign, made
$655 million today when the Internet company bought back 40
million of his shares.  Yahoo, which is based in Sunnyvale,  California , is paying
Loeb $29.11 a share, leaving his hedge fund with a 129 percent
return on its initial stake. That doesn’t include gains on the
20 million shares Third Point still owns or on shares he
previously sold. Loeb and two other directors he brought to the
board, Harry Wilson and  Michael Wolf , will leave.  “Harry, Michael and I are pleased to have played key roles
in Yahoo’s resurgence since we joined the board last spring,”
Loeb said today in a statement. “Since our board’s rigorous
search led us to hire Marissa Mayer as CEO, Yahoo’s stock price
has nearly doubled, delivering significant value for
shareholders.”  The success at Yahoo comes as Loeb agitates for a breakup
of Sony Corp. in  Japan , seeking change in a country where few
U.S. investors have succeeded with that approach. Sony American
depositary receipts have gained 20 percent since Loeb, in a May
14 letter, urged the Tokyo-based company to sell as much as 20
percent of its entertainment business in an initial public
offering.  Beating Peers  Third Point returned 12.6 percent in the first half of the
year, among the better performers in the hedge-fund industry,
which on average  returned  3.6 percent, according to Hedge Fund
Research Inc. Aside from Yahoo, his top performers in the first
quarter were bets on Japanese equities and the yen, and long
positions in American International Group Inc.,  Virgin Media  and
 Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , according to his first quarter letter to
investors.  Loeb reported  owning  5.2 percent of Yahoo in September
2011, when he urged the board to resign, saying directors erred
in spurning a $44 billion takeover bid by Microsoft Corp. and
hired a chief executive officer who wasn’t up for the job. At
that time, he had purchased about 45 million shares at an
average price of $12.72.  He became a director in May 2012 in a board shakeup tied to
the ouster of former Yahoo Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson over a failure to correct errors in his credentials.
Third Point had been locked in a dispute with  Yahoo (YHOO)  about its
management, faulting Thompson for cutting jobs before he
articulated a complete turnaround strategy after the company
failed to accept the Microsoft bid.  Sony Push  At that time, Loeb had built his stake to 70.5 million
shares. Third Point still owns 20 million shares, or about 1.8
percent, in Yahoo after the stake sale announced today, valued
at about $564 million.  At Sony, Loeb is pushing for talks with company directors
and investment bankers advising the electronics maker on his
proposal after the board agreed to consider it. Sony CEO Kazuo Hirai has emphasized the need to fix the business that makes
TVs, phones and laptops, while the Sony board is reviewing
Loeb’s proposal.  Third Point increased its stake in Sony last month. Its
funds own 70 million shares through direct ownership and cash-settled swaps, according to a June 17 letter from the investor
to Hirai obtained by Bloomberg News. That equals about 6.9
percent of the Tokyo-based company’s shares on issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  