-- Hong Kong Says Loans to Mortgage Firms May Undermine Curbs
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-07-23T04:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/hong-kong-says-loans-to-mortgage-companies-may-undermine-curbs.html
Hong Kong  banks’  support  for
mortgage lending by finance companies may reduce the
effectiveness of home-lending controls and should be
discouraged, the city’s watchdog said.  “If banks provide loans to finance companies to support
their mortgage business and these finance companies do not
follow the Hong Kong Monetary Authority’s guidelines on property
mortgage lending, this may undermine the effectiveness of the
prudential measures,” the regulator said in an e-mailed reply
to questions. The HKMA “does not encourage banks to provide
loans to these finance companies,” it said.  Hong Kong’s government is trying to curb property prices in
the world’s most expensive housing market after low mortgage
costs, a shortage of real estate and an influx of buyers from
mainland  China  prompted  house prices  to more than double since
the beginning of 2009.  The HKMA asked lenders for information on financing
provided to companies that offer mortgages, the Oriental Daily
newspaper reported yesterday, citing unidentified people.  Hang Seng Property Index rose 2.2 percent as of the noon
trading break in Hong Kong, narrowing its decline this year to
7.1 percent.  Stamp Duty  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying in February
doubled stamp duty on all property transactions higher than HK$2
million ($257,800) and the HKMA tightened mortgage terms for
commercial properties and parking spaces.  The regulator also required banks to lower the maximum
mortgage loan-to-value ratio on commercial properties by 10
percentage points. It limited the maximum mortgage for parking
spaces to 40 percent of the value, with a 15 year-cap on the
length of the loan.  Property transactions in the city plunged to a two-decade
low in the second quarter as the measures took effect, prompting
thousands of real estate agents and industry workers to march in
a protest this month, calling on the government to lift the
controls.  The regulator “requires banks to submit not only regular
statutory returns, but also additional information as and when
the situation warrants, so as to enable the HKMA to accurately
assess the risks associated with banks’ different lines of
businesses,” it said in yesterday’s e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  