-- Mongolia to Take Over Savings Bank as Fifth-Largest Lender Fails
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-07-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/mongolia-to-take-over-savings-bank-as-fifth-largest-lender-fails.html
Savings Bank, Mongolia’s fifth-largest lender, has been declared insolvent after affiliated
companies defaulted on loans, and will be taken over by a state-owned competitor, the central bank said.  State Bank  will take over Savings Bank’s 503 branches
starting today, Danjilaa Ganbat, director of the banking
supervision department at Mongol Bank, said at a press
conference in Ulaanbaatar yesterday. Savings Bank was owned by
Just Group, a holding company based in the capital, whose other
assets include Just Oil LLC. The takeover is the first by the
government since 2009.  With 1.7 million customers in a nation of 2.9 million,
Savings Bank accounts for about 8 percent of active banking
assets and 55 percent of government financial services, such as
disbursement of pensions and payment of utility bills, according
to the central bank. Other lenders are healthier, said
Dambadarjaa Jargalsaikhan, an economist and commentator on
television show De Facto.  “The central bank now has things in control,”
Jargalsaikhan said. “I don’t think all the banks are like this
but we should draw certain lessons. There was too much risk on
one individual and there was a problem with poor corporate
governance and conflicts of interest.”  Sharavlamdan Batkhuu, Just Group’s controlling shareholder,
and other companies in the group have defaulted on loans since
2011, Ganbat said.  Batkhuu didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment. Savings
Bank didn’t answer a phone call or comment when a reporter
visited the lender’s office yesterday.  Coal Exports  Mongolia’s resource-based economy has been hit by a decline
in coal exports, which plunged to $542.4 million in the first
six month of the year from $1 billion a year earlier. Total
first-half exports fell 10 percent from a year earlier.  The  World Bank  in April cut its forecast for Mongolia’s
2013 economic growth to 13 percent from 16 percent, citing
declines in exports and foreign investment. FDI in the first
five months of the year reached $1.21 billion, down from 1.47
billion during the same period last year.  Savings Bank is the third lender to be taken over by the
government, following Anod Bank JSC in 2008 and Zoos Bank JSC in
2009. The lender has losses of 180 billion tugrik ($122 million)
and its working capital is 94 billion tugrik lower than its
assets, the central bank said.  All 503 Savings Bank branches of Savings Bank were closed
yesterday as the assets moved to State Bank, Ganbat said. While
the process should be complete by 9 a.m. today, there may be
some delays, he said.  State Bank was formed by the government in 2009 to hold
Anod Bank and Zoos Bank and functions like a commercial lender.
Mongol Bank is the nation’s central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  