-- Tottenham and Liverpool Get Soldado Bid Deadline: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-22T10:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/tottenham-and-liverpool-get-soldado-bid-deadline-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Soldado Deadline  Tottenham Hotspur and Liverpool have been given an Aug. 3
deadline by Valencia to bid for Spanish striker  Roberto Soldado ,
the  Daily Mirror reported.   Valencia President Amadeo Salvo said any club interested in
signing Soldado must meet the 25 million-pound ($38.1 million)
release clause in his contract by that date or the player won’t
be sold, the newspaper added.  Spurs are ready to make a club-record bid of 18 million
pounds for Soldado this week, the  Daily Express reported .  Ronaldo Going Nowhere  Real Madrid manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said Cristiano Ronaldo
will be staying at the Spanish club as  Manchester United  looks
at re-signing the Portuguese forward, the  Sun reported .  “I don’t think there is a chance that he will leave,” the
Sun cited Ancelotti as saying of Ronaldo after Real’s 6-0
exhibition match win at Bournemouth last night. “He’s our most
important player and his future is here.”  Second Rooney Bid  Chelsea will make a second bid of 24 million pounds for
 Wayne Rooney  this week even after Manchester United said the
England striker isn’t for sale, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Blues feel they can acquire Rooney for about 30 million
pounds and United has no option but to sell before the transfer
window closes on Sept. 2, the newspaper added.  Higuain Stalls  Real Madrid striker Gonzalo Higuain is stalling on a 30
million-pound move to Napoli because he wants to see if Arsenal
will raise its offer for him, the  Sun reported .  The Gunners, who believed they had agreed on a 23 million-pound deal with Real, are unwilling to be drawn into a bidding
war for a player with whom they already agreed on personal
terms, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  