-- Tour de France Open to Reviving Women’s Race After 24 Years
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-22T23:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/tour-de-france-open-to-reviving-women-s-race-after-24-years.html
Tour de  France  organizer Amaury
Sport Organisation is willing to discuss holding a women’s
cycling race alongside the men’s event after a 24-year hiatus.  Jean-Etienne Amaury, chairman of the family-owned unit,
said executives have debated the subject after a petition
backed by Olympic road-race gold medalist Marianne Vos gathered
 more than 65,000 signatures  in 11 days.  Britain’s Chris Froome won the centenary edition of the
Tour de France two days ago. ASO, formerly known as Societe du
Tour, held a parallel event for women from 1984 to 1989,
although it didn’t prosper, according to “French Cycling: A
Social and Cultural History,” by Hugh Dauncey.  “We need to work out the right economic model, get the
media on board and discuss with public authorities about closing
the roads,” Amaury said in a phone interview. “All these
parameters need to be planned. It’s not likely to happen next
year.”  The 1,080-kilometer (671-mile) women’s race won by the
U.S.’s Mary-Ann Martin in 1984 used the same finishes as the
men, although stages were shorter, according to Dauncey. There
were five rest days compared to two for men.  Amaury said  ASO  hasn’t yet had any contact with the
organizers of the petition. He said the previous version of the
race in the 1980s failed to garner a “strong following or
interest from television.”  Kathryn Bertine, a cyclist and filmmaker in Tucson,
 Arizona , started the petition July 12 after enlisting support
from Vos of the Netherlands, cyclist  Emma Pooley  and triathlete
Chrissie Wellington, both of the U.K.  She said marathon and triathlon races both manage to
accommodate men and women on the same course.  Same Stages  “We’re not trying to race the men,” Bertine, 38, said in
a phone interview. “Women are 10 to 12 minutes behind the men
in the marathon but that doesn’t mean their times are any less
valid.”  Pooley, a two-time runnerup at the eight-day women’s Giro
d’Italia cycling race, said she would like to see women tackling
 the same stages as men .  A parallel event for women would tap the presence of
spectators and media at the race to increase the profile of
women’s cycling, Pooley, 30, said. Some 12 million spectators
lined the route of the 2012 Tour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the Tour de France on
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  