-- Patients ID’d From Hospital Records Trigger State Reviews
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/patients-id-d-from-hospital-records-trigger-state-reviews.html
Some U.S. states are reviewing their
policies around the collection and sale of health information to 
ensure that some patients can't be identified in publicly 
available databases of hospital records.  Washington suspended distribution of the information and 
developed a confidentiality agreement that all buyers must now 
sign, according to Donn Moyer, a spokesman for the state’s 
Department of Health. Bloomberg News, working with Harvard 
University professor Latanya Sweeney, reported on June 4 that 
some patients of Washington hospitals could be identified by 
name and have their conditions and procedures exposed when a 
 database sold by the state for $50  is combined with news articles 
and other public information.  Washington, Tennessee,  Nevada  and  Arizona  have begun privacy
audits as a result of the report, according to inquiries made
with health agencies by Bloomberg.  California ,  Illinois , New
Jersey,  Massachusetts ,  Connecticut ,  Nebraska  and  Alaska  already
have reviews of their health data collection policies under way,
they said.   For decades, state public-health agencies have collected
patient information from hospitals and resold it to researchers
and commercial data-mining firms. The records are stripped of
identifiers such as name, address and date of birth. However,
they may contain less-obvious identifiers such as postal code,
age and admission and discharge dates, which can be used to
reveal patient identities, or “re-identify” them.  Patient Data  States can legally release such details because the
agencies are exempt from the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, the 1996 law that sets  federal standards for
medical privacy . Organizations that are covered by HIPAA
including health care providers, insurers and their business
partners are forbidden from disclosing such information.  The state probes are focused on whether privacy standards
for health information should be tightened as data-mining
technologies get more sophisticated and U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul drives rapid growth in the amount
of patient data being generated and shared.  The implementation of electronic health records and state
health information exchanges are helping fuel a boom in the
market for health-information technology, which will surpass
$102 billion in worldwide sales in 2014, according to Gartner
Inc.  “In all the years I’ve worked in this field I never heard
of re-identification using limited data and publicly available
information,” said Joseph Greenway, the director of  Center for
Health Information Analysis  at the University of Nevada Las
Vegas, which handles the state’s sale of hospital records.  Closer Scrutiny  Nevada is interviewing buyers more closely about their
intended use of the data and is now less likely to approve
requests involving sensitive information, he said.  At least 26 states sell hospital records that contain some
identifying markers, according to records reviewed by Bloomberg
News and Sweeney, director of Harvard’s  Data Privacy Lab  and
creator of  theDataMap.org , a project to identify companies
collecting health information. Bloomberg News contacted state
health agencies and hospital associations in each of the 50
states about the sale of hospital records.  Of the states, 18 said they hadn’t made policy changes and
weren’t reviewing their practices. Three said they don’t collect
or sell hospital data. The rest didn’t reply.  Rachel Seeger, a spokeswoman for the Office for Civil
Rights at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
which investigates HIPAA violations, declined to comment.  Health Industry  There’s often friction between providers of health
information and buyers in a medical-data industry that McKinsey
& Co. projects will  surpass $10 billion by 2020 . The data’s
usefulness increases as more patient details are included.  Companies that benefit  from buying states’ hospital records
include IMS Health Inc., the provider of prescription data that
was taken private by TPG Capital and Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board for $5.06 billion in 2010. Other buyers are
OptumInsight, a division of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. health insurer, and  WebMD Health Corp. (WBMD) , which supplements
its consumer website with advisory services for companies and
insurers.  Sweeney’s goal of identifying patients is to show that
threats to privacy exist in datasets that are widely distributed
and fall outside HIPAA’s regulations. She  exposed flaws  in the
system in 1997 by finding the medical records of former
Massachusetts Governor William Weld in a redacted dataset, which
served as a catalyst for tighter rules.  “It’s been a great response,” Sweeney said. “The fact
that more than one state has actually responded and sought us
out to talk about the vulnerabilities in their data is very
exciting. The goal here is not to stop data sharing. It’s to
make it smarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  