-- Philadelphia Sets Record Sale as A Rated Debt Trails: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-07-22T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/philadelphia-sets-record-sale-as-a-rated-debt-trails-muni-deals.html
Philadelphia is selling $363.8
million in general-obligation debt this week, its biggest issue
on record, as similarly rated securities trail top-rated bonds.  The sale scheduled for tomorrow includes $197.4 million in
new borrowing to finance hundreds of capital projects in the
city of 1.55 million residents, from repairing bridges to
upgrading information-technology systems, said James Lanham,
deputy treasurer. It’s the biggest fixed-rate, long-term issue
for  Pennsylvania ’s largest municipality since at least 1990,
when Bloomberg data began.  Philadelphia will also replace coupons higher than 7
percent with lower-cost bonds, he said. Securities targeted for
possible refunding have maturities in 2014, 2023, 2028 and 2038,
according to deal documents. He declined to provide savings
estimates.  The deal is the first from the city after  Standard & Poor’s 
last month raised its grade one step to A-, seventh-highest,
matching the score from  Fitch Ratings . S&P said officials have
“taken action to rebalance operations during a difficult
recession” and generated three years of surpluses.  Moody’s Investors Service ranks Philadelphia, which has the
lowest credit grade of the nation’s five most populous cities,
one step higher at A2.  ‘Strong Tone’  “We’re really excited to go into the market with our new
rating,” Lanham said. “We’d like to set a strong tone.”  Philadelphia has $8.39 billion in outstanding debt,
including general obligations, according to deal documents.
During the fiscal year that began this month, the city plans to
sell about $50 million in debt backed by sales taxes and give
the proceeds to the school district, which faces a $304 million
deficit, the filing said. Lanham said the offering is subject to
City Council approval.  In the broader market, top-rated securities are beating A
rated debt for the first time since 2010, losing 2.4 percent so
far this year, compared with a loss of 2.82 percent for the
lower-rated debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  