-- Phone Companies Defy Suicide Bombers to Tap Nigerian Data
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-07-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/phone-companies-defy-suicide-bombers-to-tap-nigerian-data.html
Despite bomb attacks, unreliable
electricity and government interference, phone companies are
planning to invest at least $5 billion in  Nigeria  in
anticipation of rapid adoption of data-carrying smartphones.  The most visible threat to the carriers comes from Islamist
militants, especially a group called Boko Haram. The insurgents,
who have killed thousands of people in the north of the country,
have said they target phone company installations.  “It’s becoming increasingly challenging to operate” in
areas where rebels are active, Segun Ogunsanya, CEO of  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ’s Nigerian unit, said by phone. “We are not
security experts.”  With a population above 160 million, Nigeria is  Africa ’s
most populous country and is expected to grow by 7.2 percent
this year, versus an average of 5.6 percent for sub-Saharan
Africa, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Its mobile market is also the continent’s biggest, at 114
million subscriptions. That will grow to more than 200 million
subscriptions by 2017, researcher Informa Telecoms & Media
predicts.  Three days before Christmas last year, two suspected
Islamist militants killed themselves in separate bombings that
rocked offices of Airtel and  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  in northern Nigeria.  “The guy couldn’t get into our facility and he ended up
blowing himself up at the gate,” Brett Goschen, chief executive
officer of MTN’s Nigerian unit, said in his Lagos headquarters,
where guests must be searched with metal detectors before
entering.  Investing Billions  MTN, Nigeria’s biggest mobile-phone provider, in April said
it secured a $3 billion loan to invest in the country. Globacom
Ltd., the No. 2 carrier, is investing $1.25 billion to upgrade
and expand its network in Nigeria. No. 3 Airtel has invested
$1.2 billion in Nigeria since 2010.  Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. (ETISALAT) , the fourth-largest carrier in the country, said its
Nigerian unit has secured a $1.2 billion loan for expansion.  The number of Nigerian smartphone users is expected to
increase to more than 35 million in 2017 from 5.6 million at the
end of last year, according to researcher Informa. About 10
percent of Nigerian wireless subscribers use smartphones today.  “Voice will remain the major chunk of revenue, but data is
where the growth is,” Airtel’s Ogunsanya said. His company says
its Nigerian business will expand at 10 percent or more this
year.  Unpredictable Authorities  MTN’s growth in Nigeria has attracted the attention of
 Fitch Ratings , which has warned investors about the company’s
exposure to high-risk markets. The West African country
accounted for 28 percent of MTN’s 2012 revenue.  The company has built networks in many countries where
sovereign debt is below investment grade due to weak corporate
governance, an unpredictable regulatory environment, and the
possibility of default. That could hurt MTN’s credit rating --
currently BBB, two notches above junk status -- according to
Fitch analyst Darshak Juta.  “MTN’s operating model has changed from a pure-play South
African company to now a company that’s spread all across
Africa,” Juta said by phone. MTN, which also operates in Yemen,
Iran and  Afghanistan , didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls
seeking comment on Juta’s assessment.  Petrol Bombs  The Johannesburg-based company says it last year added
1,175 base stations using 3G -- the technology that’s optimized
for delivering data -- roughly double its 2011 installations.
About 70 MTN sites have been attacked with machine guns and
petrol bombs in the past year, according to CEO Goschen, who
yesterday was named MTN’s chief financial officer.  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ,  South Africa ’s largest wireless
provider, is less bullish on Nigeria. While the company has had
some operations in the country and has explored buying an
operator there, at this point any deal would be too expensive,
according to CEO Shameel Joosub. “The pricing has always been
wrong,” Joosub said over lunch at the company’s high-security
headquarters in Johannesburg.  Carriers already in Nigeria, by contrast, say the potential
earnings from the continent’s second-largest economy are worth
risk.  “Any company operating in Africa knows Nigeria cannot be
ignored,” Airtel’s Ogunsanya said. “It’s still a profitable
place to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Kay  in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  