-- Policy Doubt Damping Hiring, Boosting Unemployment, SF Fed Says
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-07-22T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/policy-doubt-damping-hiring-boosting-unemployment-sf-fed-says.html
The U.S.  unemployment rate  is higher
than the strength of the economy would suggest because of
uncertainty over the course of fiscal and monetary policy, a
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco study found.  “Without policy uncertainty, the unemployment rate in late
2012 would have been close to 6.5 percent, 1.3 percentage points
lower than the actual rate,” Sylvain Leduc and Zhen Liu said in
a research note released today by the district bank.
“Heightened uncertainty about economic policy during the
recovery made businesses more reluctant to hire workers.”  Fed policy makers, seeking to get the  U.S. economy  back to
full employment, have been debating why unemployment has
remained so high despite four years of economic expansion and
record monetary stimulus. Particularly vexing has been an
unusually high number of  jobs going unfilled  given the high rate
of  unemployment . That relationship is known as the Beveridge
curve.  “When uncertainty rises, businesses become more hesitant
to hire,” Leduc and Liu wrote. “They reduce recruiting efforts
by raising hiring standards, increasing the number of
interviews, or simply not filling vacancies.”  Other hypotheses for the shifted Beveridge curve have
included a wider mismatch between the skills workers have and
the skills employers demand, as well as an expansion of
 unemployment benefits  that reduced incentives for the jobless to
seek work. Policy uncertainty may account for as much as two-thirds of the distorted relationship between unemployment and
vacancies, the San Francisco Fed researchers found.  They based their conclusion on a gauge of policy
uncertainty that measures such things as the number of tax code
provisions about to expire, the extent of disagreement in
forecasts of inflation and  government spending  and the number of
newspaper articles that discuss economic policy uncertainty.  “As the economy recovers and uncertainty recedes, our
finding suggests that the Beveridge curve should return to its
pre-recession position and the pace of job recovery should
accelerate,” the said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  