-- Poll Support Slips for Rudd’s Labor Before Australia Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-22T23:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/poll-support-slips-for-rudd-s-labor-before-australia-election.html
Support for Australian Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s  Labor party  fell for the first time since
he ousted  Julia Gillard  a month ago, as he prepares to name the
date for an election.  After rising to its highest level on a two-party preferred
basis in almost nine months in a poll two weeks ago, Labor has
fallen two percentage points to give the Liberal-National
coalition a 52 percent to 48 percent lead, the Newspoll
published today in The Australian showed. On the question of
preferred prime minister, Rudd’s lead over opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  narrowed from 22 points to 16 points.  Labor has made up ground since Rudd’s return -- it trailed
by 14 percentage points in the poll conducted before he defeated
Gillard on June 26 in a leadership ballot. Since then, the
former diplomat has announced plans to scrap the world’s highest
carbon price and combat a surge of asylum seekers arriving by
boat, and yesterday won over lawmaker colleagues in his bid to
change the rules for selecting the Labor leader.  When asked yesterday whether he had fixed on a date for the
election, which must be held by Nov. 30, Rudd, 55, said the
government is focused on tackling challenges facing the nation,
including economic growth as the China-led mining boom ends.  Labor’s primary vote in today’s Newspoll fell one
percentage point to 37 percent. The coalition rose three points
to 45 percent and the Greens gained one point to 10 percent.  The survey of 1,141 people had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percentage points. The two-party preferred measure is
designed to gauge which party is most likely to form government
under  Australia ’s preferential voting system. Newspoll is 50
percent owned by News Corp. Australia and 50 percent by Millward
Brown Inc., a market-research company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  