-- Pound Strengthens Fifth Day as Cameron Sees Recovery; Gilts Rise
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-07-22T15:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/pound-reaches-2-week-high-as-cameron-sees-improving-u-k-economy.html
The pound strengthened for a fifth
day against the dollar, the longest winning streak in almost
three months, after Prime Minister  David Cameron  said an
improving economy may allow the government to cut taxes.  The U.K. currency advanced versus 12 of its 16 major
counterparts before a report this week that analysts say will
show economic growth accelerated in the second quarter. The
expansion of the financial services industry may create more
than 250,000 jobs and fuel a 2 percent to 3 percent increase in
gross domestic product, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
U.K. government bonds rose.  “The data of late has been consistent with a gradually
improving backdrop and something of a self-sustaining
recovery,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “That’s providing
a reasonable start to the week from a sterling perspective.”  The pound rose 0.6 percent to $1.5365 at 4:55 p.m.  London 
time after appreciating to $1.5377, the strongest level since
level June 26. The winning streak is the longest since the
period ended May 1. Sterling advanced 0.3 percent to 85.88 pence
per euro.  Measures of U.K. services, manufacturing and construction
all improved last month and recent reports have suggested
increasing  house prices  and falling unemployment are helping to
spur  consumer confidence .  ‘Growing Stronger’  “As we start to see the economy grow stronger -- and it is
growing stronger -- as we start to see the country improve,
actually I want to give people back some of their hard-earned
money and try to reduce their taxes,” Cameron said in an
interview on  BBC Television  broadcast yesterday. “Your economy
does better if you say to people you’ve worked hard, you’ve done
the right thing, here is some of your own money back.”  Britain’s GDP expanded 0.6 percent in the second quarter,
compared with 0.3 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
before the  Office for National Statistics  publishes the data on
July 25.  About 47,000 jobs may be added in the financial services
industry, while there is potential for 218,000 positions to be
created in the wider economy, PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a
report today.  Gains Limited  Britain’s recovery remains bumpy and the pound’s gains will
also be limited amid speculation the central bank will introduce
formal policy guidance in August, according to Morgan Stanley.  “The uneven nature of the recovery is potentially pound
negative,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Hans Redeker , head of
global foreign-exchange strategy in London, wrote today in a
note to clients. “We maintain our medium-term pound view
despite our short position being challenged.” A short position
is a bet an asset will decline.  The pound has strengthened 2.1 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that
track 10 developed-market currencies. The euro rose 2.7 percent
and the dollar climbed 1.6 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.26 percent after falling to 2.24 percent
on July 19, the lowest level since June 20. The 1.75 percent
bond due in September 2022 rose 0.19, or 1.90 pounds to 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.81.  Britain’s government securities handed investors a loss of
2.5 percent this year through July 19, according to Bloomberg
World Bond Indexes. German bonds fell 0.6 percent and Treasuries
declined 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  