-- Qatar ‘Kicks Off’ Investment in Foreign Power With Greek Plant
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-07-22T14:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/qatar-kicks-off-investment-in-foreign-power-with-greek-plant.html
Qatar’s acquisition of a 25 percent
stake in  Greece ’s Heron II power plant “kicks off” a drive by
the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas to invest
in electric power abroad, the country’s energy minister said.  “The power sector is growing steadily worldwide,”
Mohammed Saleh Al Sada said at a press conference in Doha late
yesterday. “We have already built capacity internally here in
Qatar, but we are interested in extending our investment
elsewhere.”  The push to invest in power production abroad will last for
the “coming few years,” he said, after state-controlled Qatar
Petroleum International Ltd., called QPI, signed the agreement
yesterday with GEK Terna SA securing its stake in Heron II. The
deal came two months after Qatar created Nebras Power, a $1
billion fund that will invest in water and power assets abroad.
The Heron II purchase was made by QPI because negotiations
started before Nebras was created, Al Sada said.  Qatar is investing in energy assets abroad after its own
LNG exports leveled off amid a moratorium on further development
of the country’s North Field, the world’s largest gas reservoir.
In April, Centrica Plc and QPI agreed to buy Canadian natural
gas fields from Suncor Energy Inc. for C$1 billion ($966
million).  As the biggest LNG supplier to Europe, Qatar already
supplies the gas used to power electric generation plants across
the continent. An investment in the power sector would allow the
country to increase its earnings from the delivery of that
energy to gas importers.  QPI paid $58 million for its stake in Heron II, according
to an e-mailed statement from GEK Terna today. The companies
also agreed to form an alliance for investments in Greece and
southeast Europe, according to the e-mailed statement.  Nebras Power  Nebras Power, which was announced May 20, will invest in
power generation, water desalination, cooling and heating
projects abroad. The new fund will be 60 percent owned by the
publicly-traded  Qatar Electricity and Water Co . Qatar Holding
LLC, the foreign investment arm of the sovereign wealth fund,
and QPI will each hold a 20 percent stake.  Qatar used hydrocarbon revenue to invest $60 billion a year
abroad from 2008 through 2012, the International Monetary Fund
estimates. Qatar Holding, the foreign investment arm of the
Qatar Investment Authority, bought stakes in Volkswagen AG,
Credit Suisse AG and Tiffany & Co. In February, it said it set
up the $12 billion Doha Global Investment to be listed in the
emirate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  