-- Rangers Acquire Pitcher Garza From Cubs for MLB Playoff Push
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-23T04:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/rangers-get-pitcher-matt-garza-from-cubs-in-5-player-mlb-trade.html
The  Texas Rangers  acquired pitcher
Matt Garza from the  Chicago Cubs , seeking to bolster their
starting rotation for the final two months of the regular season
as they pursue a playoff berth.  The Rangers traded third baseman Mike Olt, pitchers Justin
Grimm and C.J. Edwards, and a player to be announced later for
Garza, 29, a right-hander who has a 63-62 record and 3.80
earned-run-average over eight Major League Baseball seasons.  Garza has gone 6-1 with a 3.17 ERA in 11 starts since
beginning this season on the disabled list with a strained
muscle in his side. He’s 5-0 with a 1.24 ERA over his past six
starts and joins a Rangers team that’s three games behind the
first-place Oakland Athletics in the American League West
division with a 55-44 record. Texas is 2 1/2 games back in the
race for the AL’s wild-card playoff spot.  “He’s an extremely talented pitcher that has had success
in the toughest of divisions and the biggest stages,” Rangers
General Manager Jon Daniels said on the team’s website. “He was,
in our opinion, the best guy on the market, and we wanted to go
out and make a push to get him.”  Garza threw a no-hitter for  Tampa Bay  in 2010 and was voted
the American League Championship Series Most Valuable Player in
2008, when the Rays beat the  Boston Red Sox  in seven games to
reach the  World Series . He’s 2-1 with a 3.48 ERA in five career
playoff starts.  Garza joins a Rangers’ rotation that got Yu Darvish back
from the disabled list last night, will have Alexi Ogando return
from injury tonight and also includes  Derek Holland  and Martin Perez.  Garza is set to be a free agent after this season and the
Rangers wouldn’t receive compensation if he signs with another
team. Baseball’s  trade deadline  is July 31.  The Cubs (44-53) are in fourth place in the National
League’s five-team Central Division this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  