-- Rate-Cut Ammo Running Low Challenges RBA as China Slows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-07-23T02:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/rate-cut-ammo-running-low-poses-rba-threat-as-china-risks-mount.html
Australia  entered its last recession
with the  benchmark interest rate  at 12 percent. Now, as a once-in-a-century mining-investment boom wanes, the central bank
finds itself with little conventional ammunition.  The Reserve Bank of Australia’s overnight cash rate, at a
record-low 2.75 percent, is at a level it took the  Federal
Reserve  and  Bank of England  just months to exhaust before they
turned to quantitative easing. While economists see just a 12
percent chance of an Australian contraction by mid-2014, a
pronounced downturn would pose unprecedented challenges.  Traders are betting Governor  Glenn Stevens  will cut rates
again to weaken the currency and boost exports. He could emulate
global counterparts in stating how long he’ll keep borrowing
costs low. In a worst-case scenario, where a financial crunch
accompanies a slowdown, economists say any asset purchase
program would face a scarcity of government debt, forcing the
RBA to mull options including buying foreign bonds.  “The real  interest rate  is already very very low, so there
already has been a big movement,” said James Morley, professor
of economics at the University of New South Wales and a member
of the  shadow RBA board , a group of academic and market
economists that assigns probabilities to cash-rate moves. “The
short term policy rate is the main instrument, but when that
runs out, you have to do other things.”  The RBA declined to comment on its policy settings or
whether it has contingency plans. Stevens, who was an economist
at the central bank’s research department when Australia had its
last recession in 1991, said in  remarks  in Brisbane July 3 that
the RBA is still running a  normal  monetary policy.  Boom Over  Australia proved the largest developed nation to avoid a
recession during the 2007-2009 global financial crisis thanks to
425 basis points of rate cuts, government handouts and surging
exports to China, which almost  quadrupled  the past five years.
That dependence is now a liability. The China-led resources boom
is over, Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  has said
repeatedly since retaking office last month.  China’s economy  extended the longest stretch of sub-8
percent growth in at least two decades in the second quarter, a
government report showed July 15. With Premier  Li Keqiang 
seeking to rein in credit, the country’s largest private
shipyard has sought a bailout, underscoring prospects demand
will recede for Australian iron ore and coal.  China Slowdown  “For years it was assumed China would maximize gross
domestic product, but increasingly the official view under the
new administration is that the quality of growth does matter and
that they’re willing to tolerate slower growth,” said  Sean Callow , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “The RBA is like the Fed, it has a dual
mandate for employment and prosperity as well as the inflation
target. So sitting back and doing nothing is not necessarily an
option.”  A China hard landing could tip Australia into a
contraction, according to economists at Barclays Plc. A
recession would put strains on a nation where  household debt 
totaled 147.3 percent of disposable income in the first quarter
and where banks rely on wholesale funding -- typically short-term instruments sold to investors -- for about a third of their
total.  Stevens already has overseen 2 percentage points of rate
cuts since late 2011, and the RBA says the effect of those
reductions is apparent and has further to run. Unemployment rose
to 5.7 percent in June, the highest level since 2009. That still
compares favorably with 7.6 percent in the U.S. and 12.2 percent
in euro-zone economies.  Patchwork Economy  Pockets of weakness have spread as job-intensive industries
such as manufacturing were squeezed by a strong currency in
recent years and missed out on the mining-investment boom. The
 unemployment rate  was 10 percent or higher in 10.3 percent of
the nation’s approximately 1,400 regions in the three months
through March, up from 8.1 percent a year earlier, according to
a government report released this month.  Economists predict the RBA will lower the main rate to 2.5
percent and keep it there for about a year. Traders are pricing
in a 77 percent chance of a quarter percentage point cut to 2.5
percent at next month’s policy meeting, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Because about 90 percent of home loans in Australia are
financed at floating rates tied to the central bank’s benchmark,
reductions have a more direct impact on the economy than in the
U.S., where most mortgages are fixed rate.  Unconventional Policy  Stevens’s counterparts have been surprised at the speed at
which normal can become abnormal. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
and his policy panel said in August 2007 that inflation was the
central concern, days before a seizing in money markets prompted
a reversal in stance. Seven months later, the Fed stepped in to
prevent the disorderly failure of Bear Stearns Cos.  Should traditional rate cuts approach exhaustion -- in the
U.S., the Fed began turning to asset purchases when its target
was 1 percent -- Stevens may have to shelve a preference for
conventional policy and embrace other steps to boost growth.  “It would be useful for the RBA to be thinking about such
possibilities now,” said Saul Eslake, chief Australia economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Melbourne, who has worked in
Australian financial markets for more than a quarter century and
wrote a note last month mooting the possibility of QE in the
country. While officials may be looking at contingency plans,
“I wouldn’t expect them to say so publicly, not least for fear
of being accused of talking the economy down,” he said.  Any RBA shift to using the bank’s balance sheet as its main
tool would likely push Stevens to look beyond Australia’s
government and corporate debt market, which is less than half of
America’s, relative to the economy’s size.  Smaller Market  Years of budget surpluses and limited deficits have left a
small amount of  government bonds  relative to other countries,
and companies have eschewed borrowing via debt sales. As a
result, outstanding corporate and government debt is about A$620
billion ($571 billion), or 42 percent of the nation’s A$1.45
trillion GDP, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. In the U.S. the total is about $20 trillion, exceeding
the nation’s $16 trillion GDP.  International investors also  hold  about 70 percent of
Australian government debt, reducing the amount the RBA could
purchase unless foreigners were willing to sell.  At the same time, a recession would test the government’s
commitment to fiscal discipline, potentially leading to
increased federal borrowing. Rudd and opposition leader  Tony Abbott , who face off in an election due by Nov. 30, have pledged
to return the budget to surplus.  Other Alternatives  Any increase in government financing needs could be met by
RBA liquidity, either directly -- a step eschewed by major
central banks since the Great Depression -- or via the secondary
market. The Bank of Japan’s current QE program has it buying the
equivalent of about 70 percent of government debt issued.  One alternative for the RBA would be buying residential
mortgage-backed notes, something it did through  repurchase
agreements  to accommodate banks’ desire for more liquidity as
global credit markets began seizing up in 2007. The market
totaled A$110.1 billion as of April.  Another tool deployed during the crisis was a government
guarantee for bank debt. Rudd, then in his first stint as prime
minister, announced the step in October 2008, citing what he
called “acute funding pressures” for lenders. The RBA set up a
liquidity facility in 2011 to allow banks to meet capital
buffers under international regulatory rules known as Basel III.  Foreign Bonds  Another quantitative-easing option for the RBA would be to
purchase foreign bonds. That would have the added advantage of
putting downward pressure on the currency -- should it prove
“stubbornly resilient to a deteriorating economic
environment,” according to Merrill Lynch’s Eslake.  A more likely scenario is one where the Aussie declined on
its own as a Chinese slowdown infected Australia, according to
former RBA board member Warwick McKibbin. He said in an
interview that exchange-rate depreciation would help rebalance
the economy without the need for asset purchases.  The Australian dollar already has begun retreating from the
record highs past $1 that hammered the nation’s manufacturing
and retailing industries. The Aussie fell 12 percent last
quarter, the biggest slide worldwide after the Syrian pound. It
was at 92.70 U.S. cents at 11:50 a.m. in Sydney, compared with
the average of $1.0175 the past three years.  QE Unlikely  “At this point, I don’t think QE will be necessary,” said
Mardi Dungey, a professor of economics at the University of
Tasmania who began her career at the RBA, highlighting the
currency’s drop. Foreign central banks “who have really been
most prominent in their use have well-developed, deep and liquid
debt markets,” she said.  Besides accumulating assets, Stevens could emulate
counterparts by adopting a “forward guidance” policy such as
stating an intention to keep the cash rate low so long as
inflation remains within target and unemployment stays above a
certain level, said UNSW’s Morley.  “The RBA has considerable scope as a flexible inflation
targeter to undertake unconventional monetary policies,” Morley
said. “I can see no obvious restrictions on balance-sheet
measures that would involve purchases of foreign or longer-term
assets.”  The RBA’s  charter  offers it operational flexibility should
abnormal measures be required. Sections 10 and 11 of the  Reserve
Bank  Act 1959 tasks it with seeking currency stability, full
employment and prosperity, and requires it to inform the
government “from time to time.” The Fed employed emergency
authority to make credit available beyond the banking system.  RBA Charter  The RBA’s current  balance sheet  amounts to about 6 percent
of GDP -- the level of the Fed’s at the end of 2007. The
American central bank’s total swelled to 23 percent as it
embarked on three rounds of quantitative easing.  Any push to broaden the range of securities bought in the
event of a recession may open the RBA to political scrutiny that
it hasn’t had to face before. Local politicians may have an
incentive to press for purchases of state government bonds.
Yields on those securities soared to 1.34 percentage points
above those on federal notes in December 2008, from 0.51 point
two months earlier, illustrating their vulnerability to crises.  Bernanke had to contend with calls to cease asset purchases
from some politicians worried new bubbles would result, and
pressure to extend them into areas such as  student loans  because
the  U.S. economy  wasn’t recovering quickly enough.  “Purchases of private assets are always fraught with
political difficulties,” said Morley.  Policy makers elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region have
looked beyond their main monetary policy tools as capital
inflows complicate the response to growth risks, with Singapore
and Taiwan taking steps to cool property prices.  Singapore may report inflation accelerated in June, a
Bloomberg survey showed before a report today. Taiwan may say
industrial production grew for the first time in five months. A
euro-zone  consumer confidence  indicator and a U.S.  house-price
index  are due.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  