-- RBS at Less Than Break-Even Valuation Discredits Osborne
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-07-23T15:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/rbs-at-less-than-break-even-valuation-discredits-osborne.html
Five years after giving  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  a record banking bailout, the British
government is making it harder to recoup its money by sowing
confusion over the firm’s structure and future profitability.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on June 19
he’d review a breakup of the bank, the U.K.’s third-largest by
assets, days after  Stephen Hester ’s resignation as chief
executive officer. Osborne said the lender was burdened by too
many poor assets, contradicting RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton , who
told investors five weeks earlier the government could start
cutting its 81 percent stake next year.  “RBS is facing more problems now than it was six months
ago -- and that must be partly attributed to government
interference,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at
Mediobanca SpA in London, who recommends selling the stock.
“The idea of the government even considering starting the sell-down process before the end of next year is overly optimistic.”  Since its 45.5 billion-pound ($69.9 billion) rescue, the
bank has shrunk assets by almost half, posted five consecutive
years of annual losses and still trades below the price the
government says it needs to break even. Osborne will struggle to
meet his 2010 election pledge to offer RBS shares to voters, a
sale Hester said would symbolize Britain’s economic recovery.  ‘Bad Signal’  Owning RBS has made the government vulnerable to criticism
over banker compensation, lending to companies and the
manipulation of benchmark  interest rates . The opposition Labour
party has attacked Osborne for allowing RBS to pay executive
bonuses and failing to police the investment bank.  Ed Balls ,
Treasury spokesman for the Labour party, this month blamed
Hester’s ouster on political meddling.  It “sent a bad signal around the world about the way
government is working with business,” Balls said at a July 2
conference organized by the Times newspaper. “It will be harder
and take longer to be where we want to be, which is RBS off the
government books and back in the private sector.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  told  Bloomberg News  on June 14
that the public is more interested in getting its money back
than the timing of a sale. He faces re-election in 2015.  “The crucial thing is to be seen to be doing it
competently rather than to be seen to be indulging in some kind
of fire sale, which then begins to fall to pieces as they rush
it,” said Tim Bale, a professor of politics at Queen Mary,
University of London.  Goodwin Expansion  RBS advanced 0.3 percent to 335.8 pence in London trading
today, below the 407-pence break-even price. The  stock  has
climbed 4.8 percent since Osborne’s speech, after falling as
much as 15 percent. By contrast,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , 39
percent owned by the government after a 20 billion-pound rescue,
is trading at 68.11 pence, above the 61-pence break-even price.  RBS has lost 95 percent of its value since the end of 2006,
the year before then-CEO  Fred Goodwin  led the 72 billion-euro
($95 billion) purchase of Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Holding NV.
The takeover left the Edinburgh-based lender excessively
dependent on short-term funding, bringing it close to collapse
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008,
according to a December 2011 report by the Financial Services
Authority. Goodwin, 54, was stripped of his knighthood last year
and can no longer use the title “Sir” before his name.  King’s Call  The tone of Osborne’s Mansion House speech surprised
investors, sparking the initial sell-off, Wheeler said.  While Osborne was reluctant at first to consider a breakup
of RBS, the idea has since gained support within the Treasury,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The chancellor appointed Rothschild,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
Slaughter & May LLP to review RBS’s structure after former Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  told lawmakers in March the
lender should be fully nationalized. The bank should then be
split up, with the “good” pieces re-privatized, King said.  The Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, set up
by the chancellor after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million
pounds for manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, said in its final report published last month that the
government should carry out a “detailed analysis” of the
proposal to divest RBS’s toxic assets into a bad bank.  Hester, who replaced Goodwin as CEO after the 2008 bailout
and plans to step down in December, has shrunk the balance sheet
by 900 billion pounds and cut 41,000 jobs out of 199,800. Assets
that the bank plans to sell or run down declined to 53 billion
pounds at the end of the first quarter from 258 billion pounds
at the end of 2008, making it easier for the government to
contemplate splitting off those holdings.  Bad Bank  The bad bank will include unwanted businesses such as
consumer and commercial real estate loans and Ulster Bank
assets, Frederik Thomasen, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in London, wrote in a July 9 note. The unit probably would
house “high risk” commercial-property assets that aren’t part
of Ulster Bank or Citizens Financial Group Inc., RBS’s
profitable U.S. consumer and commercial business, he said.  The bad bank would hold about 85 billion pounds of assets,
or 6 percent of the group total, accounting for 75 percent of
its provisions, said Thomasen, who recommends buying RBS stock.  “Any split would, we believe, be costly and time-consuming
to implement and would surely involve the transfer of assets at
below existing carry values, destroying value for all existing
stakeholders,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in
London with a hold rating on the stock. “RBS is going to remain
under pressure to do things that are suboptimal and value-destructive. This government-mandated rolling restructuring is
not at all helpful.”  Credit Review  Uncertainty over the future direction of the business led
Moody’s Investors Service to put RBS’s credit rating under
review this month.  “Moody’s action reflects the further uncertainty for
bondholders resulting from the U.K. government’s recent
announcement that it is examining the merit of a possible
breakup of RBS and how this could be achieved,” the ratings
company said on July 5. “Some of these options may entail
losses for creditors.”  The prospect of the government using RBS’s existing
 bondholders  to finance the riskier bad bank unnerved investors,
 Simon Adamson , a London-based analyst at CreditSights Inc.,
wrote in a June 23 note to clients.  “We would expect that subordinated, and perhaps senior
unsecured, debt would be part of the funding for any bad bank,
and that will continue to influence bond prices until a decision
is made,” Adamson wrote. “It is probably the last thing RBS
needs when it is consolidating its financial recovery.”  ‘Strategic Uncertainty’  The cost of insuring RBS’s subordinated bonds from  default 
was 368 basis points yesterday compared with 310 basis points on
June 19 and a low for the year of 232 basis points on May 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Hester, a former head of fixed income at Credit Suisse
Group AG, resigned four months after he bowed to pressure from
the government and regulators to shrink the investment bank and
sell a 25 percent stake in Citizens. The U.S. unit, which RBS
bought in 1988, had a profit of about 754 million pounds last
year, accounting for 12 percent of the British bank’s total
profit from the core operations it plans to keep.  “We expect enduring strategic uncertainty, fears around
non-bad-bank ideas in the autumn and low returns from a core
bank in transition,” Jason Napier, a London-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, who recommends selling the stock, said in a
note to clients last week.  Job Cuts  Under government influence, the bank cut an additional
2,000  jobs  at its securities unit last month in addition to the
3,800 announced last year, when it decided to sell or close its
unprofitable cash equities, mergers-advisory and equity-capital-markets divisions.  Revenue from the unit, the second-largest by assets after
consumer and commercial banking, fell to about 1 billion pounds
in the  first quarter  from 1.7 billion pounds a year earlier.
That still accounted for about 18 percent of the group’s total
revenue during the period.  Since 2008, RBS’s market share in underwriting bond sales
and syndicated loans has dwindled. The bank ranked seventh in
arranging syndicated loans in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It held the
top spot in 2008. RBS is 12th in underwriting international
bonds in 2013, down from sixth in 2008, the data show.  Mortgage Market  RBS also has boosted its share of the U.K. mortgage market.
In 2011, the bank was the fifth-largest mortgage originator by
gross lending, accounting for 10.4 percent of the market,
according to data compiled by the  Council of Mortgage Lenders .
In 2008, it held the same spot with 7.3 percent. Its U.K. gross
residential mortgage lending has increased 33 percent to 110.2
billion pounds since 2008, the bank said in May.  Osborne has said he wants RBS to be a U.K.-centered bank
focused on providing mortgages and banking services to
individual and corporate customers.  “We believe RBS’s future is as a major U.K. bank with the
majority of its business in the U.K. and in personal, SME and
corporate banking,” Osborne told the House of Commons in London
on Dec. 20, referring to small- and medium-sized enterprises.  The British consumer and corporate operations accounted for
59 percent of operating profit before impairments in the first-quarter, the markets unit 16 percent and Citizens 11 percent.  Executive Departures  Hester, 52, is the third senior executive to announce his
departure from RBS this year. Chief Financial Officer Bruce Van Saun said in May he was leaving to run Citizens. In February,
investment-banking chief John Hourican resigned after the bank
was fined $612 million for rigging Libor. Chairman Hampton said
last month he might leave after a new CEO is found.  Ross McEwan, CEO of RBS’s British retail unit and Van Saun,
are the top internal candidates for Hester’s job, according to a
person with knowledge of the selection process who asked not to
be identified because the matter is private.  RBS executives and officials at U.K. Financial Investments
Ltd., or UKFI, which manages the government’s bank stakes,
declined to comment. A spokesman for Goodwin didn’t return
calls, and the Treasury declined to comment beyond Osborne’s
June 19 statement.  RBS still has to sell its remaining 48.5 percent holding in
 Direct Line Insurance Group Plc (DLG)  and find buyers for the 316 U.K.
branches it has to sell by 2014 to comply with European Union
rules that force bailed-out lenders to shrink. RBS struggled to
sell the branches after Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest
bank, pulled its 1.7 billion-pound bid in October. RBS has said
it will sell the branches in an initial public offering.  Capital Shortfall  The bank also has been told by the Prudential Regulation
Authority to increase capital by 3.2 billion pounds to withstand
possible losses on loans, fines and other risks. It said last
month it would narrow the shortfall to 400 million pounds by the
end of the year, with the gap closed through retained profit in
the first quarter of 2014.  UKFI said in its annual report on July 15 that RBS needs to
show “sustained profitability” before it can return to private
ownership. It described the bank’s first-quarter operating
profit of 829 million pounds, a 29 percent decline from a year
earlier, as a “setback.”  Osborne is pursuing a different strategy with Lloyds. He
said last month the government is “actively considering”
selling shares. CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio said in May that
London-based Lloyds will return to profitability in 2013, helped
by a revival in the British economy. House prices are rising and
the  International Monetary Fund  raised its 2013 growth forecast
for the U.K. this month to 0.9 percent from 0.6 percent and
predicted expansion of 1.5 percent next year.  Lloyds posted an almost threefold increase in  first-quarter
profit  to 1.48 billion pounds as bad loans declined. Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender is “quite advanced in its path to
normalization,” according to UKFI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  