-- RBS Sued by Fired Emerging-Markets Rates Head Over Bonus
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-07-22T16:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/rbs-sued-by-fired-emerging-markets-rates-head-over-bonus.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
former head of emerging market rates Lee Tze Kiang sued the
lender claiming his bonus was wrongly forfeited when he went to
work for a hedge fund firm after he was fired.  Lee, dismissed in June 2012 after an investigation into two
traders he supervised, said in filings in Singapore’s High Court
that he had alerted RBS to their irregular activities. He’s
seeking at least S$3.2 million ($2.5 million).  RBS, which plans to claw back 302 million pounds ($463
million) from bankers to help pay U.S. fines over interest rate
rigging, said in its defense filed July 1 that its rules provide
for deferred awards not to vest if the beneficiary engages in
competitive activity. It denied Lee’s assertion in his May 28
lawsuit that the provision is unenforceable and void.  “Unfortunately, Singapore’s labor laws allow employers to
terminate without justification relatively easily,” Lee said in
a phone interview today.  Patricia Choo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for RBS,
declined to comment on the case.  Lee joined JL Capital Pte, a Singapore-based hedge fund
firm, as a senior portfolio manager on Oct. 1. JL Capital uses
RBS as a prime broker and is a client, not a rival, Lee said in
his lawsuit.  Currencies Risk  JL Capital was started in 2002 by James Loh, former
regional head for  interest rates  and Asian currencies risk
management in  Asia  at UBS AG, according to the firm’s website.  Jeremy Tan, a JL Capital spokesman, said Lee had left the
firm and declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Lee said in his lawsuit that he alerted his superiors to
the irregular activity which started before he managed the two
employees.  Lee had been negligent in his management, “leading to
substantial financial loss for the group,” RBS said in its
defense. Lee should have further questioned the mis-marking by
one of his subordinates, the Edinburgh-based bank said, without
specifying the financial product.  Rate Rigging  RBS was one of 19 banks ordered by the Monetary Authority
of  Singapore  last month to set aside as much as S$12 billion at
zero interest after 133 traders in the city state sought to
manipulate benchmark rates. RBS has also been punished by
regulators in the U.K. and  Japan  for rate-rigging attempts.  Even if Lee is entitled to any of his deferred bonuses, RBS
said in its filing that they would be reduced according to group
policy of a 15 percent clawback on staff of its markets and
international banking business to help recoup its fines.  Lee said in a July 15 filing that the U.S. fines for RBS’s
attempts at Libor rigging are unrelated to any business unit or
profit center he had worked in at the bank and are
“inconsistent” with his claim.  The case is Lee Tze Kiang v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S478/2013. Singapore  High Court .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  