-- Red Sox Beat Yankees 8-7 on Napoli’s Home Run in 11th Inning
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-22T05:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/red-sox-beat-yankees-8-7-on-napoli-s-home-run-in-11th-inning.html
Mike Napoli  belted a solo home run
with two outs in the bottom of the 11th inning to lift the
 Boston Red Sox  to an 8-7 win over the  New York Yankees  and a
third series win against their division rivals this season.  Napoli’s second homer of the Major League Baseball game
gave the Red Sox the victory just before 1 a.m. today at Fenway
Park in Boston, where his teammates raced out of the dugout to
celebrate as he crossed home plate.  Boston won two of three games in the series and has taken
six of nine meetings between the clubs this season.  “I knew one swing could do it and I got a pitch I could
drive,” Napoli, who finished with four runs batted in, said in
a televised interview. “It was a great series win for us.”  The  Red Sox  improved to 60-40 and stayed 1 1/2 games ahead
of the Tampa Bay Rays atop the American League Eastern Division.
The Rays won for the 13th time in 14 games yesterday by holding
on for a 4-3 victory over the  Toronto Blue Jays .  The Red Sox and Rays open a four-game series in Boston
today.  Yankees starting pitcher CC Sabathia allowed seven earned
runs on his 33rd birthday as the Red Sox opened a 7-3 lead last
night. The left-hander has now given up 15 earned runs in his
past two starts. Sabathia surrendered a three-run homer to
Napoli in the third inning that put Boston ahead 4-3 and also
gave up a towering home run to Jonny Gomes in the fifth.  The Yankees scored two runs in both the sixth and seventh
innings to tie the game and force extra innings.  423-Foot Homer  In the bottom of the 11th, Yankees reliever Adam Warren
retired the first two batters before Napoli blasted a 423-foot
(129-meter) home run into the second row of seats in center
field on a full-count fastball. It was the ninth time this
season the Red Sox won a game in their final at-bat.  Also yesterday, Matt Harvey had 10 strikeouts over seven
scoreless innings in his first start since the All-Star Game as
the  New York  Mets shut out the Philadelphia Phillies 5-0, while
pitchers Adam Wainwright and  Bartolo Colon  each picked up their
13th wins of the season, tied for the most in the majors.  Wainwright allowed two runs over eight innings in the St.
Louis Cardinals’ 3-2 win against the  San Diego Padres  and Colon
tossed a four-hit shutout as the  Oakland Athletics  blanked the
Los Angeles Dodgers 6-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  