-- Republicans Propose Limiting Obama Climate Plan in Budget
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-22T17:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/republicans-propose-limiting-obama-climate-plan-in-budget.html
House Republicans  proposed cutting
the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget by a third  and
denying  funds for a key part of President Barack Obama’s plan to
combat global warming.  The House Appropriations committee’s panel that oversees
the EPA will consider cutting $2.8 billion from the agency’s
2014 budget, and prohibit the administration from spending on
greenhouse-gas rules for  power plants , the centerpiece of
Obama’s climate plan. The budget for the year starting Oct. 1,
which will get a vote tomorrow in the subcommittee, also would
bar the EPA from imposing new curbs on sulfur in gasoline and on
the  use of water  by power plants.  “By holding back overly zealous and unnecessary
environmental regulations, this bill can have a positive effect
on our economy and will help encourage job growth,” Committee
Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, said today in a
statement.  House Republicans are seeking to limit the president’s
efforts to reduce emissions of  greenhouse gases , which
scientists say are causing global warming. While the measures
with the restrictions have little chance of being adopted in the
Democratic-led Senate, they underscore efforts administration
critics are considering to head off or slow the EPA’s
regulation.  Southern, Peabody  As part of Obama’s plan outlined June 25, the EPA would
issue the first limits on  carbon emissions  from all U.S. power
plants, a move that has been fought by lobbyists for  Southern
Co. (SO)  and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)   By focusing on power plants, Obama is confronting one of
the largest contributors to greenhouse-gas emissions. Forty
percent of U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions, and one-third of all
greenhouse gases, come from electric power plants, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Republicans say the rules will raise the cost of
electricity, endangering the  U.S. economy  and pushing coal
producers out of business. In the Senate, Wyoming Republican
John Barrasso introduced legislation last week, unrelated to the
budget, that would prevent the EPA from issuing greenhouse-gas
regulations. He vowed to use every opportunity to attach his
measure as an amendment to other legislation.  The House Appropriations subcommittee on Interior,
Environment and Related Agencies is scheduled to consider and
vote on the budget at 10 a.m. tomorrow. The plan would cut
spending by 30 percent for the EPA administrator’s office and 50
percent for the office that works with Congress.  In addition to the EPA, the legislation included funding
for the Interior Department,  U.S. Forest Service , the
Smithsonian Institution and the  U.S. Geological Survey . The USGS
budget would drop 9 percent by reducing its climate-change and
administrative accounts, according to a committee statement.  The measure would increase the operating accounts for the
National Park Service so that each park will remain open and
operational next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  