-- Retail Health Clinics More Popular on Ease for Parents
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-07-22T21:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/retail-health-clinics-more-popular-on-ease-for-parents.html
Parents are turning to medical
clinics run by companies like  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Walgreen
Co. (WAG)  to treat their children for minor illnesses rather than
their pediatricians because of the convenience, a study found.  Parents used the clinics instead of their child’s doctor
because the retail health outlets had more suitable hours, their
pediatrician had no available appointments or they didn’t want
to bother the doctor after hours, according to research
published today in  JAMA Pediatrics .  This year there will be more than 6,000 health clinics in
the U.S. located in chain pharmacies, supermarkets and  discount
stores , said Jane Garbutt, the lead study author. The clinics
started in  Minnesota  in 2000. Today’s study is the first to show
that the frequent use of these clinics for pediatric visits is
double prior estimates, she said.  “Although parents consider going to the pediatrician first
for care of a minor illness, they choose the retail clinic for
reasons of convenience or because they think the illness is not
serious enough to warrant an office visit,”  Garbutt , a research
associate professor of medicine and pediatrics at Washington
University School of Medicine in  St. Louis , said in a July 21 e-mail. “Most retail clinic visits occur when the pediatricians’
office is open. Parents and pediatricians do not discuss retail
clinic visits.”  Walgreen, the largest U.S. drugstore chain, has about 370
 Take Care Clinics . CVS operates more than 650 clinics called
 MinuteClinic  in the U.S.  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)  are among
the other retailers that have similar health clinics in their
stores.  Parent Survey  The researchers surveyed 1,484 parents and found that 23
percent had used the clinics for pediatric care. The most common
visits were for sore throats, ear infections, colds or flu and
for physical exams. Nearly half of visits by children to the
clinics occurred from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. during the week and 8
a.m. and noon on the weekend.  Only 42 percent of the parents who used the clinics for
their children told their pediatrician about the visit.  “The failure to communicate about services received could
lead to fragmentation and duplication of care and inappropriate
care,” Garbutt said. “Pediatricians will need to directly
address parents’ need for convenient access to care and discuss
retail clinic care with their patients.”  She said the data “raise concern” about the possible
frequency of unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions for children
who go to these clinics. More studies are needed to examine this
issue.  Fixed Prices  The clinics are usually staffed by non-pediatric nurse
practitioners and physician assistants who provide care for
those ages 18 months and older, the authors said. They are
different from urgent care centers because they have more
limited care options, don’t have on-site diagnostic services
such as X-rays and can’t perform minor procedures.  The clinic prices are fixed and transparent and can be less
expensive than visiting a doctor or emergency room. Many of the
clinics accept health insurance and Medicaid, Garbutt said.  “The big ones have figured out a business plan that
works,” said  Edward Schor , who wrote an accompanying editorial
in the journal, in a July 19 telephone interview. “If your
child has an ear ache and it’s 9:30 at night, you can pack them
up and go to one of these places. They will examine the child.
They have a pharmacy right there, so you can get your
prescriptions filled. They have a one-stop shop.”  Schor is senior vice president for programs and
partnerships at the  Lucile Packard Foundation for Children’s
Health  in  Palo Alto ,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  