-- Ringgit Set for Period of Greater Volatility, Governor Zeti Says
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-07-22T09:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/ringgit-set-for-period-of-greater-volatility-governor-zeti-says.html
Zeti Akhtar Aziz, Malaysia’s central
bank governor, comments on the ringgit, rates, household debt
curbs and  China ’s lending rate liberalization. She made these
comments to reporters at a book launch in Kuala Lumpur today.  On the ringgit’s recent volatility and weakness:  “There is a lot of uncertainty in the international
financial system. There will be some gradual re-pricing of risk.
As a result, we’re in for a period of greater volatility. At
times we will see inflows and at other times there will be
reversals. This will precipitate greater volatility in all the
financial markets. This is not unique to Malaysia.  “What’s important is that while this may be immediate
reactions to developments that have taken place, any of this re-pricing by investors should in the end be aligned to
fundamentals. I believe there will be a convergence towards
pricing according to fundamentals.  “What’s important in the transition to that is that
countries and financial systems are able to absorb the
volatility. This is something that’s beyond our control. It’s
taking place in the international financial system.  “What we can do is increase our capacity and capability
to absorb this. What we’ve done in  Malaysia  is not what we have
done now but what we’ve done for many years: build up the
resilience of our financial intermediaries, develop our
financial markets and in so doing we have been better able to
absorb this kind of increased volatility. What’s important is
our monitoring and surveillance, and collaboration and
cooperation with other countries in this region. This also
contributes towards maintaining greater stability in our
region.”  On whether there is scope to cut Malaysian interest rates:  “Our domestic demand is still strong and steady and still
growing in the region of between 6 percent and 8 percent in
terms of consumption growth investment activity. There are many
ways to ensure that our domestic demand remains sustainable and
this is what the policy is being directed to. Interest rates are
not the only policy measure, but these are the variables. We
will look at risk to growth. Right now it is about in balance.”  On what’s being done to rein in non-banks’ lending practices:  “We’re dealing with the issue of increased indebtedness.
When there are excessive levels of indebtedness, this results in
instability. We have to have more sustainable levels of
indebtedness.  “What I want to assure households, small and medium-scale
enterprises and even the large corporations, is if they have the
capability they should have access to financing. We aim to
provide access to financing to all creditworthy borrowers.
However, if they reach a point where they have indulged in
excesses, this will only contribute to hardship to themselves,
their businesses or their families. We have focused to a great
extent on education and management of finances. All this is very
important so we have rising indebtedness that is sustainable.”  On economic impact of China’s lending rate liberalization:  “What the Chinese authorities aim to achieve is more
sustainable growth. In other words they want to reduce any risks
of buildup of financial imbalances that will have an impact over
their growth prospects over the medium term. That is why they
are reining in excessive credit growth and activities in the
financial system that might pose such a risk. I believe the
gradual adjustments being made will bring the Chinese economy to
a more sustainable pace of growth and that is important for not
only China but for the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  