-- Rudd Changes Labor Leadership Rules as Party Prepares for Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-22T04:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/rudd-changes-labor-leadership-rules-as-party-prepares-for-poll.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
won his bid to change the rules for selecting the Labor leader,
as he aims to neutralize opposition attacks on the party before
setting the date for an election.  The leader will jointly be elected by party lawmakers and
rank and file members in a move that will reduce the power of
factional powerbrokers, Rudd told reporters in Sydney today
after the caucus backed his proposed changes. When in
government, the leader can only be ousted if at least 75 percent
of Labor lawmakers sign a petition requesting a ballot because
the leader had brought the party into disrepute.  Labor’s lawmakers have “decided to democratize the party
for the future,” said Rudd, who was ousted by  Julia Gillard  in
a June 2010 party coup and reclaimed the prime ministership last
month.  ‘The party has decided also to make sure that the prime
minister who people elect in the future will be the prime
minister the people get.’’  The former diplomat is seeking to build a platform ahead of
the election by amending policies that have damaged Labor’s
popularity with voters. Rudd, who has announced plans to scrap
the world’s highest carbon price and combat a surge of asylum
seekers arriving by boat, has erased his party’s opinion poll
deficit with the Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National opposition.  Votes from Labor members will be weighted 50-50 with votes
by caucus members when deciding the party’s leadership, Rudd
said. The party will automatically hold a leadership ballot if
it loses an election.  Sixty percent of caucus members would be required to back a
leadership ballot when the party is in opposition, an amendment
to Rudd’s proposal for 75 percent.  When asked whether he had fixed on an election date, Rudd
said today the government is focused on tackling other
challenges facing the nation, including economic growth as the
China-led mining boom ends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  