-- Rutgers Needs More Athletic Oversight, Independent Report Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-23T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/rutgers-needs-more-athletic-oversight-independent-review-says.html
Rutgers University ’s board and
administration has insufficiently overseen the school’s
athletics department, according to an independent law firm hired
to review the firing of basketball coach Mike Rice.  An eight-week study found “concerns regarding the
insularity and autonomy” of the school’s athletics department,
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP said in its report,
released yesterday.  The New York-based law firm was commissioned in May to make
recommendations to help the school deal with sensitive
circumstances in the future, as the university adds two medical
schools and moves into the Big Ten conference starting in 2014.
The review was prompted by the firing of Rice for verbally and
physically abusing players, actions that school officials had
known about for months.  “As a member of the Big Ten, the Rutgers intercollegiate
athletics program will be in the national spotlight more than
ever,” the report said. “It is crucial that the risks and
rewards of the athletics program be managed with extraordinary
diligence and care.  The firm interviewed 37 current and former Rutgers
employees and board members, reviewed existing school policies
and surveyed thousands of e-mails, handwritten notes and reports
pertaining to Rice’s firing, which led to the resignation of
Athletic Director Tim Pernetti and calls for the resignation of
President Robert Barchi. The report concludes with a series of
recommendations for the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based state
university.  2008 Report  Skadden’s findings call for the school’s athletics director
and athletics chief finance officer to report to officials in
the state university’s administration.  ‘‘The Skadden firm conducted a thorough analysis, and its
detailed recommendations will help us reassess our
administrative structures and policies,” Barchi said in an e-mailed release. “I look forward to studying the report and we
will take the appropriate steps to improve our internal
procedures.”  Rice was fired in April after ESPN’s “Outside the Lines”
released a video of him abusing players. Pernetti, who had fined
and suspended Rice when he first saw the video in December,
resigned two days later, saying that while his first instinct
was to fire Rice, a process involving university lawyers and
human resources professionals led to the conclusion that
dismissal was not justified.  Risk Management  Yesterday’s report also recommended the establishment of an
interdepartmental risk management committee, which Gerald Harvey, the chairman of the Board of Governors called one of the
“great benefits” of the review. A risk management committee
would provide a forum for senior leaders to consider
universitywide issues such as the school’s safety, reputation
and legal interests, according to the report.  “We are going to improve our risk management, and I
believe these recommendations will help strengthen the
university’s ability to manage challenging situations that
inevitably arise at a large and complex institution,” Harvey
said. “If done appropriately, these reforms will provide a
long-term benefit to our student athletes, to all students and
the entire university community.”  Among the report’s other recommendations are increased
communication and transparency between the Rutgers
administration and its human resources and communications
staffs. It also calls for more interaction between the board of
governors, its Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics and the
Athletics Department, including a better orientation program for
new board members regarding their oversight responsibilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  