-- Sales of Existing Homes in U.S. Unexpectedly Decline
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-07-22T14:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decline.html
Sales of previously owned houses
unexpectedly dropped in June, hurt by a lack of supply and
rising mortgage rates that will slow the rebound in the U.S.
real-estate market.  Purchases (ETSLTOTL)  fell 1.2 percent to a 5.08 million annualized
rate, the National Association of Realtors reported today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 5.26 million pace. The pace of the demand
was the second strongest since November 2009 following May’s
downwardly revised 5.14 million rate.  The number of houses for sale at the end of last month was
the fewest for any June since 2001 as rising prices depleted the
number of cheaper houses on the market. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  last week said housing was one of the bright
spots for growth and added that policy makers will monitor the
recent jump in  interest rates  to ensure it won’t derail the
nascent recovery.  “What’s holding sales down is just that there’re just not
a lot of homes for sale,”  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said before the
report. “We’re not expecting really strong numbers for the rest
of the year even though the housing market is getting hot. What
you’re seeing is this pent-up demand show up in higher prices,
not in higher sales.” He projected a June sales rate of 5.12
million.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of economists ranged from
4.99 million to 5.5 million. The prior month’s pace was revised
from a previously reported 5.18 million.  Prices Climb  The median price of an existing home climbed 13.5 percent
to $214,200 last month from $188,800 a year earlier, today’s
report showed.  The number of properties on the market increased 1.9
percent to 2.19 million, the fewest for any June since 2001. At
the current sales pace, it would take 5.2 months to sell those
houses compared with 5 months at the end of May.  “Momentum still appears to be strong,” NAR Chief
Economist  Lawrence Yun  said at a news conference as the figures
were released. “The inventory shortage is continuing to push
prices higher.”  The shortage was particularly acute at lower price points
as price increase push homes out of reach of first-time buyers,
he said.  To contact the report on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  