-- Samsung Hosts Developer Event to Showcase Phone, TV Apps
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-07-22T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/samsung-hosts-developer-event-to-showcase-phone-tv-apps.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will host
its first global developers’ conference later this year,
showcasing its hardware and software in products including
mobile phones and Web-connected televisions.  The three-day event will take place in  San Francisco 
starting Oct. 27, according to a teaser posted on a Samsung  Web
page  today. The site invites developers to “create what’s
next” by signing up.  The event is intended to further distinguish Samsung from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , its biggest competitor in the market for smartphones
and tablets, and competitors using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. The Suwon, South Korea-based company, the
world’s biggest seller of smartphones and TVs, is enlisting
developers to create applications that will add new features and
better connect all of its products.  “Engage with industry leaders,” the company said in the
teaser site. “Collaborate with fellow developers. Learn about
new tools and SDKs,” or software development kits.  While Google created Android, Samsung has used the
operating system to battle Apple’s iPhone and iPad. Android
captured 70 percent of global mobile operating system market
share at the end of last year, compared with 21 percent for
Apple’s iOS, according to IDC. Samsung,  Asia ’s biggest
technology company, was the No. 1 Android vendor with 42 percent
of that market.  Intel, Apple  Since 2012, Samsung and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  have held developers’
conferences in San Francisco and elsewhere to build interest in
their separate, jointly developed Tizen operating system for
mobile phones.  The October event signals Samsung’s broader ambitions, with
the potential for major announcements of new products and Web-based cloud services. It is being held a few blocks from San
Francisco’s Moscone Center, where thousands of Apple developers
gather each year to hear the latest developments for iPads,
iPhones and Mac computers.  This month, Samsung announced it had purchased streaming
entertainment startup Boxee, which it said would help improve
the user experience across its connected devices.  Samsung shares have sagged since early June amid investor
concerns over slowing growth in its smartphone business and
price competition between makers of Android-based handsets.  Samsung was unchanged today in Seoul trading, closing at
1,273,000 won. The company is down 16 percent this  year ,
compared with a 5.8 percent decline in the benchmark Kospi index.  The average price of a smartphone has plunged to $375 from
$450 since the beginning of 2012, IDC estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  