-- Seagate Technology Wins $630 Million Award Reinstatement
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-22T20:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/seagate-technology-wins-630-million-award-reinstatement.html
Seagate Technology LLC won court
reinstatement of a $630 million arbitration judgment against
 Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  over allegations of misappropriation of
 trade secrets .  A  Minnesota  state appeals court today ruled an arbitrator
didn’t exceed his authority in awarding Dublin-based Seagate
$525 million plus interest in its dispute with  Western Digital 
and one of its employees who previously worked at Seagate.  The arbitrator found in 2011 that some of the defendants’
evidence was fabricated regarding three trade secrets and
entered the judgment against Western and the employee, Sining
Mao, as a sanction.  A lower court threw out the award, finding in October that
the arbitrator failed to fully consider Western Digital’s
defenses.  Minnesota’s Court of Appeals reversed that decision.  “The district court erred by determining that the
arbitrator did not have authority to impose sanctions,” the
appellate court said. “The district court should not have
reviewed the merits of the arbitrator’s decision.”  Mao left hard-drive manufacturer Seagate to accept a
position at Irvine, California-based Western Digital, a
competitor, in 2006. Seagate sued Western Digital and Mao in an
effort to prevent the disclosure of trade secrets.  Fabricated PowerPoint  The arbitrator found that Mao fabricated PowerPoint
presentation slides in an attempt to disprove allegations that
he might reveal sensitive information, according to the state
appeals court opinion. As a sanction, the arbitrator declined to
consider any defense to claims that Western Digital and Mao were
liable for misappropriating those secrets, according to the
opinion.  Steve Shattuck , a Western Digital spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the decision.
George W. Soule, a lawyer for Mao, also didn’t immediately
return a call.  The appellate case is Seagate Technology LLC v. Western
Digital Corp., A12-1944, Minnesota Court of Appeals ( St. Paul ).
The lower-court case is Seagate Technology LLC v. Western
Digital Corp., 27-cv-06-1900, District Court, Hennepin County,
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  