-- SEC Sues China Intelligent Lighting for Offering Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-22T22:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/sec-sues-china-intelligent-lighting-for-offering-fraud.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued China Intelligent Lighting & Electronics Inc.
and  NIVS IntelliMedia Technology Group Inc. (NIVS)  over an alleged
scheme to divert more than $29 million from investors in 2010.  China Intelligent Lighting, based in Guangdong, China, and
Huizhou-based NIVS IntelliMedia Technology Group and their chief
executive officers made false representations and raised funds
in initial public offerings in 2010, according to the complaint
filed today in federal court in Manhattan.  China Lighting raised $7.6 million for an IPO in June 2010
while NIV raised $21.5 million in a public offering in April
2010, according to the complaint. Contrary to their
representations, the defendants and company executives diverted
the proceeds “almost immediately upon receipt,” the SEC
alleged.  “To mask the diversions, the defendants falsified bank and
accounting records to reflect inflated cash balances, lied to
their auditor about cash balances and made false and misleading
filings with the commission,” according to the complaint.  The two companies, who used the same auditor, furthered the
scheme by providing the auditor with false bank and accounting
records, the SEC alleged. Company officials also provided false
statements to the SEC in response to subpoenas, the commission
said.  After regulators began scrutinizing the companies, the
auditor who worked for both companies resigned in March 2011 and
both  China  Intelligent Lighting and NIV have failed to file
periodic reports since then, the SEC alleged.  The SEC opened the investigation in 2010 amid concerns that
some Chinese companies that gained listing on U.S. exchanges
were doctoring their financial statements. U.S. exchanges have
frozen or delisted shares of more than a dozen China-based firms
since the investigation began.  The SEC suit includes claims of violations of securities
laws, aiding and abetting and falsification of books and
records. Regulators seek an order for disgorgement of all ill-gotten gains.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
China Intelligent Lighting and Electronics Inc., 13-cv-05079,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  