-- SHFL, Vivid, Sony, Nigeria: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-22T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/shfl-vivid-sony-nigeria-intellectual-property.html
SHFL Entertainment Inc. (SHFL) , a Las
Vegas-based supplier of casino equipment, said in a statement
that a court in Macau has found it didn’t infringe a patent
related to terminal betting on live baccarat.  The company’s Rapid Baccarat electronic table configuration
-- now known as SHFL Fusion Hybrid -- was accused of infringing
a patent belonging to Hong Kong Resident Jay Chun.  The Macau First Instance Court found no violation of the
patent, SHFL said in its statement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Adult-Film Producer Vivid Sues Florida Cabaret Over ‘Vivid’ Mark  Vivid Entertainment Inc. , one of the makers of adult films
who are challenging a Los Angeles ordinance requiring actors in
pornographic films to use condoms, sued a  Florida  nightclub for
trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed July 15 in federal court
in Fort Myers, Florida, J&B PB LLC and its owner Jose Baserva of
Fort Myers are accused of using Vivid’s marks without
authorization.  Vivid, which claims in court papers it has “established
wide recognition and goodwill with the general consuming public
as one of the world’s largest producers of high quality erotic
and adult entertainment,” said it had a previous dispute with
Baserva over the Vivid marks.  In May, Vivid said, Baserva’s business agreed to quit using
the Vivid marks for its Vivid Cabaret Nightclub. It also said it
would quit using an Internet domain name to which Vivid
objected,  vividcabaret.com .  Vivid accused Baserva of filing an application with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office April 23 to register “Vivid
Cabaret” for adult-entertainment nightclubs. Baserva is
planning to open other nightclubs beyond the Ft. Myers site,
also using the “Vivid Cabaret” name, Vivid claimed in its
pleadings.  The Los Angeles-based film company asked the court to bar
any use of its marks by the defendant, and for an award of money
damages, attorney fees, litigation costs and profits the
defendants derived from their alleged infringement.  Vivid, which is known for its marketing of the Kim
Kardashian and Tila Tequila sex tapes, also requested that it be
transferred the domain name to which it objects, and that the
court order the destruction of all infringing promotional
material.  Baserva didn’t respond immediately to a message seeking
comment sent through Vivid Cabaret’s page on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
social media site.  The case is Vivid Entertainment LLC v. J&B PB LLC, 2:13-cv-00524-JES-DNF, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Fort Myers).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sony Gets Dismissal of Suit by Faulkner Copyright Holder  Sony Pictures Classics Inc. has persuaded a federal judge
in  Mississippi  to dismiss a copyright suit brought by the
holders of the copyrights to the works of Mississippian William
Faulkner.  Nobel laureate Faulkner, a novelist who wrote about his
native Mississippi, died in 1962. He was also the winner of two
Pulitzer Prizes.  Faulkner Literary Rights LLC filed the suit in October
2012, claiming lines from Faulkner’s “Requiem for a Nun” were
used incorrectly and without authorization in “ Midnight in
Paris ,” a 2011 Sony film directed by Woody Allen.  According to court papers, a character played by Owen
Wilson is transported from the present to the 1920s, where he
has conversations with Pablo Picasso, Salvador Dali, Ernest
Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. In describing his
experiences, the character says “The past is not dead!
Actually, it’s not even past. You know who said that?
Faulkner.”  The correct quote, the Faulkner rights holder said, is
“The past is never dead. It’s not even past.”  According to the complaint, Sony didn’t seek or receive
permission to use the lines in the film. Faulkner Literary
Rights LLC, which is based in Charlottesville,  Virginia , said it
was harmed by Sony’s actions, and that the use of the quote was
likely to cause the public to assume falsely that a connection
exists between Faulkner and Sony.  U.S. District Judge Michael P. Mills was not convinced and
issued an order July 18 dismissing the case. He said the amount
of text that was used in the film is minimal and was
sufficiently transformed as to fall into copyright law’s “fair
use” exception.  He also rejected any argument that the Faulkner literary
estate’s future market was harmed by the use of the phrase in
the movie. He said he was “highly doubtful that any relevant
markets have been harmed” by the film. “How Hollywood’s
flattering and artful use of literary allusion is a point of
litigation not celebration is beyond this court’s
comprehension,” Judge Mills wrote.  He said that he was more likely to believe that the film
helped the estate and that the market value of “Requiem for a
Nun” was enhanced by the movie.  The estate’s argument that the film would cause viewers to
believe falsely that an affiliation existed with Faulkner and
his works is “without merit,” he said, noting that the
literary allusion to Faulkner “is not synonymous with
affiliation, nor with appropriation.”  Judge Mills’ opinion started with his literary allusion to
another of Faulkner’s works and a present-day pop culture
phenomenon. He said he had viewed Allen’s movie and read
“Requiem for a Nun” and was “thankful that the parties did
not ask the court to compare ‘The Sound and the Fury’ with
‘Sharknado.’”  The case is Faulkner Literary Rights LLC v. Sony Pictures
Classics Inc., 3:12-cv-00100-MPM-SSA, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Mississippi.  Faulkner Literary Rights had filed a second copyright suit
at the same time. It sued  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and the
Washington Post Co. over the use of a Faulkner quote in an
advertisement that ran in the newspaper July 4, 2011.  That quote, “We must be free not because we claim freedom,
but because we practice it,” is taken from a 1956 Faulkner
essay, “On Fear: The South in Labor,” according to court
papers. The Faulkner rights holder claims that quote is also
used without permission.  That case settled in December. No terms were disclosed and
all parties had to bear their own costs, according to court
papers.  That case was Faulkner Literary Rights LLC v. Northrop
Grumman Corp., 12-cv-00732, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Mississippi (Jackson).  Nigeria Joins Copyright Treaty to Improve Access for the Blind  Nigeria has signed on to a treaty aimed at improving access
to published works by the visually impaired, the AllAfrica.com
news website  reported.   The treaty will benefit approximately 300 million people,
90 percent of whom live in developing nations, with 27 million
in Africa, according to AllAfrica.com.  The treaty was signed at a conference convened in
Marrakesh,  Morocco ,  by the World Intellectual Property
Organization, a United Nations Agency, AllAfrica.com reported.  Yandex Gets Rid of Some of Perfect 10’s Infringement Claims  Yandex NV, the Dutch operator of a Russian Internet search
engine, persuaded a federal court in  California  to dismiss
elements of a copyright infringement suit brought by a publisher
of adult-content photos.  In his July 12 order, U.S. District Judge William Alsup
said that claims Perfect 10 Inc. made against Yandex with
respect to direct copyright infringement aren’t supported by
evidence.  Perfect 10, which has also sued Amazon.com Inc. and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  for copyright infringement, said that Yandex hosts copies
of user-uploaded images belonging to the publisher without
authorization. The company argued that even though the allegedly
infringing content is hosted on servers located in  Russia ,
Yandex still infringed under U.S. copyright law because
residents of this country could potentially download them.  Judge Alsup said he rejected this theory of liability. He
said that in previous rulings, nowhere “did our court of
appeals endorse the idea that display of a copyrighted image
anywhere in the world creates direct copyright liability in the
United States merely because the image could be downloaded from
a server abroad by someone in the United States.”  If this theory were to be allowed to go forward, Judge
Alsup said, this would “destroy the concept of territoriality
inherent in the Copyright Act for works on the Internet.”  Although the judge dismissed the claims of direct
infringement, he let stand Perfect 10’s claims that Yandex
contributed to others’ infringement and was vicariously liable.  The case is Perfect 10 Inc. v.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , 3:12-cv-01521-WHA, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  