-- NTSB Begins Formal Probe of Southwest Crash at LaGuardia
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r ,   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-07-23T20:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/southwest-jet-s-gear-collapses-snarls-laguardia-traffic.html
The U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board began a formal investigation into the  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  accident yesterday at  New York ’s LaGuardia airport
that injured eight and disrupted traffic.  The Boeing Co. 737-700’s nose gear failed as the plane
touched down, folding up beneath the jet and causing sufficient
damage to other aircraft systems to trigger a formal probe, Eric
Weiss, an agency spokesman, said today in an interview.  Flight 345’s two crash-proof recorders for voice and data
are being reviewed by the NTSB after reaching the agency’s
Washington headquarters today, Weiss said. U.S. law requires the
safety board to start a probe if a plane is “substantially”
damaged, according to its website.  “The investigation doesn’t mean that there’s something
seriously wrong with the aircraft, or the airline or the air-traffic system as a whole,” Todd Curtis, a former safety
analyst at Boeing who founded consultant AirSafe.com, said in a
telephone interview. “The level of damage was such that the
NTSB wants to have a more formal investigation than they would
for a normal landing-gear event.”  Flight 345 was arriving from Nashville,  Tennessee , at about
5:45 p.m. yesterday when the gear failed, injuring eight among
the 150 people aboard. The jet came to rest with its front end
flat on the ground and emergency evacuation slides deployed,
snarling traffic in the busiest U.S. travel market.  ‘Residual Delays’  “Residual delays” persisted today following the reopening
of Runway 4-22, said Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the  Port
Authority  of New York &  New Jersey , the operator of the region’s
three major airports.  Boeing has people on the ground in LaGuardia and is
providing technical assistance to the NTSB, according to  Marc
Birtel , a spokesman for the Chicago-based company.  Goodrich Corp. manufactured the landing gear, according to
Colleen Carroll, a spokeswoman for  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
the company that acquired Goodrich in a $16.5 billion
transaction announced in September 2011.  United Technologies  is
“standing by” to assist, Carroll said in an e-mail.  The jet was last inspected July 18 and entered service in
October 1999, Dallas-based Southwest said in a statement.  Three passengers and five crew members were taken to local
hospitals and had been released as of today, according to a
Southwest statement that revised the tally up from six people.
The carrier isn’t disclosing details of the injuries, said
 Whitney Eichinger , a Southwest spokeswoman.  Biggest Operator  Southwest added 0.1 percent to $13.89 at the close in New
York. Boeing rose 0.9 percent to $107.79 and United Technologies
advanced 2.9 percent to $105.12.  Planes with a so-called tricycle gear like the 737 touch
down first with their rear main wheels, then lower the nose as
they decelerate and complete their rollout. The U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration  said Flight 345 landed on Runway 4,
which according to industry website AirNav.com is 7,001 feet
(2,134 meters) long.  Southwest is the largest operator of the 737, a single-aisle, twin-engine plane that is the world’s most widely flown
jetliner. The accident was the third this month, with varying
degrees of severity, involving a Boeing jet.  On July 6, a  Boeing 777  flown by  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) 
crashed on landing in  San Francisco , leaving three people dead
and scores injured. On July 12, an empty 787 Dreamliner operated
by Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise caught fire on the ground at
London’s Heathrow airport.  Traffic, Storms  Some inbound planes to LaGuardia averaged delays of two
hours, 46 minutes as of 4:10 p.m. New York time, according to
the FAA’s  website , which listed “traffic management” as a
cause. Thunderstorms rumbled across the region earlier today,
adding to the air-traffic tangles.  Counting arrivals and departures, New York’s three major
airports had almost 290 cancellations of 488 reported in the
U.S., according to industry data tracker FlightAware.com.
LaGuardia’s tally alone topped 170 flights.  While LaGuardia was only the 16th-busiest U.S. airport by
departures in the 12 months through March, according to U.S.
Transportation Department statistics, it’s part of the busiest
U.S. airspace because of the proximity of  John F. Kennedy
International Airport , at No. 18, and No. 19 Newark Liberty
International Airport.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  