-- Spying Scandal Piles Pressure on Merkel Over Extent of NSA Links
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-22T09:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/spying-scandal-piles-pressure-on-merkel-over-extent-of-nsa-links.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel came
under renewed pressure over the trans-Atlantic surveillance
scandal after a report that German intelligence cooperated
closely with the U.S. National Security Agency.  Germany’s BND  Federal Intelligence Service , led by Gerhard
Schindler, pushed for a looser interpretation of privacy law and
German counterintelligence agents were given access to NSA spy
software, news magazine  Der Spiegel reported  yesterday, citing
documents among those exposed by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  “If it’s true that the BND president wanted to circumvent
existing data-protection law in Germany, he has to be
dismissed,” opposition Social Democratic Party Chairman Sigmar Gabriel told Der Spiegel in an interview.  Nine weeks before national elections on Sept. 22, the
opposition is seeking to attack Merkel by questioning how much
the government knew about U.S. mass-surveillance activities. The
chancellor defended her administration last week, saying she’s
pressing U.S. officials for information on the scale of NSA
spying on German communications.  The Spiegel documents allege that the BND has stepped up
its cooperation with the NSA since U.S. intelligence helped
thwart a planned bomb attack on  Germany  in 2007 that officials
said could have been devastating. Merkel’s government has cited
the prevention of that attack, known as the “Sauerland” plot,
as evidence of how helpful cooperation with U.S. authorities has
been.  Pofalla Hearing  Merkel’s government takes the Spiegel report “very
seriously” and her chief of staff, Ronald Pofalla, will answer
all open questions in front of the Parliamentary Control Panel,
the lower-house committee that oversees intelligence matters,
government spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters in Berlin
today.  “International terrorism can only be fought through
international cooperation,” Streiter said, while reiterating
that German law must be adhered to. He declined to comment on
calls for the BND’s Schindler to resign.  Der Spiegel reported that agents for Germany’s
counterintelligence service, or BfV, were given access to an NSA
system called “XKeyscore,” which enables analysts to access
phone numbers, e-mail addresses, computer log-ins and user
activity. The information is drawn from a trove that offers a
“full take” of unfiltered data that can allow intelligence
agents to puzzle together an individual’s user history.  BND Praised  Moreover, the documents cited by Spiegel showed that the
NSA has lauded the BND for pushing the government for a more
flexible interpretation of Germany’s  G-10 laws  that determine
when the government can observe citizens.  The BfV confirmed that it’s testing a surveillance program
from the NSA, though it isn’t in operation and wouldn’t collect
more data, Deutsche Presse-Agentur cited the agency as saying.
The BND didn’t immediately respond today to a telephone call
requesting comment.  The debate in Germany has so far focused on the exposed NSA
data-mining Prism program. Merkel said last week that she and
her ministers learned of the program through the media and that
she’s waiting for answers from the U.S.  The Spiegel report showed that the government “knew very
well what the Americans were doing,” the SPD’s chief whip in
parliament, Thomas Oppermann, who chairs parliament’s control
panel, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  