-- STMicroelectronics Has $152 Million Loss on Ericsson Venture
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-07-23T11:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/stmicroelectronics-reports-152-million-loss-on-ericsson-venture.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Intel Corp .’s
biggest competitor in Europe, reported a seventh consecutive
quarter of net losses on costs at its wireless chip venture with
Ericsson AB, to be split up next month.  The second-quarter net loss was $152 million, compared with
a $75 million loss a year earlier, the Geneva-based company said
yesterday. Revenue slipped 4.8 percent to $2.05 billion while
the gross margin was 32.8 percent, compared with the 32.7
percent average estimate compiled by Bloomberg from eight
analysts.  STMicroelectronics is splitting up its unprofitable
wireless venture with Ericsson, cutting jobs and focusing on
high added-value products to restore profitability. Chief
Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  is pushing to put more chips
into cars and game consoles as handset customers  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
BlackBerry Ltd. try to reverse sales declines.  The company forecast “progressive improvement” in its
gross margin for the third quarter to 33.5 percent, plus or
minus 2 percentage points. Net revenue, excluding wireless, for
that period should rise about 3.5 percent. With wireless,
revenue should be “flat,” Bozotti said in a statement.  ‘Solid Progress’  “There was a positive acceleration in the closing of ST-Ericsson transaction with a cost savings of about $100
million,” Francesco Previtera, an analyst at Banca Akros SpA in
Milan, said in a phone interview. The third-quarter net revenue
forecast is less than the 6 percent Previtera said he’d
estimated.  The shares fell as much as 7.1 percent and traded 6.7
percent lower at 7.01 euros at 1:43 p.m. in Paris. They have
gained 32 percent this year through yesterday.  STMicroelectronics expects to reach break-even in the third
quarter of this year and record a profit in the fourth quarter,
Bozotti said on a conference call with reporters today.  “We again made solid progress towards our quarterly net
operating expenses target range,” Bozotti said. “Excluding ST-Ericsson, we have seen a progressive improvement in bookings in
the second quarter, although, towards the end of the second
quarter, we experienced a softening in the smartphone market.”  STMicroelectronics,  Europe ’s biggest semiconductor maker,,
said demand is improving at all units except wireless. Excluding
that business, revenue rose 6.8 percent.  Nokia, which uses STMicroelectronics chips in its mobile
phones, last week reported revenue that missed analysts’
estimates as intensifying competition across the market cut
handset sales by 27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  