-- U.K. to Make Companies Tender Their Audits Every 5 Years
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-22T13:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/u-k-to-make-companies-tender-their-audits-every-5-years.html
British antitrust regulators said
large companies should be required to put their auditing
contract out to tender every five years in a move that falls
short of proposals from the European Union to spur auditor
competition.  The requirement to tender auditing contracts every five
years should apply to companies in the FTSE 350 Index, the U.K.
Competition Commission said in a statement today as it published
its provisional remedies for the industry.  The regulator stopped short of proposing that companies be
forced to switch auditors, a move it was considering in
February. The 16-month probe focused on  KPMG  LLP, Deloitte LLP,
Ernst & Young LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the “big
four” companies that are also at the center of an EU effort to
increase competition in the industry.  “A more dynamic, contestable market will reduce the
dangers that come with over-familiarity and long, unchallenged
tenures,” Laura Carstensen, chairman of the commission’s audit
market investigation group, said in the statement. “The audit
function is too important to be left undisturbed for longer than
five years.”  Regulators embarked on wide-ranging reviews of audit rules
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
the European Commission said raised doubts about the quality of
company audits. Regional arms of the top four accounting firms
have a market share that exceeds 85 percent in the majority of
EU nations.  Mandatory Tendering  The U.K. plan for mandatory tendering “gives rise to a
substantial incremental cost -- far higher than the estimated 30
million pounds ($46 million) -- and could have a highly
disruptive effect on business,”  Simon Collins , U.K. chairman of
KPMG, said in an e-mail.  The competition commission’s decision to hold back from
requiring mandatory rotation of auditors means its proposals
fall short of draft EU plans.  Under proposals made in 2011 by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, banks, insurers and listed companies
would be required to rotate the audit firm they use every six
years, with a four-year gap before the firm could be rehired.
The rotation period could be extended to nine years if a company
uses more than one auditor.  Funding Costs  Barnier’s proposals must be approved by national
governments and the European Parliament to take effect. His
approach faces opposition from lawmakers concerned that the
measures may force companies to use auditors that don’t have the
full confidence of investors, so driving up corporate funding
costs.  “Mandatory audit firm rotation would have unintended
consequences in terms of quality, cost and competition,”
Michael Izza, chief executive officer of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in  England  and  Wales , said in an e-mail.
“Regular tendering is good business practice but we need to be
mindful of the regulatory burden.”  In an initial vote on the EU plans earlier this year,
lawmakers supported changes that would more than double the
length of time before rotation would have to take place.  Sajjad Karim, a member of the EU parliament in charge of
amending Barnier’s proposed measures, has said that national
competition authorities are best placed to decide what works
best in different countries.  “Over a decade of debate on whether or not mandatory
rotation contributes to audit quality and increases competition
has, for now, been laid to rest by an independent well respected
body -- with the CC today removing it from the provisional
remedies,” Hywel Ball, a managing partner at Ernst & Young
responsible for assurance, said in an e-mail, in reference to
the U.K. plans.  Company Choice  The proposals would prohibit “big-four-only” clauses in
loan documentation that limit a company’s choice of auditors,
the U.K. Competition Commission said. Shareholders will be given
the right to vote on whether companies’ audit committee reports
contain sufficient information, it said.  The regulator said it wouldn’t put constraints on auditing
firms’ ability to provide non-audit services.  The U.K. plans will have a “major impact,” James
Chalmers, head of assurance at PwC, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It will be critical to get the transition right in
order to manage the cost for businesses and potential market
disruption,” he said.  The U.K. regulator, which began its investigation in
October 2011, will publish the full provisional findings report
next week, inviting responses and possible remedies before
issuing its final report by October.  The London office of Deloitte didn’t have immediate
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  