-- Most U.K. Stocks Fall After Four Weeks of Advances
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-07-22T15:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/u-k-stocks-retreat-following-four-weeks-of-advances.html
Most  U.K. stocks  retreated following
four successive weeks of advances for the benchmark  FTSE 100
Index. (UKX)   GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  was the biggest drag on the benchmark
measure after an executive said some employees may have broken
the law in China.  Bumi (BUMI)  Plc tumbled 8.6 percent after the coal
producer at the center of an ownership dispute ended a three-month halt in London trading. Fresnillo Plc and Randgold
Resources Ltd. each added at least 3 percent as gold and silver
rallied for a third day.  The FTSE 100 Index dropped 7.5 points, or 0.1 percent, to
6,623.17 in London, as two shares fell for every one that rose.
The gauge advanced 1.3 percent last week as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank remains flexible
on when to reduce its asset purchases. The FTSE All-Share Index
slid less than 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
added less than 0.1 percent.  “There’s some hesitation before we get a wealth of data
this week,” Ishaq Siddiqi, market strategist at ETX Capital in
London, said by telephone. “The miners are being supported by a
tick up in  gold prices .” He said, “We’re paying more attention
to what’s happening on the corporate front.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the
FTSE 100 was 31 percent less than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Fourteen companies listed on the FTSE 100 companies will
report earnings this week. The list includes ARM Holdings Plc
and GlaxoSmithKline on July 24, Unilever on July 25 and British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc on July 26.  Asian Stocks  Equities in Asia climbed as election results in Japan
showed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  and
its coalition partner New Komeito won at least 74 of 121 upper-house seats that were contested in the weekend vote. The results
strengthen Abe’s ability to carry out his policy of monetary
easing, fiscal stimulus and deregulation.  Sales of previously owned houses in the U.S. unexpectedly
dropped in June, according to data released today. Purchases
fell 1.2 percent to a 5.08 million annualized rate, the National
Association of Realtors reported in Washington. The median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
5.26 million pace.  Glaxo Probe  GlaxoSmithKline lost 1.2 percent to 1,694 pence. Abbas
Hussain, the company’s head of  emerging markets , said after
meeting Chinese officials that some employees may have broken
laws in that country. China’s Public Security Ministry last week
accused Glaxo officials of economic crimes involving 3 billion
 yuan  ($489 million) and detained four senior executives.  Bumi tumbled 8.6 percent to 237 pence as the shares traded
for the first time since April. The company has been at the
heart of a battle for control between  Nathaniel Rothschild ,
scion of a British banking family, and the Bakries. Bumi agreed
this month to sell its 29.2 percent stake in PT Bumi Resources
to the Bakries as part of a separation plan. Trading in the
shares had been halted after Bumi said it won’t meet a deadline
to publish financial results.  Fresnillo added 3.4 percent to 1,064 pence. Randgold rose
5.6 percent to 4,777 pence. Gold advanced 2.7 percent and silver
gained 4.8 percent, to their highest prices since June 20.
Rangold is well-positioned amid a drop in gold prices, according
to reports by Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  