-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; Wells Fargo Sells $5 Billion of Debt
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-22T21:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/u-s-corporate-credit-default-swaps-hold-at-about-two-month-low.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held near a two-month low as investors await earnings
reports.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  raised $5 billion in a four-part bond
sale.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 72.7 basis points as of 4:46
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure earlier fell to 71.8, the lowest intraday level since
May 23.  More than 150 Standard & Poor’s 500-listed companies,
including Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Facebook Inc., report
their  earnings  this week as investors look for a means to assess
companies’ ability to repay debt obligations. Of the 111 names
in the index to have already reported quarterly  results , 72
percent have exceeded analysts’ profit estimates and 51 percent
have beaten sales projections, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Results have been “stronger than what was expected at the
outset of earnings season,” RBS Securities Inc. strategists led
by Edward Marrinan wrote in a research report today. “Our
qualified enthusiasm for corporate credit stems from the fact
that the June selloff rendered valuations attractive, while
corporate fundamentals remain strong and the macroeconomic
environment is slowly improving.”  Bondholder Protection  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The measure has fallen from a 2013 high of 97.6 on June 24,
as remarks last week from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  alleviated concern the central bank will soon begin
reducing $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  “Most of the tapering concerns that led to the recent
selloff have eased,” Dorian Garay, a money-manager for an
investment-grade debt fund at ING Investment Management, said in
a telephone interview from New York. “It seems, from the Fed’s
rhetoric, that tapering is subject to how the economy is
performing in the next few months.”  Wells Fargo  The largest portion of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo’s
sale consisted of $2 billion of two-year notes that float at 28
basis points more than the three-month London interbank offered
rate, Bloomberg data show.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  sold $275 million of 2.2 percent,
five-year notes that yield 90 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
tightened 2 basis points to 126.6 basis points, Bloomberg data
show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index increased 2.3 basis points to 352.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Five-year credit swaps to protect against the default of
Barrick Gold Corp. tightened 28.8 basis points to 268.6 basis
points as of 4:55 p.m. in New York as gold advanced the most in
more than a year.  Default swaps tied to the Toronto-based gold producer have
fallen six straight trading days as  gold prices  rebound on
speculation the Fed will maintain its stimulus measures. The
spot price of gold increased 3 percent to $1,335.82 as of 5:03
p.m. in New York, the biggest gain since June 2012.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 2 basis points to 530.9 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in  New York  at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  