-- Lucara Diamond Bonanza Spurs African Acquisitions Hunt
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-07-22T20:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/lucara-diamond-bonanza-spurs-acquisitions-hunt-corporate-canada.html
Lucara Diamond Corp. (LUC)  is seeking
acquisitions in  Africa , bolstered by a bonanza of large stones
from its Karowe mine in Botswana.  In the past year, Lucara has discovered big, rough diamonds
including a  239.25-carat  (1.69 ounces) stone, which is about the
size of a 9-volt battery. The added resources and heightened
profile give Lucara the power to buy or join with a company
that’s developing a diamond mine with annual sales of at least
$100 million, said Chief Executive Officer William Lamb.  “That’s really what we want to focus on,” Lamb, 42, said
last week in an interview at Lucara’s Vancouver headquarters.
“We’re still only a company of one asset. To de-risk you want
at least two assets, two producing entities.”  Three big-stone finds announced March 18 prompted Lucara,
with a market value of C$304.8 million ($295 million), to hold a
special auction of rough diamonds in May that reaped $24.9
million. Lucara said today in a statement it will hold a second
sale of 16 stones, including five diamonds larger than 100
carats.  “We all know it’s the basic diamonds that are going to pay
the bills,” Lamb said. “But every time you recover a 100-carat
stone or a 200-carat stone, it drops right to your bottom line.
Everyone’s hoping for that. It’s why people stay in diamonds.”  Shares Soar  Lucara shares have  soared  42 percent in Toronto since the
company said it found the 239.25-carat rough diamond as well as
stones weighing 124 and 71.1 carats. The share performance has
outpaced U.K.-based competitor  Petra Diamond Ltd. (PDL) , which
declined 5 percent in that time, and  Gem Diamonds Ltd. (GEMD) , which
fell 15 percent. Among publicly traded Canadian metal and mining
companies with a market value of more than C$250 million, Lucara
is the third-best performer this year.  The company, 17 percent  owned  by the Lundin Group and the
Swedish Lundin family, raised its forecast for full-year diamond
sales by 5 percent to 420,000 carats, up from a previous
prediction of 400,000, according to a May 27 statement.  “The market always likes a nice big diamond,” Ed Sterck,
a London-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a July 17
telephone interview. “They’ve proven that Karowe is capable of
producing large diamonds.”  Lucara rose 3.7 percent to 84 cents at the close in Toronto
and has gained 27 percent this year.  Great Star  The average size of stones sold by Lucara in its regular
diamond auctions is about 0.5 carat, Lamb said. Petra said in
2009 it unearthed a 507.6-carat stone, which weighed more than
3.5 ounces and was about the size of a chicken egg, at the
Cullinan mine in  South Africa .  The world’s biggest certified diamond is the 3,106-carat
Cullinan, found near  Pretoria  in 1905. It was cut to form the
Great Star of Africa and the Lesser Star set in the Crown Jewels
of Britain.  Lucara said it brought Karowe into production last year
within its $120 million budget. Lamb’s greatest challenge in
expanding Lucara will be finding attractive projects and
convincing owners to sell or consider a joint venture, BMO’s
Sterck said.  “There’s not a great deal of stuff around that’s easily
available,” he said.  While consolidation is a topic “regularly discussed among
the players in the diamond market,” merger and acquisition
activity among smaller diamond miners is at a standstill because
of disagreement over valuations, Lamb said.  ‘Stumbling Block’  “Everybody believes their asset is worth more than the
market is valuing it at,” he said. “That’s the biggest
stumbling block.”  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company,
said last month it would hold onto its diamond businesses after
unsuccessfully trying to find a buyer and considering a sale of
the assets in an initial public offering.  Lucara and Gem Diamonds, a company with assets in  Lesotho 
and  Botswana , held talks in 2011 about a possible merger, Gem
said at the time. Lucara also controls the Mothae project in
Lesotho that’s not far from Gem Diamond’s Letseng project.  Lamb said it may be worthwhile for some of its peers to
consider the benefits of greater consolidation among African
diamond companies.  “It’s a question of which companies would go best together
to be able to advance their portfolio, not just the assets that
they have now,” Lamb said.  ‘Few Opportunities’  Gem Diamonds didn’t respond to a request for comment.  “We are always looking” at possibilities for M&A, Petra
CEO Johan Dippenaar said in a July 19 interview in  London . “If
there’s an opportunity you should always consider it, because
there are few opportunities.”  Dominion Diamond Corp. (DDC) , formerly Harry Winston Diamond
Corp., agreed last year to purchase  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Ekati
diamond mine in  Canada  and its marketing operations for $500
million.  Lucara has had a “particularly strong start” to
operations at Karowe, Des Kilalea, a London-based analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  who rates Lucara a buy, said in a June 18 note
to clients.  The latest large-diamond sale comes sooner than planned,
Lucara said in today’s statement. The tender will close on Sept.
2, the company said.  Rising Prices  Rough diamond prices have risen 14 percent this year,
according to the PolishedPrices.com Composite Rough Diamond
Index. De Beers SA, the biggest diamond producer, increased
prices at its uncut auctions by 4 percent in May and by 3
percent in April, according to a report by diamond trading
network Rapaport.  Lamb’s search to expand operations may get some help if
prices for rough diamonds fall in the second half, as he
expects, he said.  “Some companies might put projects on hold or just delay
things slightly, especially if they are going out to raise
money,” Lamb said. “If some people begin to lose faith, that
opens up opportunities for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  