-- Hungary Yields Fall on Rate Bets as Forint Gains: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-07-22T13:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/hungary-yields-fall-on-rate-bets-as-forint-gains-budapest-mover.html
Hungary ’s bond yields fell and the
forint gained for the first time in a week on speculation that
continued stimulus from the  Federal Reserve  will allow Hungary
to extend 11 months of interest rate cuts tomorrow.  Hungary’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 294.16 per
euro by 3:26 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest gainer among the 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on
Hungary’s 10-year bonds dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 5.915 percent.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will lower the benchmark two-week
rate by 25 basis points to a record 4 percent, according to all
21 economists in a Bloomberg survey. U.S. Treasuries advanced
for a second day after Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s biggest bond fund, said the Fed won’t tighten monetary
policy until 2016 at the earliest. Treasury yields rose and
demand for riskier assets declined last month after Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the Fed may start to reduce asset purchases
this year and end them by mid-2014.  Sentiment for the forint “improved as investors started
worrying a bit less about the Fed’s monetary policy,” Zoltan
Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based analyst at Erste Group Bank AG,
wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Hungary’s central bank sees further scope for cutting
interest rates in the absence of any “bad news” on stimulus
from the Fed and other central banks, Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President Gyorgy Matolcsy said on June 27.  Mixed Communication  “The market is currently mulling the mixed communication
coming from the Federal Reserve, and the future of the monetary
policy in Hungary,” Gergely Palffy, an analyst at Buda-Cash
Brokerhaz Zrt., said by phone from Budapest.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on  interest rates  in
three months fell four basis points to 3.73 percent, 46 basis
points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate.  “The market is certain another rate cut is coming and is
focusing rather on the reasoning and comments on the rate
outlook” from policy makers, Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based
currency trader at Commerzbank AG, said in an e-mail today.  The forint depreciated 1.3 percent last week after the
Justice Ministry said Hungary is looking at the possibility of
retroactively modifying the conditions of foreign-currency
loans, probably focusing on exchange-rate changes. The forint
may depreciate after the government meets on July 24 to discuss
the foreign-currency loan plans, Buda-Cash’s Palffy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  