-- Hungary May Slow Rate Cuts After Reduction to Record Low
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-07-23T14:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/hungary-seen-lowering-main-rate-as-focus-shifts-to-ending-cycle.html
Hungary  may slow the pace of
interest-rate cuts after reducing the benchmark for a 12th
month, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said,
brushing aside speculation of an end to the easing cycle.  The bank lowered the  benchmark two-week deposit rate  to 4
percent from 4.25 percent today, a 12th quarter-point cut,
matching the forecast of all 21 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey . The end of the cycle may come between 3 percent and 3.5
percent, a level policy makers may reach in increments of less
than 25 basis points, Matolcsy said.  “There is not just a possibility but a necessity to
continue rate cuts,” Matolcsy told reporters in Budapest. Ten
basis-point increments as opposed to quarter-point steps are
“pragmatic” and “practical,” he said.  Hungary’s medium-term  inflation (HUCPIYY)  outlook and financial
stability allow more rate cuts to aid the economy’s recovery
from a recession last year, Matolcsy said. Economists including
the Budapest-based Equilor Zrt. brokerage had predicted that
today’s reduction would be the penultimate in this easing cycle
as the narrowing gap to rates in developed economies risks
outflows from Hungarian assets.  Forint Drops  The forint weakened 0.5 percent to 295.80 per euro by 4:13
p.m. in Budapest. It’s gained 1.4 percent in the past three
months, the best performance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on the benchmark
government bond due 2023 fell to 5.94 percent today from 6.9
percent a month earlier.  “By slowing down, they are allowing time to precisely find
out how monetary policy and the data turn out on developed
markets,” David Nemeth, an economist at  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s K&H unit
in Budapest, said by phone. “I don’t know if rate
policy will be that much more predictable if they cut by 10
basis points.”  Central bankers across eastern  Europe  have been easing
monetary policy as the euro area’s debt crisis saps demand for
exports. Poland cut its main rate to a record 2.5 percent this
month and  Romania  lowered its benchmark to a record 5 percent on
July 1, the first reduction in more than a year.  ‘Significantly Relaxed’  Czech central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said today that
he wouldn’t mind “significantly relaxed” monetary conditions
after the country’s benchmark rate has stayed at a technical
zero since November.  As monetary authorities in countries such as the U.S. and
the U.K. keep borrowing costs close to zero, Hungary’s central
bank has combined 2.75 percentage points of rate cuts since
August with a 750 billion-forint ($3.4 billion) plan to boost
lending to small and mid-sized companies.  The bank lowered its inflation forecast and raised its
economic-growth projection for this year on June 27, predicting
that consumer prices will advance by an average of 2.1 percent
and gross domestic product will increase 0.6 percent. Inflation
was 1.9 percent from a year earlier in June, holding close to a
39-year low recorded in April because of government-mandated
reductions in household energy prices.  Global concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare
monetary stimulus has eased, sending the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index up 6 percent in the past two weeks. Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said July 10 that asset purchases by the Fed may be
reduced more quickly or expanded as economic conditions warrant,
reassuring investors he wouldn’t cut off the stimulus if growth
disappoints.  Hungarian policy makers will continue to be “cautious and
conservative” in monetary-policy decisions, Matolcsy said.  “Increased volatility in sentiment in global financial
markets and the uncertain outlook for global economic growth
continue to pose a risk, which in turn calls for maintaining a
cautious approach to policy,” the Monetary Council said today
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  