-- USEC Doubles as Traders Say Uranium Stock Rally Spurs Squeeze
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   L u   W a n g   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-07-22T20:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/usec-doubles-as-traders-say-uranium-stock-rally-spurs-squeeze.html
USEC Inc. (USU) , a uranium supplier whose
shares are five times more volatile than the Russell 2000 Index,
doubled today amid speculation gains in nuclear stocks were
prompting bearish traders to cover positions.  USEC jumped 98 percent to $11.98 at 4 p.m. in  New York ,
earlier soaring as much as 161 percent. The increase was helped
by a short squeeze and a victory by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
Liberal Democratic Party in Japan, according to Ian Winer,
director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “The Japanese elections seem like what people are pointing
to,” Winer said in an interview. Buying by bears who borrowed
the stock and sold it plays in “a little bit for sure, but I
think this is just a frenzy,” he said.  The stock, which has about 4.7 million shares available for
trading after a 1-for-25 reverse split this month, has gained or
lost an average of 5.4 percent a day this year, compared with
moves of 0.7 percent for the  Russell 2000 , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s Abe will likely seek to restart
many of the country’s nuclear reactors that were shut after the
2011 earthquake and tsunami, said Yousef Abbasi, market
strategist at JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, a
Westlake, California-based broker.  Paul Jacobson, spokesman for USEC, said the company would
not comment on moves in the share price.  About 16 percent of USEC’s shares available for trading
were borrowed and  sold short  as of July 18, according to Markit,
a London-based research firm. That compares with bearish wagers
of 5 percent on average among stocks in the Russell 2000.  Everyone Asking  “My view is that this is purely technical, no real
fundamental basis for the stock move,”  Andrew Ross , a partner
at New York-based First New York Securities LLC, said in an
interview. It’s a “short squeeze incited by their recent
reverse stock split,” he said.  USEC’s float, or the number of shares available to the
public, compares with 13 million for  Uranium Resources Inc. (URRE)  and
 Cameco Corp. (CCO) ’s 395 million.  About 3.9 million shares of USEC changed hands today, or 83
percent of the company’s tradable shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock reached a record low of $2.96
on July 8 and has since more than quadrupled.  Other uranium producers advanced. The  Global X Uranium ETF (URA) 
jumped 5 percent, the most since December. Uranium Resources,
 Uranerz Energy Corp. (URZ)  and  Laramide Resources Ltd. (LAM)  rallied at
least 15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  