-- Vivendi Starts Talks to Share SFR Mobile Network With Bouygues
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-07-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/vivendi-starts-talks-to-share-sfr-mobile-network-with-bouygues.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  is in exclusive talks
with  Bouygues SA (EN)  about sharing part of their French mobile-phone
networks to cover more ground for less.  The rivals, both based in Paris, said in a joint e-mailed
statement that they can reach a deal by year-end. A sharing
agreement between SFR and Bouygues Telecom would need approval
from the companies’ labor representatives as well as French
competition and telecommunications regulators, according to the
statement.  Network sharing has been one way European carriers are
trying in order to cut back on investments amid sluggish
spending by consumers and shrinking phone bills while
maintaining attractive service offers. In one of the first major
moves of this type in Europe,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Orange SA (ORA) 
in 2010 set up a joint venture in the U.K. under the brand EE to
cut costs by combining their local networks and purchasing
activities.  Vivendi’s French phone unit SFR and Bouygues Telecom have
fought to keep clients from switching to low-cost provider Iliad
SA, which in January 2012 entered the market with packages as
cheap as 2 euros per month. The price wars have pushed Iliad’s
competitors to cut costs to stop their profits from falling
further.  Still, they face a tough review before regulators opposed
to consolidation in France. The French competition authority in
March said that while sharing networks in the least-populated
areas of the country will be encouraged, such deals in dense
cities will be studied cautiously. Straight mergers between
 France ’s carriers won’t be allowed, the watchdog then said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  