-- Western Asset Hires Agarwal as It Rebuilds Securitized Team
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-22T17:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/western-asset-hires-agarwal-as-it-rebuilds-securitized-team-2-.html
Western Asset Management Co. hired
Anup Agarwal as head of structured products as the fixed-income
unit of  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  rebuilds its securitized-debt team.  Agarwal joins  Pasadena , California-based Western Asset
after four years at  Stark Investments , an alternative-investment
firm where he was head of consumer finance, according to a note
to clients today, the contents of which were confirmed by Legg
Mason spokeswoman  Mary Athridge . The firm also lured back Ben Hunsaker after the portfolio manager left the team earlier this
year, Athridge confirmed.  Agarwal, who previously ran credit and research for
mortgage- and asset-backed securities at Invesco Ltd., replaces
Paul Jablansky, who resigned last month. Over the past two
years, fixed-income assets under management at Baltimore-based
Legg Mason fell by about $15 billion to $351 billion, even as
all bond mutual funds expanded by more than $500 billion,
according to company disclosures and Investment Company
Institute data.  In addition to Jablansky, Deborah Slogoff, who oversaw
commercial-mortgage bonds and consumer asset-backed securities
at Western Asset, also left this month after almost 11 years,
Athridge confirmed. Slogoff declined to comment on her plans
when reached by telephone. Christopher Medema, a junior member
of the team, also left earlier this year, Athridge confirmed. He
couldn’t be reached for comment.  ‘Match Up’  Last year, Ron Mass departed after 21 years at the firm.
Mass had been Western Asset’s head of structured products before
becoming co-head when Jablansky arrived in 2011. Dan Krup also
left to become a director at hedge fund 400 Capital Management
in October.  Agarwal’s “background and investment philosophy match up
really well with our firm,” James Flick, Western Asset’s
director of global client service and marketing, said in a
telephone interview.  He has experience managing teams and with a range of
structured products, as well as government-backed mortgage
securities, Flick said. He also has worked with “long-only,”
unconstrained and alternative mandates, including a mortgage
opportunity fund at Milwaukee-based Stark, he said.  Legg Mason Chief Executive Officer Joseph A. Sullivan,
whose firm has struggled to reverse redemptions, said in an
interview last month he’s focused on acquisitions to boost the
firm’s assets and is looking to buy a non-U.S. equity unit and
expand its alternative-investment offerings.  Money that Western Asset manages in structured products has
fallen to $16 billion from a peak of $80 billion as the market
shrank, according to Flick. The outstanding amount of U.S. home-loan bonds without government backing has dropped below $900
billion from $2.3 trillion in 2007, Federal Reserve data show.  “We still have a huge commitment to this sector, but the
actual workload is way, way down,” Flick said. He said the firm
thinks investing in the debt can offer greater returns than some
other products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  