-- West Africa Pirates Seen Threatening Oil and Shipping
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-07-22T10:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/west-africa-pirates-seen-threatening-oil-and-shipping.html
West African pirates will threaten
the region’s oil and shipping industries for years as the
measures used to curb attacks in the Indian Ocean aren’t able to
help, according to a provider of armed guards for vessels.  While international navies and private security are
repelling attacks off the Somali coast, guards can’t carry
weapons into ports in West  Africa , said Barry Roche, chief
executive officer of Protection Group International, the parent
company of the largest security service in the Indian Ocean with
only an advisory role in West Africa. Attacks are more violent
because the West African pirates have machine guns and focus on
stealing cargoes instead of taking hostages, he said.  “It would be like trying to compare the Iraq conflict with
the Afghanistan conflict,” Roche said in a phone interview.
“The geographic and political situation in the area makes it
much more difficult to operate the model that’s been employed
successfully in the Indian Ocean. There need to be changes in
governmental thinking.”  The escalating threat will probably last for years and may
inhibit the region’s oil exports, Roche said. West Africa
shipped about 10 percent of the world’s crude last year, the
most after the Middle East and the former Soviet Union,
according to figures from London-based BP Plc. West African
piracy overtook Somali attacks as the greatest threat to crews
of merchant ships for the first time in 2012, according to
organizations including the International Maritime Bureau.  Incidents involving Somali pirates plunged to eight in the
first half of 2013 from 69 a year earlier, according to the IMB,
which monitors sea crime from  London . Pirates operating in the
Gulf of Guinea kidnapped 30 crew in the period, compared with
three seized worldwide in the first six months of 2012, the
group said in a July 15 report.  Code of Conduct  Representatives from 22 nations in western and central
Africa signed a code of conduct last month on preventing piracy,
according to a June 26 statement on the website of the United
Nations’ International Maritime Organization. The agreement will
help curb attacks, the IMB said.  About 42,250 vessels a year, including 20 percent of trade
in crude oil, navigate the area where Somali pirates operate,
costing the global economy about $6 billion in 2012. About 50
percent of ships in the region use private armed guards, up from
30 percent in 2011, according to an April report from Oceans
Beyond Piracy, a project of the Broomfield, Colorado-based One
Earth Future Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  