-- Winning Over Congress Means Showing Ship Can Do Doughnuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/winning-over-congress-means-showing-ship-can-do-doughnuts.html
In  Washington , lawmakers want to
know if the Navy’s new Littoral Combat Ship is worth the money
and can survive a fight. In  San Diego , officers say they’re
finding it so agile it can do doughnuts in the water.  The ship is designed for shallow waters close to shore to
hunt and clear mines, stalk submarines and take on small boats
such as  Iran ’s in the  Persian Gulf . Commanders and sailors,
trying out two of the first vessels completed under the $34
billion program to build a 52-ship fleet, say they’re pleased
with the early results.  “I can juke left, I can juke right,” Commander Hank Kim,
40, commanding officer of the USS  Fort Worth , said on the bridge
of the the ship built by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  “We can drive it
like a sports car.”  The Navy has to overcome questions about the Littoral
Combat Ship’s mission, firepower, crew size and survivability,
as its projected cost has more than doubled to $440 million per
vessel. More such criticism will come when the House Armed
Services Committee’s seapower panel holds a hearing July 25 on a
report by the Government Accountability Office.  In a draft of the report, the GAO, the investigative arm of
Congress, recommended slowing production until lagging work on
“mission modules” can catch up. The modules are equipment that
can be swapped out for different missions, from mine hunting and
sweeping to detecting submarines.  The GAO also cited the possibility that Navy studies now
under way will lead to a redesign of the steel-hulled ship made
by Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed or of a second version, an
aluminum trimaran being built simultaneously by Henderson,
Australia-based  Austal Ltd. (ASB)   McCain’s ‘Checkpoints’  Senator  John McCain  said he’ll seek an amendment to the
annual defense authorization bill that would impose “more
checkpoints and criteria they have to meet” on the ship.  “They are still developing the systems while in the test
and evaluation stage, while they are making them operational,”
McCain, an  Arizona  Republican who serves on the Senate Armed
Services Committee, said in an interview. “That’s always
dangerous.”  The vessels are essentially floating helicopter decks with
cavernous bays designed to store and operate aircraft and the
mission modules hoisted on board via cranes in commercial
containers.  For all of the criticism, the ships have “tons of
potential,” Captain Randy Garner, 45, who commands the Navy’s
first squadron of Littoral Combat Ships, said in an interview in
his San Diego office overlooking the USS Independence, which was
built by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and Austal.  Fighting Pirates  In addition to replacing the Navy’s aging frigates, the new
vessels will spare multibillion-dollar warships from performing
less intensive missions such as fighting piracy, he said. The
LCS, as the ship is known, will give the U.S. a more cost-effective presence in  Asia  and the Persian Gulf and a test-bed
for new weapons such as lasers, according to Garner and other
officers.  They said the ship’s shallow draft of about 20 feet (6
meters) will prove valuable in narrow confines, such as the
 Strait of Hormuz , through which about 20 percent of the world’s
oil transits.  “We do high-speed maneuvers with very sharp turns” in a
simulator at the San Diego base, Kim said. “We are capable of
doing doughnuts if needed.”  The Navy set up an LCS Council last year to review all the
major concerns and modify the vessels as required. Its head,
Vice Admiral  Richard Hunt , is scheduled to testify before the
House panel at its hearing this week.  Experimentation Period  Frank Kendall, the Defense Department’s undersecretary for
acquisition, said he doesn’t favor a production delay.  “The program is coming along, I think, reasonably well,”
Kendall said in an interview. “We’ve got good prices,” and
“there’s going to be a period of experimentation with these
ships. They are kind of a new concept.”  A package for anti-mine missions, which is supposed to be
the first module ready, has yet to undergo operational testing
“so actual mission performance has not been measured,”
Jennifer Elzea, a spokeswoman for the Pentagon’s office of
operational testing, said in a statement. “There are no data to
project what capability will exist” when the equipment is
declared combat-ready.  Simulators at the San Diego base -- replicating the bridges
of the Fort Worth and Independence against the California city’s
skyline in changing weather -- are designed to train a constant
stream of sailors for the new vessels. The LCS is intended to
have a core crew of 40 to 50 sailors, not including specialists
for different missions, fewer than any major Navy ship.  Automated Sleds  Sailors showed off innovations allowing for the smaller
crew, from automated sleds that let a single sailor move an
SH-60 helicopter weighing 23,000 pounds (10,400 kilograms) to
winches that reduce the number of personnel needed to take on
fuel to four from 15.  Even the most mundane of mess-hall tasks -- washing dishes
-- is done by officers and sailors, not a dedicated crew, as is
Navy tradition.  “It was a very, very crazy experience for me to come from
a carrier and used to us washing the dishes,” said Petty
Officer Second Class Erica Miles, 23, the youngest sailor on the
Fort Worth and one of four women on its crew. “I got here and
thought it just made me more of a team. Everyone is helping each
other out.”  Officers working on the ships say “criticism is not
something we shy away from on LCS,” as Kim put it. “We are
committed to making improvements on these vessels.”  Ship’s Novelty  Much of the criticism comes from the novelty of the LCS,
said Commander David Back, 40, commanding officer of the
Independence, the unpainted gray trimaran.  “Over time and with exposure, and with the ships coming
into the operational fleet, that will go away in due course,
just like it has for every other ship program since the
Constitution,” Back said, referring to the vessel launched in
1797 and known as Old Ironsides.  Among the questions raised by naval analysts, lawmakers,
advocacy groups and auditors is whether the LCS is too lightly
built and armed to survive an attack.  The vessel “is not expected to be survivable in that it is
not expected to maintain mission capability after taking a
significant hit in a hostile combat environment,”  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s chief of weapons testing, said in a
January report.  Weighing Threats  Officers in San Diego said the survivability of the LCS
should be weighed against the threats the vessel is designed to
go against and not the protection levels given to destroyers and
other heavier vessels. The LCS is built to a Level 1
survivability standard, the Navy’s lowest.  The ship “has a lot of redundancy, such as four
independent drive trains so that if one is hit three would be
working,” Back said. “I could maneuver the ship effectively
with three of my four engines down.”  As the debate over the LCS goes on, Garner, the squadron
commander, keeps a daily reminder of the challenge he faces with
the new ship in a frame on the wall outside his office. It’s
from the writings of Niccolo Machiavelli, the Italian
Renaissance political philosopher:  “There is nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of
success, nor more dangerous to manage than a new system. For the
initiator has the enmity of all who would profit by the
preservation of the old institution and merely lukewarm
defenders in those who gain by the new ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in San Diego at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  