-- Two Koreas Plan More Talks After Gaeseong Agreement Fails
-- B y   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-07-22T10:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/two-koreas-hold-fifth-round-of-talks-on-gaeseong-opening.html
North and  South Korea  failed for a
fifth time to reach an agreement on conditions for reopening the
jointly-operated Gaeseong industrial park.  Negotiators at Gaeseong, located 10 kilometers (6 miles)
north of the border, still couldn’t agree on a system to prevent
 North Korea  from unilaterally closing the park, South Korea’s
Unification Ministry said in a statement today. The two sides
will revise their proposals before meeting again at the park on
July 25, the ministry said.  “The biggest difference we have with the North is
implementing a system that will deter future closures,” said
Kim Kiwoong, head of the South Korean delegation, according to
the statement. “We strongly demand the North’s solid promise
and it’s been difficult to iron out the differences.”  North Korea withdrew its workers from the factory zone on
April 8 to protest tightened United Nations sanctions and U.S.-
South Korean military drills. Regime leader Kim Jong Un,
increasingly isolated after  China  joined the U.S. and South
Korea in condemning his nuclear ambitions, has toned down
rhetoric from earlier this year that included threats of
preemptive nuclear strikes.  In addition to reopening the Gaeseong factory park, North
Korea has also sought an agreement on resuming visits by South
Korean tourists to the Mount Geumgang resort and a reunion for
families divided by the  Korean War . The “Diamond Mountain”
resort, opened by the two Koreas in 1998, has been closed since
2008, when North Korean troops shot and killed a South Korean
guest walking on a restricted beach.  Breaking Deadlock  “It will be hard to break the deadlock as the North is
trying to use Gaeseong talks as a tool to achieve several things
including resuming Geumgang tours, but the South isn’t going to
let the North do that,” Kim Yeon Su, a professor at the Korea
National Defense University in Seoul, said today before the
talks began. “It’s important that the North builds trust with
the South to come to an agreement.”  South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s government has said
it won’t engage the North until it gives up its nuclear weapons,
aside from talks on joint economic projects and humanitarian
issues.  Closing Gaeseong deprived Kim’s regime of a key source of
hard currency. North Korea earned $100 million each year from
the zone, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  