-- Yahoo Loses Top Media Executive Amid Mayer-Led Turnaround
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/yahoo-loses-top-media-executive-rosen-amid-mayer-led-turnaround.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s Mickie Rosen, the
veteran entertainment executive hired to lead the company’s
media business in 2011, is departing one year into Chief
Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer ’s attempt at a turnaround.  Rosen, who was senior vice president of global media, is
leaving Sept. 1, and will receive a severance package for
termination “without cause,” according to a regulatory filing
yesterday from the Sunnyvale, California-based company.  Mayer has emphasized online video, an area overseen by
Rosen, as part of her effort to revive growth at the largest
U.S. Internet portal. Rosen’s departure follows Yahoo’s failed
attempt to buy a majority stake in video site Dailymotion as
well as a bid for Hulu LLC, which called off an auction this
month. Earlier yesterday, Yahoo director and activist investor
 Daniel Loeb  said he is leaving the board and selling $1.16
billion of his stake back to the company.  Rosen previously worked at News Corp.’s former Fox
Interactive Media unit and Walt Disney Co. Yahoo said her
severance agreement includes the equivalent of six months of
salary, a portion of bonus payments, health-care reimbursements
and accelerated vesting of  stock options .  “Mickie has made tremendous contributions to Yahoo’s media
business over the past two-and-a-half years, and we wish her all
the best,” Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, said in an e-mailed statement, without elaborating on the reason for her
departure.  Yahoo  shares  fell 4.3 percent to $27.86 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since June 24.  Stock Buyback  The drop came after Yahoo announced plans to repurchase 40
million shares at $29.11 apiece from Loeb’s Third Point LLC, a
sign that the hedge fund manager may see limited upside to
Mayer’s turnaround plan.  Loeb is left with about 20 million shares, or less than a 2
percent  stake . His allies on the board,  Harry Wilson  and  Michael
Wolf , are also stepping down, leaving Yahoo with seven
directors.  Last week Yahoo reported second-quarter sales of $1.07
billion, lower than analysts’ average estimate of $1.08 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mayer has thus far
focused on revamping products and improving worker morale at the
expense of wooing advertisers, who continue to shift budgets to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Even with the revenue misfire and yesterday’s decline,
Yahoo shares have advanced 40 percent this year, compared with a
19 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  