-- Yanzhou Coal Chairman Li, Vice Chairman Wang Resign
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-23T07:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/yanzhou-coal-chairman-vice-chairman-resign-on-work-shift.html
Yanzhou Coal (1171)  Mining Co., China’s
fourth-largest producer of the fuel, said Chairman Li Weimin and
Vice Chairman Wang Xin resigned due to “work allocation.”  The resignations took effect yesterday, Shandong province-based Yanzhou Coal said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange. The board elected Shi Xuerang as acting chairman,
according to the filing.  Li will join Jinan, Shandong-based Shandong Energy Group
Co. as general manager, vice communist party secretary and a
board member, Yanzhou Coal spokesman Zhang Baocai said by phone.
Three calls to Shandong Energy Group weren’t answered today.
Wang will head Shandong province’s Renewable Energy Committee,
Zhang said. Two calls to Shandong government offices also went
unanswered.  The move is routine, Leo Wu, a Shenzhen-based analyst at
Guotai Junan Securities Co., said by phone today. “Executives
at  China ’s state-owned companies frequently get shuffled between
other companies or government positions,” he said.  Other state-owned companies have also witnessed management
changes this week. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. General Manager Ma
Guoqiang resigned to become general manager at Wuhan Iron &
Steel Group.  Yanzhou Coal, which has fallen 74 percent over Li’s two and
a half year tenure, rose 4.5 percent to HK$5.84 as of 2:45 p.m.
in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 2.2 percent.  Li also resigned as chairman of Yancoal  Australia , a unit
of Yanzhou Coal, a position he held since June 2012, according
to an Australian Stock Exchange filing today. The change comes
amid a bid by Yanzhou Coal to privatize it’s Australian unit and
list depository receipts using the underlying Hong Kong-listed
stock. The plan needs shareholder approval.  Yanzhou Coal’s board nominated Zhang Xinwen, 48, and Li Xiyong, 50, as director candidates, according to yesterday’s
filing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  