-- S&P 500 Drops as Bonds Slip on Earnings, Fed Speculation
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-07-23T20:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/yen-holds-advance-as-hong-kong-futures-pace-u-s-higher.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  fell
as investors weighed corporate earnings while Treasuries
declined for the first time in three days amid speculation on
when the  Federal Reserve  may scale back its asset purchases.  The S&P 500 fell 0.2 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York , after
rallying four straight days to a record high. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index slumped 0.3 percent, erasing an earlier advance. The
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 1.6 percent to a six-week high
amid optimism over  China’s economy . The yield on 10-year
Treasuries increased three basis points to 2.51 percent.
Volatility measures in stocks, bonds and  currency markets 
touched the lowest levels in about two months. Corn tumbled to a
33-month low.  Apple Inc. jumped 5.3 percent after the close of regular
trading as it joined 35 other companies in the S&P 500 reporting
results today. An index of manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic
region of the U.S. unexpectedly contracted in July. Chinese
Premier  Li Keqiang  said the slowest economic growth policy
makers will tolerate is 7 percent, Beijing News reported today.  “What you’re seeing is revenues are coming in pretty
lackluster and profits seem to be doing a little better than
gains in sales,” Hank Herrmann, Overland Park, Kansas-based
chief executive officer of Waddell & Reed Investment Management
Co., said by phone. His firm manages $104 billion. “The market
had a period of digesting the confusion over Fed tapering. For
the moment, it’s focused on individual company fundamentals.”  Of the 145 companies in the S&P 500 to have already posted
earnings for the quarter, 71 percent have  beat  analysts’ profit
estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. About 53 percent
have surpassed forecasts for revenue.  Netflix, UPS  Netflix Inc. slid 4.5 percent after fewer subscribers
signed up for its service than analysts had forecast. Travelers
Cos., the second-largest U.S. commercial insurer, tumbled 3.8
percent as book value had the biggest quarterly decline since
2008 as higher interest rates pressured its bond portfolio.
Texas Instruments Inc. rose 4 percent after forecasting third-quarter sales and profit that may exceed forecasts.  United Technologies Corp. gained 3 percent, leading the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  to a record high today, as the company
boosted the lower end of its 2013 profit forecast. United Parcel
Service Inc. dropped 0.1 percent as second-quarter profit fell 4
percent after the world’s largest package-delivery company
lowered its full-year forecast earlier this year.  Apple Results  Apple soared 5.3 percent as of 4:57 p.m. New York time. The
maker of the iPhone and iPad reported third-quarter profit and
sales that beat analysts’ estimates, spurring optimism that the
company is weathering an attack from low-end smartphone
competition.  Fed stimulus and corporate earnings have helped fuel a
surge in stocks worldwide, with the S&P 500 jumping as much as
151 percent from its March 2009 low. Benchmark indexes have
reached record highs after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
last week the central bank remains flexible about the duration
of its asset-purchase program.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes climbed today amid
speculation the Fed is moving closer to winding down its asset-purchase program. The U.S. central bank will begin tapering its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases in September, according to
50 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Notes Sale  Treasuries remained lower after the U.S. sale of $35
billion in two-year notes was met with weaker-than-average
demand. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.08,
compared with an average of 3.54 for the past 10 sales. The
government will sell $35 billion in five-year debt tomorrow and
$29 billion in seven-year securities on July 25.  U.S. equities fell earlier in the day after the Fed bank of
Richmond’s factory index slid to minus 11 for July. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the region that includes
the Carolinas, the  District of Columbia ,  Maryland ,  Virginia  and
West Virginia. The median projection in a Bloomberg survey of
economists called for a reading of 9.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, jumped 3 percent to 12.66, snapping a streak of four
straight declines. The equity volatility gauge, which moves in
the opposite direction as the  S&P 500  about 80 percent of the
time, reached a  high  for the year on June 20 and tumbled 40
percent through yesterday.  European Stocks  The Stoxx 600 dropped 0.3 percent, reversing an earlier
advance of at least 0.5 percent after reaching a seven-week
high.  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  soared 2.8 percent, extending yesterday’s 13
percent rally, after saying it will sell its German mobile-phone
business to Telefonica SA. Swatch Group AG climbed 1.7 percent
as the maker of Swiss watches reported first-half profit that
exceeded analyst predictions. Sulzer AG sank 14 percent, the
most since October 2008, as the Swiss pump maker cut its
forecasts.  The VStoxx Index, which gauges the price of options on the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index, fell 0.8 percent to 17.34 after touching
the lowest level since May 22 earlier in the trading day.  Emerging-market stocks rose as benchmark gauges in South
Korea, Taiwan, the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia climbed
at least 1.2 percent. The Beijing News reported Chinese premier
Li Keqiang said 7 percent growth is the minimum policy makers
will tolerate, signaling the nation will act to support the
economy if needed.  Dollar Slips  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland shares
listed in  Hong Kong  jumped 3.9 percent, the most in more than
six months, and the Shanghai Composite Index gained 2 percent.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  slipped 0.2 percent, dropping
for a third straight day. The U.S. currency declined 0.3 percent
against the euro.  The rupiah lost 1.3 percent as  Bank Indonesia  allowed a
more rapid slide toward levels quoted in the offshore market.
Hungary’s forint fell versus 15 of 16 major counterparts after
the central bank cut its main  interest rate  for a 12th
consecutive month and President Gyorgy Matolcsy said he expects
to extend monetary easing.  Volatility Indexes  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index dropped
for a ninth straight day to 9.15 percent, the lowest level since
May 13. It touched a one-year high of 11.96 percent on June 24.  Germany’s 10-year  bund yield  climbed four basis points to
1.55 percent. Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the
Merrill Lynch Option Volatility Estimate Move Index fell to
72.62 yesterday, the lowest level since May 24. The figure is
down from 117.89 on July 5, which was the most since December
2010. The one-year average is 64.71.  Corn futures tumbled 2.5 percent after reaching the lowest
level since October 2010. Forecasts for cool, wet weather
improved prospects for a crop expected to be a record in the
U.S., the world’s biggest grower. Wheat fell 0.9 percent.  Oil gained 0.3 percent to $107.23 a barrel, after dropping
as much as 1.4 percent earlier in the session. Natural gas
futures increased for the first time in three days, jumping 1.8
percent, on speculation that a heat wave last week reduced U.S.
stockpile gains.  Gold fell 0.2 percent from a one-month high as  India , the
world’s largest buyer, added to restrictions on imports. The
 Reserve Bank  of India said yesterday it would be mandatory for
gold buyers to set aside 20 percent for re-exports as jewelry in
a bid to cut a record current-account deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  