-- Hyundai Files Police Complaint Against Clash Activists
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-07-23T07:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-22/hyundai-motor-says-82-employees-hurt-in-clash-with-activists.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s
largest automaker, filed a police complaint against 13 activists
it says led a violent clash at its biggest assembly plant that
left 82 employees injured.  The three-hour dispute on July 20 between activists from
the  Korean Confederation of Trade Unions , an umbrella group of
labor unions, and Hyundai security guards and managers caused
about 2.2 billion won ($2 million) in damage, the Seoul-based
carmakers said in an e-mail yesterday. About 100 people were
injured in total, the trade union said on its website.  Union workers at Hyundai, the subject of periodic wage
protests including an August 2012 walkout that the company
estimates to have cost a record 1.7 trillion won in lost
production, weren’t part of the brawl. Some members of the group
tried to use force to enter the plant in Ulsan, throwing bamboo
sticks and stones at security personnel, who used fire hoses to
keep them at bay, the automaker and labor body said.  The company filed a complaint to Ulsan district police
yesterday for obstruction of business and acts of violence, the
company said today in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg. The
police will begin an investigation, according to a policewoman
at the Ulsan station, who asked not to be named, citing official
policy.  “We are closely monitoring the situation,” Jeong Ho Hee,
a spokesman for the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, said
by phone today when asked about the complaint.  The activists demanded Hyundai convert all 6,800 of its
temporary workers, hired by subcontractors, into regular
employees to enjoy better benefits and pay. The carmaker said in
December it will convert 3,500 workers by the first half of
2016, an offer that was rejected by the union.  Third Party  “The incident was triggered by a third party which doesn’t
help the company or the non-regular workers’ union trying to
reach an agreement on the issue,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an
analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co., who recommends buying
Hyundai shares. “Although it has a negative impact on investor
sentiment, the issue won’t lead to big production losses as the
number of workers involved is few and they can be replaced.”  Hyundai shares were unchanged at 222,000 won in Seoul
trading today. The benchmark Kospi index climbed 1.3 percent.  Some executive members of Hyundai’s  union , which represents
the regular workers, took part in a separate gathering organized
by the labor body on the same day the brawl broke out, Kwon Oh
Il, a spokesman at the carmaker’s union, said by phone
yesterday. The attempted forced entry into the plant was a
separate event and no Hyundai union member was involved, Kwon
said.  The trade union group should halt illegal activities and
resolve the situation through talks, the  Federation of Korean
Industries , the nation’s largest business lobby group, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Ulsan , located on  South Korea ’s southeastern coast, is an
industrial center and home to major factories and shipyards,
according to the Korea Tourism Organization’s website.  Six calls to the union representing Hyundai temporary
workers weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  