-- 
Hackers in China Breach UN, Olympic Committee Networks, Security Firms Say

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-08-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hackers-in-china-attack-un-olympic-networks-security-firms-say-in-report.html
Hackers based in  China  spent five
years ransacking the  computer networks  of the  United Nations ,
multinational corporations, the Olympic committees of several
countries and the U.S. and Canadian governments, two security
companies said.  In one of the largest cyberattacks discovered, more than 72
organizations were hacked by spies beginning in 2006, according
to computer server logs and other evidence obtained by  Santa
Clara , California-based  McAfee Inc. (MFE)   The attack has been traced to servers in at least two of
China’s major cities, Beijing and Shanghai, according to
Atlanta-based Dell SecureWorks, which separately traced the same
series of attacks.  “Even we were surprised by the enormous diversity of the
victim organizations and were taken aback by the audacity of the
perpetrators,” Dimitri Alperovitch, McAfee’s vice president of
threat research, said in the report.  The details of the incidents, which McAfee dubbed Operation
Shady RAT, are part of a mounting body of evidence linking China
to sophisticated hacking operations targeted against a broad
array of both government and commercial targets. RAT is industry
shorthand for remote access tool, software used to hack
networks.  Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese embassy in
Washington, said China is “firmly against international hacking
activities and is ready to work with other countries to secure
the cyberspace.”  ‘Finger Pointing’  “I’d say that whenever there’s a story coming out on
cyberspace intrusions, there’ll be willful finger pointing at
China to vilify its image,” he said yesterday in an e-mail.
“This is simply abnormal and ridiculous and we cannot but
question the ulterior motives there.”  Investigators probing the hacking of the  International
Monetary Fund  in May also linked the incident to China. Other
previously known victims of China-based hackers include Google
Inc., Morgan Stanley, DuPont Co. and Adobe Systems Inc.  McAfee doesn’t name the country in which the operation was
based in a report released yesterday entitled “Revealed:
Operation Shady RAT,” concluding the hackers have government
support and that it preferred to keep the country anonymous. Joe
Stewart, head of malware research at SecureWorks, said the
country discussed in the report was China.  McAfee does name some of the victims, which include the
 World Anti-Doping Agency  and the Secretariat of the  Association
of Southeast Asian Nations .  Trove of Data  Other victims included a U.S. real estate company, a major
media organization based in  New York  and a satellite
communications company, said McAfee, which accessed a command
and control server used by the hackers that revealed a rich
trove of data on their victims.  The  International Olympic Committee , as well as the Olympic
committees of several countries, were hacked in the lead-up to
the 2008 Beijing summer Olympics, which “potentially pointed a
finger at a state actor behind the intrusions,” according to
the report.  SecureWorks researchers analyzed the hacking software used
in the same series of attacks, many of which initially appeared
to be controlled from servers in the U.S. and elsewhere.  Stewart of SecureWorks spent months following an
electronic trail that eventually led him to 11 command and
control servers mostly based in either Beijing or  Shanghai .  Locations Hidden  Without the cooperation of Chinese telecom companies, it
was impossible to determine who was operating the servers or
whether they were linked to Chinese government organizations,
Stewart said. The telecom companies could identify individuals
or organizations linked to the servers’ Internet Protocol
addresses, he said.  “They went to a good deal of effort to hide the actual
location of the infrastructure, so these aren’t servers they
wanted anyone to know about,” Stewart said.  McAfee said in its report that the operation reveals the
wide array of organizations being hacked and the large amount of
data being taken from computer networks meant to be secure.  Of the total, McAfee found that eight of the organizations
were hit in 2006, including a steel and a construction company
in  South Korea . The number of victims rose to 29 the following
year. The rate of increase slowed beginning in 2008 as security
companies got better at defending against the tools used by the
hackers, the report found.  Hackers took information from some of the victims over a
period of as long as two years. In some cases, the intrusions
lasted just about a month, according to the report.  The hackers were most interested in defense contractors,
attacking a total of 13. Other types of organizations included
state and county governments in the U.S., think tanks, an
insurance company and a solar power manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  