-- 
Hair Treatment Clinic Reve21 to Offer Shares, CEO’s Job to Public in Asia

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-08-03T07:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hair-treatment-clinic-reve21-to-offer-shares-ceo-s-job-to-public-in-asia.html
Reve21 Co. , a Japanese hair clinic
operator, said it will turn to the public to sell its founder’s
shares and recruit a chief executive officer to start business
in Asia, Europe and the U.S.  The Osaka-based company plans to sell two-thirds of the
shares that founder and president Katsumasa Okamura owns in a
global initial public offering and list in  Tokyo  and  Hong Kong ,
he said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. Okamura is using a
recruiter to find his successor before retiring.  Japan ’s equity  capital market  is beginning to recover from
a record earthquake, with 10 companies announcing plans for an
IPO since the March 11 disaster compared with six in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Reve21, which almost doubled clients to 137,000 in five years,
has no competitors in Japan or abroad offering treatment to
replenish hair without wigs or implants, Okamura said.  “Listing will make it easier to establish credibility and
attract good people,” said Okamura, 66, who isn’t balding.
“Most people in  Asia  don’t like thinning hair, and Americans
and Europeans want to keep looking young and rich hair is
crucial to that.”  Reve21 estimates 42 million Japanese suffer from hair loss,
a third of the population. Japanese spend about 430 billion yen
($5.6 billion) on hair care each year and the market is growing
as people age, according to a study conducted by Yano Research
Institute Ltd. from January to March in 2010.  Unique Model  “It’ll be interesting to see how a company with such a new
and unique business model will join in the capital market,”
said Hidekatsu Watanabe, a Tokyo-based health care analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co. Demand in Asia and  Latin America  may have
the most potential because of “the contrast between their hair
and skin color,” he said.  Unlike domestic companies Aderans Co. or  Artnature Inc. (7823) ,
Reve21 doesn’t offer hair transplants or wigs. The company,
which has 97 outlets in Japan, provides counseling to find
causes of hair loss and treats roots with techniques such as
laser beams and herbal blended shampoos.  A two-year course of treatment costs about 1.6 million yen,
according to Reve21’s consulting center, which also advises
members to improve eating habits and lifestyles to reduce stress
that might contribute to hair loss.  Search for CEO  The 35-year old business hasn’t hired brokerages for the
IPO or determined when to apply to the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s
biggest board, Okamura said, adding that the new CEO will decide
details of the sale. The firm had a profit in each of the past
three years on annual revenue of about 15 billion yen, he said.  Reve21 will offer the CEO a 30 million yen annual salary,
said Erika Ishiguro, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman. The company will
use a 73,000-person database owned by  BizReach Inc. , a Japanese
executive research firm, to find the leader.  “Okamura is very stoic,” BizReach Chief Executive Officer
Soichiro Minami said in an interview. “He used to be a
laundryman, and he invented a hair tonic and tested it with his
customers. His daily routine is to clean up the office bathrooms
by himself in the morning before his employees arrive.”  Okamura, who employs 850 staff, said he will retire after
hiring his successor. He may return the rest of his shares to
the company after the IPO and donate the proceeds to the public
after the share sale, the president said.  “I plan to spend the rest of my life where there is no
civilization or culture. I want to live without electricity and
get water, vegetables and food by myself,” Okamura said. “I’ve
been suppressing my desires for 40 years, so from now on I just
want to live like fish and birds do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  