-- 
Airline Earnings Showing First Drop in Two Years, IATA Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-03T18:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/airline-earnings-showing-first-drop-in-eight-quarters-iata-says.html
Airline-industry earnings suffered
the first year-to-year decline for two years in the three months
to June as fuel costs rose and capacity increases outstripped
demand, the  International Air Transport Association  said.  Early figures for 16 carriers showed operating profit
shrinking by one-third and net income tumbling by almost two-
thirds, IATA said today in a  report .  North America , the Asia-
Pacific region and  Latin America  are all showing declines, while
European earnings advanced only because traffic disruption
caused by a volcanic ash from Iceland crimped profit last year.  “The whole airline sector is under the cosh right now,”
 Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham Securities in Dublin, said in an
interview. “The airlines are massive consumers of fuel.”  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s second-biggest carrier,
posted a second-quarter profit before items of $366 million, or
43 cents a share, lagging the 44-cent average estimate of
analysts.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the No. 2 airline by market
value, also failed to meet predictions, while Air France-KLM
Group,  Europe ’s biggest carrier, fell the most in five months on
July 28 after posting an operating loss of 145 million euros
($207 million) when analysts had expected a profit.  Falling Occupancy  Jet-fuel prices headed above $130 a barrel in July, IATA
said today, and though passenger traffic is still rising at a 4
to 5 percent annual rate, capacity increases are outpacing
demand, resulting in June load factors, or seat-occupancy
levels, that were 1 percentage point below 2010’s high.  A deterioration in  consumer confidence  and the economic
outlook is putting third-quarter earnings under further
pressure, with a possible slowdown in business travel, which has
so far spurred traffic in 2011, posing a “worry,” IATA said.  Michael O’Leary , Chief Executive Officer of Ryanair
Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest discount carrier, said the
combination of rising fuel costs and slumping confidence will
quicken the pace of consolidation within the industry.  “There’s going to be more bankruptcies within the European
airline sector and more amalgamations,” O’Leary said at a press
conference in Dublin today.  The 31-member Bloomberg World Airline Index has slumped 4.8
percent this week to the lowest in more than a year. Airline
share prices have fallen by about 15 percent this year because
of economic concerns, IATA said. Declines have been led by
Delta,  Air France-KLM (AF)  and  Thai Airways International Pcl. (THAI)   A slump in demand may prove to be a catalyst for  oil prices 
to fall, giving stronger airlines an opportunity to buy fuel at
lower costs, Bloxham’ Gill said. About 30 percent of an
airline’s costs come from kerosene purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  