-- 
Airlines Poised for $1.3 Billion Fare ‘Windfall’ on FAA Funding Deadlock

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r ,   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-03T20:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/airlines-poised-for-1-3-billion-fare-windfall-in-faa-shutdown.html
U.S. airlines led by  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  may pocket $1.3 billion in higher
fares tied to the Federal Aviation Administration’s partial
shutdown as Congress deadlocks on the agency’s funding.  The FAA already has been unable to collect $28.6 million a
day in aviation taxes since midnight on July 22. Missed receipts
may climb by $1 billion if the matter remains unresolved until
lawmakers reconvene in September, FAA Administrator  Randy Babbitt  said. President Barack Obama today urged congressional
leaders to reach a resolution this week.  The largest U.S. carriers, including United,  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , stand to reap that much
new revenue after raising fares to mirror the suspended taxes
and keeping the difference, said Rick Seaney, chief executive
officer of Dallas-based ticket researcher FareCompare.com.  “This is manna from heaven, and a real windfall for the
airlines,” Seaney said in an interview. “I don’t expect them
to drop the fare increases. Why would they? Total ticket prices
are the same and it doesn’t seem to be hurting bookings.”  Congress was set to begin its August recess today without a
new FAA funding bill. The expiration of tax-collecting authority
last month halted a 7.5 percent sales tax on domestic tickets
and a $3.70 fee for each flight segment. Similar, higher fees on
international tickets also were suspended, and airlines started
saving on jet fuel taxes.  “We don’t know how long it’s going to last, and we can’t
sit here with 100 percent conviction that the government won’t
make the airlines repay this somehow,” said  Hunter Keay , an
analyst at Wolfe Trahan & Co. in New York. “All it takes is
some law to be passed, an FAA recollection-type bill.”  Tax Estimates  Lost FAA taxes would amount to about $1.3 billion through
Sept. 7, when Congress resumes legislative business, said  Laura Brown , an agency spokeswoman. That was in line with estimates
from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Jamie Baker and  Helane Becker  of
Dahlman Rose & Co., who are based in New York.  The additional revenue may boost Delta’s third-quarter
earnings by 7 cents a share, Chicago-based United’s by 15 cents
and American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s by 12 cents for each
week the FAA is partially idled, Baker wrote in a note to
clients last week.  Delta’s excise taxes amount to about $5 million a day,
President Ed Bastian told analysts on a July 27 conference call.
 JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  CEO David Barger said the New York-based
airline is seeing a daily benefit of as much as $900,000.  ‘ Santa Claus ’  “It’s like we’ve had a 7.5 percent fare hike for the
airlines, and it’s not coming out of your pocket or mine but
Uncle Sam’s,” said Tom Parsons, CEO of travel website
BestFares.com in Arlington,  Texas . “It’s like Santa Claus came
in July.”  The gain hasn’t been enough to keep airline stocks from
tumbling since July 22, with a 17 percent decline for Hawaiian
Holdings Inc. pacing an 8.4 percent drop for the Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index.  The shares have been under pressure on concern that the
weak economy may crimp travel amid  oil prices  at seasonally high
levels. Crude averaged $97.34 a barrel in July, 27 percent more
than a year earlier.  Leisure travel demand “unexpectedly and somewhat suddenly
lost momentum at the end of June” and is pressuring industry
revenue, JetBlue said last week. Atlanta-based Delta deepened
its plan for cutting seating capacity after the U.S. Labor Day
holiday, to 5 percent from 4 percent.  Obama Urges Resolution  Obama told reporters today before a Cabinet meeting that
Congress must stop playing “politics” with the FAA’s funding
and resolve their impasse by the end of this week. One item in
dispute is possible cuts to rural air service subsidies.  “This is a lose-lose situation that could be easily solved
if Congress gets back into town and does its job,” Obama said.
“They don’t even have to come back into town. The House and the
Senate could, through a procedural agreement, basically do this
through unanimous consent and they can have the fights that they
want to have when they get back.”  Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a
Democrat from West Virginia, said today at a news conference in
 Washington  that the airlines and their trade group, the  Air
Transport Association , were “all very silent” about the FAA
shutdown and its ramifications.  “They sort of sent a letter saying ‘Oh yes, we’d like to
have a clean bill of extension’” a few days ago, Rockefeller
said. “But did they work it? No. Did they make phone calls? No.
Was there any pressure? No.”  ‘Not Right’  The ATA has been in regular contact with senior lawmakers
in recent weeks to advocate for a multi-year FAA bill and “we
encourage members of Congress to expeditiously resolve their
differences and pass a bill that moves the system forward,”
said  Steve Lott , a spokesman for the Washington-based
organization.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said yesterday that the
Treasury Department is studying whether the FAA tax revenue
could be claimed retroactively. He declined to comment further
when asked about the issue on a conference call with reporters.  There has been confusion among consumers and airlines on
how to handle refunds for taxes collected before the FAA
shutdown for flights taken with the agency’s taxing authority
suspended.  Delta and Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  have
said they will process refunds for customers who request them
and are eligible, and that they were waiting on the  Internal
Revenue Service  to provide guidelines. The IRS said July 27 it
asked airlines to repay fliers.  Also unknown is how airlines will react once the taxes are
reinstated, said Becker, the Dahlman Rose analyst.  “Do the taxes go back on top of the current fare, or do
these fare increases get rolled back and these become taxes
again?” she said. “That’s the question people are waiting to
see the answer for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  