-- 
Allied Irish Anomaly Makes Bank Europe’s Fifth-Largest

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-03T16:28:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/allied-irish-anomaly-makes-rescued-bank-europe-s-fifth-largest.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the country’s
second-largest bank by assets, has a market value bigger than
UBS AG and Barclays Plc, even after its third bailout by the
government.  The taxpayer last week bought 5 billion euros ($7 billion)
of new shares in the bank for 1 euro cent each, giving it a 99.8
percent stake. That left investors with a stake valued at 100
million euros.  Allied Irish  has since traded at between 9 cents
and 12 cents, for a market value of as much as 61.6 billion
euros, three times the peak of Feb. 2007.  “The implied valuation of Allied Irish at about 50 billion
euros makes little sense and seems to be an anomaly,” said
 Stephen Lyons , an analyst with Dublin-based securities firm
Davy. “The increase in the government’s stake has not been
fully digested.”  That anomaly makes the unprofitable lender  Europe ’s fifth-
largest by market value, behind HSBC Holdings Plc,  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , OAO Sberbank and BNP Paribas SA. Ireland’s
government has injected 19.9 billion euros into the lender over
the past two-and-a-half years. Irish banks are grappling with
mounting bad loan losses, following the collapse of a domestic
real-estate bubble in 2007.  Investors would find it easier to “correct the share price
to a more reflective level” of its value if a ban on short
selling Irish banking stocks, introduced in 2008, wasn’t still
in place, Lyons said.  ‘Willing Buyers’  Allied Irish fell as much as 9.5 percent in Dublin trading
and was unchanged at 10.5 cents at the 5:10 p.m. close of
trading, with 612,755 shares trading. Only 0.2 percent of Allied
Irish’s stock is tradable.  “Share prices are determined at a level where there are
willing buyers and willing sellers,” said Ailish Byrne, a
spokeswoman for the Irish Stock Exchange.  Allied Irish spokesman Ronan Sheridan declined to comment.  “The market price of AIB’s stock and, by inference, its
market capitalization is driven by daily trading in the stock,
which is determined solely by the market participants,” the
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  