-- 
Hamptons Scene: Gary Cohn, Toni Ross, Eric Ripert, Daryl Roth

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-03T15:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hamptons-scene-gary-cohn-lisa-pevaroff-toni-ross-daryl-ross-ripert.html
Dressed in a pink linen shirt and
long white shorts,  Gary Cohn , president and chief operating
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , pointed out a painting up
for auction.  The ocean landscape, striking for its luminous sky of
creams, oranges and blues, was on display Sunday night at a
fundraiser for the  Hayground School  in Bridgehampton,  New York .  Cohn then introduced me to the artist, Scott O’Neil, who
confirmed that the painting was set in the Hamptons.  “Amagansett,” O’Neil said.  “But she painted it in  Vermont ,” Cohn said.  “I was missing it,” O’Neil replied.  Cohn then introduced his wife, Lisa Pevaroff, a painter and
jewelry designer.  “She made these bracelets,” he said, holding out his arm
to show off two strands of black beads accented with silver
skulls.  Pevaroff was wearing a black dress and seven bracelets
featuring beads made of black quartz, pearl, rubies and
diamonds.  Lesa Tinker, who has recently started a business offering
home delivery of farm-stand produce in the Hamptons, joined in.
She was wearing three bracelets.  The jewelry modeling over, Pevaroff offered an up close
examination of her skull bead.  “This is my signature skull,” she said, showing the “La
Pev” lettering engraved on the back of the skull. The skull
face features diamond eyes and a wide grin.  Happy Skulls  “I believe that skulls are happy,” Pevaroff said. “They
remind us to live life.”  Pevaroff, a Rhode Island School of Design graduate started
making the bracelets about a year ago. They are available on her
website,  http://www.lisapevaroff.com , for $200 to $5,000.  Cohn’s posse soon scattered to sample about a dozen
tastings offered at the event. Josh Capon of Lure Fishbar
presented oysters with jalapeno ponzu. Bryan Futterman of
Foody’s served sliders with roasted locally raised pig.  Cohn had a couple of slices of pizza at the Rolling in
Dough Pizza truck.  Roths, Furman, Ross  Other tasters included theater producer Daryl Roth and her
husband, Steve Roth, chairman of Vornado Realty Trust, the
artist  Clifford Ross , chef Eric Ripert and Roy Furman, vice
chairman of Jefferies & Co.  Toni Ross, daughter of the late Time Warner chairman Steve Ross, founded the benefit. It raises money for a scholarship
fund at the Hayground School named in memory of her late
husband, Jeff Salaway, with whom she opened the East Hampton
restaurant Nick and Toni’s. Salaway was killed in a car accident
in 2001.  “He would have been all over this,” said Stuart Match
Suna, president of  Silver Cup Studios . “The thing he loved to
do the most was host people and make them happy.”  The evening ended with tequila cherry chocolate chip ice
cream prepared by fashion designer  Isaac Mizrahi .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 