-- 
Anchor Ship May Double Fleet to 50 to Meet China’s Rising Iron-Ore Demand

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-03T01:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/anchor-ship-may-double-fleet-to-50-to-meet-china-s-rising-iron-ore-demand.html
Anchor Ship Investment Co.,  Japan ’s
largest ship-fund manager, may more than double its fleet to as
many as 50 vessels because of rising imports of coal and  iron
ore  in  China  and  India .  “Our customers are asking for more bulk carriers to feed
that demand and we are filling it,” President Hajime Tsuji said
in an interview at the company’s head office in  Tokyo  yesterday.
Anchor Ship will use its second fund of about 200 billion yen
($2.6 billion) to add to the 24 vessels it currently owns or has
on order, he said.  The company’s first fund has posted annual returns of more
than 5 percent since its formation in 2007 as signing more than
half of contracts in yen, with the rest in dollars, has helped
it hedge against currency fluctuations, Tsuji said. A policy of
only leasing out vessels on contracts of 10 years has also
allowed it avoid a slump in spot-market rates.  Anchor Ship, whose customers include Japanese shipping
lines Nippon Yusen K.K. and  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , plans to
expand its dry-bulk fleet as China’s construction of bridges,
roads and railways drives demand for iron ore, a key steelmaking
ingredient. The country, the world’s biggest iron-ore buyer,
increased imports of the commodity 8.1 percent in the first half
of the year to 335 million tons, according to customs data
tracked by Bloomberg.  That increase in demand has failed to prevent the Baltic
Dry Index, a benchmark for commodity-shipping rates, plunging 36
percent in the past year, as Chinese shipyards work through a
glut of new vessels ordered with government support. Anchor Ship
intends to continue relying on longer-term deals to guard
against market fluctuations, Tsuji said.  “We charter ships for 10 years and we’re not considering
shortening that period,” he said. That way, the company only
faces “market risk when the contract ends.”  ‘Very Tough’ Yen  The stronger yen has hit Anchor Ship, which is trailing
Tsuji’s target of making 10 percent annual returns over 10
years. The Japanese currency has jumped 11 percent in a year
against the dollar as investors shun the greenback on concerns
about  U.S. debt . The yen reached 76.30 to the dollar on Aug. 1,
just below the record 76.25 yen touched on March 17.  “It’s getting very tough with the yen around 75,” Tsuji
said. “We’re getting close to our limit.”  Anchor Ship has 12 vessels in operation, comprising four
container vessels, five tankers, a car carrier, one liquefied
petroleum gas tanker and a bulk ship, Tsuji said. The company’s
order backlog includes three  container ships , two capsize dry-
bulk vessels, three panamax and four handysize, he said.  The second fund has until December 2015 to complete its
investments, according to Anchor Ship’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  