-- 
Hang Seng CEO Says Renminbi Product Easing Slower Than Expected

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-08-03T04:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hang-seng-ceo-says-renminbi-product-easing-slower-than-expected.html
Margaret Leung, chief executive
officer of  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , the Hong Kong-based lender
backed by HSBC Holdings Plc, comments on  interest rates  and
mortgage loans in China, the Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the U.S.
currency, and expectations about renminbi deposits.  On Hong Kong interest rates:  “A lot of deposits are now being converted into renminbi.
The non-renminbi deposits are not growing as quickly. The demand
for non-renminbi loans is growing very rapidly. Demand and
supply drives up the deposit rate and also the lending rate.
Both rates are moving up in tandem.”  On Hong Kong as a major offshore renminbi centre:  “Hong Kong has always been an important offshore RMB
centre. This is growing and this is the footstep into  China .
Overseas funds are coming into Hong Kong. I don’t see any major
departure of funds from Hong Kong.”  On high conversion of Hong Kong dollar deposits into renminbi:  “That was true of last year and the first quarter of this
year. If you look at the June figures from HKMA, the conversion
or the swap has slowed. People initially expected the renminbi
to appreciate and a lot of relaxation on renminbi products. The
appreciation part continues, but the opening up is slower than
what a lot of people expected. So a lot of people are leaving
their money in their accounts, which is not generating a lot of
return. The conversion or the swap has gradually slowed down.
People are now waiting for more changes to come in before they
do the conversion again.”  On  mortgage loans :  “The increase in pricing of mortgage loans and the
measures that have been introduced by the government and the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority have already had some impact on the
volume of transactions. I’m not so sure about the pricing, but
volume has definitely come down.”  “If the dollar continues to weaken because of the U.S.
situation, then people may want something to invest. Equity,
bonds, property are always things they want to consider.”  On Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the  U.S. dollar :  “It has worked so far. There’s no immediate need to say it
must be reviewed. The peg has its advantages and disadvantages,
but overall, it works.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ; 