-- 
Apple Is Said to Hire Recruiter Egon Zehnder to Find New Retail Executive

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-08-03T20:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/apple-said-to-hire-recruiter-egon-zehnder-to-find-retail-chief.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  hired search firm Egon
Zehnder International to lead the recruitment of a new retail
chief, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Ron Johnson , Apple’s senior vice president in charge of
retail, is becoming chief executive officer of J.C. Penney Co.
on Nov. 1. He departs as the computer maker expands
internationally. Of the 40 stores the company plans to open this
fiscal year, 28 will be outside the U.S. Apple, with 327 total
stores, made $3.5 billion from its retail operation in the third
quarter, up 36 percent from a year earlier.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment,
as did Teri Schram, a spokeswoman for Egon Zehnder.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Egon Zehnder
was hired by Apple. The executive search firm, founded in 1964,
has 370 consultants working from 63 offices in 37 countries,
according to its  website .  Apple, the world’s second-most valuable company behind
Exxon Mobil Corp., is facing a spate of executive departures. In
addition to Johnson, Mac software chief Bertrand Serlet and
marketing executive Allison Johnson have left in recent months.  Johnson, a former executive at  Target Corp. (TGT) , is credited
with building up Apple’s retail business. The first two stores
were opened in 2001 in a bid to diminish Apple’s reliance on
outside electronics retailers to sell its machines. The gambit
worked: Apple’s sales per square foot of retail space were
$4,355 in 2010, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. That’s
almost 30 times those of J.C. Penney, and two-thirds higher than
luxury jeweler Tiffany & Co.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , rose $3.66 to
$392.57 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The shares have gained 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  