-- 
Harbin Electric Recovers From 19% Plunge After Rebutting U.S. Short Seller

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-08-03T22:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/harbin-electric-recovers-from-19-plunge-after-rebutting-u-s-short-seller.html
Harbin Electric Inc. (HRBN)  reversed a 19
percent loss in U.S. trading yesterday after the Chinese maker
of electric motors defended itself against a short seller’s
accusations.  The stock posted the biggest intraday drop since June 16
after Citron Research  said  Harbin “fabricated customers” and
overstated revenue from corporations including Guiyang Putian
Logistics Technology Co. and Daqing Xinchengtai Technology Co.
The shares then recovered, ending the day with a 4.3 percent
gain, after the Harbin, China-based company issued a statement.  The Citron report is a “patchwork of fabricated evidence,
falsehoods, selective use of information, and clearly biased and
dishonest reporting,” Harbin Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman Tianfu Yang said in the statement.  Harbin has misrepresented its finances and Yang has offered
to buy the company in an attempt to inflate the stock price,
according to Citron, which said the shares should trade for less
than $5 instead of yesterday’s closing level of $17.68. Citron
is run by Los Angeles-based Andrew Left, who said in an e-mail
that he’s still betting against the stock.  “Tianfu Yang does not want this deal to go through,”
Citron said in the report. “He alone knows what his company is
truly worth, and he knows about the overstatement of revenues,”
it said, adding that the buyout is “not happening!”  Record Shorting  Short selling, or the sale of borrowed shares with the hope
of profiting when they fall, amounted to 10 percent of Harbin
Electric’s outstanding shares as of Aug. 1, according to  Data
Explorers , a New York-based research firm. That compares with a
record 15 percent on June 6.  Chinese companies trading in the U.S. such as  China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  have faced investor scrutiny this
year after disclosing financial irregularities or auditor
resignations, raising concern there may be widespread fraud.
Carson Block, a short seller at Muddy Waters LLC, helped fuel
that speculation with his bearish reports on corporations
including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , which trades in  Canada .  Harbin jumped 59 percent on June 20 after its board agreed
to sell the company for $24 a share to a group including Yang,
who is also the company’s founder. The deal, subject to
shareholders’ approval, is expected to be completed in the
fourth quarter this year, the company said.  Harbin has risen 7.3 percent since Citron’s June 1 report
questioning the company’s financial statements. The stock is up
1.9 percent this year.  Citron’s Left was disciplined by the  National Futures
Association  for accusations in 1995 that he “cheated, defrauded
and deceived commodity futures customers,” according to the
association’s  website .  Harbin’s owners include  hedge funds  Abax Global Capital and
Pentwater Capital Management LP. Calls and e-mails seeking
comment from Hong Kong-based Abax’s representatives and Chicago-
based Pentwater’s Chief Operating Officer David Zirin weren’t
returned. Messages for Abax were left outside normal business
hours in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  