-- 
Arctic Ice Melt Near Record Clears Ship Route to Asia, Russian Agency Says

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-08-03T13:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/arctic-ice-melt-at-near-record-clears-shipping-route-to-asia-russia-says.html
Arctic sea ice is melting at a near-
record pace, opening shipping lanes for cargo traffic between
 Europe  and Asia,  Russia ’s environmental agency said.  Ice cover is close to a record low, opening “almost the
entire northern sea route to icebreaker-free shipping” as of
early August, the Federal Hydrometeorological and Environmental
Monitoring Service said on its website today.  The so-called ice extent is as much as 56 percent less than
average in some areas, allowing “very easy” sailing that will
persist through September, the Moscow-based service said.  Melting ice is making it easier for Russian and other
European shippers to service Asia via the northern sea route,
which is about one-third shorter than the Rotterdam-Yokohama
voyage through the  Suez Canal , saving time and fuel. Iceland’s
President Olafur Ragnar Grimsson said last year that the pace of
global warming in the Arctic was three-times faster than
elsewhere, cutting journeys between  Asia , Europe and America by
as much as half.  Melting occurred “at a rapid pace through the first half
of July and is now tracking below the year 2007, which saw the
record minimum,” the U.S.  National Snow and Data Center  said on
its website July 18.  Soviet-Era Passage  Three of sixteen groups of oceanic scientists expect the
extent to break the record low of 4.14 million square kilometers
(1.63 million miles) reached on Sept. 16, 2007, the Fairbanks,
Alaska-based Arctic Research Consortium of the U.S., or  Arcus ,
said on its website. That compares with about 6.86 million
square kilometers now, according to Russia’s environmental
agency.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has vowed to transform the
Soviet-era Arctic route, first plied in 1932 between Arkhangelsk
and the Bering Strait, into a year-round passage and commodity
producers including OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, OAO Novatek and
EuroChem have already starting sending test shipments. The
route is currently used, with the help of icebreakers, from July
to November.  The  North Pole  may be completely ice-free in summer within
a few decades, rather than by 2080, a prediction made by the
Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change , Russia’s chief
forecaster, Alexander Frolov, said last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 