-- 
Harrisburg Mayor Proposes Asset Sale, Possible Tax on Commuters

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/harrisburg-mayor-proposes-asset-sale-possible-tax-on-commuters.html
Pennsylvania’s capital city must sell
a debt-laden trash incinerator, lease its parking system and
consider a tax on commuters if those measures aren’t enough to
restore fiscal stability, Harrisburg Mayor Linda Thompson said.  The city, which has a $5 million  budget deficit , stands to
lose $3 million in state aid -- jeopardizing its ability to pay
bondholders and employees -- if the City Council votes down the
blueprint announced yesterday by Thompson.  “The plan will accomplish the core objectives and return
the city of Harrisburg to solvency,” Thompson told reporters.
“And it will do so with shared responsibility and shared
burden, with a minimal impact to the citizens.”  The council must vote to approve the plan by Sept. 6 or
risk the loss of state aid, said C. Alan Walker, head of the
state’s Community and Economic Development Department, which
runs a distressed-cities program that Harrisburg entered in
December.  The mayor’s presentation of her own rescue initiative
follows a 4-3 vote by the council on July 19 rejecting
recommendations from a team of state-hired consultants. It was
the first time a municipality in the program known as Act 47,
which started in 1987, turned down such a plan.  Harrisburg’s fiscal crisis originated in a project to
overhaul and expand an incinerator, which resulted in a debt
burden five times its general-fund budget. The community of
49,500, where about a third lives below the poverty level, is
also dealing with declining tax revenue.  Bond Payments  Harrisburg, the seat of Dauphin County, needs $310 million
to make bond payments, restructure debt and repay the county and
insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., which made payments
the city skipped on the waste-to-energy facility.  Thompson’s recommendations call for selling the incinerator
and leasing the parking system to pay off the debt. It differs
from the original blueprint by asking the county, state and
Assured Guaranty to fully retire the obligations, estimated at
$26 million, that proceeds from the sale and lease wouldn’t
cover.  While the county and state have committed to additional
funds, Assured Guaranty hasn’t, Thompson said. If debt remains,
she said she’d ask for a commuter tax, a provision the
consultants didn’t include and a step sought by some council
members.  “Assured Guaranty is in the process of reviewing the plan
that was released today by Mayor  Linda Thompson ,” said a
spokeswoman, Ashweeta Durani, in an e-mail yesterday.  County commissioners issued a statement calling Thompson’s
plan “encouraging.”  Limited Options  Harrisburg’s options are more limited than municipalities
such as Central Falls,  Rhode Island , which sought Chapter 9
 bankruptcy protection  on Aug. 1. The capital is barred from
seeking bankruptcy before July 2012, according to a Pennsylvania
law that also said the city would lose state funds if it tried.  “If her plan isn’t approved, we’re in trouble,” Council
President Gloria Martin-Roberts, who voted for the original
blueprint, said last week in a telephone interview. “Big
trouble.”  Harrisburg must make $3.3 million in general-obligation
debt payments on Sept. 15, according to bond documents.
Meanwhile, the capital will run out of money in September, the
Act 47 consultants said.  The Harrisburg Parking Authority will provide a short-term
loan of $6 million to $8 million if her plan is approved,
allowing the city to meet its obligations, Thompson said.  State Funds  The state provides $3 million in funds for fire protection,
recycling grants and community projects, said Steven Kratz, a
spokesman for the state economic development department.  Even if the council votes for Thompson’s plan, it’s subject
to approval by Walker, the department’s head, Kratz said. A
public hearing on the plan will be held in Harrisburg on Aug.
11, the mayor said.  Thompson called for cooperation from the City Council,
invoking the crisis facing another municipality that’s
considering bankruptcy over a sewer-debt burden.  “Absent that teamwork, no plan will save the city as it
faces a calamity similar to that of Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
where collapse and bankruptcy loom,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  