-- 
Arroyo Ally Zubiri Quits Senate Over Poll Fraud Allegations

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 
2011-08-03T09:30:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/arroyo-ally-zubiri-quits-senate-over-poll-fraud-allegations-1-.html
Philippine Senator Juan Miguel Zubiri, an ally of former President  Gloria Arroyo , resigned amid
allegations the vote was rigged to ensure his victory in 2007
elections.  “I did not cheat. I did not ask anyone to cheat for me,”
Zubiri said in Manila today.  ABS-CBN News  reported on July 12 that suspended Maguindanao
Governor Zaldy Ampatuan, who is on trial for his alleged role in
a 2009 massacre of 57 people, accused Arroyo and her husband
Jose Miguel of poll fraud in his province in 2007 that allowed
Zubiri to win the last Senate post. An electoral protest against
Zubiri filed by losing candidate Aquilino Pimentel is now
pending before a tribunal.  “My interpretation is that Zubiri is feeling the heat,”
said Benito Lim, a political science professor at Ateneo de
 Manila  University. “He resigned so he and his family won’t be
pressured to answer questions on the cheating issue.”  Lim said that while most of the people believe there was
cheating during Arroyo’s time, “the burden now lies on this
administration to produce the evidence and go to court, instead
of resorting to trial by publicity.”  Zubiri’s decision “represents a way forward to start
healing the wounds of the past,” President  Benigno Aquino ’s
spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in an emailed statement. “We call
on Mr. Zubiri to further demonstrate his willingness to help
restore the dignity of our electoral process.”  President Arroyo in August 2006 won an impeachment vote in
Congress on several allegations including cheating in the 2004
election where she defeated actor Ferdinand Poe Jr. Arroyo
denied the accusations.  Ampatuan and is family are accused of killing members of a
rival clan and 31 journalists who were traveling in a convoy to
register to compete in elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net  