-- 
Harvard, USC Researchers Seek Clues to Puzzle of Mystery Blood Disease

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-08-03T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/harvard-usc-researchers-seek-clues-to-puzzle-of-mystery-blood-disease.html
Doctors at  Harvard Medical School  and
the  University of Southern California  are going public to seek
new cases of a mysterious, life-threatening blood disease in
hopes of finding clues toward a cause and a cure.  The researchers have identified three people in the world
with the syndrome, which worsens over time and causes painful
fluid buildup around the kidneys, shortness of breath that can
require oxygen, dilated blood vessels under the skin and
spontaneous bleeding in the brain. Three more potential cases of
the syndrome, dubbed TEMPI, have been previously reported in
medical literature, the researchers wrote today in the  New
England Journal of Medicine .  “It is a bit of a mystery disease, with a strange set of
seemingly unrelated symptoms,”  Casey O’Connell , a University of
 Southern California  hematologist, said in a telephone interview.
“For sure” there are more patients out there with the problem,
she said. “It is so esoteric that even physicians” may not
realize the symptoms are related, she said.  There are about 7,000 rare diseases, defined as ailments
afflicting fewer than 200,000 Americans, according to the
National Organization for Rare Disorders in  Washington . While
modern science has led to better sub-classification of existing
maladies such as cancer, “not very many” totally new disorders
are discovered, said O’Connell.  Cause Unknown  The cause of the new disease is unknown, and doesn’t appear
to be caused by genetics, cancer or an infection,  David Sykes , a
hematologist at  Massachusetts General Hospital  and  Harvard
Medical School  in  Boston , said in a telephone interview. It may
be related to an abnormal antibody protein found in the blood of
all three patients, he said.  His patient, a 52-year-old man from  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
arrived at Massachusetts General Hospital in 2008 with painful
fluid buildup around a kidney and astronomically high levels of
erythropoietin, also known as EPO, a hormone that stimulates red
blood cell production, among other symptoms. The kidney problem
soon became so severe that surgery was required to release the
fluid.  When the man’s symptoms were typed into a medical database,
“nothing came up. It was a blank slate,” said Sykes. “We told
our patient that no one had ever seen anything like he had.”  That turned out to be wrong. After Sykes and his colleagues
published details of the Memphis man’s case in the New England
Journal of Medicine in 2010, doctors from USC in  Los Angeles  and
Antwerp University Hospital in  Belgium  e-mailed to say they,
too, had been treating patients with similar symptoms.  More Patients  Doctors at USC had seen their patient, a 60-year-old woman,
since 1991, never realizing there were other patients with the
same cluster of problems, O’Connell said.  “The hope is now to continue to find more” cases, said
Sykes. Studying tissue and blood samples from additional
patients may allow researchers to pinpoint what the abnormal
antibody protein is binding to and what is causing the disease.  In the meantime, symptoms of two of the patients have
improved after being treated with Velcade, the multiple myeloma
drug sold by Japan-based Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  of New Brunswick,  New Jersey . This drug may be killing
the blood cells responsible for producing the abnormal antibody,
Sykes said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  