-- 
Asia Stocks in Biggest Two-Day Slump Since March on Faltering U.S. Economy

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-03T09:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/asia-stocks-slump-as-exporters-drop-amid-pessimism-on-u-s-economic-growth.html
Asian stocks fell, poised for the
biggest two-day drop since March, as exporters tumbled after
rating agencies warned the U.S. may be downgraded and an
unexpected decline in consumer spending increased concern that
growth in the world’s largest economy is faltering.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest supplier to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. slumped 5 percent to a two-year
low in  Hong Kong .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, slid 3.4 percent in Sydney, while steelmaker  BlueScope
Steel Ltd. (BSL)  plunged 5.4 percent. Honda Motor Co., a Japanese
carmaker that gets more than 40 percent of its revenue in  North
America , dropped 3.2 percent in  Tokyo .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 2.3 percent to 133.52
as of 5:55 p.m. in Tokyo, taking its two-day decline to 3.9
percent, the steepest since March 15. The gauge also fell
yesterday after a report showed the slowest U.S. manufacturing
growth in two years, overshadowing a deal among lawmakers to
raise the country’s debt limit to avoid a default.  “With the debt-ceiling issue out of the way, stock markets
are focusing on the fundamentals of the  U.S. economy , which
don’t look encouraging,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage
the equivalent of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. “It’s too early to tell if this is an air
pocket through which the U.S. is passing or something more
nasty, but the performance of the global economy will be
lackluster at best if the U.S. ends up in another recession.”  Spending Cutbacks  The odds of another U.S. downturn are rising amid cutbacks
in spending by consumers and the government, according to five
of the nine members of the U.S. panel that dates recessions.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 2.1 percent today and
South Korea’s Kospi index decreased 2.6 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 2.3 percent as the nation’s retail sales
unexpectedly declined in June for a second straight month.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  retreated 1.9 percent as banks
including HSBC Holdings Plc and Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. dropped.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings for the U.S. while warning that the ratings
could be downgraded if lawmakers fail to enact debt reduction
measures and the economy weakens. The rating outlook is now
negative, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday after President
Barack Obama signed into law a plan to lift the nation’s
borrowing limit and cut spending.  European stocks have lost 3.1 percent this week, entering a
so-called correction amid concern that a U.S. slowdown may
derail global growth. The U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
yesterday erased its 2011 gain and completed its longest losing
streak since October 2008.  Futures on the  S&P 500  expiring in September climbed 0.6
percent today, suggesting the measure may advance for the first
time since July 21. In  New York  yesterday, the index retreated
2.6 percent, the most in a year, after the  consumer spending 
report. The gauge has fallen 6.8 percent in the last seven
trading days.  ‘50% Recession Chance’  Commerce Department figures showed purchases slid 0.2
percent in June after a 0.1 percent gain in May. It was the
first drop in consumer spending in almost two years. The median
estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.1 percent increase. Incomes grew at the slowest pace since
November and the savings rate climbed.  “This economy is really balanced on the edge,” Harvard
University economics professor  Martin Feldstein , a member of the
Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of
Economic Research, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “There’s
now a 50 percent chance that we could slide into a new
recession. Nothing has given us much growth.”  Oil, Copper  Li & Fung slumped 5 percent to HK$12.30, set for the lowest
close since Aug. 12, 2009, in Hong Kong. James Hardie Industries
SE, an Australian building-materials company that gets almost 70
percent of its sales from the U.S., slipped 4.6 percent to
A$5.43 in Sydney.  BHP Billiton slid 3.4 percent to A$40.15 after copper
futures for September delivery declined for the second straight
day yesterday in New York, while crude for September delivery
declined for a fourth consecutive day today. Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s second-biggest mining company by sales, fell 3.1
percent to A$77.60.  In Tokyo, Mitsubishi Corp., a Japanese trading house, sank
1.9 percent to 2,001 yen, while in Hong Kong, Chinese offshore
oil and gas producer  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  fell 2.8 percent to HK$16.92.  Steelmakers in Asia also slumped. BlueScope, Australia’s
biggest, plunged 5.4 percent to A$1.05 in Sydney, while Posco,
South Korea’s largest, dropped 1.8 percent to 461,500 won in
Seoul.  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  sank 3.3 percent to 2,023 yen in Tokyo.  ‘Concerns Increasing’  “Concerns about a slowdown in the U.S. economy are
increasing,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Growth in personal income is
weak and money is not flowing into spending that drives the U.S.
economy.”  Honda dropped 3.2 percent to 3,010 yen in Tokyo.  Canon
Inc. (7751) , the camera maker that gets more than 80 percent of its
revenue abroad, slipped 1.7 percent to 3,690 yen. Samsung
Electronics Co., the South Korean television maker that reports
“America” as its second-largest market for sales, sank 2.2
percent to 833,000 won in Seoul.  “The U.S. remains the world’s largest economy and consumer
activity will remain a key piece of the global puzzle,” said
Michael McCarthy, Sydney-based chief market strategist at CMC
Markets Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. “Investors’ focus remains
negative, moving from resolution to the next concern without
pause.”  Australian retailers fell after the Bureau of Statistics
said retail sales unexpectedly declined in June for a second
straight month as spending at department stores dropped by the
most since April 2010.  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , the nation’s biggest
electronics retailer, sank 2.3 percent to A$2.10.  David Jones
Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s second-largest department-store chain, slipped
0.3 percent to A$2.99 in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  