-- 
Asian Currencies Slide, Led by Won and Ringgit, on U.S. Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-08-03T08:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/asian-currencies-slide-led-by-won-and-ringgit-on-u-s-slowdown-concerns.html
Asian currencies slumped, led by
 South Korea ’s won, as signs the U.S. economic recovery is losing
momentum cooled demand for higher-yielding assets and worsened
the outlook for regional exports.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares fell the most since
May after data showed  consumer spending  in the world’s biggest
economy dropped for the first time in almost two years. Reports
today are expected to show U.S. factory orders declined in June
and employers added fewer workers in July, according to
Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  “Concern about the U.S. economic slowdown has been sharply
growing, creating risk-off sentiment in the market and hurting
the region’s emerging-market currencies,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “That will also impact
exports from the region as the U.S. is one of the major buyers
of their products.”  The won dropped 0.9 percent to 1,060.38 per dollar as of 3
p.m. in  Seoul , its biggest loss since May 23, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.4 percent
to 2.9730, the  Singapore dollar  fell 0.2 percent to S$1.2073 and
the Philippine peso declined 0.2 percent to 42.232.  U.S. Jitters  Reports this week showed the U.S. Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index slumped to a two-year low in July and
personal spending unexpectedly fell 0.2 percent in June. The
Commerce Department will say today orders placed with U.S.
factories dropped 0.8 percent in June, while a private report
may show companies added 100,000 workers in July, compared with
157,000 the previous month, according to Bloomberg surveys.  The won touched a two-week low after U.S. lawmakers agreed
on austerity measures to help rein in the  budget deficit . Global
funds sold $384 million more South Korean stocks than they
bought yesterday and have been net sellers for all but two days
in the past three weeks.  “Market players view the U.S. economic data and budget
cuts as negatives for the economic recovery,” said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul.  The ringgit fell for a second day before data tomorrow that,
according to a Bloomberg survey, will show overseas sales
increased 5.8 percent in June from a year earlier following a
5.4 percent gain the previous month. The U.S. is the fourth-
biggest buyer of Malaysian exports and accounted for about 8
percent of shipments in May, official data show.  “We should start to see some downward adjustment to growth
prospects given the current global economic weakness,” said
Yeah Kim Leng, chief economist at RAM Holdings Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “Exporters in emerging markets are still vulnerable and
this should slow the currency appreciation path.”  Elsewhere,  India ’s rupee weakened 0.1 percent against the
dollar to 44.3375 and Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.2 percent to
NT$28.938.  Indonesia ’s rupiah was unchanged at 8,484, while
 China ’s yuan advanced 0.06 percent to 6.4343 and Thailand’s baht
strengthened 0.1 percent to 29.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  