-- 
Stocks Rise on Bets of More Stimulus

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-03T22:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/asian-stocks-oil-slump-on-concern-u-s-recovery-faltering-euro-weakens.html
U.S. stocks rose, reversing earlier
losses and preventing the longest Dow Jones Industrial Average
slump since 1978, as investors speculated the  Federal Reserve 
will start another stimulus program. Treasuries 10-year notes
erased gains, and the dollar slid.  The Dow halted an eight-day drop, gaining 29.82 points to
11,896.44 at 4 p.m. in New York. The S&P 500 rose 0.5 percent,
rebounding after yesterday’s plunge drove it to the cheapest
price-earnings ratio in more than a year. Ten-year Treasury
yields rose one basis point to 2.62 percent. Oil slid to a five-
week low following government data showing an increase in
stockpiles. The franc fell from a record versus the euro and
dollar after  Switzerland  reduced interest rates.  Speculation the Fed will embark on a third round of asset
purchases to stem off a recession grew after the Wall Street
Journal said three former central bank officials support the
approach. More than $2.3 trillion had been erased from the value
of global equities since July 22, and Treasury yields set 2011
lows, amid concern the economic recovery is faltering.  Service
industries  grew in July at the slowest pace since February 2010,
the  Institute for Supply Management  said today.  “Every time we see economic weakness, there will be
discussion about more economic stimulus,”  Richard Sichel , who
oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co., said in telephone interview. “That
could be the case given the fairly weak economic figures we’ve
had. In addition, the market has given back a lot recently and
people started to look at some bargains.”  Dow Movers  Coca-Cola Co., General Electric Co. and Walt Disney Co.
rose more than 1.2 percent to help lead gains in the Dow, which
reversed a loss of as much as 166 points. MasterCard Inc., the
second-biggest payments network, advanced 13 percent for the
biggest gain in the  S&P 500  after profit rose 33 percent as
customers’ spending increased.  Concern about weakening economic data has overshadowed an
earnings season that has seen per-share profits grow 17 percent
and sales increase 13 percent at companies in the S&P 500 that
reported second-quarter results since July 11. Earnings per
share have topped analysts estimates at about three-quarters of
the 363 companies that have reported, Bloomberg data shows.  The 8 percent slide in the S&P 500 from a three-year high
in April through yesterday brought the index’s price- to-
earnings ratio to 13.8, the cheapest since July 2010 and near
the lowest valuation since the  bull market  began in 2009.  The retreat is no reason to sell stocks, investors
including Laszlo Birinyi and  Barton Biggs  said. Data from
Birinyi’s firm, Birinyi Associates Inc., shows the current bull
market in stocks may last until 2013 based on the length of past
advances.  ‘Strong Rally’  “We are going to have a strong rally out of this
position,” Biggs, who helps manage $1.4 billion in assets as
managing partner and co-founder of Traxis Partners LP, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview before markets opened today. He
added that politicians had handled the debt-ceiling debate
“poorly” and as a result dollar-denominated assets are
“tremendously cheap.”  Stocks recovered after the Wall Street Journal reported
that former Fed officials  Donald Kohn ,  Vincent Reinhart  and
Brian Madigan said the central bank should consider a third
round of bond purchases to help the economy.  Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc., which
together oversee almost $5 trillion, say the  U.S. economy  is
stalling.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pimco, and  Peter Fisher , head of fixed income at BlackRock, say
the Fed is preparing measures to counter the slowdown.  Quantitative Easing  The Fed may arrange a third round of quantitative easing,
known as QE3, Gross said. The central bank purchased bonds to
cap borrowing costs in the first two easing efforts. The Fed has
also promised to keep the target for overnight bank lending low
for an “extended period.” The Fed may need to consider
signaling an even longer commitment to low  interest rates ,
according to BlackRock’s Fisher, who is based in New York.  “I believe the Fed is dusting off contingency plans if the
economy does not improve,” he said in a report that BlackRock
distributed by e-mail today. Fisher worked for 15 years at the
Fed Bank of New York, according to BlackRock, which has $3.66
trillion in assets.  The S&P 500 sank 3.9 percent last week, its worst drop in a
year, after government data showed U.S. gross domestic product
expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter and
a 0.4 percent pace in the prior period, the worst six months
since the recovery began in June 2009.  Five Straight Declines  Thirty-year Treasury bond yields decreased for a fifth
straight day, losing one basis points to 3.90 percent, the
lowest end-of-day level since October. The yield, which sank to
as little as 3.79 percent today, reached a record low 2.5
percent on Dec. 18, 2008, amid the worst economy since World War
II, credit-market losses exceeding $1 trillion and the biggest
drop in the S&P 500 since 1931.  Investors are also awaiting a government employment report
in two days, which economists forecast will show the U.S. added
a net 85,000 jobs last month including a 115,000 boost to
private-sector employment. A private payroll survey by ADP
Employer Services today showed U.S. companies added 114,000
workers in July, topping the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News for an increase of 100,000.  Almost eight stocks fell for every one that gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Societe Generale SA slid 9 percent as
 France ’s second-largest bank said it may miss its 2012 earnings
target after second-quarter profit fell.  Franc Declines  The franc depreciated 1.7 percent to 90.80 euro cents after
strengthening to a record yesterday as investors pursued assets
considered to be the safest. The franc weakened 0.9 percent from
an all-time high versus the dollar.  The  Swiss National Bank  lowered its target for the three-
month Libor to “as close to zero as possible” from 0.25
percent. The Zurich-based central bank said it will also expand
banks’ sight deposits, or cash which can be withdrawn on demand,
to 80 billion Swiss francs ($103 billion) from 30 billion francs
and repurchase outstanding SNB Bills, according to a statement
today.  Oil fell 2 percent to $91.93 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities
dropped 1.8 percent, the sixth straight decline and the longest
losing streak since May 2010. Gold futures rose 1.3 percent to a
record $1,675.90 an ounce.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks sank 2.2 percent,
set for the lowest close in more than a month. South Korea’s
Kospi Index slumped 2.6 percent, completing its largest two-day
plunge since November 2009  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  