-- 
MasterCard Jumps as Profit Beats Estimates on Card Spending

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-03T20:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/mastercard-profit-climbs-33-as-consumer-spending-increases.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-
biggest payments network, climbed the most in 2 1/2 years in New
York trading after second-quarter profit beat analysts’
estimates, helped by an increase in customers’ spending.  The stock gained $39.98, or 13 percent, to $338.47 at 4:15
p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange, the biggest jump since
February 2009 and the highest since the company’s initial public
offering in May 2006. Net income rose 33 percent to $608 million
from the same period a year earlier, the Purchase,  New York- 
based firm said today in a statement. Earnings per share of
$4.76 exceeded the $4.23 average estimate of 29 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg as net revenue increased 22 percent to
$1.7 billion.  MasterCard, led by Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga , aims
to gain a bigger share of the U.S. debit market as new rules on
transaction fees and processing threaten to erode the dominance
of larger rival  Visa Inc. (V)  Banga, 51, is also expanding
MasterCard’s presence in emerging markets through acquisitions
as U.S.  consumer spending  stagnates amid rising unemployment.  “Solid global performance, including strong increases in
volume and processed transactions, fueled double-digit revenue
growth this quarter,” Banga said in the statement.  MasterCard’s U.S. debit-card spending surged 19 percent to
$98 billion from last year’s second quarter, and U.S. credit-
card spending climbed 6.1 percent to $129 billion, according to
the statement.  MasterCard’s stock has climbed 51 percent this year,
compared with a 24 percent gain for San Francisco-based Visa,
which posted net income of $1 billion on July 27.  Worldwide Spending  Worldwide spending on MasterCard- and Maestro-branded cards
climbed 16 percent to $608 billion in the second quarter,
adjusted for currency fluctuations, the company said. Spending
by consumers outside their home countries surged 19 percent.
Processed transactions rose 17 percent to 6.6 billion.  Operating expenses rose 20 percent to $782 million, in part
due to costs linked to acquisitions, MasterCard said. The
company paid $526 million in October for DataCash Group Plc, a
U.K. credit-card processor, to expand e-commerce offerings. In
December, MasterCard said it would buy prepaid card-management
assets from London-based Travelex Holdings Ltd. for $470
million.  Spending jumped by 28 percent in  Latin America  and by 27
percent in Asia Pacific, the  Middle East  and  Africa , compared
with 11 percent in the U.S., the company said.  Growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific was “really
fueled by the secular change in people using less and less cash
and checks, using more electronic forms of payments,”
MasterCard Chief Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said in a
telephone interview after earnings were announced.  Shares Repurchased  MasterCard repurchased about 1.5 million shares for
approximately $387 million during the quarter, Hund-Mejean said
today on a conference call with analysts. The company has spent
about $1.1 billion on share buybacks so far this year and will
continue to look at more repurchases, she said.  The  Federal Reserve  in June limited debit fees to 21 cents
per swipe and will let issuers tack on 5 basis points of each
transaction, or almost 2 cents based on the average debit ticket
of $38. The central bank conditionally approved a 1-cent
adjustment for lenders that follow certain fraud-prevention
standards. The new fees are set to take effect Oct. 1, replacing
a formula that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or
about 44 cents.  Debit-Card Transactions  The new rule also requires card-issuers to give merchants
the choice of at least two unaffiliated debit networks for
transaction processing, which will prevent networks from
negotiating exclusive deals with banks and threatens to erode
Visa’s lead in the U.S. Visa processed $1.05 trillion in U.S.
debit-card purchase transactions last year, more than triple
MasterCard’s $333 billion, company data show.  “Being the smaller player in debit, MasterCard is in a
completely different competitive situation,” Banga said on the
call. “Ours is one of potential upside, not the need to defend
a large incumbent position.”  MasterCard and Visa set fees on debit-card transactions,
known as interchange, and pass the money to card-issuing banks,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)   American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, reported a $1.3 billion profit on July 21.  Discover
Financial Services (DFS) , the fourth-biggest U.S. payments network,
posted a second-quarter profit of $600 million.  Consumer spending in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in June for
the first time in almost two years, the Commerce Department
reported yesterday. U.S. unemployment is 9.2 percent.  “When you look at unemployment being above 9 percent,
housing prices not really coming back to a good space, that will
impact the mood and the  consumer confidence ,” Hund-Mejean said
in the interview. “It’s impacting it today and it will impact
tomorrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 