-- 
Audi Uber Alles at 150 MPH on German Autobahn: Jason H. Harper

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-03T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/audi-uber-alles-at-200-000-150-mph-leaves-cops-behind-jason-h-harper.html
I’m going in excess of 100 miles per
hour when I glance in my rear-view mirror. A police van is
behind me. I step on the accelerator -- yes, accelerator. Yet,
it’s still getting closer.  How fast does the ultra-exclusive, $200,150 Audi R8 GT go,
anyhow? Quick enough to beat a police van. I send the
speedometer needle even further to the right.  I’m still abiding the law, as I’m on a stretch of German
autobahn without a speed limit. But apparently the local
constabulary thinks I’m not hustling enough as the van passes
me.  I’ve just left Munich airport and am heading 350 miles
northwest to the town of  Nurburg . I’ve got to be there by early
evening. I could have flown, but this way I can see the German
countryside and experience the rarest of delights: highway
driving in a supercar without speed restrictions.  Google Maps tells me it should take just over five hours.
Yeah, right.  And what a ride the GT is: the newest and rarest version of
Audi’s mid-engine uber-car, the R8. Only 333 of the GT model
will be sold worldwide, with 90 headed to the U.S. Each has its
number inscribed on the top of the metal gear shift. Mine says
0, as it’s a pre-production car.  As is often the case with making a supercar a bit more
super, Audi has used carbon fiber to lighten loads, losing some
180 pounds, and the engine gets an extra 35 horsepower for a
total of 560.  The GT looks similar to the $150,000 R8 5.2, but it has an
even more savage rear end and aerodynamic changes improving
downforce, keeping the car glued to the road at airplane speeds.  Speed Test  Those last modifications most interest me on the autobahn.
The only downside is the quick math needed to translate
kilometers per hour to mph in my European test car.  It’s outfitted with a racing package, an option unavailable
on U.S.-bound models. This includes a racing-red, four-point
safety harness rather than regular seatbelts, a roll-cage
between the roof and rear window and a fire extinguisher tucked
into the passenger footwell.  I wonder if it would be discomfiting to other drivers if I
wore a racing helmet to complete the look?  The upright sport seat adjusts little and doesn’t recline.
Fortunately it fits my body better than a tailored Hugo Boss
suit, with my arms at the perfect angle.  Also lucky that I’m alone, as my backpacks occupy the
passenger seat. The 5.2 liter V-10 engine lives behind the
driver, so there’s no rear trunk, and the hood’s front storage
compartment is small. That’s what FedEx is for -- you can race
against your luggage.  Racing Change  The transmission is a six-speed sequential, operated with
paddle shifters. You can leave it in automatic, but on a
racetrack, manual operation works brilliantly.  I’ll discover later that the lighter GT handles like a
master on windy roads, but the width and oversized tires make it
an irksome monster when you’re backing up and making U-turns.  Trying to maneuver in tight spaces like an underground
parking garage is even worse. At the airport, I only negotiated
through the narrow European turnstile after three attempts,
reversing each time.  On the autobahn, speed limits are peculiar. You’ll notice a
series of permanent signs which slow you to 120 kph, 100 and
even 80 as other roads merge. But then you realize you haven’t
seen a sign for a while and Mercedes and BMWs are hurtling by on
the left. It’s go time.  Autobahn Rage  There’s a lot of traffic, but the left lane clears quickly
for the Audi’s distinctive daytime running lights, particularly
when I’m approaching at 120 mph. Driving at that velocity for
minutes at a time takes discipline, a light hand and trust in
other motorists.  At one point a VW Passat gets hung up by a silver Citroen
who won’t clear the left lane. The two jostle, the Passat driver
becoming agitated. Finally he squeaks by and triggers a long
spray of windshield wiper fluid onto the other car. Road rage,
autobahn style.  When the Audi’s gas gauge shows half empty, I stop for a
dose of super premium. The GT sucks in 37.75 liters, just under
10 gallons, for 61 euros ($87) -- the downside of a naturally
aspirated V-10 and the freedom to use it.  Only after completing three-quarters of my trip and
shattering  Google Maps ’ estimates do I get a stretch of road
with no traffic. I’ve no intention of going near the claimed top
speed of 198.84 mph, but I simply have to flex the R8’s
capabilities.  One-hundred-fifty slips by with nary a sigh. Soon my brain
can no longer do the conversion to miles from kilometers and I
don’t care.  I’m flying in a supercar with nothing to worry about. Not
even police vans.  The 2012 Audi R8 GT 5.2 at a Glance  Engine: 5.2 liter V-10 with 560 horsepower and 398 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed R-tronic sequential transmission  Speed: 0-60 mph in 3.6 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 13 city; 19 highway.  Price as tested: $220,000 (estimated).  Best features: Effortless speed, Audi-style convenience.  Worst feature: Width to maneuver at slow speeds.  Target buyer: Hardcore driver who still wants a few  creature comforts.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 