-- 
Wallabies Recall Vickerman, Samo as Backs Are Cleared Over Paris Incident

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-23T05:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/australia-names-unchanged-team-to-face-new-zealand-in-tri-nations-rugby.html
Australia  recalled forwards Dan Vickerman and Radike Samo for this weekend’s Tri-Nations rugby
decider against top-ranked New Zealand.  Vickerman replaces Nathan Sharpe as captain James Horwill’s
second-row partner. Samo takes over from Scott Higginbotham at
No. 8 for his first Test start since 2004 after coming off the
bench in Australia’s 14-9 win in South Africa on Aug. 13.  In the only other change from the team that started that
match, Anthony Fainga’a was picked at outside center in place of
Adam Ashley-Cooper, who moves to the wing spot left vacant by
James O’Connor’s one-game suspension for missing last week’s
World Cup squad announcement.  “The group showed a lot of character to bounce back in
 South Africa  but no one in our party is getting ahead of
themselves,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said in a statement.
“The All Blacks are not the bench mark in world rugby without
good reason. They give you nothing and pounce on any
opportunities that you give them.”  New Zealand’s 18-5 loss in South Africa three days ago left
the Wallabies and All Blacks tied on nine points atop the Tri-
Nations standings. Australia won the last of its two southern
hemisphere rugby championships in 2001.  The game is scheduled for Aug. 27 at Brisbane’s Suncorp
Stadium. The All Blacks won 30-14 when the teams met Aug. 6 at
Auckland’s Eden Park, which will host the  Rugby World Cup  final
on Oct. 23.  No Action Over Brawl  The Australian Rugby Union said today it found no grounds
to take action against backs O’Connor,  Quade Cooper  and  Kurtley Beale  after investigating allegations that the trio had brawled
amongst themselves in Paris last year.  The Sydney-based governing body said in a statement that,
while it had ascertained that there was a disagreement between
the players, those involved had maintained it wasn’t of a
serious nature.  “There’s always going to be disagreements and stuff like
that but in terms of anything sinister there’s nothing going
on,” fly-half Cooper told reporters today in televised comments.
“It’s boys being boys. We’ve got a massive game against the All
Blacks this weekend and then it’s the  World Cup  and that’s where
our focus is solely.”  AUSTRALIA: Kurtley Beale, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Anthony
Fainga’a, Pat McCabe, Digby Ioane, Quade Cooper, Will Genia,
Radike Samo, David Pocock,  Rocky Elsom , James Horwill (captain),
Dan Vickerman, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, Sekope Kepu.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, Salesi Ma’afu, Rob Simmons,
Ben McCalman, Scott Higginbotham, Luke Burgess, To be advised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  