-- 
Australia Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fall, Trade Surplus Narrows

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-03T02:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/australia-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fall-trade-surplus-narrows.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
declined in June for a second straight month and the nation’s
 trade surplus  narrowed more than economists forecast, sending
the local currency to the lowest level in two weeks.  Sales dropped 0.1 percent from a month earlier, when they
fell 0.6 percent, as spending at department stores slid by the
most since April 2010, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. A separate report showed the trade surplus narrowed to
A$2.05 billion ($2.2 billion) from a revised A$2.7 billion in
May as imports surged to the highest level since 2008.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has paused
raising  interest rates  at 4.75 percent for the past eight
meetings to gauge slowdowns in the U.S. and China, Europe’s debt
crisis and domestic household restraint. Australia’s saving rate
has surged in recent quarters and  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , the nation’s
second-largest department store chain, last month cut its profit
forecasts on what it called an “unprecedented” fall in demand.  “The retail sales numbers were disappointing and there was
notable weakness in discretionary spending,” said Su-Lin Ong,
head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Sydney. “While the trade numbers were pretty
good, it looks like net exports won’t recover as much in the
second quarter as expected from the contraction in the first
quarter.”  Currency Falls  The Australian dollar and government bond yields fell. The
currency slid to $1.0716 as of 12:49 p.m. from $1.0740 before
the data. The two-year bond yield declined to as low as 4.02
percent, the least since Feb. 2, 2010.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, rose 0.3
percent in the three months through June 30 from the previous
quarter, the report showed. Economists had forecast a 0.4
percent gain.  Spending at department stores plunged 3.2 percent in June,
and consumers spent 0.7 percent less at cafes and restaurants,
today’s report showed. They spent 0.4 percent more at food
retailers, it showed.  David Jones  said it expects profit to drop as much as 12
percent in the half ending July 31, while larger rival  Myer
Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  affirmed annual earnings will decline about 5
percent.  Shares of David Jones dropped as much as 1.7 percent in
Sydney trading today.  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , the nation’s
biggest electronics retailer, sank as much as 3.3 percent. Myer
was little changed.  Falling Confidence  Australian household spending, which represents about half
the economy, has stalled amid natural disasters, falling
property values and increased savings, helping to send consumer
confidence down last month by the most since Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.  In a  statement  after yesterday’s policy decision, the RBA
said it left rates unchanged as “precautionary behavior by
households also looks likely to keep some areas of demand weaker
in the near term than earlier expected.”  Australia ’s household savings ratio climbed to 11.5 percent
in the three months through March from 9.7 percent in the
previous quarter, the highest level since 2009, a government
report showed June 1.  Stevens’ 175 basis points of rate increases between October
2009 and November last year helped spur the nation’s currency,
which gained about 18 percent in the past year and last month
touched the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  “Cautious behavior by households and the high level of the
 exchange rate  are having a noticeable dampening effect” in non-
resource industries, Stevens said in yesterday’s statement.  Today’s trade report showed exports were little changed at
A$26.4 billion. Imports advanced 3 percent to A$24.4 billion,
the highest level since December 2008, on higher shipments of
fuels and lubricants, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  