-- 
Australian, Japanese Bonds Rise as Treasuries Hold Gain on Slowing Growth

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-03T01:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/australian-japanese-bonds-rise-as-treasuries-hold-gain-on-slowing-growth.html
Australian and Japanese bonds rallied
while Treasury yields were within two basis points of an eight-
month low on speculation global economic growth will slow,
fueling demand for the relative safety of government debt.  Bond rates indicate investors are cutting bets on inflation
in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy. The difference between
yields on 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, a gauge of expectations for consumer prices, dropped
12 basis points in two days, the biggest back-to-back decline
since January.  “There is a flight-to-quality movement that is sending
yields lower,” said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, Tokyo-based head of fixed
income at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has the
equivalent of $72.4 billion in assets. “The economic situation
worldwide is not good.”  Australian 10-year yields fell as low as 4.57 percent, the
least in two years. Rates on similar-maturity Japanese bonds
declined 2.5 basis points to 1.015 percent.  U.S. 10-year yields were little changed at 2.62 percent as
of 9:57 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 3.125 percent note due in May 2021 traded at 104 3/8. The
yield slid to 2.60 percent yesterday, the lowest since November.  The  U.S. economy  is “very close to stall speed” and the
Federal Reserve many need to consider signaling a longer
commitment to low  interest rates , according to  Peter Fisher ,
head of fixed income at BlackRock Inc.  “I believe the Fed is dusting off contingency plans if the
economy does not improve,” Fisher said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  