-- 
Axel Springer First-Half Earnings Rise on Sales Growth From Digital Media

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-03T08:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/axel-springer-first-half-earnings-rise-on-international-media.html
Axel Springer AG (SPR) ,  Europe ’s largest
newspaper publisher, said first-half operating profit rose 11
percent as growth in digital and international media made up for
declining sales at German newspapers and magazines.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization increased to 288.7 million euros ($410 million)
from 261.2 million euros a year earlier, the Berlin-based
company said in a statement today. Sales gained 12 percent to
1.53 billion euros.  The publisher of  Germany ’s Bild newspaper wants to generate
about half of revenue from Internet channels such as
publications’ websites and advertising portals within seven
years. Those operations contributed almost 30 percent of sales
in the first half. The flagship newspapers Bild and Die Welt now
sell more than 125,000 online issues per day,  Axel Springer  said
today.  “Digital media’s second-quarter 19.6 percent Ebitda margin
is notable, as it shows that the business that is decisive for
Axel Springer’s future is also the one that developed the
best,” said Frank Neumann, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG in
Bielefeld, Germany. Neumann has a “buy” recommendation and 45
euros price estimate on the stock.  Stock Jumps  Axel Springer rose as much as 5 percent to 30.40 euros and
was up 2.6 percent as of 9:59 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. That
pared the stock’s decline this year to 27 percent.  “The results confirm our strategy,” Chief Executive
Officer Mathias Doepfner said in a separate  statement . “We will
insistently continue to pursue this long-term change in
paradigm.”  National newspaper revenue fell 3.3 percent, hurt by lower
advertising sales. Digital media and print international revenue
rose 30 percent and 53 percent, respectively. Growth in sales
abroad was largely attributable to a joint venture with Ringier
AG, agreed on in March last year, which combines the two
companies’ Eastern European assets.  Axel Springer reaffirmed plans to increase sales this year
by a single-digit percentage and Ebitda by a low double-digit
percentage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  