-- 
Baht Reverses Earlier Decline as Growth Lures Stock Inflows

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-08-03T09:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/baht-reverses-earlier-decline-as-growth-lures-stock-inflows.html
Thailand ’s baht rose, reversing an
earlier loss, after overseas investors added to holdings of the
nation’s shares to benefit from growth in Southeast  Asia ’s
second-largest economy.  Global funds purchased $268 million more Thai equities than
they sold in the first two days of the week, according to
exchange data. The baht fell by as much as 0.3 percent earlier
after data showed  consumer spending  in the U.S., Thailand’s
third-biggest overseas market, dropped in June for the first
time in almost two years.  “Economic fundamentals in Thailand remain very solid,”
said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-
markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Growing
concern about the  U.S. economy  is hurting the Asian currencies
to some extent. But the impact should be limited as the money
will still flow into the region.”  The baht advanced 0.1 percent to 29.76 per dollar as of
4:11 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has strengthened 3.5 percent in the past month, the
biggest gain among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding
the yen, as investor sentiment was buoyed by political stability
and a lack of violence following last month’s election.  The  finance ministry  forecast in July that gross domestic
product would increase 4 percent to 5 percent this year.
Thailand posted a current-account surplus of $2.5 billion in
June, more than the median forecast for a $1.4 billion excess,
according to central bank data last week.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, added five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.68 percent.  The yield on the government’s 5.25 percent bonds due May
2014 was little changed at 3.74 percent, according to Thai Bond
Market Association data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  