-- 
Bank of America, Morgan Stanley Pick EuroCCP for Bats Trades

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-08-03T09:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/bank-of-america-morgan-stanley-pick-euroccp-for-bats-clearing.html
Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse
Group AG, Morgan Stanley and Nomura Holdings Inc. picked  EuroCCP 
as their preferred clearinghouse for equities on Bats  Europe ’s
trading system.  The London-based European unit of U.S. clearinghouse
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. will also compete for business
on UBS AG’s trading system, EuroCCP said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Bats Europe, the region’s second-largest alternative
trading system, is offering customers a choice of central
counterparty, called a preferred interoperable clearing service.
EuroCCP cut prices to coincide with the start of the new service
as it seeks to attract Bats’s clients.  Competition in clearing came to Europe after alternative-
trading systems, called multilateral-trading facilities, took
business from established exchanges by offering lower fees and
faster transactions. Platforms, such as Bats Europe, a unit of
Bats Trading Inc., and Chi-X Europe Ltd., have encouraged new
clearinghouses to come to the market to serve them.  The European Commission is working on legislation, called
the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, that would govern
most aspects of clearing. The proposals may allow competing
central counterparties to link to each other, or interoperate,
simultaneously cutting costs and increasing risk.  Low Clearing Fees  “The huge success of MTFs since 2007 is partly down to the
low clearing fees charged by new CCPs like the European
Multilateral Clearing Facility and EuroCCP,” said Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“Preferred clearinghouses add to this by encouraging CCPs to
compete further on pricing. This is definitely a plus for the
MTFs. But it’s hard to see a major change in equities clearing
until the EMIR legislation forces full equity CCP
interoperability. CCP competition then would be fierce.’”  Clearinghouses act as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, protecting them if
other traders default. EuroCCP competes in Europe with
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Europe’s largest securities
clearinghouse, the European Multilateral Clearing Facility NV
and SIX x-clear Ltd., the clearinghouse owned by  Switzerland ’s
SIX Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  