-- 
Bank-Wannabe Insurers Seek to Avoid Oversight

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/bank-wannabe-insurers-seek-to-avoid-oversight.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  Chairman Robert Henrikson stood before an assembly of insurance executives in
October and said his push to lobby U.S. financial overseers on
the Dodd-Frank regulation law was nearing a close.  Ten months later, MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer,
still has time. The industry’s  American Council of Life Insurers 
has pressed for a delay on the rules and said its members pose
less risk to financial stability than banks. To help the effort,
New York-based MetLife is selling its deposit-gathering
business, and rival  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  is shutting its bank.  “Time is great for shareholders,” said  Randy Binner , an
analyst with FBR Capital Markets, who has an “outperform”
rating on MetLife. “That allows for more lobbying.”  Insurers, which are regulated by the U.S. states, increased
lobbying in  Washington  as policy makers sought to stabilize the
financial system. The ACLI pushed the U.S. Treasury Department
in 2008 and early 2009 to include insurers alongside banks in
its bailout program. The industry reversed course after Dodd-
Frank was passed last year and sought to distance itself from
banking and federal oversight.  MetLife is seeking to exit a deposit-gathering business
that submits the firm to federal regulation, the company said
last month. Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate, the auto, home
and life insurer, said this week it would shut its bank. A deal
to sell deposits to Discover Financial Services failed to win
regulatory approval.  “We thought it would be difficult to operate with a dual
regulatory structure,” Allstate Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson  said in an interview this week.  AIG, Hartford  “It’s to get out from under federal regulation,” Michael
Byrne, a partner in Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s insurance regulatory
department, said of insurer sales of banking assets. “Banks and
insurance companies are different in the risks they’re taking
on, so they should be treated differently.”  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  struck a deal in May
to sell the lender that it had acquired in 2009 to qualify for a
bailout.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , which took a $182.3
billion rescue, sold its American General Finance lender last
year at a loss. AIG had been overseen by the Office of Thrift
Supervision, the regulator that said it failed to recognize the
risk from the insurer’s subprime mortgage bets. The OTS was
later closed and oversight transferred to other regulators.  The  Federal Reserve  may get the added task of overseeing
the biggest life insurers. Dodd-Frank expanded the Fed’s mandate
to include non-bank firms deemed systemically important
financial institutions. MetLife and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,
the second-largest U.S. life insurer, have said they may be
subject to SIFI rules.  Prudential Financial  “I prefer to call it sci-fi,” Prudential Vice Chairman
Mark Grier said at a June 9 investor meeting, using a term for
science fiction. “They won’t let Prudential go unregulated at
the group level.”  The SIFI designation was created after the 2008 financial
crisis when gaps in oversight between federal and state
regulators allowed AIG to slide to the brink of bankruptcy. AIG,
once the world’s biggest insurer, got a bailout when
policymakers decided a failure by the firm would cause
widespread collapse among other financial companies.  The ACLI told Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in
February that the eventual failure of a life insurer isn’t
likely to provoke widespread distress in other financial firms.
Geithner is chairman of a group of regulators, the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, charged with designating SIFIs.
That effort was set back by at least several months as lawmakers
and industry executives said that proposed criteria were too
vague. FSOC met last month without setting a standard.  The Wider Economy  “The traditional core activities of a life insurance
organization do not present systemic risk,” ACLI Senior Vice
President Julie Spiezio said in a Feb. 25 letter. “Insurance
companies can fail without disrupting the wider economy.”  Frank Keating , who served as ACLI CEO during the lobby’s
push for bailouts two years ago, said in a March 2009 interview
the industry was “systemically important” and should be “a
part of whatever solution the government and Congress divine.”  Insurer liabilities, such as death benefits and annuity
payouts, tend to be more stable than the deposits and short-term
debt that fund banks, the ACLI told Geithner in the letter. The
ACLI said standards that help monitor the health of banks won’t
work if applied to insurers. The lobby in February requested a
“delay of implementation” until FSOC’s criteria were made
available for public comment.  ‘Systemically Significant’  “ACLI and America’s life insurers have been consistent in
our position that the life insurance industry as a whole is
systemically important, but that no single life insurer
represents a systemically significant entity,” Whit Cornman, a
spokesman for the group, said in a statement.  Henrikson, who left his position as ACLI chairman, used his
remarks in October to exhort executives to press their lobbying.  “We cannot afford to drop our focus,” Henrikson said at
the ACLI meeting in Baltimore. “The game is only in the fourth
quarter. The fourth quarter is when the game is won and lost.”
Henrikson was unavailable for comment, said  Christopher Breslin ,
a spokesman for MetLife.  MetLife returned to profit last year after posting a $2.2
billion loss in 2009. The company, which spent about $16 billion
in November buying a non-U.S. unit from New York-based AIG, is
considering share buybacks, a dividend increase and further
acquisitions as profits build. MetLife told analysts last week
it is putting off decisions on how to use the $4.8 billion of
cash it expects to have by the fourth quarter.  ‘Prudent to Wait’  “We’ve seen a great deal of uncertainty still remain in
the marketplace around regulatory issues,” MetLife CEO Steven Kandarian said on MetLife’s July 29 earnings conference call.
“So, we just think it’s prudent to wait at this point.”  The insurer, which started MetLife bank in 2001, said it
plans to continue mortgage lending. Policyholder-owned State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest U.S. home and
auto insurer, affirmed its commitment to its bank unit as it
braces for tighter regulation.  State Farm Bank is “a valuable part” of the insurer’s
business, said Dick Luedke, a spokesman for the company. State
Farm is in talks with regulators to “minimize duplicative
regulation,” Luedke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 