-- 
Bank of America Said to Seek Separate Foreclosure Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-03T16:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/bank-of-america-said-to-be-seeking-separate-home-mortgage-foreclosure-deal.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  has held
settlement negotiations with some states over home foreclosures
separately from talks with a larger group of state and federal
officials, two people familiar with the matter said.  The proposed deal would give the bank liability releases
from state and federal claims over its mortgage practices in
exchange for reducing loan principals to help struggling
homeowners, said the people, who didn’t want to be identified
because the discussions aren’t public.  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of
America, over their servicing and foreclosure practices.
 Attorneys general  from all 50 states began investigating the
practices last year to determine whether banks and loan
servicers used faulty documents to justify foreclosures.  Bank of America, in its separate negotiations, has offered
to fund more principal writedowns than what is being discussed
in the larger settlement talks, one of the people said. The bank
is seeking a blanket liability release that would be broader
than what would be available for the other banks involved in the
negotiations, the person said.  Other attorneys general were unaware of the separate talks
with Bank of America, the person said. The talks were reported
yesterday by the  Huffington Post .  Rick Simon , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment.  Principal Reductions  Any principal reductions probably would involve borrowers
who have to qualify for specific conditions, such as being at
least 60 days late, the other person said. The deal could still
fall apart and isn’t necessarily closer to being completed than
a broader agreement involving all the states and all five banks,
the person said.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, declined to comment. Miller is leading negotiations for
the 50 state attorneys general.  The other banks involved in the broader talks with state
and federal officials are  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  Robo-Signing  The probes by the attorneys general and federal regulators
began amid allegations of practices such as robo-signing, or
using workers who signed documents filed in support of
foreclosures without verifying the information. The
investigations were broadened to include all aspects of the
servicing business.  Officials are seeking a settlement that sets standards for
how the banks service loans, interact with borrowers and conduct
foreclosures, according to terms proposed in March. They also
want the banks to fund loan modifications for homeowners.  A push by the banks to win broad liability releases was
one of the main obstacles in talks to resolve the nationwide
probe, two people briefed on the matter said in July.  The mortgage servicers sought protection from additional
state and federal claims over their mortgage practices as part
of reaching a settlement that may exceed $20 billion, according
to those people, who declined to be named because the talks are
private. The banks were seeking releases that go beyond
servicing of mortgages to include lending and securitization of
loans, one of those people said.  State Resistance  That effort encountered resistance from at least three
states: Delaware,  New York  and Massachusetts.  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  said in July he had
“strong reservations” about a deal that provides releases
related to practices such as securitization and lending, because
servicing is the focus of the nationwide settlement talks.
Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said she wouldn’t
support an agreement that included releases for securitization
of mortgages and conduct related to a database of mortgages
known as MERS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 