-- 
Bardot Pouts, Lennon Smiles in Photos Saved From Blaze: Review

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-08-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/bardot-pouts-lennon-smiles-bowie-snoozes-in-duffy-photos-saved-from-fire.html
Brigitte Bardot pouts and
unsuccessfully tries to look demure wearing a pink dress and
flowery hat. Christine Keeler romps naked. Opposite them,  John Lennon  flashes a schoolboy grin,  David Bowie  closes his eyes and
 Michael Caine  looks intrigued by his cigarette.  These photographs of what sounds like a fun party crowd
feature in a new book and the first full  retrospective 
showcasing the work of Brian Duffy, who died last year.  Some of these images are ingrained in pop culture: the LP
sleeves for Bowie’s “Aladdin Sane” (David with lightning-flash
makeup), “Lodger” (as a kooky accident victim) and “Scary
Monsters” (in an even odder clown’s outfit).   There’s a Duffy quote under the pictures describing Bowie 
as “just a guy who liked dressing up.” The 1965 Lennon portrait
is annotated that the Beatle “was like any nice, normal, 
intelligent person.”  Duffy -- he was always known by the single name, long
before the unrelated singer -- chose to be a dress designer at
 London ’s St. Martin’s School of Art because that was the subject
favored by the most attractive girls. His first photographic
assignments fell flat: The lights failed and he left the lens
cap on the camera.  Undaunted, he took the first shots of Jean Shrimpton -- one
of the faces of London’s Swinging 1960s -- looking into an
Edgware Road shop front. Duffy matured into a fashion
photographer who worshiped his models and wanted them to look
like they owned the clothes. He was soon in demand by Elle,
Vogue, Town, Queen and other magazines.  Portrait Trinity  As his range widened to portraits, he was often compared
with his fellow East End pals  Terence Donovan  and  David Bailey .
They were called “the Black Trinity” by the older  Norman
Parkinson . Duffy might have eclipsed them all had he not quit
the business in 1979.  Some of these photos are remarkable because they are so
strong and yet unknown -- not surprising as many went up in
smoke in Duffy’s very own “bonfire of the transparencies.” He 
was at height of his career and at the end of his tether.  “He had come into the studio one morning,” Duffy’s son
Chris, himself a photographer, recalls in an interview. “An
assistant told him, ‘We’ve run out of toilet paper.’ That was
the straw that broke the camel’s back. He just snapped at that
point and fired everyone and grabbed packets of negs and prints
and set a bonfire in the garden.”  Surreal Vodka  Bailey happened to call in, Chris says. “Bailey said,
‘I’ll look after them for you if you want,’ and Duffy said,
‘Don’t bother,’ and continued to burn them.” (Bailey has 
famously noted that Duffy and aggravation went together like
gin and tonic.) The fire was stopped as neighbors complained 
about the black acrid smoke.  Duffy became a furniture restorer and died of pulmonary
fibrosis aged 76. His son has spent years in a search for lost
material. He had a messy pile of negatives, contacts and prints
and says that items are still coming to light.  Some of the best images are the surreal advertisements for
Benson & Hedges (a cigarette packet turns into a caged bird) and
Smirnoff vodka (a U-boat emerges in a swimming pool above the
slogan “well, they said anything could happen”).  One of Duffy’s favorite shots, done for French Elle in
1977, is wonderfully subversive. Duffy takes three top models,
sporting expensive hairdos and makeup, and chooses to largely
hide their heads behind branches of a tree.  There are unlikely portraits: William Burroughs stares into
the camera. Gangster Reggie Kray playfully spars with his
grandfather. Duffy even manages to make the U.K. Prime Minister
Harold Wilson look cool. In these digital times you need
Photoshop. In quotes in the book, Duffy says that photos are 
both real and unreal, they tell the truth and they lie.  “A photograph has to capture a moment,” he says, “incite
a curiosity in what was happening the moment it was taken.”  “Duffy” is at Idea Generation Gallery, 11 Chance St.,
London E2 7JB, through Aug. 28. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-6 p.m.;
weekends 12 p.m.-5 a.m. Limited-edition prints are for sale. 
Information: +44-20-7749-6850,  http://www.ideageneration.co.uk  
or  http://www.duffyphotographer.com .  “Duffy… In His Own Words” (208 pages) is published by the
ACC Publishing Group in the U.K. priced 45 pounds and will be
come out in the U.S. in September at about $85. Information:
 http://www.accpublishinggroup.com/   Duffy’s work is also on show at Gallery Vassie, Langestraat
47, 1015 AK, Amsterdam, until Aug. 20. See
 http://www.galleryvassie.com/current_exhibitions-1   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 