-- 
BAT Seeks Australia Documents for Fight Against Plain Packaging

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-08-03T08:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/bat-asks-australia-court-for-government-documents-in-plain-packaging-fight.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  urged an
Australian appeal court panel to order the release of government
documents to help it fight a proposed law to remove all
manufacturers’ markings from cigarette packs.  The Dunhill maker needs to deploy the documents “in its
efforts to persuade members of parliament that the legislation
should not be passed,” Allan Myers, British American Tobacco’s
lawyer, told the three-judge panel in  Melbourne  today. A debate
on the law is scheduled for next month, he said.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world aimed at
banning logos and color variations on cigarette packages.  New
Zealand ,  Canada  and the U.K. had considered the move but dropped
it out of concern it would be illegal, British American Tobacco
 said . The proposal may infringe international trademark and
intellectual property laws, said the producer of Pall Mall and
Australia’s best-selling cigarette brand, Winfield.  Australia had considered plain packaging for cigarettes in
the mid 1990s and on Dec. 14, 1995, the government received a
13-page report from a commission that studied the proposal,
Myers said. The government released a summary and in 1997 it
also issued a response to a separate Senate report, he said.  The background documents that led to the government’s
decision not to go ahead with the earlier plan weren’t released
and the government says they’re privileged and must remain
confidential.  Public Health  Health Minister Nicola Roxon said in April that she’s
acting in the interest of  public health  and has the support of
most people.  British American Tobacco “suspects that Minister Roxon
hasn’t released the legal advice because it’s likely to
demonstrate her plain packaging laws are flawed,” the company
said in a May 31  statement.   At issue is whether with the publication of its response to
the Senate report the government gave up its right to keep the
documents confidential.  The company says “if this is provided, Parliament will be
better informed,” Chief Justice Patrick Keane said today. “I’m
not sure that’s the role of the judiciary.”  Justice Garry Downes, another panel member, said he was
worried about the court taking over the role of the  Freedom of
Information  panel that denied British American Tobacco’s
request.  “A finding of fact is one thing, saying this document
should be made available is another,” Downes said. “We would
be making an administrative decision.”  Decision Reserved  The judges reserved a decision and both the company and the
government agreed to provide additional written submissions
before Aug. 10.  Under the proposed law, the name of the cigarette brand
would be printed in a uniform font at the bottom of the package.
The legislation, if passed in parliament, will take effect Jan.
1.  “This would clearly undermine the value of manufacturers’
trademarks and destroy the goodwill built up over many years in
consumer brands,” British American Tobacco said in a June 6
submission to the government. “Plain packaging will frustrate
brand identification and consumer choice, making smuggled
branded product more acceptable to consumers.”  British American Tobacco said in the  submission  to the
government that it has about 45.6 percent of the legitimate
cigarette market in  Australia .  The company pays about A$4.5 billion in federal taxes
annually, British American Tobacco said.  The government plans to spend more than A$10 million ($10.7
million) on legal fees fighting opposition to the proposal,
British American Tobacco said, citing documents obtained through
the FOI process.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v.
Secretary, Department of Health and Ageing. VID314/2011. Federal
Court of Australia (Melbourne).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  