-- 
Berlusconi Drives Italian Growth Agenda as Bond Yields Stoke Debt Concern

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-08-04T13:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/berlusconi-drives-italian-growth-agenda-as-bond-yields-stoke-debt-concern.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
urged Italians not to be “scared” by surging bond yields,
saying the country will weather the market storm, after meeting
with executives, bankers and unions on the economy.  The discussions in Rome today came after the premier, 
rejecting calls to resign, addressed both houses of Parliament 
yesterday on the nation's economy. Italy must cut red tape and 
lower taxes to boost growth and tame the euro region’s second-
biggest debt, he said following the session.  “I don’t think the crisis will get worse and we mustn’t be
scared by the fact that the spreads can remain at their current
levels,” Berlusconi told a press briefing in  Rome . “The rise
in yields would affect only a fraction” of the debt, “which
means the costs would be very relative.”  Berlusconi is struggling to convince investors that Italy
won’t become the next victim of  Europe ’s debt crisis. Italian
bonds rose after his comments, which coincided with remarks in
Frankfurt by European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who told a press conference he couldn’t exclude that
the central bank “could buy euro-area  government bonds  today.”  “I wouldn’t be surprised that before the end of this
teleconference you would see something on the market,” Trichet
said after the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5
percent. “It is an ongoing program.”  Italy ’s 10-year bond yielded 5.99 percent as of 3:04 p.m.
in Rome, compared with 6.08 percent at yesterday’s close. The
difference in yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
the securities instead of German bunds was at 355 basis points,
after closing at 368 basis points yesterday.  Sagging Sentiment  Confidence in Italy has been further shaken by political
turmoil, with Berlusconi’s grip on power weakened by corruption
allegations against him and some of his main allies. Berlusconi
yesterday blamed turmoil in international markets for the slump
in bonds and said that markets were mispricing risk.  Trichet today also urged Italy to adopt structural reforms.
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said the government’s
priorities remain overhauling the tax and welfare system. He
said the government presented its “working method” on the
economy to unions and executives during today’s talks, and also
will share the plan with European Union institutions, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Tremonti also urged Europe not to
dawdle and quickly approve upgrades to the region’s rescue fund.  Berlusconi may move up the introduction of a tax overhaul
that would speed the closing of loopholes and deductions worth
25 billion euros ($35 billion), Ansa reported late yesterday.
Such an effort would make the government’s recent 48 billion-
euro austerity plan “more credible,”  Chiara Corsa , an economist
at UniCredit Research in Milan, said in a note to investors.  Emma Marcegaglia, president of employers’ lobby
Confindustria, said she called for more government spending
cuts, a balanced budget, a “major” privatization plan and
labor-market reforms.  “The points were welcomed by the government,” she said.
“We asked for things that don’t cost public money, but bring
money in. We’ll see what the government decides to do in the
coming days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 