-- 
Berlin Wall Partly Justified, ‘Necessary,’ 35% of Berliners Say in Poll

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-03T11:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/berlin-wall-partly-justified-35-of-berliners-say-in-poll.html
More than a third of Berliners say
the construction of the  Berlin Wall  50 years ago was at least
partly justified to stem the flow of refugees from East  Germany 
and stabilize Cold War tensions, a poll showed.  Twenty-five percent of the residents of the German capital
said they “partly” agreed that the Wall’s construction on Aug.
13, 1961, was “necessary and justified,” according to a Forsa
poll commissioned by the  Berliner Zeitung . Ten percent said they
agreed fully, while 62 percent rejected the suggestion.  The survey reveals ongoing divisions in the city of 3.4
million as leaders including  Chancellor Angela Merkel  prepare to
mark the Wall’s latest anniversary two years after marking the
second decade since its 1989 collapse. The Berlin Wall stood for
more than 28 years as the edifice and the people it kept apart
came to symbolize the entrenched battle lines of the  Cold War .  Members of Germany’s Left Party, the anti-capitalist
faction that’s the successor of the East German Communist Party,
were the most sympathetic toward the Berlin Wall’s function, the
Forsa poll showed. Twenty-eight percent of Left members said
they fully agreed that the Wall was necessary, with 46 percent
expressing partial support; 23 percent rejected it.  Some 2.7 million Germans in the Soviet-dominated East fled
to  West Germany  between 1949 and the erection of the Wall, equal
to one-seventh of the population of the communist state, whose
full title in English was the German Democratic Republic, or
GDR. The wave of refugees sapped East Germany of its most
qualified workers and created a crisis that threatened to snap
Cold War tensions between the  Soviet Union  and the U.S.  ‘Anti-Fascist Protection’  Soviet authorities approved building what it called the
“anti-fascist  protection wall ” in 1961, less than two months
after East German leader Walter Ulbricht told reporters in a
rare press conference that “nobody has the intention to build a
wall.”  The Forsa poll asked 1,003 Berlin residents July 18-28
whether they agree that the Berlin Wall’s construction was
“necessary and justified from the perspective at the time in
order to stop the flow of labor from the GDR and to stabilize
the political situation in the GDR and Germany in general.” The
poll had a margin of error of as much as 3 percent, Forsa said.  The survey revealed other divisions. Only 41 percent of
those who lived in East Berlin before the Wall rejected the
Forsa statement; the same figure for West Berliners before 1961
was 69 percent. Seventy-five percent of those who have moved to
Berlin since 1990 were also unsympathetic to the construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  