-- 
Bharti Airtel Net Profit Falls for Sixth Straight Quarter on Higher Costs

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-08-03T11:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/bharti-net-trails-estimates-as-costs-related-to-3g-spectrum-pares-earnings.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest
wireless operator, reported profit fell for the sixth straight
quarter on higher costs.  Net income fell 27 percent to 12.2 billion rupees ($275
million) in the three months ended June 30, from 16.8 billion
rupees a year earlier, New Delhi-based Bharti said today. Profit
trailed the 14.8 billion-rupee median of 21 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharti’s interest costs more than doubled and were higher
than expected, according to Abhishek Anand, an analyst at
Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai. The mobile-phone carrier
controlled by billionaire Sunil Mittal borrowed 88 billion
rupees last year to help pay for third-generation airwaves and
equipment to build the new networks and is expanding in  Africa .  “Spectrum costs from the 3G auction last year are going to
start figuring in for Bharti and all the telecom companies, and
affecting their bottom line,” said Archit Singhal, an analyst
at Jaypee Capital Services Ltd. in Mumbai.  Sales climbed 39 percent to 169.8 billion rupees.  Bharti fell 1.4 percent to 426.25 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai. The stock has climbed 19 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent decline for the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index.  Interest Costs  Bharti’s net profit margin fell to 7.2 percent in the
quarter, from 13.7 percent a year earlier, the company said.  Interest costs more than doubled to 8.6 billion rupees
because of investments on third-generation services and
acquisition of assets in Africa, the company said. Depreciation,
amortization, license fees and spectrum charges rose 47 percent
to 46.3 billion rupees, it said.  Debt exceeded cash and cash equivalents by 600 billion
rupees as of June 30, largely unchanged from 602 billion rupees
a year earlier, the company said in the statement.  Bharti started the roll-out of third-generation wireless
services in  India  this year that will allow the company to boost
its revenue if data use and smartphones catch on among mobile
phone users. Its share of non-voice in India mobile revenue
increased to 14.6 percent in the quarter ended June 30, from
11.6 percent in the year earlier period, as it offers access to
the Internet, social networking portals and entertainment such
as videos on the mobile phone.  The company paid the government 123 billion rupees for 3G
wireless permits in 13 of India’s 22 telecommunication zones
last year, and another 33 billion rupees for licenses to offer
broadband wireless  Internet access  in four regions.  Africa  Bharti’s average revenue per user, a key metric of
performance in the telecommunications industry, slid 12 percent
in India to 190 rupees a month, from 216 rupees a year earlier.  To counter slowing growth at home, Manoj Kohli, chief
executive officer of Bharti’s Africa business, is spending on
expanding the businesses in Nigeria, Gabon, Zambia, Malawi,
Niger and Uganda after the company last year completed its $10.7
billion cash and debt purchase of the African assets of Kuwait’s
Mobile Telecommunications Co.  Bharti plans to win more customers by lowering tariffs. Its
Nigerian unit cut call rates by 50 percent to lure users from
rivals six months after entering Africa’s biggest phone market.  The average revenue per user at its Africa operations
declined to $7.30 a month, from $7.40 a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  