-- 
Biggest Rally in Two Years Means Sell for Silva: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-03T21:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/biggest-rally-in-2-years-means-sell-for-barclays-mexico-credit.html
The biggest rally in Mexican peso
bonds in two years is a sign to Barclays Plc and Silva Capital
Management LLC to sell the debt on a bet the notes will slump as
global investor demand for the safest assets wanes.  Yields on  Mexico ’s benchmark peso bonds dropped 45 basis
points in the past week, the most since March 2009, to 6.56
percent yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average yield on emerging-market local-currency debt was little
changed during the same period at 6.22 percent, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The gains in Mexican bonds are unwarranted and will end as
concerns the U.S. may default ease after the government raised
the debt ceiling, said Alejandro Urbina, who oversees $800
million of emerging-market debt at Silva Capital. Mexican bonds
have the highest correlation with U.S. Treasuries among Latin
American government debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on 10-year debt sold by the U.S, which buys 80
percent of Mexican exports, sank 34 basis points, or 0.34
percentage point, in the past week.  Mexican peso bonds are “just rallying in tandem with the
U.S. Treasuries,” Urbina said in a telephone interview from
 Chicago . “It’s by extension a safety trade. Nothing changed
over the past couple of weeks in Mexico to see the rally that
we’ve seen happening. It’s more external.”  The 30-day correlation coefficient between 10-year Mexican
bonds and Treasuries reached a two-month high of 0.51 yesterday.
That compares with readings of 0.36 for Brazilian debt and 0.07
for Colombian notes. A coefficient of 1 indicates the two always
move in the same direction.  Debt Limit  At 6.56 percent, the yield on Mexico’s notes due in 2024 is
the lowest since Nov. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries fell to a
10-month low of 2.61 percent yesterday.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed a debt-limit compromise
yesterday that prevented a default on the day the Treasury had
warned the nation’s borrowing authority would expire.  Foreign investors boosted their  holdings  of Mexican peso
debt last month, according to the central bank. They owned 38
percent of the country’s local-currency debt on July 21, the
highest since March 2000.  Roberto Melzi , a Latin America strategist at Barclays, said
the rally in Mexico’s bonds prompted him to stop recommending to
clients that investors buy the nation’s securities due in 2029,
2036 and 2038.  ‘Value’  “We closed the recommendation recently because of the
rally,” Melzi said in a telephone interview in New York. “At
these levels, and with global drivers where they are right now,
I don’t see a lot of value in Mexican peso bond yields per se.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 3 basis points
to 125 at 5 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 11.8193 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in May were unchanged at 4.99 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank to raise benchmark borrowing
costs that month.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis point today to 112 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if a government or company fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  U.S. Growth  Mexican peso bonds may extend their rally as the slumping
expansion in the U.S. helps keep inflation in the Latin American
country in check, said Benito Berber, a strategist at Nomura
Securities Inc.  Inflation slowed in Mexico to 3.28 percent in June from
3.69 percent a year earlier. It touched a five-year low of 3.04
percent in March.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at the slowest pace in
two years in July, the  Institute for Supply Management  said in a
report on Aug. 1. A report yesterday showed U.S. consumer
spending unexpectedly dropped in June for the first time in
almost two years. The  U.S. economy  expanded 1.3 percent in the
second quarter, less than the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. The U.S. economy has yet to regain the ground it lost
during the recession.  ‘More Concern’  “We may continue to see a rally if concerns about the U.S.
economy continue to grow,” Berber said in a telephone interview
in New York. “There is more concern every day about the pace of
global growth, especially in the U.S. The U.S. is showing a new
tendency on the downside for growth, which is leading to a
flattening in the curve that is dragging Mexican debt along.”  Mexico’s economy probably grew 3.5 percent in the second
quarter, the  Finance Ministry  said July 29, after posting 4.6
percent expansion in the first quarter.  Yields on Mexico’s bonds maturing in 2024 have dropped 63
basis points in the past month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Silva Capital’s Urbina said he has cut holdings of longer-
term Mexican peso bonds after the rally.  “With the tightening we’ve seen over the past few days, I
reduced a lot,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  