-- 
Fiji Water Billionaire Resnick Buys Sonoma Winery as Vineyard Sales Climb

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/billionaire-resnick-buys-sonoma-valley-winery-as-sales-rebound.html
Billionaire Stewart Resnick, owner of
 California  citrus and pistachio farms and brands including Fiji
Water, bought Sonoma Valley’s Landmark Vineyards as deals for
premium-wine properties rebound.  Resnick may double production of Landmark’s highly regarded
chardonnay “over a period of time, consistent with quality,”
he said in an Aug. 1 telephone interview, a day before
completing the purchase of the 18-acre (7.3-hectare) property in
Kenwood, California, about 55 miles (88 kilometers) north of San
Francisco. It was Resnick’s second vineyard purchase in less
than a year, and the price wasn’t disclosed.  “This is a very good winemaker, and fits the profile we
were looking for: affordable luxury,” said Resnick, chairman of
Roll Global Corp., the Los Angeles-based holding company for
Fiji Water, Pom Wonderful pomegranate juice and other food
brands. “It’s not the very high-end, but the middle high-end,
and good quality for the value. And, it was for sale.”  Sales of U.S. vineyards and wineries are increasing a year
after bottoming in the wake of the financial crisis, said
William Stevens, wine division manager at  Santa Clara ,
California-based Silicon Valley Bank. U.S. wine deals totaled
about $430 million through July, according to wine broker and
investment adviser Zepponi & Co. in  Santa Rosa , California.  “The reason you see more transactions in 2011 is that
buyers are feeling better about valuation,” said Stevens, whose
bank provides loans and services to wineries in California,
Oregon and  Washington .  ‘Another Round’  Vineyard and wine company sales occur in “bunches,” and
the premium-wine industry is in the midst of “another round”
of deals, Stevens said. Napa Valley’s Fetzer Vineyards sold in
March to Santiago-based Vina Concha & Toro SA for $238 million,
and Sonoma Valley’s Seghesio Vineyards sold to Crimson Wine
Group in May for an undisclosed price.  In December, Resnick acquired his first premium-wine
property, the 160-acre Justin Vineyards & Winery in Paso Robles
in the state’s central coast region, known for its upscale reds.  Landmark, founded and operated by descendants of steel plow
inventor John Deere, is best known for its chardonnay, praised
by critic Robert Parker Jr. as “one of California’s finest.”
Adding the most popular U.S. varietal to the reds acquired with
the Justin purchase gives Resnick a complete menu of premium
wine offerings, said Mario Zepponi, principal with Zepponi.  Building a Brand  “Stewart is building a portfolio carefully, bringing
agriculture expertise along with a tremendous depth of knowledge
of what it means to build a brand,” said Jeff Menashe, chief
executive officer of San Francisco-based investment adviser
Demeter Group, which represented Landmark in the deal.  Sales of luxury bottles $15 and above increased the most
among all price segments, gaining 13 percent in the year through
June, according to Demeter.  Landmark  sells about 25,000 cases a year, ranging from $28
to $50 a bottle. Resnick is likely to ramp up production within
three years, Zepponi said.  “You have a behemoth coming into an established wine
region,” Zepponi said. “Stewart doesn’t suffer the lapse of
time well. He goes in and makes things happen.”  Fiji Water’s 125-person sales staff will handle marketing
and distribution for Landmark after learning about the new
products, said Resnick, who runs the businesses with his wife,
Lynda. Former owners Mike and Mary Calhoun will stay on in a
public relations role, as will the green John Deere tractor that
sits near the winery entrance, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  