-- 
Birinyi, Biggs Advise Holding Stocks After S&P 500’s Decline

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-03T20:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/birinyi-advises-holding-stocks-with-scotch-after-s-p-500-erases-2011-gains.html
The seven-day slide that wiped out
the 2011 gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is no reason to
sell stocks, according to investors including Laszlo Birinyi and
 Barton Biggs .  Growing concern that the U.S. economy is faltering erased
$1.07 trillion from American equities in less than two weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  S&P 500  plunged 2.6
percent yesterday, posting its biggest one-day loss in a year
and giving the index the longest losing streak since October
2008, the depths of the financial crisis caused by Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  The drop surprised Birinyi, whose Westport, Connecticut-
based research firm Birinyi Associates Inc. sees the bull market
in U.S. equities lasting until 2013, based upon the length of
prior advances. Investors who sell after the S&P 500’s 6.8
percent loss since July 22 will miss out, he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Biggs, managing partner and co-founder of
Traxis Partners LP, said U.S. stocks have become a “strong
buy.”  “It’s like all these times when you second-guess yourself,
and you probably wake up a little earlier than you’re used to,
and maybe you put an extra finger of scotch in the glass,” said
Birinyi, 67, one of the first investors to recommend buying when
the  bull market  began in 2009. “It’s probably a good idea to
have a gut check once in a while, because it makes you review
and rethink your process. Our view is that this is still a
market of some duration.”  Today’s Gain  U.S. stocks rallied today, preventing a nine-day losing
streak for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  that would have been
the longest since 1978. Equities erased losses amid speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will take action to prop up the world’s
largest economy.  Yesterday, investors sought the safety of Treasuries, gold
and the Swiss currency even as President  Barack Obama  signed a
plan to raise the federal debt limit, avoiding an American
default. Attention has shifted to weakening economic data,
including a 0.2 percent decrease in  consumer spending , the
slowest growth in personal incomes since November and an index
of American manufacturing sinking to a two-year low.  At “these levels it is rapidly becoming a very strong
buy,” Biggs said on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” with
Erik Schatzker and Deirdre Bolton. “I do feel right now this is
not the time to put out any shorts and I am very tempted to
think this is a time to be buying stocks pretty aggressively.”  ‘Strong Rally’  “We are going to have a strong rally out of this
position,” Biggs, who helps manage $1.4 billion in assets,
said. He added that politicians had handled the debt-ceiling
debate “poorly” and as a result dollar-denominated assets are
“tremendously cheap.”  The odds of another U.S. downturn are rising amid cutbacks
in spending by consumers and the government, according to five
of the nine members of the panel that dates recessions.  “This economy is really balanced on the edge,” Harvard
University economics professor  Martin Feldstein , a member of the
Business Cycle Dating Committee of the  National Bureau of
Economic Research , said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene  yesterday.
“There’s now a 50 percent chance that we could slide into a new
recession. Nothing has given us much growth.”  Industrials, Financials  Industrial and financial companies led the S&P 500’s slump
through yesterday since April 29, when it climbed to an almost
three-year high of 1,363.61. The measure, which rose 8.4 percent
between Dec. 31 and its April peak, was down 0.3 percent for
2011 as of yesterday.  Equities have fallen worldwide. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
lost 12 percent from Feb. 17 through yesterday. The benchmark
equity index for  Brazil , one of the biggest emerging economies,
has retreated more than 20 percent, entering a  bear market .  A plan to cut $2.4 trillion from the federal budget over 10
years was signed by Obama yesterday, helping the federal
government avoid default while spurring concern the spending
reductions may cause the economy to slow further. U.S. gross
domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter and 0.4 percent during the first three months of
2011, the Commerce Department said July 29. That compares with 3
percent in 2010.  “It’s prudent for the market to react the way it’s done,
given the fact that you’ve had not only the debt situation, but
also the fact that there are more questions about the economy,”
Birinyi said.  Average Prices  In the S&P 500, 14 percent of stocks are trading above
their 50-day average price, the fewest this year, according to
data compiled by Harrison, New York-based Bespoke Investment
Group LLC. While readings below 20 percent aren’t common and
signal short-term gains in the market, the proportion has failed
to surpass its highs from the end of 2010, a bearish sign,
Bespoke said.  “This downward shift in equity performance has put a
tremendous strain on bullish sentiment,” Chad Morganlander, a
 Florham Park , New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., which oversees $110 billion in client assets, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The “debt deal has put a damper
on future government stimulus and expectations for future
economic growth within the  U.S. economy , which creates
uncertainty for corporate profitability.”  Short-Term Profits  Traders looking for short-term profits may want to avoid
equities for the next week or so, said  Michael Shaoul , chairman
of Marketfield Asset Management. Those with a time horizon of 18
months or more should buy stocks because corporate earnings
aren’t weakening, he said.  “You’re much nearer the end of this correction than the
beginning,” Shaoul said in a telephone interview yesterday. His
$725 million Marketfield Fund returned 14 percent in 2010,
beating 91 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. When the S&P 500 plunged between April and July of
last year, he correctly predicted the market would rebound.
“U.S. corporate activity is still intact,” he said.  Per-share earnings increased 18 percent and sales rose 14
percent among S&P 500 companies that have released quarterly
results since July 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
About 77 percent of companies have topped the average analyst
profit forecast, the data show. The S&P 500 trades for 13.8
times reported earnings, the cheapest level since July 2010.  The average bull market produces gains of 120 percent,
Birinyi data show. The S&P 500 is up 85 percent in the current
rally since the index slid to a 12-year low on March 9, 2009.
Past rallies since 1962 show bull markets last four years and 23
days, almost twice the length of the current cycle.  “Obviously, we’re disappointed by the aggressiveness of
the selling,” said Birinyi. “We still think that one can do
well with intelligent and rigorous stock selection. That has not
changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  