-- 
Boiler-Room Convict Marsh’s Trades Typically Beat Market, Lawyer Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-08-03T22:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/boiler-room-convict-marsh-s-trades-typically-beat-market-lawyer-says.html
Kenneth Marsh, who pleaded guilty in
April to charges he misled investors into paying fees for phony
investment advice, should be sentenced leniently in part because
he consistently helped clients turn profits, his lawyer said.  Marsh, 44, who ran Gryphon Holdings Inc. on  Staten Island ,
New York, pleaded guilty April 14 to one count of  securities
fraud  and is scheduled to be sentenced Aug. 11. He faces as long
as 14 years in prison under federal guidelines, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Roger Burlingame said at the plea hearing.  “Gryphon’s trade recommendations were generally more
profitable than the market overall and often were considerably
more profitable,” Alan S. Futerfas, Marsh’s lawyer, wrote in a
court filing yesterday seeking leniency for his client.  Futerfas said that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was wrong in its assumption in a related lawsuit that
Gryphon lied about reaping a 385 percent profit on its
recommendation to buy an option on eye-care company  Alcon Inc. (ACL) 
and sell it in two parts soon after.  The 2009 trade made a gain of 145 percent in three days and
385 percent in two weeks, Futerfas said.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  bought
Alcon in April.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
in Brooklyn, declined to comment on the filing.  High Returns  The average return for Marsh’s buy option recommendations
with a matching sell recommendation in 2009 was 167 percent and
was profitable 100 percent of the time, Futerfas said, citing a
report done for Marsh by Jerry DeNigris, president of Riverside
Financial Group, an analysis firm in Cranford,  New Jersey .  Buy recommendations for equities with matching sell
recommendations in 2009 brought an average return of 76 percent
during the same period the  S&P 500 Index  grew 14 percent,
Futerfas said, citing the report.  “The proof is incontrovertible and shows that Gryphon was
responsible for providing a steady stream of mostly profitable
trade recommendations,” Futerfas said.  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
to the SEC’s lawsuit.  Gryphon’s employees lied about their credentials, falsely
claiming to oversee billion-dollar  hedge funds  from offices on
 Wall Street  and in London and Sydney, prosecutors said. The shop
was run from a strip mall in the New York borough of Staten
Island, they said.  Others Charged  All 18 people charged in the Gryphon criminal case,
including members of its sales force, pleaded guilty.  Marsh was charged in April 2010. He has been in jail since
November, after he was accused by prosecutors of engaging in
conduct similar to the actions that led his arrest and he was
unable to raise the additional bail required.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 