-- 
Brazilian Stocks Plummet as Economic Growth Concern Overshadows Valuations

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-08-03T20:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/brazilian-stocks-plummet-as-economic-growth-concern-overshadows-valuations.html
The Bovespa index tumbled the most
since February amid speculation investors are closing out so-
called stop-loss trades as economic growth falters in  Brazil  and
the U.S., offsetting the cheapest valuations in two years.  Iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and oil
producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA followed crude and metals prices
lower. Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, Brazil’s second-
biggest airline by market value, led declines for consumer
stocks after Bank of America Corp. cut its forecast for Brazil’s
gross domestic product expansion.  The Bovespa fell 2.3 percent to 56,017.22 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close. Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge, which sank
into a  bear market  last month, dropped below a “technical
support” level of 57,660 yesterday, said  Felipe Casotti , who
helps oversee 1.2 billion reais ($767 million) at Maxima Asset
Management. That may be spurring preset orders to sell at a
certain level to limit losses, he said.  “These stop-losses end up creating a herd effect,”
Casotti said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “You
can see that the economy is cooling. Aside from that you have an
external situation that demands a great deal of caution. You
have stocks that are cheap, but I think that even after this
drop you have to do stock picking.”  The Bovespa pared an earlier slide of as much as 3.6
percent, tracking U.S. stocks higher amid bets the  Federal
Reserve  may consider another stimulus program to prevent a
recession. That speculation wasn’t enough to keep copper and
crude prices from slumping.  Bear Market  The Bovespa entered a bear market on July 27 after falling
20 percent from its November 2010 bull-market peak. The measure
trades at 9.5 times analysts’ earnings estimates, the lowest
since March 2009, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index fell yesterday to the lowest since September 2009
after earnings at lender Itau Unibanco Holding SA missed
analysts’ estimates, local industry extended a slump and
equities tumbled worldwide on signs U.S. growth is slowing.  “Although economic activity indicators in Brazil are still
showing mixed signals, we believe that the slowdown is becoming
more evident at the margin,” economists at Bank of America,
including Marcos Buscaglia, wrote in a note to clients today.
“Moreover, the international backdrop is becoming more
uncertain.”  Bank of America lowered its forecast for Brazil GDP growth
this year to 3.6 percent from 4.1 percent previously, and for
2012 to 4.2 percent from 4.6 percent, according to the note.  MMX, Petrobras  MMX, controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , declined the
most since June 2010, losing 7.1 percent to 7.28 reais.
Petrobras, the state-controlled  oil company , dropped 3.1 percent
to 22.29 reais, the most in three months. Gol plunged 8.1
percent to 10.84 reais, the lowest price since June 2009.  “If one wants to look for market performance more normally
seen before an economic decline one should look at a country
such as Brazil,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management and chief executive officer of New York-based
brokerage Oscar Gruss & Son, said in an e-mail to clients today.
“This week’s sharp decline saw the index break what many had
seen to be key support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  