-- 
Brazilian Capital Controls Are ‘Appropriate’ Tool, IMF Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-08-03T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/brazilian-capital-controls-are-appropriate-tool-imf-says.html
Brazil’s use of  capital controls  is
an “appropriate” tool to manage foreign investment inflows
though the government needs to monitor distortions generated by
their use, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Latin America’s largest economy’s outlook is “favorable”
while showing signs of “overheating,” the IMF’s executive
board said in a statement today following the conclusion of its
periodic review of the country’s finances. The government should
consider cutting spending further as a way to slow inflation,
reduce the need for higher  interest rates  and curb inflows.  President Dilma Rousseff’s government has blamed the U.S.
for sparking a global “currency war” by keeping interest rates
near zero, precipitating a flood of investment into emerging
markets that’s causing currencies to rally. Last week, Brazil
slapped a 1 percent tax on bets against the  U.S. dollar  in the
futures market after the real reached a 12-year high.  The IMF, while not commenting on any specific policy, said
authorities’ use of “capital flow management measures has been
appropriate.”  “However, a number of Directors cautioned that these
measures are prone to circumvention,” the Washington-based
lender said. “Attendant costs should also be taken into
account” for possible “distortionary effects,” the IMF said.  IMF chief economist  Olivier Blanchard , at an IMF-sponsored
seminar on capital flows held in Rio de Janeiro in May, said
that a recent surge in Brazil’s foreign direct investment is
“suspicious” and signal that portfolio investors are finding
ways to get around government controls.  FDI inflows exceeded economists’ forecasts in June, jumping
to $5.5 billion from $4 billion in May, the central bank said.  Since October, Brazil has also tripled to 6 percent a tax
on foreigners’ purchase of bonds and raised the cost of foreign
borrowing for businesses and debt sales abroad by banks.  The IMF left unchanged its June forecast for Brazil’s
economy to expand 4.1 percent this year  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  