-- 
‘Green Tides’ Drive Away Brittany Tourists

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-03T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/brittany-green-tides-drive-away-tourists-from-french-beaches.html
The  Chateau du Val  hotel off  France ’s
Brittany coast should be full this time of year. Instead, barely
half of its 52 rooms and 28 rental properties are occupied.  Tourists are staying away after French newspapers and
television stations splashed photos of the nearby beach covered
in rotting seaweed, fumes from which are blamed for the deaths
of 36 wild boars in July.  “This affair is going to cost us a fortune,” said Joseph
Herve, the 79-year-old owner of the three-star property just
outside Morieux, on  Brittany’s northern coast . “The economy was
already difficult enough and now we have this. Overnight, almost
all my German clients canceled.”  Beaches covered in the green algae are becoming an annual 
occurrence in Brittany, France’s westernmost region. The issue 
pits the region’s 3.6 billion-euro ($5.1 billion) tourism 
industry against its 8.2 billion-euro farming sector, whose 
large quantities of animal waste and use of fertilizers are 
blamed by scientists for feeding the so-called green tides 
that form in Brittany’s shallow bays.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  visited the Finistere
region of Brittany on July 7, and said “it would be absurd to
solely blame farmers, who have made enormous efforts.” He
called the accusations “environmental fundamentalism.”  The algae infestation became a national issue in 2009 when
a horse died and its owner fell unconscious after breathing
fumes at a beach about 80 kilometers (50 miles) west of Morieux.
The wild boar deaths have once again drawn attention to the
problem.  Media Blamed  The first tests on six wild boars found July 24 showed that
five had hydrogen sulphide gas in their lungs. The sixth didn’t,
preventing the testers from concluding they’d been killed from
breathing fumes from rotting seaweed. Test results on the
remaining boars haven’t been released yet.  The region’s farmers and tourism professionals are angered
by what they say are media reports exaggerating the problem.  “It’s a complex issue, and to have televisions stations
showing archive images and jumping to conclusions about what
killed the boars has created a real mess,” said Jean-Pierre
Briens, the mayor of Morieux, standing in front of a fence
blocking access to the town’s beach. At low tide the beach was
mostly clear of algae, partly because it’s cleared every day.  The Sun,  England ’s most-read newspaper, published an
article on July 28 warning British travelers about the risks of
Brittany’s beaches. Philippe Pignard, who owns a hotel with a
panoramic view of the beach where the horse died, says he now
chases television crews away.  Tourist Cancelations  Tourist cancelations have so far been limited to affected
areas, said Michael Dodds, head of the Brittany Tourist Board.  “We have 541 beaches in Brittany and one is closed,”
Dodds said. “We could have been facing a catastrophe, but so
far we’ve seen few effects. Most of Brittany isn’t affected.”  One reason more beaches aren’t closed is that after the
much-publicized 2009 death of the horse, local governments
increased seaweed collection. At low tide, tractors scoop up the
Ulva Armoricana, better known as sea lettuce, which is taken to
an incinerator at Launay-Lantic where it’s turned into compost.  The amount of seaweed collected rose to 61,000 metric cubes
in 2010, at a cost of 850,000 euros, from 27,000 cubic meters
and 345,000 euros in 2007, according to a May report for the
Brittany regional government. So far this year, 32,000 metric
cubes have been collected.  Seaweed is safe, if unappealing to swimmers, when fresh.
It’s after it rots in the sun that gases such as hydrogen
sulphide and ammonia form under the crust.  Agricultural Model  The first green tides appeared in early 1970s, growing
larger in the 1980s and 1990s.  Scientists are “in unanimous agreement on the role of
nitrates as the only nutritive element controlling the
proliferation of green algae in Brittany,” said the report from
the regional government. “The nitrates present in Breton basins
arrive mostly as runoff from agricultural land.”  Similar conclusions have been reached by scientists in
other afflicted areas such as the Adriatic coast of northern
Italy and Qingdao region in  China .  Brittany produces half of France’s pigs, about 35 percent
of its chickens, and about 20 percent of its milk. Its farm and
food output, about 10 percent of its economy, puts Brittany at
the top of France’s 22 regions, the local government says.  “The whole model of Breton agriculture is in question,”
said Jean-Paul Guyomac’h, a former university professor and
member of the regional council who works with environmental
group Eau et Rivieres, or Water and Rivers. “There’s no way to
manage all this excrement in one small region. There are too
many animals for the ground to absorb.”  Lasting Solution  The  tourism industry , meanwhile lures 9 million visitors,
700,000 of whom come from Britain, Dodds estimates.  “We are paying the price of 30 years of intensive
agriculture,” Dodds said. “It’s hard to change something that
was encouraged by the state, and that helped turn what was a
poor region into an agricultural powerhouse.”  Danielle Even, a spokesman for the  CAP Bretagne  farmers’
association, said pig farmers are increasingly treating slurry
on site, and grain growers are using cover crops to cut back on
their use of fertilizer. Areas along rivers have been left
fallow. The amount of nitrates flowing in Brittany’s seas fell
to 70,000 tons in 2009 from 120,000 tons at the start of the
decade, Brittany’s environmental watchdog says.  That’s still well above the amount needed for seaweed to
flourish in Brittany’s shallow bays with France’s increasingly
warm springs, says Guyomac’h, the environmentalist.  “We’ve been hearing for 10 years about the efforts being
made by farmers, but their herds keep getting bigger,” said
Rene Ropartz, the mayor of St. Michel-en-Greve. “I hope that
for our children we’ll finally find a lasting solution to get us
out of this nightmare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  