-- 
Budget-Panel Assignments Will Signal Ability to Find $1.5 Trillion of Cuts

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-08-03T20:29:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/budget-cut-panel-assignments-have-congressmen-in-rare-state-of-being-demur.html
The push to reduce the  U.S. debt  is
shifting to the makeup of the special congressional panel
charged with finding further spending cuts and whether its 12
members can consider rewriting the tax code.  Republican leaders at the Capitol are pledging to appoint
members who oppose tax increases. Their Democratic counterparts
make clear they will name lawmakers who will fight to raise new
revenue and protect entitlement benefits that Republicans say
should be targeted.  Without both issues open for negotiation, it’s unlikely the
committee will be able to find $1.5 trillion in deficit savings
to prevent the automatic, across-the-board spending cuts that
would be triggered if the panel ends in gridlock or Congress
rejects its recommendations.  The committee’s prospects for success probably hinge on
whether congressional leaders telegraph a willingness to
compromise in their appointments, said Maya MacGuineas,
president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a
Washington-based advocacy group.  “The first big test will be who they actually put on the
committee,” she said.  Biden-Led Talks  Senate leaders are looking to some of the participants in
failed debt talks led earlier this year by Vice President  Joe Biden  to serve on the new body, according to people familiar
with the deliberations of Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican.  Leading prospects for some the chamber’s six slots, three
from each party, are Senators Jon Kyl, the No. 2 Republican, and
Democrats Dick Durbin, his party’s second-ranking member, and
 Max Baucus , chairman of the tax-writing Senate Finance
Committee. All three served on the Biden-led panel that
collapsed over Republican opposition to increased revenue.  Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri is another top prospect for
Republicans because Senate leaders value his experience as a
former House member who will be able to work with lawmakers from
that chamber, one of the people said.  No final decisions have been made, though McConnell and
Reid have completed face-to-face meetings with prospective
members, one of the people said.  Woman Member  Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, said
she’s approached leaders about the need to include a woman.
Democratic Senators Barbara Mikulski of  Maryland  and Mary Landrieu of  Louisiana  have advocated for Senator Patty Murray, a
Washington state Democrat and her party’s fourth-ranking Senate
member.  Some lawmakers question putting committee chairmen such as
Baucus on the panel. “It should be the leaders, it shouldn’t be
committee chairmen because they all have their little things to
protect,” said Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat.  Working against the panel, say skeptics, are the partisan
political environment that has helped derail three previous
efforts to revamp the nation’s finances within the last year;
the 2012 presidential election, which will heighten political
tensions; and budgeting assumptions underpinning the new
committee that may constrain its tax-related efforts.  “It’s going to be difficult for the committee in this
environment to make structural change,” said  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican who advocates overhauling
entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare.  Bush Tax Cuts  Forces favoring the committee include the scheduled
expiration next year of former President  George W. Bush ’s tax
cuts -- which will spur a broader debate over revenue -- and the
spending-cut enforcement mechanism that would hit domestic and
defense programs, say lawmakers. “I don’t think they’re going
to fail,” said Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican,
expressing optimism that panelists will be open to compromise.  Under the debt-ceiling measure that President  Barack Obama 
signed into law yesterday, House and Senate Democratic and
Republican leaders have two weeks to decide on the three
appointees each can make.  The panel must vote on its $1.5 trillion deficit-cutting
plan by Nov. 23. Congress must then accept the recommendations
by Dec. 23 or face the triggered round of automatic cuts worth
$1.2 trillion.  Appointment Considerations  While party leaders have avoided any public hints about who
they will appoint to the panel, officially named the Joint
Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, they have been quick to
offer parameters that will guide their decisions.  McConnell said last night on CNN that the committee “ought
to look at the entire  tax code ,” including corporate rates he
views as too high, as well as “entitlement reform. On Fox News
the day before, he stressed that any net increase in revenue is
a nonstarter. “We are not going to raise taxes coming out of
this joint committee,” he said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has said he
won’t choose anyone who would back a tax increase.  Democrats are equally adamant in pushing for what Obama has
called a “balanced approach” to deficit reduction.  “There has got to be some revenues” to spread the
financial sacrifices of cuts, Reid said in a floor speech
yesterday. House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, said revenue must be considered “in a strong way.”  Benefits Issue  For Pelosi and other Democrats, it was a victory that the
final debt-ceiling law left benefits for Social Security,
Medicare and Medicaid untouched as part of $917 billion in cuts
the measure already approved for the next decade.  “Whoever is at the table” for House Democrats “will
fight to protect that” as the committee grapples with how to
cut the additional $1.5 trillion, she said.  Among  House Republicans , potential picks include Ways and
Means Committee Chairman David Camp of Michigan and Budget
Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin -- both of whom have
repeatedly stressed their opposition to tax increases.  On the Democratic side, the House’s fiscally conservative
Blue Dog Coalition is pressing leadership to name one of its
members.  “It’s absolutely essential that some of the members of
this committee be moderates,” said Representative Kurt Schrader
of Oregon, who heads the group’s fiscal task force.  Push for Portman  In the Senate, McCain said in an interview yesterday that
if McConnell asks for his advice, he will recommend Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican who was Bush’s top international
trade official and budget director.  Reid was noncommittal yesterday when asked by reporters
whether he would name any of his party colleagues who were part
of the so-called Gang of Six: Durbin, Mark Warner of  Virginia 
and Kent Conrad of  North Dakota .  “I’ve had inquiries by lots of people,” he said.  The Gang of Six, which included three Republican members,
has been working since early this year on its own bipartisan
deficit-reduction plan.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican and member of
the group, said he isn’t interested in serving. “I’m committee-
ed out,” Coburn said yesterday. “I’ve worked well over a year
and a half on these issues -- they just probably need some fresh
blood.”  A question involving budgeting assumptions looms as a
possible impediment to a major federal tax rewrite by the
committee.  The committee is likely to operate under current budgeting
forecasts that assume the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts that Bush
pushed through Congress will expire at the end of 2012.  CBO Scoring  Any proposal that changes future tax rates could work
against the committee’s deficit-reduction mandate because it
would be scored by the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office 
as a tax cut and not count toward the panel’s $1.5 trillion
deficit-reduction goal.  “It is the framework against which the committee’s
proposals are required to be scored,” and it creates
“significant structural impediments to raising taxes,” Ryan
said in a blog post yesterday.  The committee could create its own revenue baseline that
would allow it to measure taxes against current tax rates, not
future ones. To do that, though, would require a majority vote
on a panel evenly divided between the parties, and Republicans
are unlikely to allow it.  Camp also has argued against the committee trying to
accomplish deficit reduction and an overhaul of the tax system.  “There’s nothing that explicitly says tax reform is part
of this,” he told reporters Aug. 1. “It’s best done on its
own. Tax reform should be about tax reform, not about deficit
reduction or raising revenues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 Rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  