-- 
CapitaLand’s Second-Quarter Net Income Rises 17% on Project in Singapore

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 
2011-08-04T05:37:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/capitaland-s-second-quarter-net-income-rises-17-on-project-in-singapore.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast  Asia ’s
biggest developer, said second-quarter net income increased 17
percent, boosted by the sale of homes in projects such as the
Interlace and d’Leedon in Singapore.  Net income rose to S$399 million ($331 million) in the
quarter ended June 30, from S$339.7 million a year earlier, the
company said today in a statement to the Singapore exchange.
Revenue climbed 25 percent to S$740.4 million from S$592.5
million a year earlier. CapitaLand restated last year’s results
to comply with an accounting policy that became effective Jan. 1.  The Singapore-based developer is benefiting from
residential sales as the city’s housing prices climbed to a
record in the second quarter, according to government data. The
company, which has investments ranging from malls, office
buildings to serviced apartments, also expanded in markets
including  China  and  Vietnam .  “While global economic growth remains patchy and despite
concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis and the  U.S. budget deficit ,
Asia continues to present growth prospects,” Chairman Richard Hu said in the statement. “We expect to expand our businesses
and continue to actively pursue investment opportunities in our
core and secondary markets.”  CapitaLand’s core markets are Singapore, China and
Australia, while Malaysia, Vietnam and Europe make up its
secondary markets.  New Investments  The stock was unchanged at S$2.80 as of 1:36 p.m. in
Singapore trading. Before today, the stock had lost 25 percent
this year, compared with the 1.9 percent decline in the
Singapore benchmark Straits Times Index.  CapitaLand said it committed about S$5 billion of new
investments in Singapore, China,  Australia  and Vietnam in the
first half of the year.  The company expects to exceed its initial target for new
investments of S$5 billion to S$6 billion this year, Chief
Executive Officer Liew Mun Leong said at a press briefing in
Singapore today. He also said CapitaLand will seek acquisitions
when price expectations have moderated.  CapitaLand said earlier this year it has a 15 percent share
of the Singapore private housing market. The company said today
it will meet its aim to sell 1,700 apartment units in 2011. The
company has a pipeline of 2,700 homes in the city to be
introduced in the next three years, it reiterated today.  China,  Singapore  Curbs  Liew said government measures in China and Singapore to
curb speculative home-buying will help stabilize the countries’
real estate markets. He said he’s confident the Singapore
private home market will continue to grow. China and Singapore
are the company’s biggest markets, each making up 36 percent of
its S$29 billion of assets as of June, according to a slide
presentation today.  China’s home sales “volume has gone down because of the
pressure, but the price has in fact been steady, resilient and
in fact creeped up,” Liew said. “So this suggests that there
is demand.”  CapitaLand said it has the capacity to build 22,000 homes
in China over the next four to five years. The company’s
pipeline of so-called value homes in China and Vietnam has
increased to more than 4,800 units as it taps demand for lower-
priced apartments, it said in the presentation today.  Private Equity Funds  The company wants to originate more private equity funds,
especially in China, Chief Investment Officer Wen Khai Meng said
at the briefing today. Assets under management for the group’s
financial services unit grew to S$31.7 billion, Wen said.  The appreciation of the  Singapore dollar  is an “ongoing
concern” for the company, it said. More than 60 percent of
CapitaLand’s first-half revenue and pretax profit came from
outside the city state. The Singapore dollar has gained 12
percent against the U.S. currency in the past year, the best
performer among the 10 most actively traded currencies in Asia
excluding  Japan .  CapitaLand also plans to expand its commercial business in
Malaysia, India and Japan, it said at the briefing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  