-- 
Capital & Counties Profit Falls as Events Business Has Less Rental Income

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-03T16:17:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/capital-counties-profit-falls-as-events-business-has-less-rental-income.html
Capital & Counties Properties Plc (CAPC) ,
which is seeking consent for an 8 billion-pound ($13 billion)
project in  London ’s Earls Court, said first-half profit fell 39
percent as its events business leased space to fewer exhibitors.  Adjusted earnings before asset revaluations and one-time
items fell to 6.2 million pounds, or 1 penny a share, from 10.1
million pounds, or 1.6 pence, a year earlier, the company known
as CapCo said in a statement today. Net asset value rose to 154
pence a share from 148 pence six months earlier.  Net rental income fell 4.2 percent to 36.7 million pounds
as the faltering economic recovery deterred customers from
taking space with the London-based company’s events and
exhibitions business. A venture with  Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) 
increased vacancies at some properties to allow for their
redevelopment. In June, CapCo filed a planning application to
 renovate  77 acres (31 hectares) of Earls Court in west London.  “We expect the significant valuation uplifts from planning
gains at Earls Court & Olympia to boost the net asset value
strongly over the next 12-18 months,” said Carl Gough, an
analyst at Matrix Securities, who has a “buy” rating on the
shares. Further gains in net asset value will come from Covent
Garden and CapCo’s partnership with Great Portland, he said.  Covent Garden  CapCo fell 4.3 pence, or 2.3 percent, to 181.3 pence in
London trading. The shares climbed 12 percent in the three
months through Aug. 1, more than the 27 stocks in the FTSE All-
Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index, which was little
changed.  A rise in the value of CapCo’s real estate assets, chiefly
those at Covent Garden in central London, helped lift net income
to 68.5 million pounds from 54.3 million pounds a year earlier.
CapCo said it will pay a first-half dividend of half a penny,
unchanged from a year earlier.  The company owns about 50 properties in and around Covent
Garden and has a partnership with Great Portland Estates for
developing offices in the West End district, one the world’s
most expensive business locations.  CapCo lifted net rental income at  Covent Garden  by
attracting higher-paying tenants such as Apple Inc. Net rental
income generated there totaled 13.1 million pounds, a 2.3
percent increase if acquisitions and disposals are excluded.  Increased Valuation  The company raised 100 million pounds in a share sale in
May to buy more buildings in the neighborhood and today raised
its target for potential annual rental income generated there to
50 million pounds.  The higher rental income led appraisers to increase the
valuation of the Covent Garden properties by 140 million pounds
in the first half to 780 million pounds.  Rental income from CapCo’s shops and offices owned
elsewhere in London’s West End fell after it sold assets and
created vacancies to upgrade buildings to attract higher-paying
tenants.  The property company generates about half its rental income
from its exhibitions and conference business, which leases space
at the  Olympia and Earls Court  centers in west London and
another location in the  City of London  financial district.  Demand from exhibitors at the three venues fell, causing
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to drop 9 percent to 12 million pounds, the company said today.  CapCo signed a yearlong agreement last month with the
Hammersmith & Fulham municipality to discuss the inclusion of
the borough’s land in the company’s proposed redevelopment in
Earls Court and West Kensington.  Councilors are currently examining the overall plan, drawn
up by architect Terry Farrell, which would involve the
construction of 8,300 homes, 2 million square feet of commercial
space, a school, a library and health center.  Hawksworth said he expects CapCo will know whether its
planning application will proceed in about a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 