-- 
Centrotherm Starts Solar Sales Push as Asian Clients Invest

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-03T16:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/centrotherm-starts-asian-sales-push-on-1-4-billion-solar-market.html
Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN) , a
German maker of solar production equipment, began a “sales
offensive” in Asia as customers invest to produce more
efficient cells.  “Of the approximately 1,000 solar-cell production lines
worldwide, around 800 could be upgraded,” Blaubeuren-based
Centrotherm said in a statement. “There is market potential of
over 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) until the end of next year”
for the company’s two main upgrade technologies, and Centrotherm
targets a “three-digit million-euro” share of that, it said.  Solar companies are adding equipment to make high-
performance cells and modules as panel prices fall amid
declining demand in Europe. Chinese producers such as Suntech
Power Holdings Co. and LDK Solar Co. have invested in increasing
capacity, raising pressure on Western rivals such as Germany’s
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of Tempe, Arizona.  “Higher-efficiency cells sell better and that puts
pressure on manufacturers to modernize their production lines,”
Torsten Knoedler, a spokesman for Centrotherm, said today by
phone. The company is already installing its selective-emitter
technology at production lines in  China ,  Taiwan  and India and
says total investment is a “double-digit million-euro figure.”  The company confirmed its annual outlook, forecasting an
increase in sales of 11 percent to 14 percent.  Shares Drop  Centrotherm fell 2.5 percent to 21.685 euros at the 5:35
p.m. close in  Frankfurt , paring an earlier 5.3 percent loss. The
shares have slumped 20 percent this year.  A lack of data on Centrotherm’s contract wins is weighing
on the stock, Karsten Iltgen, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said today in a telephone interview.  “Confirming the guidance was good news but it may not be
enough to win back the confidence of investors, who want to know
about the most recent order intake,” said Iltgen, who
recommends investors hold the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  