-- 
Charter Hall Office Sells All U.S. Portfolio for $1.71 Billion to Beacon

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-08-03T07:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/charter-hall-office-sells-u-s-portfolio-for-1-71-billion-1-.html
Charter Hall Office REIT (CQO)  agreed to
sell its U.S. assets for $1.71 billion to entities affiliated
with Beacon Capital Partners as it completes its plan to focus
on Australian properties.  Sydney-based Charter Hall Office said it expects net
proceeds of about $575 million after transaction costs and the
repayment or transfer of debt. The trust plans to pay the
proceeds of the sale to unit holders, it said in a statement to
the stock exchange today.  Charter Hall Group last week won shareholder support to
remain the responsible entity and manager of the office trust,
defeating a bid by its biggest shareholders to remove it. The
group said then it will continue with the sale of the office
REIT’s U.S. properties and run the trust as an Australia-only
vehicle.  Completing the sale in “an increasingly volatile global
economic market is seen as a compelling risk adjusted outcome
for unitholders,” independent Chairman Roger Davis wrote in the
statement today.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch led the sale process, where a
group of 13 shortlisted parties were invited to undertake due
diligence and submit formal bids for the purchase of all or some
of the U.S. portfolio. Charter Hall Office REIT’s U.S. assets
comprise 14 office properties.  AREA Property Partners,  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  and
 Highwoods Properties Inc. (HIW)  also made bids for some or all of
Charter Hall Office’s U.S. properties, people with knowledge of
the bid told Bloomberg in May.  After the sale, the REIT will have office assets in
Australian capital cities with a book value as at June 30 of
A$1.9 billion ($2.05 billion), Chief Executive Officer Adrian Taylor said.  The shares were halted from trading today and closed
yesterday at A$3.30, up 16 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  