-- 
Chilean Central Bank Economist Herrera Sees More Interest-Rate Increases

-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-03T18:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/chilean-central-bank-economist-herrera-sees-more-interest-rate-increases.html
Chile’s central bank probably will
continue raising interest rates to keep inflation in check even
after “pretty dramatic” developments in the international
economy, said Luis Oscar Herrera, the bank’s head of research.  While the U.S. and European debt crises and prospects of
slower global growth create risks, Chilean policy makers need to
see further moderation in internal demand growth before
completing their tightening cycle, Herrera said in an interview
in Bloomberg’s Santiago office today.  Policy makers kept the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
5.25 percent last month, the first pause since January, after
inflation expectations declined amid a “highly uncertain”
global outlook, according to minutes of the July 14 meeting in
which a quarter-point increase was also discussed.  “We still feel some further tightening is needed but the
extent of that will depend on data -- on the development of the
domestic economy and the international economy,” Herrera said.
“The same concerns that were present in the last monetary
policy meeting will continue to be present on the next one.”  Policy makers will keep rates unchanged at their Aug. 18
meeting before raising to 5.5 percent by November and 5.75
percent by February, according to a survey of investors and
traders published July 27 on the central bank website.  Slowing Expansion  Economic expansion in  Chile  is slowing after surging in the
recovery from an earthquake in February last year that caused an
estimated $30 billion in damage. The economy grew 9.8 percent in
the first quarter and may expand 6 percent to 7 percent this
year, according to central bank forecasts.  Industrial production expanded 4 percent in June from a
year ago, the lowest rate in four months, while copper output
slumped to the lowest since February on strikes and inclement
weather. Retail sales rose 12.5 percent from June last year, the
 National Statistics Institute  reported July 28.  There’s no “hard data” yet to show that a consumer-
lending fraud case at retailer Empresas La Polar SA is affecting
spending in the country, although it may raise caution among
private creditors and further slow lending expansion to
consumers, Herrera said.  “On one side there is worry about the developments in the
international economy, and some of the recent developments have
been pretty dramatic,” Herrera said. “We are looking at
developments in the internal economy and the closing of the
output gap and the consequences of that on inflation. Those are
the main concerns that will continue to be present at the next
monetary policy meeting.”  Dollar Buying  Concerns over the U.S.’s ability to pay its debt, which
last week helped send Chile’s peso to the strongest level
against the dollar in three years, aren’t giving the central
bank grounds to consider changing the pace of its $12 billion
dollar-buying program, Herrera said.  The bank is buying $50 million a day to limit the Chilean
peso’s gains and accumulate reserves to better withstand global
risks. The real  exchange rate  is “at a level that is compatible
with its fundamentals,” he said.  The central bank is scheduled to release its June economic
activity indicator on Aug. 5. The median estimate of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for year-on-year growth to
slow to 5.8 percent from 7.3 percent in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Smith  in Santiago at 
 mssmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  