-- 
China Soy Demand to Gain on Higher Hog Numbers, Boosting Imports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-03T04:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/china-soy-demand-to-gain-on-higher-hog-numbers-boosting-imports.html
Soybean demand from  China , the
biggest buyer, may climb in the second half as consumption 
by the hog industry increases, boosting processing profits
and imports, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Crushing will likely expand as high pork prices and
government subsidies prompt farmers to boost pig production,
according to three researchers surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
announcement by  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  that it will lift
cooking  oil prices  may signal the government has ended price
caps, improving crushing sentiment.  Rising consumption may boost prices of soybeans in 
 Chicago , which have declined 1.7 percent this year partly
because of lower-than-expected demand in China caused by smaller
pig herds. Gains in crush margins may raise profits of Wilmar
and  China Agri-Industries Holdings Ltd. (606) , the top two crushers.  “The market is generally more optimistic about the second
half,” said Monica Tu, an analyst at  Shanghai  JC Intelligence
Co. who took part in the survey. “Animal feed demand in the
third quarter has shown evident improvement.”  Imports dropped 8 percent to 23.7 million tons in the first
six months, according to customs data. Annually, shipments may
decline for the first time since 2004 as processors use cheaper
domestic crops and lower hog numbers curb feed demand, state-
owned Grain.gov.cn said July 18. China crushes soybeans mainly
for the meal to raise pigs, chickens and livestock.  China aims to increase the number of breeding sows as it
rolls out incentives to hog farmers to boost the supply of pork
and stabilize prices, the Ministry of Agriculture said
yesterday.  Record Prices  Wholesale spot prices of pork reached a record 26.15 yuan
($4) a kilogram in the week of July 15, according to the
Ministry of Commerce. Inflation in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy accelerated to the highest in three years in June
from a year earlier, driven by a 57 percent increase in the
retail cost of pork.  Crushing of domestic soybeans may be as much as 5.3 million
tons this year, compared with 2.2 million tons in 2010,
Grain.gov.cn has said. Soybean meal prices in Shandong province,
the largest importer of the oilseed, have gained 1.1 percent
from 3,000 yuan a ton, the lowest this year, on May 20, data
from Shanghai JC show.  Imports in 2011 may be 51 million tons, down from 54.8
million tons last year, Grain.gov.cn said July 18. Shipments may
rebound to about 54 million tons in 2012, it said.  Inventories Climb  Inventory of live hogs has risen to 456 million by June,
after touching 445 million in January, the lowest level since
2009, according to  statements  from the Ministry of Agriculture.
The number of pigs slaughtered in the first half this year
declined 4.8 percent from a year ago, it said.  As it takes about four-to-five months for piglets to mature
and be ready for slaughter, feed demand will keep rising until
at least November, Shanghai JC’s Tu said.  Consumption of cooking oil is also expected to rise as food
producers buy supplies before the  Mid-Autumn Festival  in
September and the week-long National Day holidays beginning Oct.
1, the China National Grain & Oils Information Center said.  The government’s loosening of price controls, signaled by
Wilmar’s price increase announcement yesterday, will also buoy
the industry’s optimism and boost crushing, Du Weijia, an
analyst at Wanda Futures Co., said yesterday.  China imposed curbs on prices in September last year in
private meetings with top suppliers as part of its measures to
curb inflation.  Profit Boost  CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. raised its 2011-2012 profit
forecast for Wilmar by 1 percent after it announced the oil
price increase, according to an e-mailed note today. CIMB also
increased its forecast on share target price to S$6.25 from
S$6.20.  The government may have allowed the limited increase to
test the market response as crushers are faced with rising costs
of raw materials, said Du, who also participated in the survey.  Soybeans for November delivery were little changed at
$13.7875 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The most-active
contract has gained 35 percent in the past year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  