-- 
China’s Non-Manufacturing Industries Expanded in July, PMI Surveys Show

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-03T05:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/china-non-manufacturing-industries-expand-easing-concerns-over-slowdown.html
A Chinese non-manufacturing index
rose for the first time in three months in July, indicating some
industries are withstanding the government’s campaign to cool
inflation in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  A purchasing managers’ index rose to 59.6 from 57 in June,
the  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing  said on its
website today. A reading above 50 indicates growth. A separate
measure released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed a moderating pace of expansion.  Today’s data may ease concerns that Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
policies to rein in consumer and property prices will trigger a
deeper slowdown in the economy that’s been the main contributor
to global growth. The government’s drive to boost wages and
build 10 million low-income housing units this year may help
counter weakening demand for exports as the U.S. and European
recoveries falter.  “Non-manufacturing activity is getting stronger,” Cai Jin,
the federation’s vice president, said in a statement.
“Companies’ purchasing activities are becoming more active,
signaling that economic growth has been accelerating in a steady
manner recently.”  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the
bigger of China’s stock exchanges, rose 0.1 percent to 2,681.68
at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  The federation’s non-manufacturing PMI is based on a survey
of about 1,200 companies in 20 industries including transport,
real estate, retailing, catering and software.  Export Orders Jump  The gauge of new orders rose to 55.6 in July from 53.5 the
previous month and employment climbed to a record 56.5 from 54.2,
the federation said. The measure of new export orders recorded
the biggest gain among all sub-indexes, rising by 2.9 points to
56.5 in July, the data showed.  The HSBC services index, which surveys purchasing managers
in 400 privately owned companies, expanded at a slower pace for
the second month. The gauge was 53.5 in July after 54.1 in June.  The moderation primarily reflected slowing growth in new
business, with some companies reporting an impact from
government policies to cool the  property market , HSBC said in an
e-mailed statement.  “Despite the slowdown, the service sector continues to
expand steadily and will find support from resilient”  consumer
spending ,  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at HSBC in  Hong Kong ,
said in the statement.  The expansion in services, which accounted for 43 percent
of gross domestic product last year, contrasts with a more
pronounced slowdown in other industries.  ‘Clear Slowdown’  The logistics federation’s purchasing managers’ index for
manufacturing dropped to the lowest level in 29 months in July,
and a separate gauge published by HSBC showed a contraction for
the first time in a year, data issued on Aug. 1 showed.  “There has been a clear slowdown,” Fred Hu, founder and
chairman of Beijing-based financial advisory firm Primavera
Capital Group and a former chairman of Greater  China  for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday. “But that might be just what the doctor has ordered
to bring inflation under control.”  Consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, the most in three years and gains have exceeded the
government’s 4 percent ceiling each month this year.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates inflation eased to
6.3 percent last month while Citigroup Inc. forecasts a rate of
6.5 percent. The statistics bureau is scheduled to release
July’s consumer-price data on Aug. 9.  Cost Pressure  Today’s report from the logistics federation showed a
measure of input prices rose to 63.1 in July from 61.6 the
previous month, while HSBC’s gauge climbed at the slowest pace
in five months. A measure of prices charged also rose in both
indexes.  “Cost pressures are still large,” the federation said.  The business index for small and medium-sized enterprises
declined for a third month, falling below 50 in July, the
federation said, without providing figures.  “The business and operating environment for smaller
companies is becoming harsher,” as they face rising raw
material and labor costs, coupled with financing difficulties
caused by tighter monetary policy, the organization said.  “Small and medium-sized enterprises in China now are
really, really suffering from a credit crunch and are under
severe pressure, laying off people and even shutting down their
operations,” Primavera’s Hu said yesterday.  Rising Wages  Growth in China is slowing after the government raised
 interest rates , tightened credit and cracked down on property
speculation to rein in inflation. Gross domestic product climbed
9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, slowing
from 9.7 percent in the first three months.  Still, expansion is being supported by spending on low-cost
housing and rising wages.  The government, which has pledged to build 36 million homes
for low-income households by 2015, will ensure that the
construction of 10 million units begins by the end of November,
the State Council said last month.  A total of 13 provinces raised minimum wages in the first
quarter of the year by an average 21 percent, data from the
Human Resources and Social Security Ministry show. Per capita
urban disposable income rose 13.2 percent in the first half of
the year and rural cash incomes climbed 20.4 percent, the
statistics bureau said last month.  Nissan Motor Co. said last month its Chinese venture will
increase the number of dealerships in the nation to 2,400 from
1,400 within five years to take a bigger share of the world’s
largest car market.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Regina Tan and Huang Zhe in
Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  