-- 
China Rail Ministry ‘Kingdom’ May Be Split Up on Fatal Crash

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-04T08:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/china-rail-ministry-kingdom-may-face-breakup-on-fatal-crash-corruption.html
China’s deadliest high-speed train
crash may hasten the breakup of a ministry that runs the world’s
second-largest rail network, employs more people than the U.S.
government and has debts larger than  Denmark ’s economy.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged more focus on safety and
greater accountability following the July 23 crash that killed
40 people, endangering the Ministry of Railways’ dual grip on
regulating and operating China’s trains. Dividing these roles
may improve management, financial transparency and safety, said
Hu Xingdou, an economics professor at the Beijing Institute of
Technology.  “The rail ministry has been run like an independent
kingdom for years,” Hu said. “The concentration of power has
caused inefficiency and mismanagement, and it’s a hotbed for
corruption.”  Sheng Guangzu, who became rail minister in February after
his predecessor was removed during a bribery investigation,
faces public anger over the accident, ministry ties to suppliers
and the burial of a train carriage before rescue work was
completed. He’s also wrestling with waning demand for ministry
bonds and debts totaling 2.1 trillion yuan ($326 billion), or
about 5 percent of gross domestic product.  Referee, Player  Separating the ministry’s regulatory and operating roles
would bring the railways into line with other parts of  China ’s
state-run economy, including aviation, telecommunications and
energy. In those sectors, government-backed companies, which are
often listed, run the day-to-day businesses while separate state
agencies regulate them.  “The ministry’s dual role as referee and market player
should be ended,” said Mao Shoulong, a public policy and
politics professor at Beijing-based Renmin University of China.
“The crash may provide a catalyst for the reform.”  The department, which employs 2.1 million people and has
its own court system, accumulated and retained its powers partly
because of a traditional national-defense role, Hu said. The
Communist Party has relied on railways to speed troop movements
since coming to power, he said.  The ministry’s media division didn’t reply to questions
faxed by Bloomberg News last week.  Former rail minister Liu Zhijun said in 2008 that the
organization wouldn’t be combined with the transport ministry
because of the need to focus on building new lines, according to
the  Beijing News  daily newspaper.  Bribery Probe  Liu was removed for taking bribes, state-run Xinhua News
Agency said in February, citing the Communist Party’s Central
Commission for Discipline Inspection and the Ministry of
Supervision. The  National Audit Office  said in March it found
that 187 million yuan was embezzled from construction of the
Beijing-Shanghai bullet-train line, which opened in June.  The ministry uses a bidding process to award contracts for
construction projects and buying new trains and equipment,
according to the website of its engineering-project tendering
unit. Still, it retains control of some parts-makers, said Yuan
Gangming, a researcher with the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences .  “The ministry’s interests are closely tied up with its
suppliers and subsidiaries, so it’s natural for the public to
believe the ministry is responsible for the crash,” he said.
“For that reason, it should be split up.”  Lightning Strike  The July 23 accident occurred when a train that stopped
after a lighting strike was rear-ended by a second locomotive.
Rescue workers initially buried one of the derailed carriages,
though it was later dug up after public criticism. The ministry
said the car was buried so a crane could move into position,
according to a  statement  on its website.  A preliminary investigation attributed the crash to a
signaling fault. A unit of China Railway Signal & Communication
Corp., formerly part of the ministry,  apologized  after the crash.
It didn’t say what equipment it had designed or built.  The State Administration of Work Safety, which reports to
the State Council, or Cabinet, is now leading a full probe,
according to Xinhua. The government also fired three officials,
including the head of the regional rail bureau, and started a
two-month review of railway safety.  Sheng pledged to ensure the “absolute” safety of high-
speed railways by improving the quality of equipment, management
and training, according to a  statement  posted on the ministry’s
website yesterday.  Corporate Debt  Liu championed construction of the high-speed rail network,
which opened in 2007 and is due to reach 16,000 kilometers
(9,900 miles) by 2015. The nationwide rail network is set to
reach 120,000 kilometers under a 2.8 trillion-yuan, five-year
 investment plan  running through 2015.  The government now may slow that plan by as much as a year,
said Karen Li, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  Hong Kong .
During a July 28 visit to the crash site near Wenzhou in
southeast China, Wen said the industry needed to place more
emphasis on safety rather than expansion.  Even before the crash, the rail ministry, China’s largest
issuer of corporate debt, was finding it harder to raise funds
for construction and other projects because of tightening credit
and concerns about its borrowings.  It was only able to find buyers for 18.7 billion yuan of
one-year notes in a 20 billion-yuan sale on July 21. That was
likely the first time the ministry had failed to reach a sales
target, according to Guotai Junan Securities Co.  Schools, Hospitals  The yield gap between the ministry’s one-year notes and
government debt has more than tripled this year to about 188
basis points, according to Chinabond data on the Bloomberg
terminal.  The size of the debt may hinder efforts to break up the
rail ministry,  Stephen Green , a Hong Kong-based Standard
Chartered Plc analyst, said in a July 29 note.  The ministry has been downsized previously as part of
broader reforms, with hundreds of schools and hospitals it once
controlled being handed over to local governments.  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  and China Railway Construction
Corp., the world’s two biggest listed heavy-construction
companies, were also once part of the ministry before being
transferred to the state-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission. The nation’s two biggest trainmakers,
CSR Corp. and China CNR Corp., were also previously under the
rail department.  The dismantling should continue following last month’s
crash, Mao said.  “The ministry enjoys too high a ranking and too much
power,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  