-- 
China Joins Russia in Blasting U.S. Borrowing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-03T06:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/china-s-zhou-to-monitor-u-s-debt-as-xinhua-sees-bomb-yet-to-be-defused.html
China , the largest foreign investor
in U.S. government securities, joined Russia in criticizing
American policy makers for failing to ensure borrowing is reined
in after a stopgap deal to raise the nation’s debt limit.  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said China’s
central bank will monitor U.S. efforts to tackle its debt, and
state-run Xinhua News Agency blasted what it called the
“madcap” brinksmanship of American lawmakers. Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  said two days ago that the U.S. is in a
way “leeching on the world economy.”  The comments reflect concern that the U.S. may lose its AAA
sovereign rating after President  Barack Obama  and Congress put
off decisions on spending cuts and tax increases to assure
enactment of a boost in borrowing authority. China and  Russia ,
holding a total $1.28 trillion of Treasuries, have lost nothing
so far in the wake of a rally in the securities this year.  “It’s probably frustration more than anything else for
China,” said  Brian Jackson , a senior strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in  Hong Kong . While the nation has concerns, “they
realize there’s not a lot of options for them out there and so
they need to keep buying Treasuries.”  China held $1.16 trillion of Treasuries as of May, U.S.
Treasury Department data show. The nation has accumulated the
holdings as a by-product of holding down the value of its
currency, a policy U.S. officials have said gives China an
unfair advantage in trade.  Treasuries Gain  Expressions of concern about the fiscal health of the U.S.
and the impasse among lawmakers have failed to dent global
demand for the securities, with yields on 10-year notes
declining to the lowest levels since November. Two-year yields
fell to a record low in Tokyo trading today.  Investors in Treasuries earned 3.12 percent in the three
months ending July 31, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. That means a $10 million holding earned $312,000 in the
period.  China’s central bank welcomes this week’s legislation that
raised the U.S. debt limit, preventing a default, and will
“closely observe” the implementation, Zhou said in a statement
on the central bank’s website today. Xinhua said the move
“failed to defuse  Washington ’s debt bomb for good,” in a
commentary dated yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  indicated last week that anything less
than $4 trillion in deficit cuts would jeopardize its AAA rating
for the U.S. The measure enacted by Obama yesterday threatens
automatic spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending
reductions over the next 10 years.  ‘First Step’  Obama said yesterday the debt measure was a “first step”
on a path that must also include increasing revenue. The $14.3
trillion debt ceiling will be raised by at least $2.1 trillion.  “They are living beyond their means and transferring part
of the problems onto the world economy,” Putin told a youth
camp at Lake Seliger outside Moscow Aug. 1. “In a way, they are
leeching on the world economy.”  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings say their AAA
credit ratings for the U.S. may be downgraded if lawmakers fail
to enact deficit-reduction measures and the economy weakens.
China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. today cut its grade for
the U.S. to A from A+ with a negative outlook.  “China hopes the U.S. administration and the Congress
would take responsible policy measures to handle its debt
issue,” Zhou said. He highlighted the global role of U.S.
Treasuries, saying that any “large fluctuations and
uncertainties” in the market for the securities would undermine
financial stability and hinder the world economic recovery.  ‘Madcap Farce’  The Xinhua commentary said that the higher debt ceiling and
plans to reduce spending were not enough to make any sizable
dent in the nation’s fiscal burden. It referred to a “madcap
farce of brinksmanship” before the agreement was reached.  A previous Xinhua commentary on clashes between Republicans
and Democrats said that “the ugliest part of the saga is that
the well-being of many other countries is also in the impact
zone when the donkey and the elephant fight,” referring to the
symbols often used for the Democratic and Republican parties.  Obama signed the debt-limit compromise yesterday. The
measure raises the ceiling until 2013.  In his statement, Zhou also commented on China’s foreign-
exchange reserves, which are the world’s largest at more than $3
trillion.  The Asian nation will continue to “seek diversification in
the management of reserve assets, strengthen risk management,
and minimize the negative impacts of the fluctuations in the
international financial market on the Chinese economy,” Zhou
said. China will also take “effective measures to maintain
relatively rapid growth to safeguard economic and financial
stability,” he added.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Anton Doroshev and Jack
Jordan in Moscow and Wes Goodman in  Singapore . Editors: Chris
Anstey, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  