-- 
Container Lines to Add Peak Surcharge on Asia-U.S. Route Starting Aug. 15

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-04T05:13:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/container-lines-to-add-peak-surcharge-on-asia-u-s-route-starting-aug-15.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, owner of the
world’s biggest container shipping line, and 14 other carriers
will seek a peak-season surcharge two months later than
previously scheduled amid weaker-than-expected demand.  The shipping lines will ask customers to pay an additional
fee for cargo to the U.S. from  Asia , the 15-member  Transpacific
Stabilization Agreement  said in an e-mailed statement dated Aug.
3. The group had said in  November  it would impose a $400 per 40-
foot container surcharge from June 15.  Maersk and the other 14 member lines refrained from adding
surcharges in June and July, a sign that the seasonal increase
in demand as U.S. retailers restock for back-to-school and
holiday shopping periods is weaker than usual. The companies may
face more resistance to the fee after consumer spending U.S.
unexpectedly fell in June for the first time in almost two
years.  “There are doubts about how successful the shipping lines
will be on levying the surcharge considering how U.S. consumers
appear to be less eager to spend money,” said Shin Ji Yoon, an
analyst at KTB Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Shipping
lines are having problems filling up space on their vessels,
while costs such as fuel are high. That’s not a good
combination.”  Fuel costs jumped 34 percent this year, while railroad and
trucking charges have also increased on key routes, the shipping
group said.  The price of 380 Centistoke marine bunker fuel, used by
ships, fell 0.3 percent to $680.50 per metric ton in  Singapore 
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose to
$688.50 on Aug. 1, the highest since Sept. 1, 2008.  China Shipping Container Lines Co., the country’s second-
biggest carrier of sea-cargo boxes, dropped as much as 2.8
percent to HK$2.05 and traded at HK$2.09 as of 1 p.m. in  Hong
Kong . Hanjin Shipping Co.,  South Korea ’s largest, fell as much
as 2 percent to 19,900 won in Seoul.  “Forward bookings suggest the beginning of a late trans-
Pacific peak amid higher costs,” the TSA said in the statement.  Members of the group include APL Ltd.,  Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , China Shipping Container Lines, CMA CGM SA,
Mediterranean Shipping Co., Cosco Container Lines Ltd., Nippon
Yusen K.K., Evergreen Line, Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd.,
Hanjin Shipping, Yangming Marine Transport Corp., Hapag-Lloyd
AG,  Zim Integrated Shipping Services Ltd.  and Hyundai Merchant
Marine Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  