-- 
Cooperative Bank of Kenya First-Half Profit Rises 41% as Lending Increases

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-03T13:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/cooperative-bank-of-kenya-first-half-profit-rises-41-as-lending-increases.html
Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd., the
East African nation’s fifth-largest lender, forecast that profit
will rise by 42 percent this year to 6.5 billion shillings ($71
million), supported by credit growth.  Net income climbed 41 percent to 3.31 billion shillings, or
95 cents per share, in the six months through June, compared
with 2.34 billion shillings, or 67 cents, in the same period a
year earlier, Chief Executive Officer Gideon Muriuki told
reporters in the capital, Nairobi, today.  Net interest income, the money banks earn from loan
charges, surged 46 percent to 5.96 billion shillings, he said.
Profit last year grew 55 percent to 4.59 billion shillings.  “Even though there will be pressure on the cost of funds
in the second half of the year, we expect sustainable growth
because we’ve diversified our asset portfolio, which has been
very good for us,” Muriuki said in an interview today.  Interest rates  in East Africa’s largest economy have risen
this year after the central bank twice boosted the key lending
rate from a record low in January, and imposed tougher
restrictions on borrowing from its overnight window.  The central bank left the benchmark interest rate unchanged
at its last meeting on July 27. The cost of borrowing will
probably remain steady for the rest of the year, Muriuki said.  Customers increased 57 percent to 2.2 million in the first
half while the number of branches stands at 89, compared with 36
in 2009, Muriuki said. Cooperative Bank is not planning a rights
offer, as some observers have speculated, he said.  Peer Comparison  Cooperative Bank’s 33 percent return on equity in the first
half outpaces many of its Kenyan peers, highlighting it as an
appealing investment option, said Judd Murigi, head of East
African research for African Alliance Securities Ltd.  “The bank is still one of the most attractive in the
banking sector on the basis of return on equity,” Murigi said
in an interview in Nairobi today.  The shares rose 1 percent to 15.15 shillings by the 3 p.m.
close in Nairobi today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 