-- 
Corn Drops on Economic Woes; Soybeans Decline on Favorable Weather in U.S

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T15:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/corn-drops-on-economic-woes-soybeans-decline-on-favorable-weather-in-u-s.html
Corn fell from a seven-week high on
concern that the global economy will sag amid lower spending by
U.S. consumers and companies, reducing grain demand. Soybeans
dropped as beneficial weather may boost yields.  Service industries  expanded in July at the slowest pace
since February 2010, the  Institute for Supply Management  said
today. Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc.,
which oversee a combined $5 trillion, say the  U.S. economy  is
stalling.  “More economists are talking about a slowdown, and that
may have a negative impact on demand,”  Jim Gerlach , the
president of A/C Trading Inc. in Fowler, Indiana, said in a
telephone interview. “Investor worries about a return of their
capital, rather than a return on their capital, is at the
forefront, with ‘risk-off’ trading dominating markets.”  Corn futures for December delivery fell 5.75 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $7.10 a bushel at 10:51 a.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Yesterday, the price surged 4.4 percent to $7.1575, the
highest for a most-active contract since June 9. Before today,
the grain jumped 77 percent in the past year.  Some soybean fields from  Colorado  to Iowa may get as much
as 4 inches (10 centimeters) of rain in the next three days with
more precipitation and cooler temperatures developing after Aug.
8, Dave Tolleris, the president of WXRisk.com in Richmond,
Virginia, said in a report.  “Soybeans will benefit from the cooler, wetter weather,
but the damage to corn from hot, dry weather last month is
irreversible,” Gerlach of A/C Trading said.  Soybean futures for November delivery fell 8.75 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $13.71 a bushel, heading for the first drop in
three sessions. Before today, the oilseed gained 37 percent in
the past year.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, USDA data show  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  