-- 
Corn Drops as U.S. Slowdown May Reduce Commodity Demand; Wheat, Soy Fall

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-08-03T19:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/corn-drops-as-u-s-slowdown-may-reduce-commodity-demand-wheat-soy-fall.html
Corn fell from a seven-week high on
concern that lower spending by U.S. consumers and companies will
reduce grain demand. Soybeans and wheat also declined.  Service industries  expanded in July at the slowest pace
since February 2010, the  Institute for Supply Management  said
today. Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc.,
which oversee a combined $5 trillion, said the  U.S. economy  is
stalling. Corn has rallied 76 percent in the past year on
expectations of increased demand for ethanol and animal feed.  “More economists are talking about a slowdown, and that
may have a negative impact on demand,”  Jim Gerlach , the
president of A/C Trading Inc. in Fowler, Indiana, said in a
telephone interview. “Investor worries about a return of their
capital, rather than a return on their capital, is at the
forefront, with ‘risk-off’ trading dominating markets.”  Corn futures for December delivery fell 2.75 cents, or 0.4
percent, to close at $7.13 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $7.185, the highest
for a most-active contract since June 9.  Soybean futures for November delivery declined 6.75 cents,
or 0.5 percent, to $13.73 a bushel on the CBOT, the first drop
in three sessions. The oilseed has climbed 35 percent in the
past year.  Some soybean fields from Colorado to Iowa may get as much
as 4 inches (10 centimeters) of rain in the next three days with
more precipitation and cooler temperatures developing after Aug.
8, Dave Tolleris, the president of WXRisk.com in Richmond,
 Virginia , said in a report.  “Soybeans will benefit from the cooler, wetter weather,
but the damage to corn from hot, dry weather last month is
irreversible,” A/C Trading’s Gerlach said.  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 8.75 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $7.50 a bushel in Chicago. The most-active contract
has gained 10 percent in the past 12 months.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest, behind hay, at $13 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  