-- 
Crude Oil Declines to Five-Week Low on Concern U.S. Economy Is Faltering

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-08-03T19:44:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/crude-oil-falls-for-fourth-session-as-sagging-u-s-economy-may-damp-demand.html
Crude oil dropped to a five-week low
on concern that a faltering economy will curb demand in the
U.S., the world’s leading consumer.  Futures fell 2 percent after a report showed  service
industries  expanded in July at the slowest pace since February
2010. Stocks fell and Treasuries rose on the economic outlook.
The decline accelerated after the Energy Department said crude
supplies climbed 950,000 barrels to 355 million last week.  “The main driver is the economy,” said Sean Brodrick, a
natural resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in Jupiter,
 Florida . “If the  U.S. economy  is slowing, the easiest path for
oil is lower. We’ll soon be testing support just below $90.”  Crude oil for September delivery dropped $1.86 to settle at
$91.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since June 27. Prices have climbed 11 percent in the
past year.  Brent oil for September settlement declined $3.23, or 2.8
percent, to end the session at $113.23 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. It was the biggest drop since
June 23, when the  International Energy Agency  announced its
members were offering 60 million barrels of oil from emergency
stockpiles to damp prices.  The European benchmark traded at a $21.30 premium to oil
traded in New York, down from a record $22.67 yesterday based on
closing prices.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, dropped to 52.7 from 53.3 in June. Readings above 50
signal expansion, and economists projected 53.5 for July,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  AAA Rating  Executives from firms that advise the Treasury Department,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
said yesterday that a cut in the U.S. credit rating isn’t
imminent, according to minutes of their meeting. The department
released the minutes today.  Moody’s Investors Service said the U.S. credit rating may
be cut. The nation, rated AAA since 1917, was placed on negative
outlook, New York-based Moody’s said in a statement as it
confirmed the rating. It warned on July 29 that a negative
outlook was “more likely” as lawmakers reduced the size of
spending cuts being negotiated to win approval on a plan to lift
the nation’s borrowing limit.  “The outlook for the economy is negative and there are
still worries about a possible downgrade,” said  Tom Bentz , a
broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in  New York .
“The debt ceiling agreement is just the beginning, there’s a
lot more that will have to be done.”  Debt Limit  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill to raise the U.S. debt
limit by at least $2.1 trillion, averting by hours a first-ever
U.S. financial default, amid signs of a slowing economy and
continued debt problems in Europe.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual
rate last quarter after expanding 0.4 percent in the first three
months of 2011, the worst performance since the start of the
recovery in June 2009, the Commerce Department said on July 29.  “We’ve had four months of poor economic headlines,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-based
Schork Group Inc. “The revision of the first-quarter GDP last
week to just 0.4 percent shows that there is basically no
growth. The specter of a double-dip recession is growing.”  U.S. crude oil inventories were forecast to increase by 1.5
million barrels, according to the median of 14 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Negative Numbers’  Gasoline inventories rose 1.7 million barrels to 215.2
million last week, the highest level since April 1. Supplies of
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, increased 409,000 barrels to 152.3 million.  Consumption of gasoline slipped 0.3 percent to 9.07 million
barrels in the four weeks ended July 29, down 3.6 percent from
the same period a year earlier, the report showed.  “We’ve seen a spate of negative numbers from the U.S. and
these large budget cuts may only make it worse,” said Torbjoern Kjus, a senior analyst at  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR)  in Oslo. “Demand is
looking very poor in the U.S. and that’s weighing on the market.
We haven’t really had a driving season this summer, or rather
it’s been much weaker than last year.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 606,666
contracts as of 3:19 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 616,720
contracts yesterday, 8.5 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 