-- 
CSN May Buy More Shares in Rival Steelmaker Usiminas Amid Surge in Profit

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-03T20:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/csn-second-quarter-profit-rises-30-on-iron-ore-stake-sale.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, the
Brazilian steelmaker which posted a 30 percent gain in second
quarter profit, may buy more shares in  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA (USIM5)  after building a 10 percent stake in its rival.  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, is analyzing
options for its Usiminas holdings, Chief Financial Officer
Alberto Monteiro said today on an earnings conference call. Late
yesterday, CSN said net income rose to 1.14 billion reais ($726
million), beating the 911 million-reais average estimate on an
adjusted basis of four analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The steelmaker has been buying stock in its bigger
competitor since at least January, when CSN said it may increase
its stake in Usiminas to a level that could alter the rival’s
management or control structure. The company boosted its stake
to 10.2 percent of Usiminas’s preferred stock and 10.84 percent
of the common shares, according to a July 28 regulatory filing.  “A key concern about CSN remains the acquisition of
Usiminas’s stock,” Banco Santander SA analysts led by Felipe Reis in  Sao Paulo  said in a note to customers today. “It’s not
the best way to employ its cash in the short-term,” they said.  CSN dropped 4 centavos, or 0.3 percent, to 15.56 reais in
Sao Paulo trading, after earlier declining as much as 3.3
percent. Usiminas’s preferred shares, the most-traded class of
stock, fell 2 percent to 10.72 reais, while the common shares
declined 1.4 percent to 20.81 reais.  ‘Strategic Alternatives’  “CSN continues evaluating the strategic alternatives of
our investment in Usiminas including possible additional share
acquisitions,” Monteiro said, without giving more details.  CSN’s second quarter sales gained 12 percent to 4.32
billion reais as iron-ore sales increased 8.3 percent from a
year earlier to a record 6.74 million metric tons. Crude-steel
sales volumes were unchanged at 1.3 million tons, it said. The
company also posted a gain of 698 million reais from selling a
stake in Riversdale Mining Ltd. to Rio Tinto Group in April.  “Operationally, we believe this was a solid quarter for
CSN,” Jonathan Brandt, an HSBC Holdings Plc equity analyst in
 New York , said in a note to customers today. “Profitability in
the mining division remained high.”  CSN’s mining unit, which accounted for 54 percent of
adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, is helping offset lower steel margins.  Brazilian steelmakers face a “challenging” second-half
scenario because of weak prices, an appreciating local currency,
high inventories and increased competition in  Brazil , Bank of
America Corp. analysts led by Felipe Hirai in Sao Paulo said in
a note to clients on July 21.  Stable Prices  CSN expects “stability” for steel prices in the second
half, commercial director Luiz Martinez said today on the
earnings call. The company plans to spend 11 billion reais over
the next five years on mining and port investments, mining unit
director Daniel Santos also said.  Usiminas said yesterday that second-quarter profit slumped
73 percent after steel production and sales dropped.  Gerdau SA,  Latin America ’s largest steel producer, is
expected tomorrow to post second-quarter net income of 510.5
million reais on an adjusted basis, according to the average of
six analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  