-- 
Cut Equity Weightings in U.S., Canada, RBC’s Zyblock Recommends

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-08-03T17:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/cut-equity-weightings-in-u-s-canada-rbc-s-zyblock-recommends.html
The “soft patch” in the U.S.
recovery may extend into the rest of 2011, so investors should
reduce their investments in U.S. and  Canada  stocks, Royal Bank
of Canada’s Myles Zyblock said today.  RBC downgraded U.S. and Canada equities to a “below-
benchmark” level because corporate earnings and revenue
estimates appear “elevated” as economic growth falters,
Zyblock said in a note.  “There is clear evidence that the ‘soft patch’ is
extending into the second half of the year,” Zyblock said.
“Not only do top-line estimates appear elevated given all
indications that nominal GDP growth is weakening, but bottom-
line forecasts are not being sensitive enough to the fact that
profitability is already at a multi-decade high.” He said any
bounce “should be used to lighten equity exposure.”  The  U.S. economy  grew 1.3 percent in the second quarter,
less than forecast, following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed on July 29. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent
increase. Earnings per share for companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index are predicted to rise 9.5 percent this year.  Zyblock lowered U.S. financial and industrial companies to
“underweight” from “market weight,” while raising utilities
and telecommunications to “market weight” from
“underweight,” he said in the note.  In a separate note about Canada, Zyblock said he boosted
telecommunications and consumer-staples companies to
“overweight” from “underweight,” and upgraded utilities to
“overweight” from “market weight.” He downgraded energy and
information-technology companies to “underweight” from
“market weight,” and consumer-discretionary stocks to “market
weight” from “overweight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Taylor in New York at 
 vtaylor6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  