-- 
TCW Employee Says She Smuggled External Hard Drive in Bra

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T23:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/tcw-vp-says-she-smuggled-external-hard-drive-in-bra-as-gundlach-was-fired.html
A TCW Group Inc. vice president said
she smuggled an external hard drive in her bra to a managing
director at the firm the day he was put on leave together with
investment chief  Jeffrey Gundlach  and escorted from the
building.  Dolores Talamantes testified today at a trial that pits
TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE) , against
Gundlach, ex-managing director Cris  Santa Ana  and two other
former employees who joined Gundlach’s DoubleLine Capital LP,
the asset management firm he formed within weeks after TCW fired
him in December 2009.  TCW alleges that Santa Ana downloaded confidential and
proprietary information on the hard drive in 2009 as he and
Gundlach plotted to start DoubleLine. The former TCW employees
deny having used the information at DoubleLine and claim TCW
fired them to avoid having to pay hundreds of millions of
dollars in performance fees to Gundlach’s group.  Talamantes said that she had been with other TCW employees
from Gundlach’s group at a bar/restaurant downstairs from the
firm’s office in downtown  Los Angeles  on Dec. 4, 2009, the day
Gundlach was relieved of his duties. She said she had gone up to
the office around 6 p.m. and ran into another employee, Melissa Conn, who was holding the hard drive.  ‘Stuffed It In’  “I said ‘give it to me’ and stuffed it in my bra,”
Talamantes told jurors in Los Angeles state court.  Conn testified earlier today that she had taken the hard
drive from Santa Ana’s desk around that time and put it in her
purse and that she was uncertain whether she should take it from
the trading floor because it might contain TCW data as well as
Santa Ana’s private files. Conn had also been at Magnolia, the
restaurant downstairs, earlier that evening before going back up
to the office, she said.  After she found Santa Ana, who had been escorted from the
office in the afternoon, at Magnolia, Talamantes told him she
had something for him and they went to his car where she gave
him the hard drive, she testified.  “He said ‘I love you’ and gave me a hug,” Talamantes
said.  TCW said Gundlach, Santa Ana and the others were fired
because they started stealing  trade secrets  and confidential
information, including client portfolio information, in
September 2009. TCW alleges Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to
set up DoubleLine as quickly as he did without its proprietary
information.  Gundlach, whose group managed more than half of TCW’s
$110 billion under management, says TCW owns him about
$500 million in management and performance fees for the
distressed-asset funds he started in 2008 and that went
“through the roof.”  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  