-- 
Czech Central Bank May Keep Interest Rate at Record Low on Euro Debt Woes

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-08-04T07:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/czech-central-bank-may-keep-interest-rate-at-record-low-on-euro-debt-woes.html
The Czech central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low for a 14th
month as the euro area’s debt crisis threatens the eastern
European country’s economic recovery.  The  Ceska Narodni Banka  will leave the two-week repurchase
rate at 0.75 percent, below the  European Central Bank ’s
benchmark, according to 20 of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Two predicted a quarter-point increase, which
would be the first increase in borrowing costs in 2 ½ years.  The euro area’s debt crisis, which is threatening to spread
to  Italy , has reduced chances Czech policy makers will follow
their counterparts across  Europe  in raising borrowing costs to
curb inflation. Even with the Czech economy expanding faster
than projected, a rate increase is not needed as demand-driven
inflation remains under control and the outlook for the euro
area’s economy is risky, economists said.  “Tremendous uncertainty over the development in the  euro
zone  speaks in favor of stable Czech rates,” said Radomir Jac,
an economist at Generali PPF AS in  Prague . “Even as some
domestic data may signal somewhat stronger inflationary risks,
the external factors have become disinflationary in the past.”  In eastern Europe, Romania yesterday left its benchmark
rate at 6.25 percent for a 10th meeting, following hold
decisions in Poland and  Hungary , amid the U.S. and European debt
crises. The Russian central bank is expected to do the same as
early as today, as is the ECB.  GDP Projection  The Czech koruna was little changed at 24.256 against the
euro at 9 a.m.in Prague.  The Czech central bank will probably raise its projection
for 2011 economic growth closer to 2 percent in its next
quarterly forecast, which will be considered in today’s
monetary-policy debate. At the same time, the bank will probably
raise its forecast for inflation, which it saw at 2.2 percent in
the second quarter of 2012.  Still, the higher inflation projection will be driven
mostly by higher sales taxes, rather than a sign of surging
domestic demand, which will continue to suffer from the
government’s austerity measures, economists said.  The inflation rate fell to 1.8 percent in June, after
rising commodity prices pushed the rate to 2 percent in the
previous month, the highest this year. The central bank in its
last quarterly forecast released predicted the May rate at 1.7
percent.  Euribor Rate  A lower outlook for the Euribor, the euro interbank offered
rate, may help delay the rate increase, economists including Jac
said, echoing comments by central bank Vice Governor Vladimir
Tomsik in a July 27 interview. The increase, which was signaled
in the May forecast, may not happen until next year, Tomsik
said.  After the ECB raised its benchmark rate to 1.5 percent in
July, the debt crisis has caused investors to cut expectations
for a further increase in euro-area market rates.  Forward-rate agreements locking in three-month euro-area
 interest rates  in nine months time have dropped to about 1.6
percent from 2.1 percent on May 5, when the Czech central bank
published its latest economic forecasts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors have also scaled back bets on higher Czech
interest rates, with forward-rate agreements locking in three-
month interest rates in six months dropping below 1.4 percent
from 1.62 percent on May 5. Forwards locking in three-month
rates in nine months have since fell about 0.4 percentage point.  Czech policy makers have offered differing views on
inflation risks, with some saying the economic recovery may
stoke price pressures, warranting higher borrowing costs now.
Two policy makers voted for a quarter-point rate increase at the
last meeting on June 23.  Rate Debate  Some economists share this view, saying the current
positive inflation data and concern about the euro-region’s
economy shouldn’t prevent the central bank from increasing the
key rate as early as today. Policy makers should respond to the
possibility that inflation will pick up in a longer period,
between 12 and 18 months from now, said Lubos Mokras, an
economist at Ceska Sporitelna AS.  The long phase of an “extremely low” benchmark rate is
set to translate into a lending boost in the near future, said
 Ales Michl , an economist at Raiffeisen Bank in Prague, who is
also predicting a quarter-point increase in the key rate today.  “The amount of money in the economy is growing faster and
banks are ready to lend,” he said. “Such a boost may have
inflationary consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 