-- 
Denmark Forcing Liquidity Crisis on Banks: Naur

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-04T09:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/danish-government-is-forcing-liquidity-crisis-on-healthy-banks-naur-says.html
The Danish state’s refusal to extend
guarantees on bank debt beyond 2013 means even healthy lenders
will suffer the fallout of a liquidity squeeze that could be
avoided, the head of the Local Bankers Association said.  “There’s nothing wrong with helping banks out with their
liquidity, it won’t cost the taxpayer,” Bent Naur, the chairman
of the Copenhagen-based group, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “The state should prolong the guarantee, not for
troubled banks, but for those that meet solvency requirements.
That will avoid a liquidity squeeze when everybody needs to
refinance at the same time.”  Banks in  Denmark , home to the European Union’s toughest
resolution laws, need to refinance about $35 billion in state-
guaranteed debt in the next two years. The government has
rejected calls to extend its backing, arguing the industry
should instead consolidate. Lenders already face higher funding
costs as two regional  bank failures  since February triggered
senior creditor losses. Moody’s Investors Service warned in May
borrowing costs for Danish lenders will increase “long-term.”  “When we look at the calendar, 2013 isn’t far away,” said
Naur, whose association represents 88 lenders in Denmark,
Greenland and the  Faroe Islands . Helping healthy banks access
liquidity won’t prop up insolvent lenders, he said.  The difference between the three-month Copenhagen interbank
offered rate and the equivalent rate for the euro area grew to
8.3 basis points today, the widest since April 20. The spread
has averaged 4.4 basis points since June 1.  ‘Could Default’  Central bank Governor Nils Bernstein and Financial
Supervisory Authority Director General Ulrik Noedgaard have both
said lenders shouldn’t expect rescue programs to be extended.  Debate on the need for additional bank support measures has
flared in Denmark following the Feb. 6 failure of Amagerbanken
A/S and the subsequent collapse in June of Fjordbank Mors A/S.
 Standard & Poor’s  said July 28 a further 15 banks in the Nordic
country “could default,” costing as much as 12 billion kroner
in the next three years.  Denmark’s first bank rescue package, which provided state
guarantees on all interbank lending and deposits, expired in
October. Guarantees on debt issued before then apply until 2013.  Nykredit Markets, the investment banking unit of Denmark’s
biggest mortgage lender Nykredit Realkredit A/S, is looking into
arranging combined debt sales for some of the country’s roughly
120 banks. The plan will help diversify risk and attract
investors reluctant to give funds to individual regional
lenders, according to Nykredit.  New Bank Bill  The government will this month hammer out the details of a
bill that will make it easier for healthy banks to take over
their troubled peers after legislation  passed  in June failed to
spur consolidation, Torsten Schack Pedersen, a spokesman for the
ruling  Liberal Party , said Aug. 2.  In an effort to protect taxpayers, the government will
probably ask banks to contribute any further funds needed to
stabilize the industry, Schack Pedersen said.  “It’s a shame there hasn’t been more consolidation
happening voluntarily,” said Naur. “With funding becoming more
difficult, I think it makes a lot of sense” for banks to merge.  The country’s biggest lenders, Danske Bank A/S, Jyske Bank
A/S, Nykredit and Sydbank A/S all passed the EU’s stress tests
last month. The four exceeded a 5 percent minimum capital
requirement, European Banking Authority tests showed on July 15.
Results for the Danish lenders ranged from 9.4 percent to 13.6
percent, the EBA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  