-- 
Debt Deal Compromise to Spark Debate Over Medicare Cuts, Taxes

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-08-03T11:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/debt-accord-means-lawmakers-must-debate-medicare-taxes-as-elections-loom.html
President  Barack Obama ’s signature on
a bill raising the debt limit sealed a compromise that averted a
U.S. default even as it did nothing to narrow the gulf between
Republicans and Democrats over tax increases and spending cuts.  The measure postpones the thorniest fiscal dilemmas for
later this year when the 2012 election campaign will intensify.
A panel of lawmakers must push through a $1.5 trillion debt-
reduction package by year’s end -- or risk automatic spending
cuts across the government, including defense and Medicare.  That means the disputes that prolonged negotiations on the
debt limit will be refought. The stakes were underscored hours
after Obama signed the bill when Moody’s Investors Service said
it may downgrade the U.S. credit rating for the first time on
concern fiscal discipline may ease and the economy may weaken.
In addition,  China , the largest foreign investor in U.S.
government securities, joined  Russia  in criticizing American
policy makers for failing to ensure that U.S. borrowing is
reined in.  Obama, who pressed unsuccessfully during the talks for a
“balanced approach” to shrink deficits with tax increases and
spending cuts, said the panel must put both on the table.  “We can’t balance the budget on the backs of the very
people who have borne the brunt of this recession,” he said in
the White House  Rose Garden  yesterday. “Everyone’s going to
have to chip in. That’s only fair. That’s the principle I’ll be
fighting for during the next phase of this process.”  Focus on Panel  Attention now focuses on the mandate of the 12-member
super-committee of lawmakers. Congress would either have to
approve the panel’s recommendations by Christmas or send a
balanced-budget constitutional amendment to the states for
ratification -- an unlikely scenario given Congress’s makeup --
to avoid the across-the-board cuts.  For all the anxiety in Washington over the debt debate,
investors made more money buying  Treasury securities  in July
than any month this year -- earning $183,000 for every $10
million invested. They drove yields on 10-year notes -- a
benchmark for everything from  mortgage rates  to corporate debt -
- to the lowest levels since November.  Treasury 30-year bonds rallied the most in more than a year
yesterday. Yields on 30-year bonds dropped 17 basis points, or
0.17 percentage point, to 3.91 percent in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 10-year note yields touched
2.60 percent, the lowest since Nov. 9.  Two Weeks to Go  Congressional leaders have 14 days to name the group’s
members -- the two top Republicans and Democrats in the House
and Senate each will name three -- and were already disagreeing
about the nature of its work.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said he would announce his choices “very soon” and
predicted that the panel won’t raise taxes. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, also said he won’t choose anyone
who would back a tax increase.  And Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , the Budget
Committee chairman, said in a blog post yesterday that the White
House was seeking to make it easier for the panel to “propose
the kind of large, job-destroying tax hikes that the president
tried so hard to get during this round of negotiations.”  Revenue and Reductions  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, made
it clear he expected the committee to consider using revenue as
well as spending cuts to shrink the deficits.  “The vast majority of Democrats, independents and
Republicans think this arrangement we’ve just done is unfair
because the richest of the rich have contributed nothing,” he
said before calling a vote on the measure. “There has to be
some revenue that matches” the spending cuts, he added.  The legislation cleared the Senate yesterday by a
bipartisan 74-26 vote, a day after the House passed it 269-161.  The new law cuts $917 billion in spending over the next
decade and raises the $14.3 trillion debt limit by $900 billion,
with an additional $1.2 trillion in borrowing authority
available early next year. That second round of borrowing would
trigger spending cuts of an equal amount unless Congress first
approves the debt-reduction package or, by a two-thirds vote in
both the House and the Senate, passes the balanced-budget
amendment.  ‘Culture of Overspending’  The measure drew opposition from lawmakers and interest
groups on both ends of the political spectrum, with fiscal
conservatives arguing that it was insufficient to slash spending
and rein in the debt and Democratic-leaning groups saying it
savaged programs for the most vulnerable without asking the
wealthy to contribute to  deficit reduction  through higher taxes.  The legislation “continues to perpetuate the culture of
overspending and borrowing,” said Senator Kelly Ayotte, a New
Hampshire Republican who voted no. “This agreement does not
reduce the size of government at all.”  Even many who supported it said they were doing so
grudgingly.  “With a heavy heart, there are parts of it that I will
struggle to explain and defend, but I can’t let this American
economy descend into chaos,” said Senator  Dick Durbin  of
 Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat. Higher-income
people, he said, “should feel that they, too, are called to
sacrifice.”  Democratic-aligned political groups blasted the deal and
said they would pressure lawmakers who depend on their support
to do better in future fights over deficit reduction.  Holding Economy ‘Hostage’  “One party held our economy hostage, while the other party
failed to stop them,” said  Justin Ruben  of MoveOn.org, whose
political action committee backs “progressive candidates.” The
group’s members “are angry, we are motivated and we will not
sit and watch as vital programs like Medicare, Medicaid and
Social Security are put on the chopping block to finance more
tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy.”  Republicans, too, said the legislation would help frame the
issues central to the 2012 campaign. In a memo circulated
yesterday, Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the Republicans’ Senate
campaign chief, advised 2012 candidates to “remind voters that
the only obstacle preventing Congress from passing a Balanced
Budget Amendment (BBA) and sending it to the states is the fact
that there are too many  Senate Democrats , and too few Senate
Republicans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  