-- 
Dendreon Falls Most Ever After Pulling Sales Forecast on Cancer Therapy

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-08-04T20:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/dendreon-scraps-sales-forecast-on-slow-prostate-drug-sales-shares-plunge.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , maker of the
prostate-cancer drug Provenge, fell the most ever in Nasdaq
trading after the company withdrew its 2011 revenue estimate and
said sales of the medicine didn’t meet projections.  The Seattle-based company plunged $24.15, or 67 percent, to
$11.69 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading, the biggest single-day decline since the company’s
initial public offering in June 2000. The company was the worst
performer on the  Russell 3000 Index. (RAY)  Analysts at  RBC Capital
Markets , Robert W. Baird & Co. and Brean Murray Carret & Co.
downgraded the stock.  Chief Executive Officer Mitchell Gold said in a statement
yesterday that Dendreon was educating doctors about the $93,000
treatment and a decision last month by the U.S. Medicare and
Medicaid programs to pay for the drug. The announcement was “a
shocking about-face,” said Christopher Raymond, an analyst at
 Robert W. Baird  in  Chicago , in a note to investors today.  “Management now highlights significant headwinds that
hadn’t been seen or discussed just weeks ago,” said Raymond,
who lowered his rating to “neutral” from “outperform.” “We
still believe in Provenge long term, but shorter-term, prefer to
watch the real trajectory on the sidelines.”  Dendreon previously estimated annual revenue of $350
million to $400 million. The company believes the market size
for Provenge is substantial, though it expects only modest
increases in sales each quarter for the remainder of the year,
Gold said in the statement.  Stumbling Block  The main stumbling block for Provenge is the lack of
knowledge about insurance coverage, he said. The Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services issued a final  ruling  in June
saying the $93,000 treatment is “reasonable and necessary” for
men with advanced, prostate tumors resistant to hormone therapy
who have minimal or no symptoms.  The agency’s decision “will have a significant impact on
increased physician adoption,” Gold said in the statement.
“However, we believe this will take time, and for the remainder
of 2011, the launch trajectory will reflect a more gradual
adoption of Provenge as physicians gain confidence in this
positive reimbursement landscape.”  Provenge, the first approved therapy that trains the body’s
immune system to attack cancer cells as if they were a virus,
generated $48 million last year. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast revenue hitting $370 million this year if the company
boosts its capacity by expanding a New Jersey plant and adding
new manufacturing sites in  Los Angeles  and Atlanta.  ‘Clear Disappointment’  “Dendreon is a clear disappointment,” said Eric Bernhardt, head of health care at Bellevue Asset Management AG,
a biotechnology investment firm in Kuesnacht,  Switzerland . “I
think it’s a bit short-term but in this market people sell now
and ask questions later.”  Tricia Larson, a spokeswoman for Dendreon, declined to
comment on today’s share performance.  Dendreon will reduce its expenses and eliminate positions
to meet the lower demand for the product, Gold said yesterday.
The company didn’t specify how many jobs would be lost.  The company reported a second-quarter loss of 79 cents per
share, greater than the 71 cents average estimate of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales of Provenge were $49.6 million,
short of the $57.7 million analysts expected.  Falling short on earnings was disappointing and pulling the
forecast for the entire year is worse, Raymond said in a note to
investors. The previous estimate assumed sales of Provenge would
double in the third and fourth quarters, he said.  “Depending on the definition of ‘modest,’ this new
guidance could infer revenue of under $200 million for fiscal
year 2011,” he wrote.  Dendreon had gained 5.9 percent in the past 12 months
before today’s trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  