-- 
Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Euronext Try to Counter Antitrust Concerns

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-08-03T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/deutsche-boerse-nyse-euronext-try-to-counter-antitrust-concerns.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
have indicated how they will seek to counter concerns submitted
to European Union regulators by competitors and customers over
their $9 billion merger.  The European Commission must decide by today whether to
open an in-depth investigation of the buyout’s ramifications,
which can last as long as 90 working days. Regulators will weigh
complaints from the firms’ biggest customers, including traders,
banks and brokers, that the combination may harm competition.  Gregor Pottmeyer,  Deutsche Boerse ’s chief financial
officer, last week tried to allay concerns from the  Association
for Financial Markets in Europe  that the exchanges won’t pass on
a “fair share” of about 400 million euros ($572 million) in
cost savings to customers, even as he said the exchange expects
a formal EU antitrust complaint about the deal by October.  Two “strong arguments” on how customers will benefit from
the business combination are savings from lower  capital
requirements  for the combined company and cross-margining to
reduce how much cash investors must post to clearinghouses to
back their trades, Pottmeyer said on a July 29 conference call.  Regulatory approval is the last hurdle for the deal that
would create the largest owner of equity and derivatives
markets. Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s competition chief, said in
March a longer probe into the “complex deal” is likely.  Customers, Competitors  Officials will give more weight to customers’ worries than
complaints from rivals “because they are usually the entities
most affected,” said Matthew Hall, a lawyer at McGuire Woods
LLP in Brussels.  Regulators may treat complaints from rivals  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  “with a pinch of
salt,” Hall said. A formal antitrust complaint sent to the
companies “isn’t going to be good news,” because it may show
that the exchanges haven’t resolved the EU’s antitrust concerns.  NYSE Euronext’s Chief Executive Officer Duncan Niederauer
said Aug. 2 regulators were likely to focus “on what conditions
may be placed on us, not how to make or break the deal.” He said
he had “absolute confidence” EU regulators will consider the
source of objections to the merger when reviewing them.  “Our competitors have been the most vocal about their
concerns regarding our pending business combination,”
Niederauer told analysts.  A series of planned exchange tie-ups around the world have
run into trouble with regulators this year. Nasdaq and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  abandoned their unsolicited bid
for NYSE Euronext in May after the U.S. Justice Department
threatened an antitrust suit.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s $8.8
billion bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  fell apart in April after Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan said the deal wasn’t in the national
interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 