-- 
Deutsche Bank Said Likely to Wait to Name Jain’s Successor Until Next Year

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-08-04T07:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/deutsche-bank-said-likely-to-wait-until-next-year-to-name-jain-s-successor.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, is likely to put off to 2012 deciding who will replace
 Anshu Jain  as head of the corporate and investment bank, three
people familiar with the matter said.  The lender may appoint more than one person to oversee the
division, which  consists  of trading, corporate finance and
transaction banking, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly. Traders from fixed income may have the best chances
because the business is the largest revenue source, they said.  Deutsche Bank  said  last month that Jain, 48, and  Juergen Fitschen , 62, will take over as co-chief executive officers
after  Josef Ackermann  steps down at the end of May. Jain’s
successor will help oversee a business that generated more than
70 percent of group revenue and faces stricter rules on capital
and liquidity that make it harder to generate the kinds of
returns posted before the financial crisis.  “Naming a successor isn’t time sensitive, and the market
is preoccupied with the volatile markets at the moment,” said
Matthias Engelmayer, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Independent
Research. “It’d be a surprise if the next heads don’t come from
fixed-income because it’s Deutsche Bank’s most important
business.”  Deutsche Bank shares gained as much as 2.1 percent and were
up at 35.78 euros by 9:27 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock
has declined about 8 percent so far this year, valuing the
Frankfurt-based company at 33 billion euros ($47 billion).  Armin Niedermeier, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, declined to
comment on the issue of succession.  Fan, Faissola  Colin Fan, head of credit and emerging markets, Michele Faissola, who oversees rates and commodities, and Alan Cloete,
who is in charge of global finance and foreign exchange, are
among potential candidates, said two of the people. Rich Herman,
head of the institutional client group, as well as Stephan Leithner, co-head of investment-banking coverage and advisory,
may also be considered, the people said.  All five are part of the corporate and investment bank’s
15-member executive committee that Jain named last year.  Since taking over as sole head of the CIB unit in July
2010, Jain has been pressing his mergers and equity advisers,
traders and transaction bankers to work more closely to help
Deutsche Bank gain market share. The three businesses --markets,
corporate finance and transaction banking -- will remain
integrated under new leaders, the people said.  Sovereign Crisis  The CIB unit increased net revenue to a record 20.9 billion
euros last year, or 73 percent of the group total. Sales and
trading accounted for 12.8 billion euros, or 61 percent of that
total, with fixed income accounting for three-quarters of that,
according to company reports.  Ackermann said on July 26 that a target of 6.4 billion
euros in profit from the corporate banking and securities unit
“may now be difficult to achieve and is dependent on a swift
and sustained resolution of the European sovereign debt crisis
as well as a significantly improved operating environment in the
second half.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  