-- 
HDFC Standard Says India Stocks Slump ‘Great Time’ to Buy Shares

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-03T08:30:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hdfc-standard-says-india-stocks-slump-great-time-to-buy-shares.html
Prasun Gajri, chief investment
officer at HDFC Standard Life Insurance Co., which has more than
$5 billion in assets, comments on the outlook for the nation’s
stocks. He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg-UTV.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
dropped 0.9 percent to 17,956 at 1:46 p.m. close in Mumbai.  On equity valuations:  “These levels are good. Markets will remain range bound
for some more time till a trigger on the positive side emerges.
It is a great time to build a portfolio as valuations are
supportive. Short-term volatility is here to stay.”  The Sensex has lost 13 percent this year, the second-worst
performer after  Brazil ’s Bovespa among major indexes in the 10
biggest markets. Companies on the measure trade at 14.5 times
estimated earnings, down from 21.5 times in March 2010, last
year’s high.  On investment strategy:  “We have cut our weight on defensive sectors. We remain
marginally overweight, but it has come down. We are reducing our
underweight on financials, believing that the valuations are
supportive.”  “The rally in telecom has played out for the time being.
Valuations are no longer where they can be said to be a value
proposition. There is a regulatory overhang. I don’t see any
runaway movement.”  On  interest rates :  “The Reserve Bank did surprise us. Where the market got it
wrong was the assessment of growth. We felt that the growth is
slowing. RBI feels growth is slowing only in certain parts of
the economy and it’s not significant enough to warrant a kind of
situation where they get into a rate-neutral stance. So, they
continued with their hawkish stance.  ‘‘It doesn’t change the overall tone, which means that the
RBI is definitely closer to the end of the cycle. The argument
is whether it will be 25 or 50 basis point increase. Beyond that
it will be difficult for the RBI to even contemplate any further
rate hike.”  The  Reserve Bank  of  India  July 26 increased the repurchase
rate to 8 percent from 7.5 percent. None of the 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had predicted the decision.  On outlook for earnings:  “Earnings downgrades for fiscal 2012 will happen after
this quarter. I don’t think it is going to be very significant.
It is reasonable to assume we can get easily get 15 percent to
18 percent earnings growth over the next three to five years.”  On U.S, European Debt Talks:  “Global factors are going to be there for the next 12 to
24 months. I don’t think there’s any solution to the European
problem even today. It’s just a question of trying to defer the
problem by lending things for a while and hoping that nothing
deep breaks out. It is a solvency issue, not a liquidity issue.  ‘‘The U.S. problem was more a political problem; it was
never a liquidity or solvency issue. If the deficit continues
this way then at some point rating agencies will cut the rating
of some developed countries, including the U.S. That will have a
negative impact on markets.  ‘‘Global factors will always remain on the horizon. I am
not too bothered about them. Irrespective of  Europe  and the
U.S., India will continue to remain a place where growth will be
reasonable and will continue to attract flows. ’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  