-- 
Diamond Jewelry Demand in India May Slow After Gem Prices Surge

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T06:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/diamond-jewelry-demand-in-india-may-slow-after-gem-prices-surge.html
Demand for diamond jewelry in  India ,
the world’s biggest exporter of the polished precious stones,
may slow as a surge in prices discourages buyers and spurs
consumers to favor gold, according to  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN)   Polished diamond prices, which jumped about 60 percent to
70 percent in the last six months, may gain further in the next
few months, said Sandeep Kulhalli, vice president, retail and
marketing at Tanishq, the jewelry retail chain owned by Titan.
The company is India’s biggest retailer of gold jewelry.  “Because of the sheer price-value equation being so
unfriendly to the consumer, there are people now moving back to
gold, which is where the dangerous trends are,” he said by
phone from Bangalore. “There will be an impact on growth rates
of diamond sales.”  Prices for polished diamonds are gaining as rough, or uncut
gems, rally as producers struggle to increase capacity idled
during the global financial crisis that began in 2008 and as
consumption in Asian nations expands. De Beers, the world’s
largest producer, said last week first-half sales rose to a
record as demand from the U.S.,  China  and India drove prices.  Rough diamonds advanced more than 49 percent in the first
half, adding to two straight annual gains of more than 30
percent, according to calculations by WWW International Diamond
Consultants Ltd. Polished prices have had their “strongest
growth” over a six-month period in the last 30 years, De Beers’
Chief Commercial Officer Bruce Cleaver said on July 26.  Outlook Concern  Titan, also India’s biggest maker of watches, reported on
July 28 first-quarter profit jumped 76 percent to 1.43 billion
rupees, from 812.8 million rupees a year ago, driven by jewelry.
It said that day it was concerned about the outlook for coming
quarters because of higher gold and diamond prices.  Diamond jewelry is competing with gold in India, the
world’s largest bullion consumer. Demand for the gem rose 31
percent last year,  De Beers  has said. Spot gold has advanced 17
percent this year and reached a record $1,662.85 an ounce today.  “People don’t find the price-value equation in diamonds
anymore and they want to go back to gold,” Kulhalli said July
29. “Gold is far closer to the psyche, ethos and culture of
Indians than diamonds.”  Higher diamond prices may spur jewelers to use fewer carats
and use other gemstones in jewelry along with diamonds, and make
products unaffordable for some customers, Rajiv Mehta, chief
executive officer of diamond manufacturer Dimexon Diamonds Ltd.,
said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday. Still, he sees demand
in India increasing at double digit growth rates for a decade.  “Diamonds, as any other luxury product, must be
aspirational, it must be something that people need to be seen
as a high-end luxury product,” Mehta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  