-- 
Dirty Dancing ‘Tale,’ Violent ‘Caesar’ Wrap Shakespeare: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-08-03T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/dirty-dancing-man-eating-bear-grab-tale-bloody-julius-caesar-review.html
The final two of the five  Royal
Shakespeare Company  productions at the  Park Avenue Armory  offer
a remarkable contrast in styles.  First is a warm, sometimes bawdy version of the Bard of
Avon’s sorrow-streaked romance of love and forgiveness, “The
Winter’s Tale.”  Then there’s a violence-prone updating of that surefire,
ripped-from-the-headlines political thriller, “ Julius Caesar .”  In “The Winter’s Tale,” the Sicilian king Leontes (the
remarkable Greg Hicks, a master of rhetorical understatement and
beautifully expressive body language) convinces himself that his
adoring wife Hermione (the too put-upon Kelly Hunter) has been
unfaithful with his best friend Polixenes, the king of Bohemia
(Darrell D’Silva, superbly, well, bohemian).  Not even the Oracle of Apollo can convince Leontes of her
innocence. He condemns her to death and has their newborn girl
banished to certain death on foreign shores.  There, however, the daughter Perdita (the charming Samantha
Young) is raised by an old shepherd (Larrington Walker); she
eventually falls in love with the slumming Florizel (Tunji
Kasim, eager as a teen) -- who turns out to be Polixenes’ son.  Dirty Dancing  On the way to a happy conclusion that includes a heartfelt
resurrection and at least two marriages, a messenger is devoured
by a bear several stories tall and the rustics entertain the
young lovers in a high-spirited dance that takes Shakespeare’s
reference to dildos to the height of hilariously raunchy
literalness.  David Farr’s staging untangles a complex web of plotlines
and uses words as visual metaphors -- notably in the conclusion
of the first act. Towering bookcases come crashing down, leaving
for the second act a stage littered with manuscripts, volumes
and letters.  Jon Bausor’s papyral set is lit with pastoral beauty by Jon
Clark, and if I have reservations about a few of the individual
performances (Hunter seems too old; Brian Doherty uncharismatic
as the rascally peddler Autolycus), the whole is much greater.
I’ve rarely seen Shakespeare’s generous comedy played, with such
warmth. Rating: *** (Jeremy Gerard)  ‘Julius Caesar’  A cage match between young Romulus (Tunji Kasim) and Remus
(Joseph Arkley) in loin cloths prefaces “Julius Caesar,”
setting the tone for Lucy Bailey’s feral production.  The American Red Cross could get a week’s worth of blood
from the assassination scene alone.  Until receiving his unkind cuts, Hicks is a formidable
Caesar. Frail and addled in the title role of “ King Lear ,”
here he looks like he pumps iron daily. He’s a leader at the top
of his game, albeit too confident to give due deference to the
Ides of March.  Darrell D’Silva’s boozy Mark Antony is fun to watch and not
subtle. When friends, Romans and countrymen lend him their ears,
we understand even more clearly than usual that Brutus isn’t an
honorable man, because Antony keeps bellowing that he is.  In contrast, Sam Troughton’s Marcus Brutus is a cerebral
killer. (The actor suffered a knee injury during the July 12
matinee of “Romeo and Juliet,” forcing him to incorporate a
cane into his performances). Other standouts: Hannah Young’s
willful Portia (Mrs. Brutus), and Oliver Ryan evokes Peter Lorre
as Casca, the first conspirator to strike Caesar.  The digital imagery -- whether of an angry mob, the ceiling
of the Pantheon or flames rising, indicating  Rome  in ruin -- is
effective if distracting. Rating: *** (Philip Boroff)  “The Winter’s Tale” and “Julius Caesar” are running
through Aug. 14 in repertory with three other Shakespeare plays
at the Park Avenue Armory, Park Avenue and East 67th Street.
Information: +1-212-721-6500;
 http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org   (Jeremy Gerard and Philip Boroff are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 