-- 
Dollar’s Reserve Status Waning, U.S. Treasury Borrowing Committee Says

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-03T17:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/dollar-s-reserve-status-is-waning-u-s-treasury-borrowing-committee-says.html
The committee of bond dealers and
investors that advises the  U.S. Treasury   said  the dollar’s
status as the world’s  reserve currency  “appears to be
slipping” in quarterly feedback presented to the government.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, which  includes 
representatives from firms ranging from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to Pacific Investment Management Co., said the outperformance of
haven currencies and those from emerging nations has aided in 
the debasement of the dollar’s reserve status, according to
comments included in discussion charts presented ahead of the
quarterly refunding. The Treasury published the documents today.  “The idea of a reserve currency is that it is built on
strength, not typically that it is ‘best among poor choices’,”
page 35 of the presentation made by one committee member said.
“The fact that there are not currently viable alternatives to
the  U.S. dollar  is a hollow victory and perhaps portends a
deteriorating fate.”  Members of the TBAC, as the committee is known, which met
yesterday in  Washington , also discussed the implications of a
downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating. “None of the
members thought that a downgrade was imminent,” according to
 minutes  of the meeting released by the Treasury.  The Swiss central bank cut  interest rates  today and said it
will increase the supply of francs to money markets to curb the
“massively overvalued” currency after it reached a record
highs against the euro and dollar. The franc, considered a haven
in times of turmoil, has surged 11 percent against the euro over
the last two months as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened. It gained
10 percent versus the greenback in that time.  Global Reserves  The U.S. currency’s portion of global currency reserves
dropped to 60.7 percent in the period ended March 31, the least
since March 1999, International Monetary Fund data showed. It
was 61.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. The euro’s share
rose to 26.6 percent, from 26.2 percent, while the yen was
unchanged at 3.8 percent of the total. A category the IMF calls
“other currencies” rose to 4.7 percent from 4.4 percent and is
up from 3.6 percent in the first quarter of 2010.  The U.S. Treasury Department announced plans today to sell
$72 billion in notes and bonds at next week’s quarterly
refunding, the same as the previous refunding.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation yesterday to
increase the Treasury’s borrowing authority from $14.3 trillion
after months of wrangling with Congress over budget cuts. The
House approved the bill Aug. 1 and the Senate yesterday, the day
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned the government
would run out of power to take on more debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  