-- 
Dollar Falls a Second Day Versus Euro as Slowdown Spurs Easing Prospects

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-08-04T00:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/dollar-falls-2nd-day-versus-euro-as-slowdown-signs-spur-easing-prospects.html
The dollar fell versus the euro for a
second day on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will consider
increasing monetary stimulus to counter a slowdown in the  U.S.
economy .  The U.S. currency dropped against most of its major
counterparts before reports forecast to show U.S. initial
jobless claims rose and the  unemployment rate  remained above 9
percent. The yen held a two-day decline against the euro on
prospects the  Bank of Japan  will follow its Swiss counterpart in
easing monetary policy to curb currency strength.  “The dollar will still continue to fall significantly,”
said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Sydney. In the U.S. there’s “no recovery
whatsoever. I think  interest rates  will remain zero for the
whole of 2012.”  The dollar fell to $1.4352 per euro as of 9:17 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.4323 in  New York  yesterday. The yen was at 110.54
per euro from 110.38. The dollar was little changed at 77.03
yen. The Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, declined 0.8
percent yesterday.  U.S. Jobs  U.S. initial jobless claims climbed by 7,000 to 405,000
last week, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before today’s data. The jobless rate was
unchanged at 9.2 percent and payrolls advanced by 85,000 workers
in July, other surveys showed before tomorrow’s data.  Interest-rate futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed a 53.2 percent chance U.S. policy makers would cut
the target lending rate to zero by December. The probability was
43.6 percent a month ago.  The U.S. government’s top credit rating of AAA may be
lowered in the medium term even after a debt-limit compromise
that prevented a default, according to  Fitch Ratings . President
 Barack Obama  signed legislation on Aug. 2 that raises the debt
ceiling to accommodate U.S. borrowing needs until 2013 and
threatens automatic spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in
reductions over the next 10 years.  Japanese Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday said the
nation would aim for “maximum effect” in any intervention to
weaken the yen. That preceded a cut in interest rates by Swiss
authorities to stem the franc’s surge. Japanese policy makers
have signaled increased concern this week about the yen nearing
a postwar high that threatens exporters’ profits and the
nation’s recovery from a record earthquake in March.  Intervention Effect  “Even if there’s intervention, its effect will be
temporary,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst in
Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides foreign-exchange
margin-trading services. “The yen’s appreciation bias
continues.”  Five of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the
Bank of  Japan  will increase stimulus at its policy meeting that
will end tomorrow.  The  Swiss National Bank  lowered its target for the three-
month London interbank offered rate to “as close to zero as
possible,” from 0.25 percent. The franc weakened to 1.1057
versus the euro from 1.1033 yesterday, when it slid 1.9 percent.
It was little changed at 77.03 centimes per dollar after falling
1.1 percent yesterday.  The franc has gained 9.4 percent over the past month,
making it the best performer among 10 major-economy currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has
risen 3.6 percent, while the dollar is down 1.7 percent and the
euro has declined 3 percent.  -- With assistance from Kristine Aquino in  Singapore . Editors:
Rocky Swift, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 