-- 
Dubai Credit Risk Declines to Two-Month Low on Rebound Bets: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-08-04T10:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/dubai-credit-risk-declines-to-two-month-low-on-rebound-bets-arab-credit.html
Dubai’s credit risk dropped to the
lowest in almost two months as bond repayments and profitability
at companies boost confidence in the emirate’s economic rebound.  The cost to insure Dubai’s debt against default dropped to
317 basis points Aug. 1, the lowest since June 7, according to
credit default swap prices from data provider CMA. They were at
327 basis points yesterday, still down about 50 percent from the
655 reached in November 2009 after state-owned Dubai World
announced plans to restructure about $25 billion in debt.  The emirate, which received $20 billion in aid from  Abu
Dhabi  in 2009, has benefited from stable government in contrast
to the political upheaval sweeping the Middle East. Economic
growth in Dubai may accelerate to about 2.8 percent, the
International Monetary Fund forecasts in a report published in
May. That comes after growth of 2.4 percent in 2010 and a
contraction in 2009, according to government statistics.  Dubai “has fully regained its status as the regional hub,
doubling as a safe haven,” Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, a Dubai-
based senior economist for the Middle East at  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN) , said in an e-mail yesterday. “The marked improvement of
the real economy combined with improved perception has helped
the CDS spreads to go through a tightening trend.”  Repaying Debt  The difference between the cost of insuring Dubai’s debt
against default for five years over Abu Dhabi’s has tumbled 152
basis points from this year’s high to 234 Aug. 3, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, a unit of
one of the emirate’s three main state-controlled holding
companies, said July 14 it repaid a 250-million Swiss franc
($324 million) bond and is committed to meeting future
obligations. Dubai Group LLC, an  investment company  owned by the
emirate’s ruler, is in talks with banks to alter the terms on
$10 billion of liabilities, while state-owned Dubai World agreed
with creditors on its restructuring in March.  It’s a “continuation of positive factors in Dubai’s debt
and economic space,” Gus Chehayeb, a Dubai-based associate
director at investment bank Exotix Ltd. said in an e-mail Aug.
2. “Dubai Holding Commercial’s bond repayment, the improving
mortgage market, solid trade volumes at DP World and possibly
another ratings upgrade” for the company are boosting investor
sentiment, he said.  DP World Optimism  DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the Dubai World-controlled port operator,
reported an 11 percent rise in container volumes in the first
half and said it expects to outperform the industry. DP World’s
6.25 percent Islamic bond due July 2017 has risen to a record
this month on optimism the world’s fourth-largest port operator
will receive a  credit-rating  upgrade from  Standard & Poor’s .  Dubai, which doesn’t have a credit rating, borrowed about
$113 billion in a bid to become a regional financial and tourism
hub, according to an IMF report published on June 16.  In 2009, Dubai sought $10 billion from the U.A.E. central
and another $10 billion from Abu Dhabi and its banks to help its
state-owned companies after the global credit crisis pushed
property prices down by more than half from their 2008 peak and
frozen credit markets forced some of the emirate’s companies to
delay loan payments.  “The credit profile of Dubai as a sovereign credit has not
fundamentally changed in the meantime,”  Standard Chartered ’s
Dauba-Pantanacce said.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai government’s
7.75 percent bond maturing October 2020 over Abu Dhabi’s 6.75
percent note due April 2019 widened one basis point today to
275. It fell to a record low of 268 basis points on Aug. 1.  Average bond yields in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia , the U.A.E., Qatar and
Bahrain, dropped 36 basis points or 0.36 percentage points,
since the end of June to 4.60 percent today, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional US Dollar Bond Index.  Dubai government-controlled  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s
biggest bank by assets, reported an 87 percent surge in second-
quarter profit to 744.5 million dirhams.  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , the
mortgage company rescued by Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC in
September, reported a fivefold jump in second-quarter profit as
bad-loan provisions dropped.  ‘Add Life’  Tamweel, along with rival Amlak Finance PJSC, had helped
finance Dubai’s building spree during the boom years until the
middle of 2008 and suspended lending after debt markets froze in
the crisis.  Tamweel “is an important lever for the government to try
and add life to the mortgage and therefore real-estate market,”
Akber Khan, a director at Al Rayan Investment, said by telephone
on Aug. 2. “Tamweel re-entered the market aggressively and
other large local and foreign banks have stepped up too.”  Civil unrest spread to countries including  Egypt , Bahrain,
Yemen and  Libya , after Tunisia’s president was ousted in
January. Former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , who ruled the
Arab world’s most populous nation for three decades, faced a
court hearing in Cairo yesterday for allegedly ordering the
killing of protesters earlier this year. In  Syria , President
Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown on protesters has led to at least
2,100 deaths since March, according to human-rights groups.  “Unrest in the  Middle East  has helped drive business
toward Dubai because it’s perceived as a safe haven,” Aliasgar Tambawala, a Dubai-based investment manager at Mashreq Capital
DIFC Ltd., said in a telephone interview on Aug. 2. “Disruption
of business in Dubai almost never happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  