-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as Gold Producers Advance, Banks Rebound

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   V i c t o r i a   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-08-03T21:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/dundee-reit-fortis-h-r-reit-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for the first
time in three days as gold climbed to a record, boosting mining
stocks, while financial companies rebounded on speculation the
U.S. Federal Reserve may return to stimulus policies.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest gold producer,
increased 1.4 percent as the metal jumped 1.3 percent. Toronto-
Dominion Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest lender by assets, rose
1.9 percent as financial companies advanced.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,
Canada’s largest oil and gas producer, slipped 1.8 percent after
an index of U.S. non-manufacturing businesses decreased more
than most economists had forecast.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index gained 63.71
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,816.03, after falling as much as
1.5 percent in the morning.  “In the last hour there was some very aggressive buying,”
 Greg Taylor , a  money manager  at Aurion Capital Management in
Toronto, which oversees about C$5 billion ($5.2 billion) said in
a telephone interview. “There’s a lot of cash on the sidelines.
People are waiting to invest that cash. And there’s always the
fear that you missed the bottom.”  The S&P/TSX plunged 5.5 percent in the six days ending
yesterday to an eight-month low after data on U.S. and Canadian
gross domestic product, as well as U.S. durable-goods orders and
 consumer spending , trailed most economists’ forecasts. The stock
benchmark closed yesterday at its lowest level relative to
earnings since July 2010.  Precious Metals  Gold increased to $1,666.30 an ounce, after hitting a
record of $1,675.90, as the signs of slowing growth and concern
over budget deficits in  Europe  and the U.S. led investors to
seek havens.  Barrick rose 1.4 percent to C$47.31. Yamana Gold Inc., the
country’s fourth-largest gold producer, gained 2.6 percent to
C$13.28.  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-biggest precious-
metals company by market value, advanced 2.4 percent to C$36.87.  “It’s wonderful that we have gold,”  Doug Davis , vice
chairman of Toronto money manager Davis-Rea Ltd., said in a
telephone interview. Davis-Rea manages about C$456 million.
“The idea of the U.S. currency as a  reserve currency  is
becoming less popular and countries are scouting around to see
where else they can put their money.”  The S&P/TSX Financials Index rallied from the lowest close
since October after the Wall Street Journal said three former
top officials at the Fed believe the central bank may consider a
new round of securities purchases to bolster growth.  Banks, Insurers  TD increased 1.9 percent to C$76.79.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
the country’s largest lender by assets, climbed 2 percent to
C$51.30.  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO) , Canada’s second-biggest
insurer, rose 2.6 percent to C$23.38 before the scheduled
release of its second-quarter financial results.  Energy companies fell for a sixth day after the  Institute
for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-manufacturing
businesses declined to the lowest since February 2010. Crude oil
dropped to a five-week low after the U.S. reported an increase
in gasoline inventories more than five times the median analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Suncor lost 1.8 percent to C$34.65.  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-largest energy company by
market value, slipped 0.8 percent to C$36.83.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ,
Canada’s biggest pipeline company, decreased 0.9 percent to
C$30.95.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  rose 5.1 percent
to C$24.42 after closing at a five-year low yesterday. The
company is releasing its first new smartphone models since
August 2010 to try to regain market share it has lost to Apple
Inc.’s iPhone.  Imax Rebounds  Imax Corp. (IMAX)  gained 5.4 percent to C$17.72 after dropping 27
percent in the previous three sessions. James C. Goss, an
analyst at Barrington Research Associates Inc., wrote in a note
to clients that the developer of widescreen projection
technology is executing a “winning formula.”  Technology-patent owner  Wi-LAN Inc. (WIN)  sank 13 percent, the
most since October 2008, to C$8.15 after losing a court ruling
to LG Electronics Inc. Shares of the Ottawa-based company soared
163 percent in the year ending yesterday.  Dundee International Real Estate Investment Trust, which
owns commercial properties in  Germany , increased 2 percent to
C$10.20 in its first day of trading after its initial public
offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Taylor in New York at 
 vtaylor6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  