-- 
ECB May Pause Rate Increases as Debt Crisis Turns Focus to Bond Purchases

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-04T07:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/ecb-may-pause-rate-increases-as-debt-crisis-turns-focus-to-bond-purchases.html
The  European Central Bank  may be
prevented from raising interest rates again this year as
economic growth slows and the region’s debt crisis spreads to
Italy and  Spain , increasing pressure on the ECB to resume bond
purchases.  Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today will keep the
benchmark rate at 1.5 percent, according to all 54 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. With yields on Italian and Spanish
bonds near euro-era records and the German economy showing signs
of weakening, investors have reduced bets on the ECB adding to
its two rate increases in 2011, even as some central bank
officials push for more monetary tightening to tame inflation.  “Even if the hawks push for one additional hike before
settling into wait-and-see mode, the odds of no further rate
hike in 2011 have risen strongly,” said Peter Vanden Houte,
chief euro-area economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Now that
core countries are also showing signs of weakening, a pause in
the tightening cycle is becoming increasingly likely.”  While European leaders last month agreed on a second
bailout package for  Greece  that includes voluntary contributions
from private-sector bondholders and widens the scope of the
European rescue fund, investors aren’t convinced the measures
will stop the 21-month crisis from spreading. Governments must
still ratify the plan, which would empower the rescue fund to
start buying bonds on the secondary market.  Bond Program  (For a related story on Japan’s currency intervention,
click here. To read about  Switzerland ’s rate cut click here. For
more on today’s  Bank of England  policy meeting click here.)  The ECB, which ceased buying the bonds of distressed euro-
area governments 18 weeks ago, may be forced to re-enter markets
if Italian and Spanish yields keep rising, said Jens Sondergaard, senior economist at Nomura International Plc in
 London . The central bank has bought 74 billion euros ($106
billion) of assets since May last year in an effort to ease
market tensions.  “If financial  market sentiment  continues to deteriorate,
we think the ECB will re-activate its bond-buying program” as
soon as today, Sondergaard said.  Currency Intervention  The ECB announces its rate decision at 1:45 p.m. in
 Frankfurt  and President  Jean-Claude Trichet  holds a press
conference 45 minutes later. The Bank of England will keep its
key rate at 0.5 percent today, according to another survey of
economists. That decision is due at noon in London.  Europe ’s debt crises and concerns about slowing growth in
the U.S. have started to hurt other economies as investors seek
safe havens, driving up exchange rates and undermining exports.  The  Swiss National Bank  unexpectedly cut interest rates
yesterday and said it will increase the supply of francs to
money markets to stem the currency’s gains. It had surged 10
percent against the euro in the past two months to a record.  Japan  today sold yen to halt an appreciation that saw it
approaching a postwar high against the dollar. The  Bank of Japan 
also pledged to inject an additional 10 trillion yen ($126
billion) into the economy.  While the ECB has put the onus on governments to come up
with a solution to Europe’s worsening crisis, soaring bond
yields in the region’s third and fourth-largest economies are
raising the stakes.  Italy, Spain  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds jumped to 6.26 percent
yesterday, the highest since the introduction of the single
currency in 1999, while the yield on Spanish 10-year debt surged
to 6.46 percent this week. Yields retreated today.  Credit default swaps imply a 27 percent chance that  Italy 
will default on its debt within the next five years and a 31
percent probability that Spain won’t be able to meet its
obligations. Spain is due to auction bonds today.  “If the ECB didn’t re-activate its bond program in the
last few weeks, it won’t do so now,” said  Klaus Baader , chief
euro-area economist at Societe Generale SA in London. “It would
be harmful for the political discussion because governments may
take it as a reason to restrain potential interventions by the
rescue fund.”  There are signs the debt crisis is starting to weigh on
confidence in core euro-area economies such as  Germany , where
growth is already slowing as the global recovery falters.
Investor sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low last month and
business confidence waned.  Economic Impact  European services and manufacturing growth weakened in July
to the slowest pace since the euro region emerged from recession
two years ago. The ECB in June revised down its 2012 growth
forecast to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent.  Investors have pushed back expectations for another ECB
rate increase into next year, Eonia forward contracts show.
While economists still expect the ECB to tighten borrowing costs
again in October, according to the median of 33 forecasts in a
July 29 survey, the number of those expecting no change in rates
rose to 14 from 10 in the previous survey on July 1.  Euro-area inflation, which the ECB aims to keep just below
2 percent, slowed to 2.5 percent last month from 2.7 percent in
June, driven by a sharp drop in Italy’s rate. M3 money supply
growth, which the ECB uses as a gauge of future price pressure,
also decelerated. At the same time, inflation in Germany
unexpectedly quickened to 2.6 percent.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on July 7 that the
ECB’s  interest rates  are “still relatively low,” indicating he
sees room for further tightening. Fellow ECB council member
 Andres Lipstok  of Estonia said on July 26 that focusing
excessively on countries that have succumbed to the region’s
debt crisis entails the “threat of price-rise acceleration in
the entire euro area.”  “It might be a bit too early to see them significantly
changing their language,” said  Nick Kounis , head of
macroeconomic research at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. “But if you
look at the way things are going, there has to be some
heightened probability now of a pause in rate hikes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  