-- 
Legal & General Reports Smaller-Than-Estimated Drop in First-Half Profit

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-03T08:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/legal-general-reports-smaller-than-estimated-drop-in-first-half-profit.html
European politicians are hindering
the recovery by their indecisiveness and lack of transparency in
their attempts to solve the region’s debt crisis,  Legal &
General Group Plc (LGEN)  Chief Executive Officer Tim Breedon said.  “U.K. consumer and business confidence is relatively low,
and one of the reasons for that is simply the lack of clarity
that exists in how this particular facet of the crisis is going
to play out,” Breedon told reporters on a conference call today
as the insurer reported a smaller-than-estimated drop in first-
half profit.  The STOXX Europe 600 Index has tumbled 6.3 percent since
European leaders announced new aid for  Greece  on July 21 and
empowered their 440 billion-euro ($627 billion) rescue fund to
buy debt across stressed euro nations. The move failed to stem
the contagion and yields on Italian and Spanish bonds soared.  “To have recovery and growth we need confidence,” Breedon
said. “The way the European crisis is playing out is certainly
not adding to that confidence,” he said. “It’s not helpful
that policy-setting is not perhaps as confidence-building, and
the rhetoric is not as clear as is desirable.”  Legal & General, the biggest investor in the U.K. stock
market, doesn’t have operations in the affected countries. Its
exposure to sovereign and bank debt in  Portugal , Greece,  Italy 
and  Spain  is about 1.4 percent of shareholders’ assets, Breedon
said today. “We don’t see this as being a major issue for
L&G,” he said.  Operating Profit  The insurer, with 362 billion pounds ($590 billion) of
assets, has dropped 9.5 percent in the past month, along with
the FTSE ASX Life Insurance Index, amid the European sovereign
debt crisis. The insurer today posted a 3.5 percent drop in
first-half operating profit and raised its first-half dividend
25 percent.  Operating profit for the first six months of the year fell
to 523 million pounds, surpassing the 505 million-pound estimate
of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The firm raised its
dividend to 1.66 pence a share, beating the analysts’ estimate
of 1.65 pence.  Higher profits at the insurer’s investment management and
savings division cushioned the decline in earnings at its risk
unit, which was affected by a “one-off” benefit in 2009 and
2010, Breedon said.  Earnings at the risk unit fell 24 percent to 310 million
pounds after a drop in U.K. corporate bond yields forced annuity
providers to set aside more capital to cover future liabilities.
Insurers had benefited from the surge in bond yields during the
financial crisis of 2008, which allowed them to use less capital
to meet their obligations.  “That process is largely done,” Breedon said. “The
exceptional conditions that existed in 2009, 2010, have now
worked their way through.”  Legal & General dropped 1.1 percent to 108.5 pence as of
8:48 a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about 6.4
billion pounds. The  FTSE ASX Life Insurance (FALIFE)  Index dropped 2.4
percent to 4116.13 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  