-- 
Egypt Seeks to Broaden Wheat Import Sources as Russian Grain Prices Climb

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-08-03T07:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/egypt-seeks-to-broaden-wheat-import-sources-as-russian-grain-prices-climb.html
Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat
importer, is stepping up efforts to find more sources after
prices it paid for Russian grain climbed almost 5 percent in
less than a month.  The state-run  General Authority  for Supply Commodities
bought Russian wheat for as little as $243.50 a metric ton on
July 7, its first purchase following the expiration of a ban on
grain exports from the eastern European country after almost a
year. The authority paid as much as $255.25 at its latest tender
on July 29.  “The price of Russian wheat has been going up gradually,
tender after tender,” Vice Chairman Nomani Nomani said by phone
from Cairo yesterday. “So we are now urging other source
countries to increase the competition and decrease their prices,
and we are also seeking to expand our list of approved import
sources.”  The authority is still considering restoring Romania and
Ukraine to a list of approved sources that now spans nations
including the U.S.,  France  and  Australia , Nomani said. Russia
accounted for more than half of Egypt’s wheat imports before it
barred all outbound cereal shipments on Aug. 15.  “What is helping boost Russian wheat prices is that it’s
cheaper than others, and there is a lot of demand for it,”
Nomani said. “But we want to diversify origins to prompt
competition and prevent monopoly, in order to get the best
quality for the best prices.”  Subsidized Bread  The authority buys 5 million to 6 million tons of wheat a
year on behalf of Egypt’s government through international
tenders because local production is insufficient to meet demand.
The wheat is used to make subsidized bread.  Russian wheat is selling at a discount to other nations’
grain of as much as $50 a ton, the most in at least four years,
according to the Moscow-based Institute for Agricultural Market
Studies. Russian wheat normally costs $10 to $15 a ton less than
French grain, says the researcher, also known as IKAR.  “Russian traders have cornered themselves on prices,”
IKAR analyst Oleg Sukhanov said by phone July 29. “Traders
competed with each other, trying to sell as much as possible.
The only competition  Russia  has now is with Russia itself. The
price should be about $300 a ton, based on supply and demand
picture.”  Russian wheat’s discount may “easily” narrow to $25 to
$30 a ton by the end of this month or early September, said
Peter Biermann, general manager of export operations at Aston
FFI, a trading unit of Russian grain and oilseed producer  OAO
Aston . Aston will supply 60,000 tons of wheat to Egypt, the
results of the July 29 tender show.  “I think we can compete with quality and cheaper prices,”
Biermann said from Lausanne,  Switzerland , on July 29. “Clearly
it’s the price of Russian wheat which is unbeatable at the
moment, at least.”  Russia barred grain exports after the country’s worst
drought in at least half a century seared fields. The ban
expired July 1 as scheduled. Russia failed to supply 590,000
tons of wheat to Egypt in the year through June because of the
prohibition, according to Nomani.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at   ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 