-- 
El-Erian Says S&P Will Cut U.S. AAA Rating If It Holds to July 14 Outlook

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-08-03T14:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/el-erian-says-s-p-will-cut-u-s-aaa-rating-if-it-holds-to-july-14-outlook.html
Standard & Poor’s  will downgrade the
U.S. after it enacted a law to reduce federal debt by $2.4
trillion over a decade if the credit-rating company sticks to
what it outlined last month, said Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  “It’s not clear that this is enough to preclude a
downgrade by S&P,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief
investment officer at the world’s biggest manager of bond funds,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu. “We suspect they’re under tremendous pressure
not to downgrade, but if they stick to what they told the world
on July 14, they will downgrade the U.S.”  S&P, which has given the U.S. a top AAA ranking since 1941,
placed the rating on “CreditWatch” on July 14, saying there’s
a 50 percent chance it would be cut within 90 days even if an
agreement was reached by yesterday. The company said it needs to
see “a credible solution to the rising U.S. government debt
burden.” It indicated last week that anything less than $4
trillion in cuts would jeopardize the grade.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
top credit ratings for the U.S. while warning that downgrades
were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt-reduction measures
and the economy weakens.  President  Barack Obama  signed the debt-limit compromise
bill yesterday, the day the Treasury Department had said was the
deadline for the nation’s borrowing ceiling to be raised to
avert a default. The measure will defer decisions on the
nation’s finances to a bipartisan panel and may only modestly
reduce deficits while slowing economic growth.  $100 Billion a Year  JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated a downgrade would raise U.S.
borrowing costs by $100 billion a year, while Obama said it
could hurt the broader economy by increasing consumer borrowing
costs tied to Treasury rates. The ratio of general government
debt, including state and local governments, to gross domestic
product is projected to climb to 100 percent in 2012, the most
of any AAA-ranked country, Fitch said in April.  The economy is likely to grow at a rate of 1 percent to 2
percent a year, which may not be fast enough to avoid a
recession as consumers and businesses continue to use excess
cash to pay down outstanding debt,  Newport Beach , California-
based El-Erian said.  ‘Stall Speed’  “There’s this fear of stall speed,” El-Erian said. “If a
plane’s not going fast enough, it ends up by coming down. The
risk we’re facing right now is at 1 to 2 percent, that may not
be enough for an economy that still needs to de-lever.”  A slowdown may force the  Federal Reserve  to reconsider
adding stimulus, he said.  “Either the Fed is going to get pulled in with some pretty
imperfect policy instruments, or the risk of recession goes
up,” El-Erian said.  Adoption of the debt plan yesterday ended a months-long
debate that reinforced partisan divisions over federal spending.
The measure raises the nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and
threatens automatic spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in
spending reductions over the next 10 years.  Pimco’s $245 billion Total Return Fund has returned 5.86
percent in the past year, beating 71 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 1.32 percent
over the past month, beating 35 percent of its competitors. The
firm managed $1.3 trillion in assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 Bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  