-- 
Telecom Italia May Acquire Hutchison’s 3 Italia, Corriere Says

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-08-03T07:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/telecom-italia-may-acquire-hutchison-s-3-italia-corriere-says.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the nation’s
biggest phone company, may acquire 3 Italia SpA, the local
wireless operator owned by Li Ka-shing’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,
 Corriere Della Sera  reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
are working on a merger plan without a formal mandate, the
Italian newspaper said today. 3 Italia would be valued at 4.3
billion euros ($6.1 billion) including some tax losses, the
report said, citing an estimate by  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   A spokesman for Milan-based Telecom Italia declined to
comment, asking not to be named because of company policy. Laura Cheung, a spokeswoman at Hutchison Whampoa in  Hong Kong , also
declined to comment. A 3 Italia spokeswoman said the company
doesn’t comment on market speculation.  Telecom Italia may sell new stock at 1.80 euros a share to
Hutchison, which in turn may “confer” the shares to Telecom
Italia’s controlling investor, Telco SpA, Corriere said, citing
a Deutsche Bank proposal.  Telecom Italia rose 1.4 percent to 84.3 cents at 9:56 a.m.
in Milan, giving the company a market value of 15.7 billion
euros. Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa slid 1.2 percent to
HK$90.85 on the city’s stock exchange.  Hutchison’s 3 Italia earned 96 million euros before
interest and taxes in 2010, as service revenue rose 4 percent to
1.7 billion euros, the Hong Kong company reported in March. The
Italian unit, the country’s fourth-biggest wireless company, had
9.1 million subscribers as of March 28, it said.  The control of 3 Italia has come up as a subject of
speculation before. Chief Executive Officer Vincenzo Novari told
 Il Sole 24 Ore  in November 2008 that his company and Telecom
Italia discussed a merger plan and dropped it after failing to
agree on the price. The companies were also concerned about
antitrust approval, he was quoted as saying.  Last month, Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  said Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA is “open to a possible integration” with
a telephone company in Italy, also citing 3 Italia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  