-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop Most in 10 Weeks on Faltering U.S. Economic Data

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-03T22:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/emerging-stocks-drop-to-six-week-low-currencies-weaken-on-u-s-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
second day, driving the benchmark index down the most in 10
weeks, as slower expansion in U.S. service industries added to
concern over growth in the world’s largest economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 2.2 percent, the most
since May 23, to 1,102.59 at 4:30 p.m. in New York.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa Index plunged 2.3 percent, the biggest loss in six
months, while Chile’s benchmark slid to the lowest since
February. Equities fell in almost all nations across central and
eastern Europe, led by slumps in Poland and  Russia .  South
Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dived 2.6 percent for the biggest two-day
plunge since November 2009.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
 U.S. economy , dropped to 52.7 last month from 53.3 in June.
Readings above 50 signal expansion, and economists projected
52.3 for July. Companies in the U.S. added 114,000 workers to
payrolls in July, less than the 157,000 a month earlier,
according to ADP Employer Services.  “The U.S. debt ceiling resolution did not turn around
sentiment and investors’ worries turned to the sluggish outlook
for the global growth and the renewed worries about  Europe ’s
debt,” analysts at BNP Paribas SA including Bartosz Pawlowski
in London wrote in an e-mailed report. “The market is unlikely
to take the European debt crisis off the hook just yet.”  The U.S. personal spending dropped for the first time in
almost two years, a report showed yesterday, outweighing relief
the nation averted a default after President  Barack Obama  signed
a plan to raise the government’s debt ceiling.  Debt Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings for the U.S., while warning of possible
downgrades if lawmakers fail to enact debt-reduction measures
and the economy weakens.  China ’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co.
cut the rating for the U.S. to A from A+ with a negative outlook
even after the government’s approval of a higher debt ceiling,
according to an e-mailed statement from Dagong today.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , in an address to
the Chamber of Deputies in Rome today, said Italy has “solid”
economic fundamentals and liquid banks as confidence in his
country has been further shaken by political turmoil. European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  urged governments to quickly
approve a planned upgrade of the euro- area rescue fund, saying
the perception that leaders haven’t found a “systemic” answer
to the crisis is hurting investor sentiment.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 3.4 percent, the most since
April, as oil slipped to a five-week low in New York to below
$92 a barrel. Poland’s WIG20 Index slumped 3.3 percent in
Warsaw, the most since May 2010,  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , the country’s
second-largest lender, fell 5 percent to its weakest close in
more than a year.  MMX, Petrobras  Iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and oil
producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA followed crude and metals prices
lower. Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, Brazil’s second-
biggest airline by market value, led declines for consumer
stocks after Bank of America Corp. cut its forecast for Brazil’s
gross domestic product expansion.  Chile’s IPSA Index lost 1.8 percent and  Mexico ’s IPC Index
fell 0.9 percent. Grupo Carso SAB, the Mexican holding company
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , tumbled 4.4 percent to
the lowest close since September, after the stock exchange said
it would be removed from the benchmark  stock index .  Turkey’s lira appreciated 0.9 percent against the dollar, as
the country’s inflation rate accelerated to 6.3 percent in July,
less than a 6.7 percent median estimate by seven analysts. The
Turkish central bank said it would hold a previously unscheduled
meeting of its rates-setting committee tomorrow.  Forint Rises  Hungary’s forint strengthened 1.7 percent against the
franc, rebounding from its weakest level on record, as the Swiss
central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates . Almost two-thirds
of Hungarian household mortgages are denominated in foreign
currencies, most of them in francs, according to central bank
data as of June 30.  The index of developing nation shares has dropped 4.2
percent this year, trailing a 1.4 percent decline in the MSCI
measure for developed markets. Stocks in the benchmark for
emerging equities are valued at 9.9 times estimated profit for
the next 12 months, the lowest since March 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with the multiple of
11.2 times for developed countries.  Best Performers  The emerging markets will be “the best performing sectors
in the world over the next year,” Jonathan Auerbach, managing
director of Auerbach Grayson & Co. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “They are not indebted, they don’t run the
budget deficits as the rest of the world is doing and they have
greater internal economic growth.”  Auerbach said he prefers shares of banking sector and
consumer companies. Consumer companies have risen 5.5 percent
this year, the best performer among the 10 industry groups in
the MSCI emerging-market index, while industrial and technology
stocks have lost the most during the period.  The Shanghai Composite Index was little changed after the
non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose to 59.6 in
July from 57 in June. The gauge compiled by the China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing is based on a survey of companies in
industries including transport, real estate, retailing, catering
and software.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries shed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 302, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps gained five basis
points to 215.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  