-- 
Most Emerging-Markets Stocks May Be Poised for Decline: Technical Analysis

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-03T00:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/emerging-markets-stocks-are-poised-for-ominous-drop-technical-analysis.html
An “ominous” head-and-shoulders
pattern has formed over the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which
may foreshadow declines that will take it to the lowest level in
almost a year, according to  Auerbach Grayson  & Co.  Investors should sell stocks of developing nations except
for Russia,  South Korea  and Indonesia,  Richard Ross , global
technical strategist at Auerbach Grayson, said in a note to
clients dated July 29. The emerging-markets gauge dropped 1.8
percent to 1,126.97 yesterday, the most in three weeks. A weekly
close below the 50-week moving average at 1,120 could “set the
stage for a fast move down to 1,043,” Ross said. The MSCI
measure plunged as much as 58 percent after breaking below the
50-week average in June 2008.  “An ominous rolling head-and-shoulders top has formed over
the emerging markets,” said Ross. “Hold your Russia, Korea and
Indonesia and look to lighten up everywhere else.”  Ross, who is based in  New York , said on Jan. 27 that
Indonesia’s benchmark stock index may rise 18 percent after
slumping to a key Fibonacci support level. The measure has since
climbed 19 percent, closing at a record high on Aug. 1.  The emerging-markets gauge has fallen 2.7 percent this year,
compared with a 1.2 percent slump in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, on
concern accelerating inflation in countries from China to India
will spur more increases in  interest rates , curbing economic
growth. The MSCI index closed below 1,043 in September 2010.  A head-and-shoulders formation is three highs, with the
middle peak rising above two roughly equal outside peaks. The
middle peak, or crown, occurred in April, while the two
shoulders formed in January and July, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has rallied 13 percent this
year, the most among Asia’s benchmark stock gauges, while
Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index gained 10 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index has climbed 0.7 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its equity allocations for
Indonesia and Thailand stocks in its global emerging-markets
portfolio, while adding equities in China, South Korea,  Hong
Kong  and Taiwan, according to an Aug. 1 report. Thailand’s SET
Index has advanced 10 percent this year, surging to a 15-year
high on Aug. 1.  In technical analysis, investors study charts of trading
patterns and prices to predict changes in a security.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  