-- 
ENRC Iron-Ore Output Drops; Customers Seek High-Cost Pellets

-- B y   J o h n   V i l j o e n
-- 
2011-08-03T07:23:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/enrc-iron-ore-output-drops-customers-seek-high-cost-pellets-1-.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a
Kazakh metals producer, said iron-ore production dropped 4.8
percent in the second quarter and saleable concentrate slumped
17 percent as customers sought higher-cost pellets.  Iron-ore extraction fell to 10.6 million metric tons, from
11.2 million tons a year earlier, the London-based company said
today in a statement. Saleable concentrate output declined to 2
million tons from 2.41 million tons.  “Demand from steel-industry customers continued to shift
to higher-cost pellet from concentrate relative to the
comparative period in 2010,” ENRC said in the statement, adding
that concentrate output was higher than in the first quarter.  ENRC is investing in iron-ore assets to diversify output,
focused on ferroalloys, and extend its geographic reach as
Chinese demand for the steelmaking material drives up prices.
The company is spending $6.8 billion to boost iron-ore volumes
in Kazakhstan and  Brazil  to 70 million tons a year by 2016.  In the ferroalloys division, volumes for most products
grew, with a 0.8 percent increase in total saleable ferroalloys
and a 3.2 percent gain in saleable ferrochrome, the company
said. Bauxite extraction rose 1 percent, aluminum output climbed
8.8 percent and alumina production was little changed.  Full Capacity  “Production across all divisions is expected to be
maintained at effective full capacity for the second half,”
acting Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis said in the
statement. “We are continuing our program of  capital investment 
which is set to deliver a significant uplift in production
capacities as planned.”  ENRC dropped as much as 1.7 percent to 716 pence in London
trading, and was at 723 pence as of 8:16 a.m. local time.  Vulis, who resigned in February, is remaining in the post
while the company seeks a replacement.  On June 8, the company’s shareholders voted against
rehiring independent directors Richard Sykes and Kenneth Olisa
as a governance dispute between independent board members and
the main shareholders escalated. ENRC is now undergoing a three-
month review to restructure the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  