-- 
Mercedes Sees New Models Retaking No. 1 From BMW in India: Cars

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-08-03T22:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/mercedes-sees-new-models-retaking-no-1-from-bmw-in-india-cars.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz will
introduce smaller luxury cars in India to attract middle-class
consumers and close  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s widening lead
in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy.  Mercedes, which lost the top premium sales post in India to
BMW in 2009, plans to introduce cheaper models as early as 2013
to woo first-time luxury-car buyers in the country, Debashis Mitra, the division’s India sales chief, said in an interview.  The push follows BMW’s introduction of the locally
assembled X1 compact sport-utility vehicle, now the Munich-based
carmaker’s best-selling model in the country. Mercedes and BMW,
which together control 70 percent of India’s luxury-vehicle
segment, are fighting over a market forecast to almost triple to
47,000 vehicles by 2015, according to IHS Automotive.  “Better highways, higher disposable incomes and the
growing aspirations of people in India will fuel growth in
luxury-car sales,” said Rakesh Batra, head of Ernst & Young’s
auto unit in New Delhi. “With the number of millionaires in
India rising, the demand for  luxury goods  will also increase.”  Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes delivered 6,753 vehicles
in India in the year ended March 31. That compared with 7,079
cars by BMW, which aims to sell more than 10,000 autos in the
country this year.  Part of the X1’s success is the lower sticker price. The
model starts at 2.2 million rupees ($49,900) in New Delhi, less
than half the 4.9 million-rupee sticker price for Mercedes’
cheapest SUV, the imported ML. The lowest-priced Mercedes, the
C200 CGI Executive sedan, costs 2.58 million rupees.  Mercedes Assembly  Mercedes plans to assemble the new compact models,
including small SUVs and sedans, locally from kits to lower the
cost, Mitra said. Carmakers only pay a 10 percent duty on cars
built in India instead of as much as 100 percent on imports.
Mercedes produces the C-, E- and S-Class sedans in the country.  The increased presence may help Mercedes stem a plunge in
market share. It controlled about 60 percent of India’s luxury
market before BMW arrived in 2007, according to industry
researcher IHS Automotive. That declined to 34 percent in 2010,
with BMW accounting for 36 percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand
is third with 17 percent, IHS data show.  To maintain its lead, BMW will introduce the larger X3 SUV
in India this year as a locally assembled product, and expand
capacity at its Chennai factory next year, said Andreas Schaaf,
head of BMW’s India operations, adding that the country will be
among BMW’s top 10 markets by 2020.  Dealer Growth  BMW will also more than double the number of dealers in
India to 60 from 27 by the end of 2013, Schaaf said. Daimler
plans to add as many as 15 dealerships and service centers a
year nationwide. Mercedes, which has 36 showrooms and service
centers in the country, wants to expand in secondary locations
to tap potential for customers trading up to entry-level  luxury
vehicles  from autos built by volume producers, Mitra said.  “Once a buyer buys an X1 or a Mercedes C-Class, the
manufacturer can be assured that his next car will be a luxury
car,” said  Deepesh Rathore , India chief at IHS Automotive.
“Even if the margins are lower in the entry-level segment, the
manufacturer has a buyer for life.”  Premium cars account for less than 1 percent of total auto
sales in India, according to Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers data, meaning luxury-car makers have room for
growth. Luxury car sales account for about 8 percent of the
total market in  Japan  and 6 percent in  South Korea , Schaaf said.  India ’s central bank forecasts the economy will expand 8
percent in the current fiscal year, second only in the region to
 China , the world’s largest auto market.  Fading Taboo  “Buying a luxury car earlier was a taboo in India,” Mitra
said in an interview at Mercedes’ factory in Pune in the western
state of Maharashtra. “The earlier perception was rich people
are bad people. That taboo is slowly, slowly going out.”  Still, the demand for cars is threatened by the highest
borrowing costs since 2008 in a country where Brics Securities
Ltd. of Mumbai says about 80 percent of all purchases are funded
by loans. The  Reserve Bank  of India said Aug. 1 that rate
increases are needed to restrain inflation after raising the
benchmark repurchase rate five times in 2011. Auto sales grew
1.6 percent in June, the slowest pace in more than two years.  BMW, which currently can produce 10,000 cars a year in
India, takes a long-term view. The carmaker aims to maintain
market share of between 30 percent and 40 percent to 2020, when
India’s premium-car market will grow to 150,000 vehicles
annually from 17,814 in the year ended March 31, Schaaf said.  “The X1 is a major pillar for us and it brings new people
to the brand,” Schaaf said in a July 26 interview in Gurgaon,
near  New Delhi . “We know that competition will flow into this
segment but we have the first-mover advantage.”  The Mercedes initiative aims to counter BMW’s current edge.  “India will be one of the most important markets for
automobiles,” Mitra said. “All our activities today that we’re
driving toward are to see how we make the brand younger and more
appealing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  