-- 
Here’s a Tax That Can End Pain at Pump: Bradley, Ridge, Walker

-- B y   B i l l   B r a d l e y ,   T o m   R i d g e ,   D a v i d   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/here-s-a-tax-that-can-end-pain-at-pump-bradley-ridge-walker.html
The U.S.’s  national transportation 
program is broke. We borrow about $12 billion from the Treasury
annually for the  Highway Trust Fund . But our real annual
transportation deficit is more than $100 billion when you
include interest, deferred maintenance and other spending.  At the same time, the 55-year-old Interstate Highway System
is crumbling and needs to be rebuilt, at an estimated cost of
$2.5 trillion to $3 trillion during the next 20 years.  We have no choice but to find new revenue. The way to do it
is with a revamped federal gas tax. The gas tax, last raised to
18 cents a gallon in 1993, now has a  buying power  of 11 cents.
In the same period, our real gross domestic product has grown 55
percent and our driving has increased 31 percent. The
president’s fiscal commission -- widely cited as a bipartisan
road map for  tax reform  -- recommended an immediate gas-levy
increase of 15 cents.  But simply raising the gas tax won’t address a serious
threat to our economic well-being -- wild swings in pump prices
due to spikes and crashes in world oil prices.  Europe , with gas
taxes averaging more than $4 a gallon, faces this same risk. Gas
taxes that increase with the price of oil can just make matters
worse. Any plan for transportation solvency must include a
price-stabilization mechanism so that rising oil costs don’t
crush household budgets or the economy.  Security Fee  To accomplish this, we propose establishing a value-added
oil-security fee at the refinery or point of importation. This
fee would be a fixed percentage based on the price of a barrel
of oil. In addition to the levy, there would be a varying retail
tax on gas. When oil prices increase, the gas tax is reduced.
When they decline, the gas tax would rise, thus offsetting
diminished oil-security fees due to lower oil prices.  For example, if a 5 percent oil-security levy were assessed
when oil costs $100 a barrel, the fee would be $5 a barrel and
yield, at present levels of oil consumption, about $28.3 billion
a year. At $115 a barrel the gas tax per gallon could be abated
by 5 cents (assuming abatement at 1 cent for every $3 increase
in oil price) but the oil fee would rise to $5.75 a barrel,
offsetting the lost gas-tax revenue. If the price of oil fell to
$90 a barrel, the oil fee would also drop 50 cents a barrel, but
the gas tax would rise by 10 cents a gallon, more than
offsetting the lost oil-fee revenue. Thus,  oil companies  pay
more when their profits increase, and consumers would bear more
cost when oil prices -- and prices at the pump -- fall.  Share the Burden  This share-the-burden strategy would raise the revenue
needed to restore transportation solvency and the infrastructure
investments that would help the economy grow. This plan would
also assist consumers by encouraging gas-price stabilization.
Conceptually, this shifts responsibility for transportation
funding from a straight “user pays” approach (gasoline
consumers) to a “beneficiaries pay” system (both producers and
consumers). Because both oil companies and consumers benefit
from transportation investments, this is fair.  We understand that this plan wouldn’t stop large price
swings in energy markets. Oil and gasoline values will continue
to fluctuate for many reasons, including some that have nothing
to do with underlying oil supply and demand. But this
countercyclical pricing plan would help trim price peaks and
troughs while sending a signal that public policy would be used
to fight price manipulation by the hedging or hoarding that
exploit bottlenecks in oil markets.  It would also allow us to rebuild our infrastructure and
our economy. We need to invest in new, intelligent and
integrated transportation systems; build smart, low-carbon
cities; revolutionize freight logistics; and develop systems
that efficiently move products through our ports, rail yards and
airport gateways. We have an opportunity to address our
infrastructure problems. The longer we wait, the more future
generations will pay for our neglect.  (Bill Bradley, former U.S. senator; Tom Ridge, former
Pennsylvania governor and U.S. secretary for  homeland security ;
and  David Walker , former U.S. comptroller general and founder
and chief executive officer of the Comeback America Initiative,
recently published a report with the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace on how to fix the U.S. transportation
system. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
 transportation@ceip.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 