-- 
Mets Pitcher Santana Has Setback in Recovery Following Shoulder Surgery

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/mets-pitcher-santana-has-setback-in-recovery-following-shoulder-surgery.html
New York  Mets left-hander Johan Santana will have tests to determine what is causing “lingering
discomfort” in his surgically repaired left shoulder, General
Manager  Sandy Alderson  said.  Santana, 32, who has not pitched since Sept. 2, will miss a
rehabilitation start scheduled for tomorrow and fly from Florida
to New York for tests on the shoulder, Alderson told reporters
yesterday.  “I can’t really characterize it as pain versus discomfort
versus typical soreness,” Alderson said. “Whatever it is, it’s
sufficient in nature that he wants to have it checked.”  Santana, a four-time All-Star, pitched three scoreless
innings in a rehab assignment July 28 for the Mets’ Class A
minor-league affiliate in St. Lucie,  Florida . His rehab plan
targeted a return to the major leagues by late August. Alderson
said the overriding goal is for Santana to be ready for the 2012
season.  “I’ve already said that, as far as 2011 is concerned,
we’re not looking for him to contribute to a pennant race,”
Alderson said. “So we will look at September as part of his
overall recovery from the surgery.”  The Mets (55-55) are tied for third in the five-team
National League East, 15 games behind the division-leading
Philadelphia Phillies, following a 4-3 loss to the  Florida
Marlins  last night.  A two-time Cy Young Award winner, Santana was traded to New
York from the  Minnesota Twins  during the 2007-08 offseason. In
February 2008, Santana signed a six-year, $137.5 million
contract with the Mets and that year set a franchise record for
strikeouts for left-handers in a single season, with 206.  Santana had right knee surgery following the 2008 season
and arthroscopic elbow surgery in September 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 