-- 
European Services, Manufacturing Expansion Slowed in July

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-08-03T08:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/euro-region-s-services-manufacturing-expansion-slowed-in-july.html
European services and manufacturing
growth weakened in July to the slowest pace in almost two years,
adding to signs the euro region’s recovery is losing momentum.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 51.1 in July from 53.3 in
June, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the
lowest since September 2009, though it exceeds an initial
estimate of 50.8. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Europe ’s export-led recovery is faltering as leaders
struggle to contain the region’s worsening debt crisis as global
demand weakens. U.K., Australian and Russian manufacturing
contracted last month, while  China ’s output growth slowed. The
European Central Bank tomorrow may keep borrowing costs on hold
after increasing them for a second time this year in July.  “The most recent indicators point to stagnation in
economic growth,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic
research at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. “There’s every chance
that the debt crisis is going to escalate again and that creates
uncertainty. It’s now entering the consciousness of businesses
and their decisions. That’s another negative.”  The euro-area services indicator fell to 51.6 last month
from 53.7 in June, Markit said. The manufacturing gauge
decreased to 50.4 from 52 in June.  Earnings Season  Adding to signs of a slowdown, European economic confidence
dropped to the lowest in almost a year last month and seasonally
adjusted unemployment held at 9.9 percent in June for a fourth
month. In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, investor confidence
dropped more than economists forecast in July while German and
French executives also grew more pessimistic.  More European companies have missed analysts’ estimates
since July 11 than in any earnings season in at least five
years. About 52 percent of companies in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index have posted earnings that fell short of
projections, compared with 78 percent of Standard & Poor’s 500
Index companies that have exceeded forecasts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Some exporters are still benefiting from faster growth in
emerging markets such as China and  Brazil .  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles,
yesterday reported record per-car profit in the second quarter
driven by demand for its 5-series sedan.  Peter Loescher , chief
executive officer at  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering
company, said last month that “markets are still robust,
although risks are increasing somewhat.”  With European leaders stepping up austerity measures to
fight the fiscal crisis from spreading across the region, ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last month that the euro-
region recovery probably weakened in the second quarter. The
economy expanded 0.8 percent in the year’s first three months.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will probably keep its
benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5 percent when policy makers meet
tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg survey. Trichet will hold a
press conference at 2:30 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  