-- 
German Air-Traffic Controllers Cancel Strike After Court Injunction Issued

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-08-03T19:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/european-air-travel-is-at-risk-as-german-french-workers-threaten-walkouts.html
Germany ’s air traffic controllers
union canceled a strike that had threatened to disrupt 3,000
flights at airlines including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  tomorrow.  The cancellation came late today after Germany’s  air-
traffic control  company Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH won an
injunction blocking a strike. The company had said in its filing
that the planned strike over pay would be “disproportionate and
illegal.” The  Frankfurt  labor court ruled against the action
while allowing an immediate appeal to the State of Hesse
employment court.  Germany’s Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union had asked
3,400 controllers to walk out between 6 a.m. and noon after
rejecting revised wage proposals from DFS. The union chose to
cancel because the Hesse court wasn’t expected to decide on the
appeal until late tonight, spokesman Matthias Maas said in a
telephone interview.  The union “has decided to ensure that all passengers
planning to fly tomorrow do so in the knowledge that there will
be a seat on a plane for them,” Maas said.  A strike would have come at the height of the summer season
and some flights are already being canceled and delayed as the
labor group makes its appeal, DFS Managing Director Jens Bergmann said in a statement.  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Germany’s biggest discount carrier and the
No. 3 in  Europe , had said it will “fly until the very last
minute” to avoid scrapping services.  “We don’t as yet plan to cancel any flights,” Melanie
Schyja, a spokeswoman for the Berlin-based airline, said before
the strike was canceled. “If the strike goes ahead we will
delay flights if possible and only cancel them if there’s no
alternative.”  Skeleton Crews  Fraport AG, operator of Frankfurt airport, Europe’s third-
busiest, said it’s planning for business as usual.  “When we have concrete, factual information, then we will
act on that accordingly,” spokesman Roy Watson said.  In the event of a walkout, DFS will ask unions to provide
skeleton crews to allow emergency and military flights to
continue operating, spokeswoman Kristina Kelek said.  DFS, based in Langen, near Frankfurt, operates five air-
navigation centers and control towers at 16 international
airports and nine regional bases.  Air France said separately today that some flights faced
long delays and advised passengers to check times on its website
as maintenance workers extended industrial action over pay.  The rolling strike, which began in June, may cause flights
to be rescheduled, with overnight delays possible, spokeswoman
Constance Meyenberg said, adding that as many as 100 of 2,500
mechanics based at Paris Charles de Gaulle airport are involved.  The unit of  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s biggest airline,
does not log dropped flights as terminated when they are carried
out the next day, and said it expects no cancellations from the
strike. Air France scrapped 4.4 percent of flights last weekend
because of a separate pilot walkout that ended Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt   awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  