-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Japan Rebuilding Brightens Ports

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-08-03T06:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/europe-commodity-day-ahead-japan-rebuilding-brightens-ports.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  *T ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  Forecast  Prior       Time  (N.Y.)  EC PMI Composite              JUL       50.8     50.8      4:00
EC PMI Services               JUL       51.4     51.4      4:00
Euro Zone Retail Sales MoM    JUN        0.5%    -1.3%     5:00
MBA Mortgage Applications     JUL 29             -5.0%     7:00
Challenger Job Cuts YoY       JUL                 5.3%     7:30
ADP Employment Change         JUL       100K      157K     8:15
U.S. ISM Non-Mfg. Composite   JUL       53.5      53.3    10:00
U.S. Factory Orders           JUL      -0.8%      0.8%    10:00
USDA Cattle Slaughter         AUG 3             129000    14:00
USDA Hog Slaughter            AUG 3             401000    14:00
USDA Broiler Eggs Set         JUL 29            195994    15:00  Metal Prices: ($/ton)
*Y  Last   %Chg RSI
Copper         $9,681.25  +0.01  55
Aluminum       $2,584.50  +0.1   52
Zinc           $2,441     +0.03  54
Lead           $2,568     +0.3   41
Nickel        $24,600     -0.8   59
Tin           $27,200     -0.4   46
*Y
Other Markets:
*Y                     Last     %Chg    %YTD
U.S. Dollar Index      74.468   -0.1    -5.7
Crude Oil             $93.40    +0.2    +2.2
Gold                $1,662.30   +0.1   +17.0
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index    $1,264.85   -0.4    -1.2
*Y
TOP STORY:  Japan  Rebuilding Bright Spot for Western Ports: Freight Markets  Longshoremen at ports in Washington state and Vancouver are
set to load more timber and lumber onto vessels destined for
Japan as the world’s third-biggest economy rebuilds from a $220
billion natural disaster.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Anchor Ship May Double Fleet to 50 on China’s Iron-Ore Demand  Anchor Ship Investment Co., Japan’s largest ship-fund
manager, may more than double its fleet to as many as 50 vessels
because of rising imports of coal and iron ore in China and
India.  Paulson, BlackRock, UBS Lead London Mining Analyst Hiring Spree  Paulson & Co., BlackRock Inc. and UBS AG are leading a
hiring spree of London-based mining analysts as banks, brokers
and  hedge funds  compete to bolster research teams in an industry
valued at more than $350 billion in the U.K.  Fertilizer Boom Spurs Record Loans as Costs Sink:  Russia  Credit  Farmers from China to  Brazil  are turning Russia into a
global center for fertilizer exports and spurring a record
borrowing spree by producers as rising sales send interest costs
tumbling.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Drop as Mine Strike Nears End, U.S. Spending Weakens  Copper may drop on the London Metal Exchange as a two-week
strike at the world’s largest mine in  Chile  may be nearing an
end and U.S. consumer spending fell, deepening concern demand
may ease in the second-largest user.  Iron Ore Swaps, Aided by Deutsche Bank, Surge Fourfold to Record  Iron-ore swaps trading, developed by Deutsche Bank AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG in 2008, rose almost fourfold this year
to a record in July on demand for derivatives to hedge against
price swings in the steelmaking ingredient.  MINING:  Lynas Says China Showing No Sign of Boosting Rare Earth Exports  China is showing “no real sign” of boosting rare earths
exports, Lynas Corp. Chief Executive Officer Nick Curtis told
reporters in Kalgoorlie, Western  Australia . Over 70 percent of
rare earths output from Lynas’ Mount Weld mine in Australia has
been committed on offtake contracts, he said.  Molybdenum to Be Supported by Stronger Chinese Demand, CPM Says  Molybdenum prices will be supported by rising demand in
China, the world’s largest consumer and producer of the metal
that’s used to strengthen steel, and a recovery in the global
economy, according to CPM Group Inc.  AngloGold, Gold Fields Strike Ends With Two-Year Wage Accord (2)  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Gold Fields Ltd. and Harmony Gold
Mining Co.,  South Africa ’s largest producers of the metal,
reached a two-year wage deal with workers, ending a strike that
halted production on July 28.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Spot Gold, Gold Futures in  New York  Advance to All-Time Highs  Spot gold and gold futures in New York climbed to all-time
highs as concern that the global recovery may be losing momentum
drove investors to buy the metal to protect their wealth.  Gold Priced in Euro, Sterling, Canadian Dollars Climb to Record  Gold climbed to all-time highs in euros, pounds and
Canadian dollars as concern the global economy is losing
momentum boosted demand for haven assets.  Global Gold Hedges Increased 4.1% in First Quarter, GFMS Says  Global gold hedges, or sales of future production, gained
about 4.1 percent in the first quarter, researcher  GFMS Ltd .
said.  AGRICULTURE:  Rubber Rallies as Much as 2% as Rain in  Thailand  May Cut Supply  Rubber gained, overturning an earlier decline, as heavy
rains in Thailand raised concern that supplies from the largest
producer and exporter may be disrupted.  Peanut Crop in  India  to Drop on Inadequate Rainfall, Trader Says  Peanut production in India, the biggest buyer of palm oil,
may decline this year as inadequate monsoon rains in the main
growing regions and record cotton prices prompt farmers to
reduce planting, according to GG Patel & Nikhil Research Co.  Corn Gains to Two-Month High on Concerns of Lower U.S. Output  Corn gained to the highest level in almost two months on
concerns that output in the U.S. may fall below government
forecasts. Wheat and soybean futures declined.  East Australia Grain Crops May Be Boosted by Rainfall, CBA Says  Grain-growing regions in Australia’s east may receive
rainfall in the coming days that’s needed to boost yield
potential in the world’s fourth-biggest wheat exporter,
according to the  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  China  Soy Demand to Gain on Higher Hog Numbers, Boosting Imports  Soybean demand from China, the biggest buyer, may climb in
the second half as consumption  by the hog industry increases,
boosting processing profits and imports, a Bloomberg News survey
showed.  Indonesia  Studies Plan to Sell Rice to  South Korea   Indonesia’s South Sulawesi province plans to export
premium-grade rice to South Korea, Coordinating Minister for the
Economy Hatta Rajasa told reporters in Jakarta today.  FAO Cuts Forecast for Global Paddy Output by 1.5 Million Tons  Global unmilled rice production is expected to climb to a
record 718.3 million metric tons this year, 1.5 million tons
less than forecast in April, according to the  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization. Output will be 2.5 percent
higher than last year, the FAO said in an e- mailed statement
today.  SHIPPING:  Cosco Pacific, Asia Port Operators Slump on U.S. Economy Outlook  Cosco Pacific Ltd., part of China’s biggest shipping group,
plunged the most in more than four months in  Hong Kong  as shares
of Asian port operators fell amid concerns over the U.S.
economic recovery.  ECONOMIES:  Debt Deal Compromise to Spark Debate Over Medicare Cuts, Taxes  President Barack Obama’s signature on a bill raising the
debt limit sealed a compromise that averted a U.S. default even
as it did nothing to narrow the gulf between Republicans and
Democrats over tax increases and spending cuts.  China Non-Manufacturing Industries Grew in July, Surveys Show  A Chinese non-manufacturing index rose for the first time
in three months in July, indicating some industries are
withstanding the government’s campaign to cool inflation in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Australia Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fall, Trade Surplus Narrows  Australian retail sales unexpectedly declined in June for a
second straight month and the nation’s trade surplus narrowed
more than economists forecast, sending the local currency to the
lowest level in two weeks.  U.S. Consumer Spending Unexpectedly Falls as Hiring Slumps (1)  U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly dropped in June for the
first time in almost two years and savings climbed, adding to
evidence that the slump in hiring is hurting household
confidence.  OTHER MARKETS:  Obama Bonds Proved World Beaters in Game of Chicken on Debt (1)  For all the anxiety among politicians and their
constituents over playing chicken with the debt ceiling and the
prospect of the first-ever downgrade of  U.S. debt , the people
with the most at stake made more money buying  Treasury
securities  in July than any month this year. Actually, they made
a fortune, or $183,000 for every $10 million invested.  Asia Stocks, Currencies Drop on U.S. Growth Outlook; Bonds Gain  Asian shares fell, extending the global stock-market
selloff to six days, and regional currencies sank on concern the
U.S. recovery is faltering. Bonds rallied, with 10-year Treasury
yields sinking to an eight-month low.  Dollar Index Trades 0.3% From Two-Week High on Demand for Haven  The Dollar Index was 0.3 percent from a two-week high as
Asian stocks slumped amid concern the global economy is slowing,
boosting demand for haven currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  