-- 
Evraz Considers Seeking a Primary Share Listing in London

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-08-03T13:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/evraz-said-to-consider-seeking-primary-share-listing-in-london.html
Evraz Group SA (EVR) , Russia’s largest
steelmaker by output, is considering seeking a primary listing
in  London  to allow it to qualify for entry to the U.K.’s
benchmark FTSE 100 Index of stocks.  “A primary listing is one option we’re considering,” Oleg Kuzmin, a spokesman for Evraz, said by phone from Moscow today.  The company, partly owned by billionaire  Roman Abramovich ,
may shift registration to the U.K. from Luxembourg under the
proposals, said two people with knowledge of the situation,
declining to be identified because a decision hasn’t been made.  The producer, which already has global depositary receipts
traded in London, chose banks including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to advise
on the transaction, the people said. Evraz plans to decide on
the proposal by the end of the year, one of the people said.  Joining the FTSE 100, made up of the U.K.’s biggest listed
businesses by market value, helps boost a company’s stock price
because funds that track the measure must buy members’ shares.
ENRC Plc and  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , with assets in the former Soviet
republics, have benefited from primary U.K. listings, according
to Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at UralSib Capital in Moscow.  Evraz also said in a statement today it’s considering
alternatives to its global depositary program and will delay
publishing first-half financial results until about Oct. 12 as
it conducts an audit “to support this process.”  Discounted Trade  “Russian steel companies with GDR programs are traded in
London with at least a 20 percent discount to international
peers,” UralSib Capital’s Smolin said in an interview by phone
today. “A primary listing may remove a part of this.”  Polyus Gold International Plc and OAO Polymetal are among
other companies seeking primary listings in London.  Alternatively, Evraz may study selling Russian depositary
receipts, allowing the stock to be included in the benchmark
MSCI Index, said  Vladimir Zhukov , an HSBC Holdings Plc analyst.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  