-- 
Mexico IPC Index Adds Liverpool, OHL; Drops Slim Companies

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/mexico-ipc-index-adds-liverpool-ohl-drops-slim-companies-1-.html
Mexico ’s benchmark IPC stock index
will add retailer El Puerto de Liverpool SAB and construction
firm OHL Mexico SAB while removing three companies controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim  and steelmaker Industrias CH SAB.  The changes will go into effect on Sept. 1, Mexico’s stock
exchange said yesterday in a filing. Slim’s Grupo Financiero
Inbursa SAB, Grupo Carso SAB and Inmuebles Carso SAB will be
dropped from the index, it said.  The stock exchange company, Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB,
periodically revises the benchmark IPC index using a formula
with data such as market capitalization, said Rogelio Gallegos,
a  fund manager  at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City. Investors
know the formula and have already begun adjusting their
portfolios ahead of the changes, he said by phone yesterday.  Liverpool, based in Mexico City, has climbed 12 percent
this year, compared with a 9.7 percent decline in the IPC index.
OHL, the unit of Madrid-based Obrascon Huarte Lain SA that had
its Mexican initial public offering last year, has gained 4.1
percent.  Slim’s holding company Grupo Carso spun off its mining
unit, Minera Frisco SAB, and its real-estate division, Inmuebles
Carso, this year. Frisco will remain on the index. Inbursa is
Slim’s financial-services firm. Slim’s phone carriers  America
Movil  SAB and Telefonos de Mexico SAB also remain on the index.
All of Slim’s firms are based in Mexico City.  America Movil has said it plans to delist shares of Telmex,
as the fixed-line provider is known, if enough investors accept
its $6.5 billion offer to buy the 40.4 percent of the carrier it
doesn’t already own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  