-- 
Extended Stay Trust Seeks Court Change for Blackstone Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-08-03T13:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/extended-stay-trust-seeks-to-transfer-blackstone-suit-to-district-court.html
The Extended Stay Litigation Trust
asked a U.S. District Court judge to remove its lawsuit against
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  from U.S. Bankruptcy Court, citing a Supreme
Court ruling.  The creditor trust alleged in June complaints that a 2007
sale of Extended Stay Inc. left the hotel company insolvent and
drove it into bankruptcy.  “Blackstone siphoned $2.1 billion of value from the
debtors, rendering them insolvent, undercapitalized and unable
to survive,” according to the complaints. “The defendants were
well aware of the financial harm of the LBO, but nevertheless
caused or allowed it to happen.” Blackstone called the suits,
filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan and  New York  State
Supreme Court, meritless.  The U.S. Supreme Court, in a June decision involving the
late Anna Nicole Smith and her ex-husband’s estate, limited the
power of bankruptcy courts to make final rulings on state law
claims. The Extended Stay trust cited the ruling yesterday in
court papers in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan .  Blackstone, based in New York, sold Extended Stay to David Lichtenstein’s Lightstone Group LLC for $8 billion, according to
a Lightstone statement at the time.  Lichtenstein and Lightstone are also named as defendants in
the lawsuits. Extended Stay filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The Supreme Court ruling ended any chance for heirs of
Smith, a former Playboy model, to collect a $449 million
judgment against the estate of J. Howard Marshall, the Texas
billionaire to whom she had been married.  The bankruptcy case is Extended Stay Litigation Trust v.
Blackstone Group LP., 11-02254,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The state-court case is
Extended Stay Litigation Trust v. Blackstone Group, 651667-2011,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at   sfarr@alboomberg.net . 