-- 
Facebook Face Recognition Violates Law, Gernab Federal State Watchdog Says

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-08-03T10:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/facebook-face-recognition-violates-law-gernab-federal-state-watchdog-says.html
Facebook Inc.’s facial-recognition
feature violates European and German data protection law and the
biggest social network should delete data derived from the
function, a German state watchdog said.  The software evaluates faces on uploaded photos according
to physical features and saves them, creating what may be “the
world’s largest database of biometric features,” Hamburg’s
agency for data protection and information security said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday. Facebook may be fined if it
refuses to comply with the demands, Sebastian Wirth, who
oversees technology companies for the watchdog, said via phone.  Public concern over data privacy prompted two other U.S.
technology companies,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , to ask
people in  Germany  whether they objected to having pictures of
their houses taken and displayed online. Facebook users should
be prompted to “unambiguously” agree before their data can be
saved via the facial-recognition function, the agency said.  “Automatic facial recognition is a severe intrusion into
the informational self-determination of the individual,”
Johannes Caspar, who runs the agency, said in the statement.
“Even a company that operates globally must respect that.”  The company is “100 percent certain” that the feature
doesn’t violate European law and will consider the demands, said
a Facebook spokesman, who declined to be identified, citing
company policy. The company had positive feedback and “hardly
any complaints” from users about the function, he said.  Tagging  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , currently has the
feature switched on by default and its opt-out setting isn’t
easy enough to access, according to the statement from the
Hamburg agency. The platform’s users have uploaded more than 75
billion photos and “tagged,” or labeled, 450 million persons
in them, the agency said.  Germans who don’t want to have their houses added to
Microsoft’s Bing Maps Streetside service may hand in their
objections by September. Google, which had to allow the same
procedure for its Street View offering, is under scrutiny in the
U.S. and other countries for not disclosing that it was
capturing wireless data while taking the photos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  