-- 
Facebook’s Precursor, $15 Million Southampton Mansion: Hot Art

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/facebook-s-precursor-plump-bathers-15-million-hamptons-mansion-hot-art.html
In the late 1950s,  New York  artist
Ray Johnson started mailing flyers and letters to friends and
acquaintances. Most ended with an instruction to add something
and send the whole thing on to someone else.  Soon a large network of people who exchanged art and ideas
through the postal system was born -- decades before Facebook or
the Internet. Dubbed the New York Correspondence School, it
continued to grow even after its founder’s suicide in 1995.  Johnson’s influence on younger artists is the subject of
“Ray’s a Laugh,” a new show at  Half Gallery  on the Lower East
Side of Manhattan. Artist and actor Leo Fitzpatrick paired
several fantastic Johnson collages, lent by  Richard L. Feigen &
Co . gallery on the Upper East Side, with pieces by his friends,
including fashionable 30-somethings Dan Colen, Nate Lowman and
 Josh Smith .  Eight ink-stained dollar bills on canvas by Hanna Liden
echo Johnson’s small collage featuring a single dollar bill and
the inscription “Dear  Pablo Picasso .” Dash Snow’s naughty
hatchling, made of sea shells and adorned with a cigarette butt,
plays off Johnson’s collage featuring a cherub and a queen.  Prices range from $500 to $36,000. The show runs through
Sept. 7 at 208 Forsyth St.;  http://halfgallery.com .  Bathers, Athletes  Ella Kruglyanskaya’s painting “Lobster Picnic” depicts a
large red crustacean flanked by two plump women. The canvas is
part of a two-person show at  James Fuentes  gallery.  Placed at the center of a colorful blanket, the sea
creature looks less like food and more like the star of the
composition. So does a clownish monster with a big red mouth and
long turquoise nose, peering from another canvas. It takes a
minute to realize that it’s a bathing-suit design on a female
torso, framed by ample cleavage and sun-tanned thighs.  Benjamin Senior’s lithe joggers and swimmers create a fine
counterpoint to Kruglyanskaya’s languid bathers. Tersely
painted, the figures form geometric patterns with their matching
outfits and identical poses. Rich in blue and violet, they have
stripes everywhere from sneakers to swimming-pool lane ropes.  Prices range from $3,000 to $15,000. The show runs through
Aug. 5 at 55 Delancey St.; +1-212-577-1201;
 http://www.jamesfuentes.com .  Sotheby’s Mansions  A highlight of the exhibition “Places” is tucked away in
the basement of  Stephan Stoyanov Gallery . The two halves of Diana
Shpungin’s 26-minute video were filmed at exactly the same
moment on opposite sides of the globe. The artist traveled to
 China  to shoot sunrise over the  South China Sea . Her husband
captured dusk over the Atlantic Ocean in  Miami Beach ,  Florida .
Played side-by-side on two screens, the footage is a romantic
communication between two lovers.  Construction and destruction co-exist in Cliff Evans’s
digital video, “Camping at Home.” He mixes images of diggers
and pipelines that mutilate the Earth with pictures of new
Tyvek-wrapped houses rising from the wreckage.  Patricia Cronin’s tiny, ironic canvases depict luxurious
listings by  Sotheby’s International Realty , their asking prices
doubling as the titles: “$15,000,000 (Southampton)” and
“$2,300,000 (Emerald Isle on Money Key).”  Prices range from $2,000 to $20,000. The show runs through
Aug. 12 at 29 Orchard St.; +1-212-343-4240;
 http://www.stephanstoyanovgallery.com .  Black Canvases  In “New Black,” Alex Markwith’s first solo show at
 Nicelle Beauchene Gallery , the 22-year-old artist turns junk
into art.  His 12 raw assemblages are made from found wood, rusty
metal, torn fabrics, nails, twine and a slashed rubber tire. One
features a metal chain and black leather. A white wooden plank
sticks out from the side of another quilted canvas. The pieces
evoke S&M, punk rock, Rauschenberg and Arte Povera.  Prices range from $1,500 to $3,500. “New Black” runs
through Aug. 5 at 21 Orchard St.; +1-212-375-8043;
 http://www.nicellebeauchene.com .  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 