-- 
Fed May Need to Act as U.S. Economy ‘Close to Stall Speed,’ BlackRock Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-03T01:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/fed-may-need-to-act-as-u-s-economy-close-to-stall-speed-blackrock-says.html
The U.S.  Federal Reserve  may need to
consider a longer commitment to low  interest rates  to revive an
economy that is “very close to stall speed”, according to
Peter Fisher, head of fixed income at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “I believe the Fed is dusting off contingency plans if the
economy does not improve,” Fisher said in an e-mailed statement
today. The policymaking body “may begin to change its attitude
and think hard about whether they want to signal an even longer
commitment to leaving rates low.”  U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly dropped in June for the
first time in almost two years, according to data released
yesterday, adding to evidence the nation’s recovery is petering
out. President  Barack Obama  signed a debt-limit deal the same
day that leaves the U.S. “worse off” and will lead to slower
growth and higher unemployment, according to Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.  U.S. stocks tumbled, erasing the 2011 gain for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, while the yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note fell as low as 2.6007 percent, the least since
November.  The world’s largest economy grew less than forecast in the
second quarter, following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than the 1.9 percent earlier estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed July 29.  That revision is of “greater significance” than the debt
ceiling debate and shows that the economy is not as strong as
previously thought, Fisher said.  “With the weakness of the  U.S. economy  becoming
increasingly apparent, consumption and investment decisions are
rising to the forefront,” he said. For the Fed, “determining a
way to invigorate the economy is clearly of paramount
importance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 