-- 
Ferguson Raises Questions About Berbatov’s Future: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-08-03T09:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/ferguson-raises-questions-about-berbatov-s-future-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Berbatov’s Future  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  raised questions
about striker Dimitar Berbatov’s future after saying the
Bulgarian could play for Paris St-Germain, which is interested
in signing him,  the Guardian said .  Speaking to French journalists, the manager responded to a
query about Berbatov’s ability to play with PSG, and said he’d
fit in “absolutely, no problem,” the newspaper said.  PSG may be willing to pay as much as 20 million pounds ($33
million), the Guardian said.  City For Lennon  Manchester City wants to swap Emmanuel Adebayor for
Tottenham winger  Aaron Lennon ,  the Mirror said .  City manager Roberto Mancini wants the speedy England
national team player, and Spurs coach Harry Redknapp may be
willing to make the trade should City include the former Arsenal
striker, the newspaper said. Adebayor is paid too much for
Spurs’ budget and the teams are trying to work out a way to
make the move, the newspaper said.  Sunderland Moves  Sunderland manager  Steve Bruce  may sell Steed Malbranque to
St. Etienne to bring in Manchester City’s  Adam Johnson  on loan,
 the Daily Mail said.   The French club is interested in Malbranque, and a sale
would free up cash to spend on Johnson, who’s also wanted by
Everton, the newspaper said.  Spurs for Samba  Tottenham made a 10 million-pound bid for Blackburn
defender Christopher Samba, and Spurs may send Jermain Defoe,
 Robbie Keane , David Bentley or Sebastian Bassong to Rovers,  the
Sun said.   The bid is still below the 12 million pounds that Samba’s
current club wants, the newspaper said.  Scouting Dann  Arsenal will send chief scout Steve Rowley to watch
Birmingham defender  Scott Dann  because manager Arsene Wenger is
frustrated by Everton’s unwillingness to sell Phil Jagielka,  the
Mail said.   Dann, who had a hamstring injury last season, will play
against Derby this weekend, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 