-- 
Franc Plunges From Records as Swiss Central Bank Unexpectedly Lowers Rate

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-08-03T12:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/franc-retreats-from-records-after-unexpected-rate-cut-to-near-zero-by-snb.html
The Swiss central bank unexpectedly
cut  interest rates  and said it will increase the supply of
francs to money markets to curb the “massively overvalued”
currency. The franc dropped from a record.  The Swiss National Bank lowered its target for the three-
month Libor to “as close to zero as possible” from 0.25
percent. The Zurich-based central bank said it will also expand
banks’ sight deposits, or cash which can be withdrawn on demand,
to 80 billion Swiss francs ($104 billion) from 30 billion francs
and repurchase outstanding SNB Bills, according to an e-mailed
 statement  today.  The franc, considered a haven in times of turmoil, has
surged 10 percent against the euro over the past two months as
Europe’s debt crisis worsened, hurting Swiss exports and
economic growth. The SNB joins the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
 Bank of Japan , which have also cut their benchmark rates to near
zero in an effort to boost their economies.  “It will only temporarily stop the franc from
appreciating,” said  Sebastian Wanke , an economist at Dekabank
in  Frankfurt . “For the franc to weaken, uncertainty has to
leave the markets.”  The Swiss currency depreciated as much as 3 percent after
the announcement and traded at 1.10261 versus the euro at 1:45
p.m. in Zurich after reaching a record 1.07958 earlier today.
That’s still stronger than this week’s low of 1.14520 on Aug. 1.
Against the dollar, the franc fell to 77.10 centimes from 76.22
centimes yesterday.  Intervention  Today’s move reverses the liquidity-absorbing measures the
SNB put in place last year to slowly withdraw the monetary
loosening employed during the global financial crisis.  “With this drastic decision, the  Swiss National Bank  has
completed a surprising about-face,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The exit from
unconventional policy has been suspended and rate increases
pushed far into the future. For that reason we would no longer
rule out direct currency intervention.”  The Bank of  Japan  also expressed increased concern about
its currency’s strength this week as the nation recovers from a
March earthquake and tsunami. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said today that Japan would aim for “maximum effect” in any
intervention to weaken the yen.  Brazil ’s central bank has taken action to weaken the real,
with Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  saying this week that the
government will continue to adopt measures to curb currency
gains.  Debt Crises  The franc has been pushed higher by increasing investor
concern that debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S. will hurt
growth. President Barack Obama yesterday signed into law a plan
to lift the nation’s borrowing limit and cut spending following
months of political wrangling. In the 17-member euro region,
leaders last month pledged a second bailout package for  Greece 
in an attempt to prevent a default and halt contagion to Italy
and  Spain .  Switzerland  is a favorite of investors partly because of
its current-account surplus, the broadest measure of trade,
which means it doesn’t need to rely on foreign capital to fund a
trade deficit like the U.S. The Swiss government on June 30
forecast budget surpluses in every year through 2015.  ‘Global Growth Fears’  “Increasing global growth fears and the never-ending euro-
region debt crisis keep the demand for safe havens high,” said
 Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “The
decisive rhetoric of the SNB could help to stabilize the
currency.”  The SNB said the “global economic outlook has worsened”
since its last rate meeting in June. “At the same time, the
appreciation of the Swiss franc has accelerated sharply during
the last few weeks,” it said. “Consequently, the outlook for
the Swiss economy has deteriorated substantially.”  Policy makers, led by Philipp Hildebrand, are “keeping a
close watch on developments on the foreign-exchange market and
will take further measures against the strength of the Swiss
franc if necessary,” the SNB said.  Exports account for about half of Swiss gross domestic
product. Swiss chemicals maker Lonza Group AG on July 27
reported a drop in first-half profit and said earnings are
“under substantial pressure” following the franc’s ascent.
 Swatch Group AG (UHRN)  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek told
SonntagsZeitung in an interview published on July 31 that the
franc is hurting earnings.  ‘Symbolic Step’  The Swiss economy is showing signs of slowdown. The KOF
leading indicator dropped for a third month in July, investor
confidence fell to the lowest in 2 1/2 years and a consumption
indicator slipped in June.  The SNB, which was scheduled to make its next rate decision
on Sept. 15, lowered its Libor target range to zero percent to
0.25 percent from zero percent to 0.75 percent.  “The SNB showed strong commitment today and that will have
an effect on markets,” said Fabian Heller, an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “It’s also a symbolic step.
They’re signaling that they will no longer be a bystander.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  