-- 
French Property Mogul Survives Slump After Deal Almost Sank Him

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-03T22:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/french-property-mogul-survives-slump-after-deal-almost-sank-him.html
Alain Taravella recalls how in late
2008, as  France ’s real-estate market slumped, he began doubting
his biggest corporate acquisition. A year earlier, he’d bought
apartment and office developer  Cogedim  from investors led by
Italian insurer Vittoria Assicurazioni SpA. He outbid General
Electric Co. and billionaires  Bernard Arnault  and  Albert Frere 
to seal the deal.  Analysts were skeptical of the 650 million-euro ($921
million) purchase; Cogedim didn’t appear to mesh with
Taravella’s Altarea SCA, a builder of shopping centers,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its September cover
package: “Hidden Billionaires.”  Then, as Cogedim’s revenue and profit fell, Taravella wrote
off more than half the value of the purchase that December,
after rustling up 183 million euros of his own money in a June
2008 rights offering to maintain his 49 percent  Altarea (ALTA)  stake.  “The end of 2008 wasn’t a happy time,” says Taravella,
63, at his headquarters between Paris’s Opera district and the
Avenue des Champs-Elysees. “Four years later, the bet has
proved to be the right one.”  Taravella’s restructuring and a sudden recovery in France’s
housing market helped prove critics wrong. He shed one of every
eight jobs at Cogedim, sold development sites and began building
starter homes for low-income earners.  ‘Very Pleased’  Housing demand rebounded sooner than even Taravella had
anticipated, driven by 20-year mortgage rates of about 4 percent
and  government-subsidized interest-free loans  for some first-
time buyers. As of the end of 2010, Cogedim’s portion of French
home sales had doubled, to 5.3 percent, since the takeover.  Taravella’s 760,000-euro investment to start Altarea in
1994 has repaid him more than 900-fold -- boosting his net worth
to more than $1.1 billion, based on the value of his holdings
and dividends.  Investors are doing well, too. Since Altarea first became
publicly traded in late 2004, its shareholders earned annual
returns of 25 percent from dividends and stock appreciation.  “We’re very pleased with the operational performance,”
says Patrick Kanters, managing director of real estate at
Amsterdam-based APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV, which oversees
the assets of the world’s third-largest pension fund.  Taravella was at his best in turning his company around,
says board member Christophe Kullmann, head of Metz, France-
based office landlord  Fonciere des Regions (FDR)  SA, which owns 12
percent of Altarea.  “He is the complete package: a financial expert, a real-
estate man, a good manager and, above all, a formidable
negotiator,” he says.  Provincial Background  Those qualities weren’t as apparent in Taravella’s early
years. He grew up in Normandy and won one of the 246 places at
 Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales de Paris,  France’s top
business school, in 1968. Five out of six students that year
were from Paris and its environs, including former International
Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  Coming from the provinces and a reluctant public speaker,
Taravella didn’t stand out, classmate Rene Proglio says.  “He had so much talent, but back then, it wasn’t clear
that he would be a success,” says Proglio, who now heads  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in France.  ‘Create a Company’  Taravella honed his real-estate skills while working with
 Pierre & Vacances (VAC)  SA Chairman Gerard Bremond. For 19 years,
Taravella helped turn the small business that built chalets at a
ski resort into a 490 million-euro company as of early August
that runs 51,000 holiday homes across  Europe .  Still, Taravella wanted more.  “My goal was always to create a company,” he says.
Altarea, a name shortened from Alain Taravella Real Estate,
plunged into retail properties, an area other companies were
abandoning after France froze construction of out-of-town
shopping centers to protect small businesses.  Taravella positioned Altarea as a city-center specialist.
He opened  Bercy Village  in 2000, transforming Paris’s former
wine-storage district into a cobbled pedestrian precinct with
shops and restaurants.  These days, Taravella is building a mall in the Paris
suburb of Villeneuve-la-Garenne and developing big-box retail
parks in Limoges and  Le Mans . At the end of July, Altarea had
raised 80 percent of a 600 million-euro fund to develop and
refurbish offices, adding to its business overseeing  office
projects  and managing buildings it has sold.  ‘One Passion’  Investors say Taravella delegates responsibilities to the
loyal team he has assembled, all of whom hold Altarea shares.
His sons, Matthieu, 33, and Gautier, 31, are board members.  “He will organize things so that they don’t all rely on
him,” Kullmann says.  Taravella says that he has little time for distractions,
other than opera and keeping an eye on olive oil production at
his estate in Provence.  “There’s only room for one passion in my life,” he says,
referring to Altarea, a few hours before heading to Paris’s
Bastille opera house to see Puccini’s Tosca. “Making money is
just a consequence and a measure of performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  