-- 
Generational Balance, Not Budget Balance: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-08-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/generational-balance-not-budget-balance-laurence-kotlikoff.html
Debt crises make great drama. The big
shots attend meetings, look terribly worried, then stomp out,
accusing each other of bad faith. Finally, at the witching hour,
they reach agreement and tell us all is fine, for now.  The tough thing is sorting out what’s really going on. In
the U.S. case, the answer is: not much. We need tax increases
and spending reductions far beyond  what’s being negotiated .
Cutting the deficit by $1 trillion to $2 trillion over 10 years
sounds like a big deal, but not when our unfunded Medicare and
Social Security liabilities, by my calculations, are growing by
more than $4 trillion a year.  Whatever you think of the House Republicans, they
understand that our country is broke. But they have no idea how
broke. They are pushing hard for a balanced-budget amendment.
What we need is not budget balance, but generational balance.  If we are going to amend the Constitution, let’s prohibit
today’s adults from leaving tomorrow’s generations with higher
lifetime net tax rates. A  Generational Balance  Amendment would
specify that, absent prolonged states of emergency, each
generation would pay the same share of its lifetime labor
earnings in taxes, net of benefits received.  Stabilizing lifetime net tax rates isn’t just a matter of
fairness. It’s critical to our country’s long-term economic
survival.  Taxing Our Progeny  If we keep raising successive generations’ lifetime net tax
rates, we will eventually be hitting up our progeny for every
penny they earn, leaving them unable to consume or save. If they
can’t save, they can’t invest, which means they won’t be able to
maintain -- let alone increase -- the economy’s  stock of capital 
needed to produce goods and services.  The U.S., incidentally, has a national savings rate of zero
and a domestic net investment rate of only 4 percent of national
income. Both are postwar lows.  Memo to  House Republicans : Budget balance doesn’t imply
generational balance.  Consider Taxdonia, a country with zero debt. Taxdonia has
never borrowed a dime and never will. Its constitution forbids
borrowing. But Taxdonia deserves its name, actually, its new
name. Its old name was Lovelandia.  In Taxdonia, every young generation is hit with a higher
and higher tax rate, historically called the Love Tax. The
proceeds of the Love Tax are immediately handed to the
contemporaneous old generation as transfer payments -- much as
our Social Security taxes are transferred directly to current
retirees. So taxes always equal spending, and the deficit is
always zero.  Paying the Love  Children in Taxdonia are taught to honor and pay the Love
Tax. Their parents’ common refrain is this: “We paid our Love
Tax when young. We honored our commitment to our parents. You
honor yours.”  Historically, the elderly set the Love Tax. They were the
only ones who bothered to vote. Each set of oldsters set the  tax
rate  higher to ensure a very healthy return on the taxes they
paid when young.  But times have changed. Today’s young aren’t feeling the
love. They refuse to pay the sky-high Love Tax. They know if
they pay, they will be left in the lurch. They won’t be able to
raise the tax rate on their own kids because their children
won’t be able or willing to pay.  Generational Warfare  Generational verbal warfare has broken out. Worse yet, the
country’s single political party has split into two. One party,
the Oldsters, wants to raise spending and taxes. The other, the
Youngsters, wants to cut spending and taxes. Each side calls the
other extremists and claims it is being cheated.  Economists in Taxdonia think both are nuts. “What’s wrong?
We’ve got budget balance. No debt, no deficit, relax.  And stop
calling our country Taxdonia. This is Lovelandia! And if you
must disagree, disagree agreeably.”  The Oldsters and Youngsters agree, disagreeably, on one
thing: They both want to string up economists. They realize that
their country, with the complicity of these fiscal experts, has
incurred a huge, off-the-books liability to the oldsters -- a
terrible debt, foisted on the young in a country where debt is
verboten.  The Youngsters have hired some young economists to use
generational accounting to examine the lifetime net tax
treatment of different cohorts. Their report isn’t pretty. It
shows that past cohorts received, on a lifetime basis, far more
than they put in and that the current young are being asked to
participate in a  Ponzi scheme .  Labeling Game  They also learn that measuring debt is a meaningless
labeling game since the government can take from the young with
the words “taxes,” rather than “borrowing,” and incur debts via
promises of future repayment that are tied to the “taxes.”  The latest news: Taxdonia’s central bank, Love Bank, has
assured the current young that if their kids can’t pay them
their desired old-age benefits, the central bank will keep them
whole. It will print money, which will be used to pay their
claims.  The young are scratching their heads. “Won’t this lead to
inflation and water down the real value of the money we already
hold? Isn’t this just another way of taxing us?”  Love Bank’s reply: “You’re young and financially
inexperienced. Go back to work, pay your taxes, and all will be
fine.”  But the young aren’t buying it. They are shipping off to a
new country, called Blessingden. When they retire, they plan to
pass a balanced-budget amendment and levy the Bless You Tax.  ( Laurence J. Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Laurence Kotlikoff  at  kotlikoff@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 