-- 
Generali Second-Quarter Profit May Fall on Higher Writedowns of Greek Debt

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-08-03T07:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/generali-second-quarter-profit-may-fall-on-higher-writedowns-of-greek-debt.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Europe ’s
third-biggest insurer, may say second-quarter profit declined 24
percent on higher writedowns and taxes.  Net income will probably fall to 262 million euros ($372
million) from 346 million euros a year earlier, according to the
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
estimates ranged from 81 million euros to 387 million euros.  “Impairments on Greek bonds and higher taxes” hurt
second-quarter results, Cristian Galizzi, an analyst at
Intermonte SIM SpA, who has an “outperform” recommendation on
the stock, wrote in a July 29 report. “Results net of those
one-offs should remain operationally sound.”  Generali said on July 5 that it will participate in a plan
to roll over part of its 3 billion euros of Greek debt, the most
held by any Italian financial institution. The insurer, led by
Chief Executive Officer Giovanni Perissinotto, has net exposure,
which refers to bonds in its own portfolio, of 500 million
euros.  Generali’s quarterly earnings may also include about 80
million euros of writedowns of the stake held in Telco SpA, the
holding company that controls Telecom Italia SpA.  The insurer’s combined ratio, a measure of profitability,
may have improved to 97.1 percent in the first half from 98.8
percent a year earlier, the survey shows. Operating profit at
the Trieste, Italy-based insurer probably rose 2 percent to 1.03
billion euros in the quarter.  The insurer is scheduled to report earnings on Aug. 5 and
to hold a conference call at 4 p.m. the same day. Following is a
table of the analysts’ estimates and the year-earlier results
calculated by Bloomberg by subtracting published first-quarter
figures from the first-half results. The figures are in millions
of euros, except the combined ratio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net  