-- 
Spanish, Italian Bonds Rise on Bets European Officials May Act on Crisis

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T15:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/german-10-year-bonds-advance-for-a-ninth-day-on-economic-growth-concern.html
Spanish and Italian bonds rose for
the first time in six days after the Swiss central bank cut
 interest rates , stoking speculation euro-area policy makers may
also take action to ease stresses in financial markets.  German bunds swung between gains and losses as European
Commission President Jose Barroso today urged governments to
quickly approve a planned upgrade of the euro-area rescue fund,
saying the perception that leaders haven’t found a “systemic”
answer to the crisis is hurting investor sentiment. The European
Commission said it will issue a statement on the “situation in
the financial markets” today, while the  European Central Bank 
will make its monthly decision on interest rates tomorrow.  “There’s short-covering driven by an expectation of some
sort of action,” said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income
research at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London .  The Italian 10-year bond yield dropped three basis points
to 6.10 percent at 4 p.m. in London. The 4.75 percent security
maturing in September 2021 rose 0.19, or 1.9 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,428) face amount, to 90.57.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Italian 10-year
bonds and similar-maturity German debt was little changed at 372
basis points. The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds also fell three
basis points, to 6.26 percent. The Spanish spread over bunds
shrank four basis points to 387 basis points.  Swiss Rate Cut  Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said he had
“fruitful” talks today with Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers.  “The proximity of the ECB meeting and the fact Tremonti is
meeting Juncker” is giving the impression that “things are
speeding up,” Major said.  German benchmark 10-year bonds rose for a ninth straight
day, the longest run since August 2005. Yields fell three basis
points to 2.39 percent after a report showed European retail
sales rebounded in June. The yield earlier slid as low as 2.33
percent, the least since October.  Juncker told reporters the two officials discussed “all
the problems the euro area is facing and we’ll continue our
meditation in common.”  The euro advanced 0.6 percent to $1.4281, reversing an
earlier drop, after the  Swiss National Bank  cut its target for
the three-month Libor to “as close to zero as possible” from
0.25 percent and said it will increase the supply of francs to
money markets to curb the “massively overvalued” Swiss franc.  Italian Prime Minister Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi
will give a national televised address in the Chamber of
Deputies in  Rome  today to lay out his plan to boost growth and
tame the euro region’s second-biggest debt. He’ll later address
the Senate as he tries to shore up confidence.  ECB Tomorrow  Italian 10-year yields have surged more than 110 basis
points since the start of July amid concern the Mediterranean
nation is not insulated from the euro-region’s debt woes.  The ECB will keep its main rate unchanged at 1.5 percent
tomorrow, according to all 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The ECB “might independently think that market liquidity
is at risk,” Major said. Officials “need to do something. With
yields where they are, it needs to be addressed,” he said.  Italian and Spanish bonds slumped earlier after Finnish
Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said their borrowing costs are
“extremely worrying and scary.”  Europe is in a “dangerous” situation and all euro
countries’ governments must act to stop debt from growing,
Katainen told state-owned broadcaster YLE.  Portuguese Auction  Portugal ’s borrowing costs dropped as it sold 750 million
euros of three-month bills. The securities were issued at an
average yield of 4.967 percent, compared with an average yield
of 4.982 percent at a previous sale of similar maturity bills on
July 20. Investors bid for 2.6 times the amount offered,
compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.4 in July.  Portuguese two-year note yields rose 12 basis points to
15.30 percent, while the 10-year yield increased 16 basis points
to 11.22 percent.  Bunds declined after data showed retail sales in the 17-
nation euro region grew 0.9 percent from May, when they fell 1.3
percent. In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, retail sales rose
6.3 percent from May, when they fell 2.5 percent.  German  government bonds  handed investors 3.7 percent this
year, compared with 5.3 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost 11 percent,
while Portugal’s have declined 23 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  