-- 
Gold Rallies to Record for Second Day as Signs of Slowdown Fire Up Demand

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-03T18:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/gold-rallies-to-record-for-second-day-as-signs-of-slowdown-fire-up-demand.html
Gold futures rose to a record
$1,675.90 an ounce on signs that the  U.S. economy  is faltering
amid debt woes, boosting demand for the precious metal as an
investment haven.  Moody’s Investors Service said the U.S. credit rating may
be downgraded and yesterday placed the country on negative
outlook after President Barack Obama signed into law a plan to
lift the nation’s borrowing limit and cut spending. Gold priced
in euros also reached a record on concern that slowing growth
will hamper efforts by Spain and Italy to trim debt.  “People want gold for safety,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at
FuturePath Trading LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “People are running away from currency volatility,
economic weakness and political instability. Gold is an
international currency, and no government can print any of it.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose $21.80, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $1,666.30 at 1:42 p.m. on the Comex in New
York.  Silver, gold and cattle were the only commodities to post
gains among 19 raw materials in the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  headed for the ninth
straight decline, the longest slump since 1978.  This year, gold has climbed 17 percent. The  Federal
Reserve  has kept borrowing costs near zero percent since
December 2008 and completed two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing to help bolster the economy.  No Vacation  European leaders last month agreed on a second bailout for
 Greece . Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
returned to  Madrid  to discuss the escalating debt crisis with
ministers, less than a day after departing for a vacation.  “A barely expanding U.S. economy and its implications for
the world are now at the forefront of investors’ minds,”  Edel Tully , a London-based analyst at UBS AG, said today in a report.
“Neither European nor U.S. debt issues have been
comprehensively dealt with. Data since last Friday have
increased expectations for further quantitative easing” by the
Fed, she said.  Yesterday, holdings in exchange-traded products backed by
gold rose 20.3 metric tons to a record 2,173.9 tons, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Silver futures for September delivery rose $1.666, or 4.2
percent, to $41.758 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest gain
since July 13. The price has climbed 35 percent this year.  Palladium futures for September delivery fell $31.80, or
3.8 percent, to $795.10 an ounce on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Platinum futures for October delivery slid $8.50, or
0.5 percent, to $1,785 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  