-- 
Google Says Apple, Microsoft, Oracle Wage ‘Hostile Campaign’

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-04T00:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/google-says-android-system-faces-hostile-campaign-by-apple-competitors.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  accused  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  of waging a “hostile, organized campaign”
against its Android mobile software, a sign of escalating
tension in the technology industry’s patent war.  The company’s rivals are joining forces to purchase patents
to keep them out of Google’s hands and taking other steps to
make it more expensive for handset makers to use the Android
operating system, David Drummond, chief legal officer at
 Mountain View , California-based Google, said in a  blog posting .  “We thought it was important to speak out and make it
clear that we’re determined to preserve Android as a competitive
choice for consumers, by stopping those who are trying to
strangle it,” Drummond wrote. Android’s success has resulted in
a “hostile, organized campaign against Android by Microsoft,
Oracle, Apple and other companies, waged through bogus
patents.”  Apple, Microsoft and Google have ramped up spending on
patent portfolios in recent months to gain exclusive rights to a
broadening array of technology, much of it used in the emerging
area of smartphones. As bidding intensifies, prices for patents
are surging, fueling concerns that portfolios are overvalued.
Oracle sued Google last year, accusing it of patent infringement
over the use of Java technology used in Android.  “This patent scramble is a land rush for leverage --
leverage over Google, for starters,” said  Patrick Walravens , an
analyst at JMP Securities. “The best defense in patent
legislation is having a bunch of patents of your own.”  ‘Patent Bubble’  A group that includes Apple and Microsoft beat out Google
in June with a $4.5 billion bid for patents previously owned by
Nortel Networks Corp. Rivals are “banding together” to
purchase patents they in turn can use to charge fees that will
make Android devices more expensive, Drummond said.  “This anti-competitive strategy is also escalating the
cost of patents way beyond what they’re really worth,” Drummond
wrote. “The law frowns on the accumulation of dubious patents
for anti-competitive means -- which means these deals are likely
to draw regulatory scrutiny, and this patent bubble will pop.”  Drummond also cited Microsoft and Apple working together to
acquire  Novell Inc. (NOVL) ’s patent portfolio as an example of the
campaign against Google. Microsoft General Counsel  Brad Smith 
denied that allegation, saying his company asked Google to
participate in the bid.  ‘They Said No’  “Google says we bought Novell patents to keep them from
Google,” Smith said in a message on Twitter. “Really? We asked
them to bid jointly with us. They said no.”  The U.S.  Justice Department  is examining the Nortel deal to
see whether it hurts competition in the smartphone industry, a
person familiar with the matter has said. If the Justice
Department doesn’t challenge the transaction, the winning
bidders will control more than 6,000 patents and applications
that cover wireless technologies.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, and  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, declined to comment. Tricia Payer, a
spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, also
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  