-- 
Google’s Facebook-Killer Falls Short of Target: Tech by Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-08-03T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/google-s-facebook-killer-falls-short-of-target-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
With its new social network,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  has scored a huge blow against its archenemy.  Yes, Google+ delivers features and functionality that
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing search engine can’t touch.  Wrong archenemy, you say? Google+ is supposed to be a
 Facebook -killer? Ehhh, not so much.  At least not now. While Google+ brings some welcome new
features to the social-networking space, there’s no great
innovation that would make you want to use it as your primary
online identity, or that Facebook couldn’t emulate if it chose
to.  Google+ , which launched about a month ago, is officially a
beta, or test,  service ; to join, you need an invitation from
someone who’s already a user. Judging from the evidence, invites
aren’t very hard to come by: Less than three weeks after launch,
Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  announced that the service
had already signed up 10 million members.  That sounds like a lot, and it is. But considering that
Facebook is up around three-quarters of a billion, Google+ has a
long way to go before your friends are as likely to be hanging
out there as they are on the competition.  Instantly Familiar  The core of Google+ will be familiar to Facebook loyalists.
Users can post items that friends can comment on, just like
Facebook’s Wall. There’s also what Google calls the Stream, a
flow of items posted by others -- essentially, Facebook’s News
feature. On Facebook, if you see a post you like, you can “Like”
it; on Google+, you can "+1” it.  And it isn’t just Facebook that Google+ borrows from. In
addition to people you know, you also have the ability to latch
on to those you don’t, as on Twitter, and add their posts to
your Stream.  The Google+ system for managing all this is its most
interesting feature: Circles. They’re an easy and logical way
for you to organize the people in your network and decide whose
stuff you want to see, and who you want to see your stuff. In
some ways, it isn’t all that different from Facebook’s “Friend
Lists,” but Google+ makes Circles far simpler to establish and
manage.  Moving in Circles  You start off with four pre-configured circles, labeled
Friends, Family, Acquaintances and Following. You also have the
ability to easily create and name additional circles.  People in your address book, or potential contacts that
Google suggests, are represented by small rectangular tiles with
their profile pictures. All you do is drag and drop a tile into
one or more of your circles. Those you add are notified that
you’ve put them in a circle, but not told which one. So they’ll
have no idea if they’re in People I Idolize or Former Co-Workers
I Never Want to See Again.  When you post something, or upload photos, you decide which
of your circles you want to share with. Those embarrassing party
photos? Let’s keep ‘em away from the professional circle.  On the other hand, if you want a wider audience, you can
make a post visible to “extended circles” -- people in the
circles of people in your circles -- or to the general public.  Working Both Ways  Circles works both ways: You can filter your Stream to see
only posts from your family, for example, or only those from
professional colleagues.  It all serves to make your online connections different,
and more nuanced, in Google+ than in Facebook. The latter is
largely a reciprocal relationship, where both sides have to
agree before you become friends. In Google+, it’s more like two
separate relationships, mine with you and yours with me, that
may or may not be parallel, since I may choose to share less
with you than you do with me.  On the other hand, Google+ affords opportunities for other
types of interaction. One is the ability to start a Hangout,
which is a multiparticipant video chat room to which you can
invite others. It’s a neat idea that requires you to know folks
who want to participate -- which, until there are many more
users on the system, may be in short supply.  Tying Things Together  One unexpected result of using Google+ was that I found
myself much more likely to use other parts of the Google
ecosystem. Things like Gmail and the Picasa photo-sharing site,
which have been around longer than Google+, felt less like
disparate products and more like features of a unified, personal
service.  Google describes its new network as a “project,” and I
encountered a number of issues that made clear this is very much
a work in progress. For example, I was unable to install the
hangouts feature on a Mac using  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari web browser;
I finally got it working in Google’s Chrome browser.  Until the bugs are worked out and the service is opened to
all comers, we have no way of knowing whether people really want
or need another social network -- and if so, whether this one’s
features are compelling enough to attract them.  For Google, the best-case scenario is that the service
proves so flexible and easy to use that it creates a network
effect, where more and more people join because so many of their
friends are already on it.  The worst case is that Google+ becomes to Facebook what
 Bing  is to Google, less a real competitor than simply an
alternative with some interesting features that aren’t
sufficiently compelling to ever lift it above being a distant
No. 2.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 