-- 
GTL Creditor Is Said to Delay Seizure of 20% Stake as Lenders Revamp Debt

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-08-04T05:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/gtl-creditor-said-to-delay-seizure-of-20-stake-amid-debt-revamp.html
A lender to  India ’s  GTL Ltd. (GTS)  agreed
to delay a plan to seize shares pledged by the company’s owners
as collateral while creditors try to revamp its $1.1 billion
debt, said two people with direct knowledge of the talks.  State-run lenders to GTL, a maker of telecommunication
equipment, persuaded Syndicate Bank not to exercise its rights
to the shares, the people said, declining to be identified
because the discussions are private. Controlling shareholders of
GTL have pledged more than 20 percent of the company as
collateral for a loan from the Bangalore-based Bank, they said.  GTL’s lenders moved to take control of the Mumbai-based
company after owners failed to pledge more shares following an
83 percent decline in the stock price in two months. The company
on July 27 said  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  had taken over a 29 percent
stake. GTL has hired SBI Capital Markets Ltd. to restructure the
debt, the company said in a June 27 statement.  “The bankers’ consortium will work with the borrower to
chart out a way in which the loans can be recovered,” K R Kamath, chairman of Punjab National Bank, India’s second-largest
state-run lender and a creditor to GTL, said in an interview
yesterday.  The company, controlled by Manoj Tirodkar, had its  credit
rating  lowered to junk by Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. on
June 29. The credit assessor cut the rating five levels to BB+
from A, according to the statement.  GTL spokesman Vikas Arora declined to comment on the debt
revamp process. Ravi Chatterjee, executive director at Syndicate
Bank couldn’t be reached at his office in Bangalore and didn’t
respond to an e-mail.  ‘Extraordinary Fall’  ICICI Bank lent 6 billion rupees ($135 million) to GTL,
said another person who declined to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak to the media. GTL rose 1.7 percent
to 70.65 rupees at 10:06 a.m. in Mumbai, valuing ICICI’s stake
in the company at 2 billion rupees. The shares are the worst
performing stock in the BSE200 index this year.  IFCI Ltd. (IFCI) , a state-owned lender, sold 200,000 shares of
unit  GTL Infrastructure Ltd. (GTLI) , pledged by GTL, after the
company’s shares plunged 56 percent since June 16. IFCI seized
ownership of 18 percent of GTL Infrastructure, according to a
filing by GTL on July 21.  GTL and GTL Infrastructure, which has about 100 billion
rupees of debt, on June 21 asked the market regulator to
investigate the “extraordinary fall” in its stock price,
according to a statement.  Sell Assets  “A strategic investor would be the most sensible for GTL
Infrastructure,” said G.V. Giri, an analyst with IIFL Capital
Ltd. “The buyer can add value by bringing in more customers.”  GTL Infrastructure rose 1.6 percent to 14.43 rupees in
Mumbai, its biggest gain since July 29.  GTL has over 20 creditors including  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
which invested $300 million in the company’s bonds, said the
people.  Standard Chartered ’s Indian unit took an additional $53
million charge in the three months ended June 30 because of “an
India bond exposure,” the bank said in a statement today,
without elaborating.  Arijit De, a spokesman for Standard Chartered in Mumbai,
declined to comment on the bank’s “exposures to any specific
counterparty.”  GTL may sell property and other assets to pay its debt, the
people said. Global Holding Corp. owns 52 percent stake in GTL.
GTL on July 19 said that 51.92 percent of the shares in the
company held by Global Holding have been pledged as collateral
to lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ; 