-- 
IBM European Antitrust Complaints Dropped by Three Companies

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-03T15:49:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/ibm-european-antitrust-complaints-dropped-by-three-companies.html
Three companies are dropping European
Union antitrust complaints against  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  over its mainframe computers.  T3 Technologies Inc. and Neon Enterprise Software LLC have
or will withdraw separate complaints filed with the European
Commission, IBM said in a regulatory filing last month.
TurboHercules SAS has also withdrawn its complaint, said Carina
Oliveri, a spokeswoman for the company in Paris.  The European Commission declined to comment on the status
of its investigation into allegations IBM linked sales of its
mainframe computers to its software and that it discriminated
against competing sellers of services for the computers.  EU antitrust regulators often end investigations into
companies after complaints from rivals or customers are
withdrawn. The European Commission ended a four-year-old probe
into Qualcomm Inc. in 2009 after all complaints were withdrawn.  IBM, the biggest computer-services company, declined to
comment beyond its regulatory filing.  Austin, Texas-based Neon  said  in May that it settled its
legal dispute with IBM and would stop selling its zPrime
software and request customers to remove and destroy their
copies. Two calls and two e-mails to the company today weren’t
immediately answered.  Dropped Appeal  T3 withdrew its EU complaint in May after dropping an
appeal to a U.S. court ruling dismissing its claims against IBM,
according to IBM’s filing. T3 didn’t respond to a telephone
message and e-mail to its Tampa, Florida offices.  The European Commission opened two separate investigations
into Armonk, New York-based IBM last year over possible anti-
competitive behavior that may have blocked competition for rival
mainframe software and on maintenance contracts for the systems
by “restricting or delaying access to spare parts.”  While IBM has shifted its focus away from hardware toward
its more profitable software and services businesses, the
mainframe operations have high gross margins and helps pull in
revenue for other IBM divisions. IBM began developing  mainframe
computers  in the 1940s and 1950s and is now among the few
companies to offer the systems.  Reuters reported the IBM regulatory filing earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 