-- 
ICE Clear Credit Lowers Member Standard Before CFTC Rules

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-08-03T18:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/ice-clear-credit-lowers-membership-standard-before-cftc-rules.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., owner
of the world’s largest credit-default swaps clearinghouse,
lowered its membership standards before U.S. rules designed to
expand access to the service.  ICE Clear Credit , the clearinghouse formerly known as ICE
Trust that was re-named last month when it came under Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange
Commission oversight,  now requires  broker dealers and futures
commission merchants to have $100 million in adjusted net
capital and 5 percent of their customer funds as excess net
capital, according to its rules. Previously, $5 billion in
minimum net worth was required to be a clearing member.  “In moving to $100 million we had to pick a number because
the CFTC rules are not yet set,” Atlanta-based Intercontinental
Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Sprecher said on a conference
call today with analysts. “We chose $100 million after having
extensive conversations with the staff and commissioners” at
the CFTC, he said.  The clearing member standards have pitted the largest banks
such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  against smaller
independent brokers Newedge USA LLC and MF Global Holdings Ltd.
A trade group representing smaller firms has lobbied Congress
and regulators since last year for access to derivatives
clearing. The largest banks have contended that clearing members
have to be large enough to absorb losses if one of them defaults
and must have the market ability to take on swaps positions.  $50 Million Minimum  The CFTC has proposed that firms must have a minimum of $50
million in capital to become a member of swaps clearinghouses.
The regulator hasn’t yet completed that rule and is expected to
do so before the end of the year.  The 5 percent of customer funds required by ICE Clear
Credit to be held as excess net capital would mean Newedge would
need $1.2 billion while MF Global would have to hold $446
million, according to the latest CFTC data on customer funds
held by futures brokers. Newedge, the largest futures commission
merchant by customer funds, had $24.7 billion as of May 31,
while MF Global held $8.9 billion, CFTC  data  show.  While the CFTC hasn’t picked $100 million as its final
level for clearing members, Sprecher said there was a
“consensus view” that the figure was a good bet.  Members such as JPMorgan or  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have
direct access to the clearinghouse and submit trades on behalf
of their money manager customers. The banks are able to charge
fees for the clearing service.  ‘Number of Factors’  For banks or investors such as  hedge funds  that want to
become a clearing member and aren’t organized as a futures
commission merchant or broker dealer, the minimum of $5 billion
in tangible net equity still applies, according to ICE Clear
Credit’s rule book.  Other requirements to be a clearing member include having
the ability to provide daily prices to the clearinghouse and
maintaining adequate risk measures, according to the rule book.  “The reality is there are a number of factors the
clearinghouse looks at beyond the $100 million,” Chief
Financial Officer Scott Hill said on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 