-- 
Tiger Woods Has 20-1 Odds to Win in Golf Return With Rory McIlroy Favored

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-03T13:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/tiger-woods-has-20-1-odds-to-win-in-golf-return-with-rory-mcilroy-favored.html
Tiger Woods hasn’t played a full
round of tournament golf in almost four months. That isn’t
stopping Las Vegas bettors from wagering he’ll win for the
eighth time at  Firestone Country Club .  Woods returns to competition tomorrow at the  World Golf
Championships-Bridgestone Invitational  in Akron,  Ohio , after
recovering from knee and Achilles tendon injuries.  Woods has 20-1 odds to win this week, tied for fifth-best
in the field of 77 players, even though he hasn’t won a title
since the Australian Masters 21 months ago. He’s been the most
popular golfer at the  Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports Book ,
picked on more than 10 percent of tickets.  “Tiger always has his supporters,”  Jeff Sherman ,
assistant sports book manager at the Hilton, said in an e-mail.
“No matter whether he’s playing great and his odds are lower or
under the current circumstances and his odds are higher.”  Northern Ireland ’s Rory McIlroy, who won the U.S. Open in
June while Woods was rehabilitating, is the 12-1 favorite this
week, according to the Las Vegas Hilton.  Luke Donald , who holds
the No. 1 spot in golf’s Official World Ranking, is listed at
15-1 along with fellow Englishman Lee Westwood and  Steve Stricker  of the U.S.  Woods, who has dropped to 28th in the world, has the same
odds as fellow Americans  Phil Mickelson  and  Dustin Johnson .
Woods ranks third all-time to Sam Snead and  Jack Nicklaus  with
71 career U.S. PGA Tour wins and said yesterday he’s excited to
end his layoff.  ‘A Rush’  “Trying to beat these boys, that’s fun,” Woods said when
asked what motivates him. “Getting out there and trying to win
golf tournaments, being there with a chance to win, whether you
win or fail, just being there is a rush.”  Woods’s last competitive round was May 12, when he pulled
out of the  Players Championship  after nine holes. Woods said he
made a mistake in rushing to return from injuries he originally
sustained at April’s Masters Tournament, the year’s first major
championship, where he tied for fourth place.  Woods said he’s fully recovered and will make his return at
a venue where he had wins in 1999-01, 2005-07 and 2009. A year
ago, Woods finished next to last at Firestone after shooting 18-
over par, his worst 72-hole score as a professional.  Like the bettors in  Las Vegas , Woods’s rivals are curious
to see how he fares after being away from the game.  ‘Made Golf Cool’  “I’m a player but I’m also a fan, and Tiger was the person
that made golf cool, especially when I was growing up,” said
Scott Stallings, a 26-year-old rookie who won last week’s
Greenbrier Classic. “I look forward to having him back and
hopefully get him back to where he has been.”  Although Woods has been limited to four full stroke-play
events on the U.S. tour this year, he’s shot below par in every
one he’s completed.  Woods has said he plans to play in next week’s  PGA
Championship  at the  Atlanta Athletic Club  after sitting out the
previous two majors -- the  U.S. Open  and  British Open  -- while
rehabilitating. A four-time PGA Championship winner, Woods is
also listed as the fifth-favorite for that event at 20-1,
trailing McIlroy, Mickelson, Westwood and Donald.  “I’m sure he will be trying to get himself back up to
where he has been before, and I don’t doubt he’ll do that,”
said British Open champion Darren Clarke, who will play with
Woods the first two rounds in Akron. “But for us to have a
chance to compete against him again can only be good for the
game in general. So it’s wonderful to see him back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  