-- 
Tim Participacoes Quarterly Profit Almost Triples on Mobile Subscribers

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 
2011-08-03T08:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/tim-participacoes-quarterly-profit-almost-triples-on-mobile-subscribers.html
Tim Participacoes SA, the Brazilian
unit of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , said second-quarter profit almost
tripled after it added mobile-phone subscribers.  Net income rose to 350 million reais ($223 million) in the
quarter from 126 million reais a year earlier, Rio de Janeiro-
based Tim said in a regulatory filing late yesterday. The
average estimate for profit excluding some items was 254 million
reais in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts.  Tim rose to joint-second from third place in Brazil’s
mobile phone industry in June, with 26 percent market share,
according to the telecommunications regulator, Anatel. It shares
the second spot with America Movil SAB’s local unit, Claro, also
with 26 percent, while Telecomunicacoes de  Sao Paulo  SA, or
Vivo, has 29 percent. Tim added 2.7 million lines in the
quarter, an expansion of 25 percent from a year earlier.  “Tim should be the company with biggest growth in
subscribers, revenue and free  cash flow  in the industry over the
next few years,” Maria Tereza Azevedo, an analyst at Link
Investimentos in Sao Paulo, wrote in a July 1 report. Azevedo
said the growth will be due to the company’s “exclusive focus
on the mobile-phone sector and aggressive commercial stance.”  Net sales increased 20 percent to 4.3 billion reais,
according to the filing.  AES Atimus Acquisition  Last month, Tim agreed to buy AES Atimus Group to add
network capacity in Sao Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro . The
acquisition will help Telecom Italia expand its mobile network
in the country as European operators including  Italy ’s biggest
phone company are turning to Brazil for sales growth that’s
lacking in their home markets.  In the first quarter of this year, Telecom Italia revenue
from  Brazil  rose 24 percent, while sales in its home market
retracted 7.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  