-- 
Time Warner Profit Increases 14% on Rising Cable, Film Sales

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-03T20:37:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/time-warner-profit-beats-estimates-on-cable.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of Warner
Bros. film studios, said second-quarter profit rose 14 percent
as revenue from its cable-television, movie and magazine
businesses rose.  Net income rose to $638 million, or 59 cents a share, from
$562 million, or 49 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit
was 60 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
56 cents on average.  Time Warner benefited from demand for movies such as
“Hangover Part II,” which had the largest single-day opening
for a comedy when it made its debut in May. Still, the company
left its full-year earnings forecast little changed, causing
some investors to predict slowing earnings growth.  “If you beat on the bottom line and don’t raise the
guidance, the conclusion some would draw is, ‘Are you going to
have a slowdown in the second half?’” said James Goss, a
Chicago-based analyst at Barrington Research Associates who
rates the stock “outperform” and doesn’t own it.  In May, the company forecast an increase in adjusted
earnings per share “in the low teens” off of a base of $2.41
in 2010. It said today growth on that basis would be “at least
low teens.”  Hangover Movies  Time Warner fell 43 cents to $33.57 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 4.4
percent this year.  “They beat expectations, but not in a way that would get
investors a little more excited,” said Robin Diedrich, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. “The guidance is still in
question.”  Sales climbed 10 percent to $7.03 billion, compared with
analysts’ average estimate of $6.82 billion. Revenue at the
filmed entertainment division increased 13 percent to $2.85
billion.  “Warner Brothers has a lot of momentum from ‘The Hangover
Part II,’  HBO  is in a steady state and publishing is benefiting
from the recovery in advertising,” said  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in Denver who rates the
stock “buy” and doesn’t own it.  “The Hangover Part II,” a sequel to the 2009 surprise
hit, has a similar plot to the original. The main characters
wake up in a hotel room after wild partying with little memory
of what transpired the night before. The two films have more
than $1 billion in worldwide sales combined.  Network, Publishing  Sales at the networks business, which includes cable
channels TNT, TBS, HBO and Cartoon Network, rose 8.9 percent to
$3.45 billion. The unit makes up more than half of operating
profit.  “Even one successful show can have a significant impact on
the networks,” Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bewkes  said on a
conference call. “We have several in the pipeline.”  Revenue from Time Warner’s publishing division, which
includes magazines such as Time, People and Fortune, climbed 2.9
to $946 million. The company said it plans to offer all 21 of
its domestic magazines on tablet devices by the end of the year.  Time Warner expects “softness” in third-quarter
advertising and newsstand sales, Chief Financial Officer  John Martin  said on the call. He expects the publishing division to
return to growth in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  