-- 
India Said to Give State Oil Refiners $3.4 Billion First-Quarter Subsidy

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-08-03T06:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/india-said-to-give-state-oil-refiners-3-4-billion-first-quarter-subsidy.html
Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s
biggest refiner, and state-run rivals will get 150 billion
rupees ($3.4 billion) as compensation for selling fuels below
cost, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The payment for the three months ended June 30 is about
half of the 290 billion rupees sought by the oil ministry, the
people said, asking not to be identified before an official
announcement.  Compensation from the government and discounts on crude oil
by state explorers help the refiners to cut losses and reduce
their debt burden. Indian Oil, Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and
 Bharat Petroleum  Corp. sell diesel and cooking fuels below the
cost of production to help curb inflation in the world’s second-
fastest growing major economy.  “The government is working with very little elbow room
here,” said Avinash Gupta, vice-president for equity research
at Globe Capital Market Ltd. in New Delhi. “They have to keep
the refiners afloat on the one hand and keep subsidy payments in
check and cut the fiscal deficit.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is attempting to
cut its fiscal deficit to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ending March 31, the lowest in four years.  Indian Oil shares rose 0.8 percent to 314.90 rupees at
11:09 a.m. in Mumbai trading. Bharat Petroleum was little
changed at 658 rupees and Hindustan Petroleum climbed 0.6
percent. The benchmark Sensitive Index fell 1 percent.  ONGC Subsidy  Indian Oil is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings on
Aug. 10. Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum are scheduled
on Aug. 12, according to stock exchange filings.  New Delhi-based Indian Oil may report a loss of 92.96
billion rupees in the quarter, according to the median estimate
of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Discounts given by Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the nation’s
biggest energy exploration company, more than doubled to 120.5
billion rupees in the first quarter, the company said July 28.  P.K. Goyal, finance director at Indian Oil, S. Roy Choudhury, chairman of Hindustan Petroleum, and R.K. Singh,
Chairman of Bharat Petroleum, didn’t answer two calls each to
their mobile phones seeking comment on the subsidy payment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  