-- 
Vodafone Begins Appeal in India’s Supreme Court on Buying Hutchison Assets

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-08-03T08:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/india-s-supreme-court-starts-hearing-vodafone-tax-case.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s appeal of a $2.5
billion tax demand from Indian authorities started in the
nation’s highest court, after losing a battle over taxes on its
takeover of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s local assets.  Harish Salve, the lawyer for Vodafone, began arguing the
company’s case before a three-judge bench of  India ’s  Supreme
Court  in New Delhi, headed by Chief Justice S.H. Kapadia.  Vodafone is challenging a Bombay High Court ruling last
year that India’s tax department has the jurisdiction to seek
claims on the Newbury, England-based company’s $10.7 billion
purchase of Hutchison’s Indian phone assets. The case is seen as
a test of how India taxes acquisitions routed through other
countries after Vodafone bought the operations through a Cayman
Islands entity in 2007.  “All the players were foreign companies,” Salve told the
court today. “The transaction was not done in India.”  Vodafone, the third-largest mobile-phone operator in India,
has argued it doesn’t owe the Indian government taxes because
the transaction was conducted offshore. Vodafone has said its
Dutch subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings BV, acquired
CGP Ltd., a Cayman Islands holding company controlled by Hong
Kong-based Hutchison.  India’s tax department has said Vodafone failed to withhold
taxes on its acquisition of the local unit Hutchison Essar Ltd.
The deal should be taxed because the share transfer had an
“Indian nexus,” in the form of a local company, according to
Mohan Parasaran, the department’s senior counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
P.S. Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  