-- 
India Panel Advises $100 Million Minimum Retail Investment

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-08-04T08:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/india-panel-advises-100-million-minimum-investment-for-retail.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA) 
may need to invest at least $100 million to start retail stores
in  India  after a state panel set terms in its recommendations
for opening the market.  “The government will consider and take an early policy
decision,”  Anand Sharma , minister for commerce and industry,
said in parliament yesterday. India’s cabinet will decide on the
panel’s recommendations, which propose easing ownership rules
for stores that sell more than one brand, he said.  India bars foreign ownership in multi brand retail
operations. Overseas investors are allowed a 51 percent holding
in shops selling one brand, and 100 percent in wholesale stores.
Wal-Mart and Carrefour, who operate wholesale outlets in India,
seek to expand in a market that Business Monitor International
estimates may double to $785 billion in 2015 from $396 billion
this year.  “International retailers should not have an issue on the
quantum of money that needs to be invested,” said Saloni
Nangia, senior vice president at  Technopak Advisors Pvt. , a
consultant based near  New Delhi . “This would surely be a part
of the investment they are looking at.”  Supply Chains  Shoppers Stop Ltd., India’s second-largest listed retailer,
gained 1 percent to 413.7 rupees at 2 p.m. in Mumbai trading,
after jumping as much as 12 percent yesterday.  Arti Singh, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart’s India operations,
didn’t respond to calls to her mobile phone. Mohan Shukla,
director of corporate affairs for Carrefour India, didn’t answer
calls made to his mobile phone.  Carrefour supports opening India’s food retail sector to
foreign investment, said a spokeswoman who declined to be
identified, citing company policy. The French retailer can make
supply chains in India’s retailing industry more efficient,
leading to lower prices, she said.  “Allowing foreign investment in retail would be good for
Indian consumers but some of the conditions being speculated on
could make it difficult to implement,” Greg Sage, a spokesman
at  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , said in an e-mailed response to questions. The
U.K.’s biggest retailer has a franchise and a wholesale-supply
arrangement with  Trent Ltd. (TRENT) , a part of India’s  Tata Group .  Rotting Vegetables  About 40 percent of India’s fruit and vegetables rot before
they are sold because of a lack of cold-storage facilities and
poor transport infrastructure, according to the government.  Overseas investment in multi-brand stores may be allowed up
to 51 percent, the panel is said to have recommended, a finance
ministry official with knowledge of the matter said on July 22,
requesting not be identified before a public announcement. The
trade minister didn’t comment on the ownership limit yesterday.  “The recommendations of the committee of secretaries are
very specific,” Sharma said. “There has to be a defined
percentage which will go only into the building of
infrastructure, and the minimum investment as has been
recommended should not be less that $100 million.”  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , India’s largest listed store
owner, rose as much as 3.5 percent to 332.2 rupees before
trading at 318.7 rupees, down by 0.7 percent. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.8 percent.  The panel has suggested half the jobs generated by foreign
investors in retail should be in the rural sector, and at least
30 percent of all products should be sourced from small and
medium enterprises, Sharma said. The government has not formally
received the recommendations, he said.  Wal-Mart’s Plans  Foreign companies have set up wholesale operations in India
to gain a foothold in the nation. Bharti Walmart Pvt., a venture
with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti Enterprises Pvt., runs
seven wholesale stores, while Carrefour opened its first such
store in December.  Germany ’s Metro AG owns six cash-and-carry
stores in India, according to its  website .  Wal-Mart may open hundreds of retail shops in the country
if the rules are changed,  Raj Jain , chief executive officer of
its India venture, said last year. Foreign direct investment in
multi-brand retailing would help cut waste, Jain said in May.  Wal-Mart has “intensive plans” to expand in India, Asia
chief  Scott Price  said March 30. Its annual sales in India
amounted to less than $1 billion, compared with $8 billion in
 Japan  and $7.5 billion in  China , he said.  Reliance Retail Ltd., a subsidiary of Reliance Industries
Ltd., plans to double clothing retail stores to 100 by the end
of the year, chief executive officer Arun Sirdeshmukh said July
4. The unit of India’s largest company by market value also
plans to open wholesale stores, billionaire Chairman  Mukesh
Ambani  said June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  