-- 
Indonesia’s GDP Likely Grew Despite Moderation

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 
2011-08-04T04:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/indonesia-s-gdp-probably-grew-6-5-to-buck-moderation-in-asia.html
The Indonesian economy probably
sustained its pace of growth last quarter as the nation’s
central bank averted the interest-rate increases that have
contributed to a slowdown in neighbors across  Asia .  Gross domestic product climbed 6.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 6.46 percent in January through March,
according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey before tomorrow’s release of the data.  The central bank has refrained from raising borrowing costs
for five meetings to support  consumer spending  in the world’s
fourth-most populous nation, relying on a rising rupiah to curb
price gains. With inflation easing for a sixth straight month in
July, Bank Indonesia will keep its benchmark rate unchanged at
6.75 percent on Aug. 9, all 16 economists said in another survey.  “Indonesia is the only economy in the region that is
expected to buck the trend of moderating growth and domestic
consumption is still very strong,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , a
Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. “The
central bank will push back the need for rate hikes as inflation
has been coming down and they see no reason for higher rates at
this point.”  The rupiah has climbed about 6 percent against the dollar
this year, the second-biggest appreciation among major Southeast
Asian currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Jakarta Composite stock index has jumped 11.2 percent
over the same period, the biggest rise in Asia after Mongolia.  The currency fell 0.1 percent to 8,489 per dollar as of
11:52 a.m. local time, as Asian currencies declined after  Japan 
intervened in the foreign-exchange market to weaken the yen. The
 stock index  slipped 0.4 percent.  Resilient Growth  Indonesia’s GDP may have expanded more than 6.5 percent
last quarter, Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono
said yesterday. The central bank forecasts growth of as much as
6.8 percent this year, after a 6.1 percent expansion in 2010.  Indonesia is less vulnerable to swings in global demand
compared with its Asian neighbors as it doesn’t depend as much
on exports to spur growth. The nation is “at the bottom of the
league” in Asia for growth volatility,  Robert Prior-Wandesforde ,
an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore , said last
month.  Elsewhere in Asia, growth has slowed in economies from
Singapore to  Taiwan  as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S.
recovery crimp demand for exports. At the same time, persisting
price pressures are complicating the task for some of the
region’s central banks. China, India and Thailand have raised
rates recently, while Malaysia and the Philippines opted to keep
them unchanged.  Slowing Inflation  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s government has held
off from removing fuel subsidies this year and is importing rice
to cool domestic prices as the world’s most populous Muslim
nation observes the fasting month of Ramadan.  Consumer prices rose 4.61 percent last month from a year
earlier, easing from a 5.54 percent pace in June, the statistics
department said Aug. 1.  Bank Indonesia  predicts inflation will
be 4 percent to 6 percent this year.  “There’s no pressure for the central bank to raise rates
this month and probably until the end of this year because the
rupiah continues to strengthen and inflation seems manageable,”
said Juniman, chief economist at PT Bank Internasional  Indonesia 
in Jakarta.  Credit Rating   Southeast Asia’s biggest economy is one step away from its
first investment-grade credit rating in more than a decade as
Yudhoyono targets growth of as much as 6.6 percent on average
through the remainder of his term ending in 2014. He plans to
double spending on roads, ports and airports to $140 billion by
then after inadequate infrastructure hampered growth.  Foreign direct investment increased 21.1 percent to 43.1
trillion rupiah ($5.1 billion) in the second quarter from a year
earlier, according to the Investment Coordinating Board. Total
 investment  rose 22.1 percent last quarter.  Indonesia’s commercial loans this year will probably
surpass the central bank’s estimate as low  interest rates  help
drive demand, PT Bank Central Asia, the nation’s largest lender,
said last month.  “ Bank Indonesia  will hold interest rates to support loan
growth and encourage economic growth,” said  Destry Damayanti ,
chief economist at PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta. “Export volumes
are still growing and significant increases in foreign direct
investment are contributing to the economic expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  