-- 
Iran Names Commander on U.S Sanctions List as Oil Minister

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-08-03T15:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/iran-names-commander-on-u-s-sanctions-list-as-oil-minister-1-.html
The Iranian parliament approved a
Revolutionary Guards commander named on a U.S. sanctions list to
be the country’s oil minister, an appointment that may give the
military group more influence over energy matters.  Members of Parliament confirmed Rostam Qasemi, head of the
engineering arm of  Iran ’s Revolutionary Guard Corps, by a vote
of 216 to 22, with seven abstentions, according to the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency . Qasemi, a veteran of Iran’s war
with  Iraq  in the 1980s, is chief of the Revolutionary Guards’
Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters.  “Qasemi is a son of the revolution,” President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in an address to the parliament today. “Thanks
to his knowledge of the oil industry, he will turn the ministry
even more than before to the service of the country and national
interests,” Ahmadinejad said before the vote, according to a
report by state-run  Fars  news agency.  Qasemi’s oversight of the oil ministry may give the
Revolutionary Guards, the military vanguard of Iran’s Islamic
Republic, increased influence over the nation’s energy policy.
Iran is the second-largest producer of crude in OPEC, and oil is
its main source of export earnings. International economic
sanctions have deterred many foreign companies from investing in
the country, contributing to stagnation in its  energy industry 
and project delays.  “Having someone so close to the Revolutionary Guards take
over the ministry may lead to further institutionalizing an
entity that has already been awarded large energy contracts,”
said Ali Al-Saffar, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence
Unit in  London , said in a phone interview.  The new minister is included on a list of Iranian
individuals and organizations subject to U.S. sanctions. The
U.S. and its allies said the Persian nation is concealing
development of nuclear weapons, an allegation that Iran denies.
The U.S. has accused the Guards of supporting terrorism and
involvement in Iran’s nuclear efforts.  The  Treasury Department  froze Qasemi’s assets on Feb. 10,
2010, though he has said this wouldn’t stop from fulfilling his
ministerial duties.  Qasemi will succeed Masoud Mir-Kazemi, who was fired by
Ahmadinejad in May. The president subsequently installed himself
as the ministry’s caretaker, citing the oil industry’s
importance to Iran’s economy. He was forced to back down
following a clash with the parliament and went on in June to
name  Mohammad Aliabadi , the former head of the country’s
Physical Education Organization, as acting oil minister.  Khatam al-Anbiya, formed after the eight-year-long war
between Iraq and Iran, was initially involved in the nation’s
infrastructure and the building of roads. The group has played
an increasing role in the country’s oil and gas sectors amid
stricter sanctions, which have pushed international companies
out of Iran.  Qasemi, who studied civil engineering, has “overseen large
national projects in various sectors including oil, gas,
petrochemicals and railroads,”  IRNA  said in a separate report
today. He has 22 years of experience in civil engineering and
served the country throughout the war against Iraq as a
commander and engineer, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 