-- 
Ireland’s Budget Deficit Widens on Bank-Recapitalization Costs

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-03T16:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/ireland-s-budget-deficit-widens-on-bank-recapitalization-costs.html
Ireland’s budget deficit widened in
seven months through July compared with the same period a year
earlier on payments to recapitalize the country’s banks.  The 18.9 billion-euro ($27.1 billion) budget gap compared
with a shortfall of 10.2 billion euros a year earlier, the
 Finance Ministry  in Dublin said in an e-mailed statement today.
Tax revenue rose to 18.6 billion euros from 17.2 billion euros
and was 1.4 percent higher of the government’s forecast.  The increase in the deficit was due to 3.1 billion euros in
payments in the first half of the year relating to the bailouts
of Anglo Irish Bank Corp., Irish Nationwide Building Society and
EBS Ltd. and just over 7.5 billion euros in one-off payments
relating to bank recapitalizations last month after stress tests
in March, the ministry said. Excluding these payments, the
deficit fell by almost 2 billion euros, it said.  Sales-tax receipts were 2.9 percent below government
forecasts in the first seven months of the year, while income
tax was 2.2 percent more than predicted, the ministry said.
Corporation tax was 6 percent above target.  “Corporate tax receipts were 7.6 percent behind” forecast
in the first half, which was “puzzling, given the strength of
the export sector,” said Conall MacCoille, an economist at
Dublin-based securities firm Davy, adding that the rebound in
this line at the end of July is “welcome.”  “As other European countries consider additional fiscal
consolidation plans we can take some comfort that Ireland’s tax
revenues and expenditure plans remain on track,” he said.  Ireland received a bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  last year. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in a letter to the bailout partners last week that
the country may beat its 2010 target of reducing its deficit to
10.6 percent of gross domestic product. Noonan is seeking to
narrow the deficit to 3 percent of GDP by the end of 2015 from
an underlying 12 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  