-- 
$35B Missile Defense Misses Bullet With Bullet

-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-08-03T04:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/missile-defense-costing-35-billion-misses-bullets-with-bullets.html
In tunnels under Fort Greely,  Alaska ,
workers wearing hazmat suits and respirators are fighting to
keep America safe from missile attack.  They are  battling mold  in corridors leading to six
underground silos that house rockets for shooting down enemy
warheads. The mold and leaking pipes mean the installation must
be replaced this year as part of a $1.16 billion fix for the
national missile defense shield, senior defense officials told
Congress.  No one knows whether the $35 billion program would work. It
has never been tested under conditions simulating a real attack
by an intercontinental ballistic missile deploying sophisticated
decoys and countermeasures. The system has flunked 7 of 15 more
limited  trials , yet remains exempted from normal Pentagon
oversight and so far has been spared the cuts Congress is
demanding in other areas of federal spending.  “Our missile defense program is an expensive, ineffective
defense against an implausible threat,” says Steven Weinberg, a
 University of Texas  professor who won the 1979  Nobel Prize  in
physics. He was one of 50 Nobel laureates to sign a 2001 letter
to Congress voicing skepticism about “hitting a bullet with a
bullet” outside of laboratory conditions.  The financial costs and technical shortcomings of America’s
missile shield demonstrate how unproven multibillion-dollar
defense programs get budget support in the face of shifting
military threats and developmental setbacks. Two decades after
the Soviet Union’s collapse eliminated the enemy that inspired
it, missile defense is getting more money in a time of federal
belt-tightening and military spending reductions.  Spending Increase  Before Congress voted to cut $2.4 trillion from government
expenses over the next decade, lawmakers budgeted a 1.2 percent
increase, to $8.6 billion, for all missile defense programs in
 fiscal 2012 . That would raise  total costs  to about $150 billion,
or roughly the inflation-adjusted amount poured into the Apollo
program sending men to the moon in the 1960s and 1970s.  As one of the Pentagon’s biggest acquisition programs, the
 Missile Defense Agency  got $141.1 billion out of the $149.8
billion requested from Congress over 27 years for all of its
programs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lawmakers
have been reluctant to challenge spending because the program
generates jobs and neither party wants to appear soft on defense,
says  Gordon Adams , a professor at American University in
 Washington .  Accountability ‘Elusive’  The Pentagon has made “accountability and transparency
elusive” by exempting the missile agency from standard
acquisition regulations, including requirements for independent
cost estimates, according to Cristina Chaplain, an investigator
for the  Government Accountability Office , the congressional
watchdog agency.  It is a program with “an undefined destination at an
unknown cost,” Chaplain said in testimony before the Senate
Armed Services Committee in April.  The Senate panel “is deeply concerned” about the missile
shield, said Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, in
 written remarks  in June. “It should be the highest priority of
MDA to ensure that it fully understands and corrects the
problem,” referring to two test failures in 2010.  Among the most vehement budget hawks in Congress, members
of the Tea Party caucus, there is a reluctance to discuss
spending on individual programs, including missile defense.
Senator  Jim DeMint , the South Carolina Republican who founded
the Senate Tea Party caucus, said there is waste in the Pentagon
budget and declined to comment on specific weapons. So did
Representatives Allen West, Republican of Florida, and Vicky Hartzler, Republican of Missouri, both members of the Armed
Services Committee.  ‘War Propaganda’  Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas Republican known for his
calls for limited government, said that while he isn’t an expert
on the missile program, defense spending should be cut and the
rationale behind missile defense should be re-evaluated.  “It’s all war hysteria, war propaganda,” Paul said in a
phone interview. With the Cold War impetus gone, proponents of
missile defense point to North Korea and Iran as threats. “The
North Koreans are not going to be a threat to us,” he said.
“The Iranians aren’t going to attack us.”  As part of the debt accord signed by President Barack Obama
yesterday, the Pentagon’s budget over the next decade may be
reduced by $325 billion starting in fiscal year 2012. An
additional $500 billion of defense spending may be cut if
Congress can’t find $1.5 trillion in overall deficit savings by
late November, according to the administration.  Airborne Laser  Besides the main shield of interceptor rockets, missile
defense funds have gone into developing a missile-destroying,
airplane-carried laser. That cost more than $5 billion and took
14 years, with no current operational mission, according to the
GAO. The Obama administration canceled a mobile system, the
Kinetic Energy Interceptor, in 2009 after concluding the time
and cost to develop it would roughly double to at least 12 years
and $8.9 billion.  At the same time, the agency has developed systems to
protect U.S. troops and allies from missiles on the battlefield.
The Army fielded Patriot anti-aircraft and anti-missile
batteries during both Gulf wars. The Navy’s ship-based Aegis
system shot down an errant U.S. spy satellite in 2008.  Compared with the national missile shield’s 53 percent
success rate, the Aegis program for intermediate threats has hit
22 of 25 test targets since 2002. In May, the Army also began
taking delivery of a truck-mounted system known as THAAD, for
Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, for regional threats.
Restructured in 2000 after six straight test failures, THAAD has
recorded seven consecutive successes since 2006.  Plan for Fixes  Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly, the missile agency’s
director, outlined plans for fixing the national missile shield
in congressional testimony this year, and the agency says mold
hasn’t compromised the Alaskan operations. Officials of  Raytheon
Co. (RTN) , maker of the “kill vehicle” sitting atop the interceptor
rockets, say test failures help them improve their product.  While O’Reilly, 55, declined to be interviewed for this
story, Bloomberg spoke with about 80 former Pentagon officials,
military officers, weapons testers, defense contractors,
lawmakers and congressional staffers. Bloomberg also reviewed
thousands of pages of documents, including budget records,
independent research and reports by the GAO and by Pentagon
weapons evaluators.  No ‘Realistic’ Tests  The system “has demonstrated a limited capability against
a simple threat” and has yet to engage in “operationally
realistic” tests, J. Michael Gilmore, the department’s top
weapons tester, told Congress last year.  Former President  Ronald Reagan  made missile defense a
national priority with his 1983 call for what became known as a
“Star Wars” shield. In December 2002, former President  George W. Bush  injected renewed urgency into the project, citing the
Sept. 11 terror attacks and “the threats of the 21st century.”  The  Bush administration  exempted the newly created Missile
Defense Agency from the Pentagon’s standard regulations
concerning procurement, and announced a goal of deploying a
national umbrella within two years. The undertaking’s subsequent
failures reflect unnecessary haste and waste, says Levin, the
Senate Armed Services panel chairman.  ‘You Will Pay’  “If speed is your hallmark instead of quality, you will
pay for it, and you will pay for it through the nose,” said
Levin, 77, a six-term senator, in an interview at his office in
Washington. “The threat we have now is either a distant threat
or is not a realistic threat,” he said. To dissuade Iran from
posing a missile threat, the U.S. must collaborate with Russia
on defense systems, Levin said.  North Korea lacks missiles with enough range to reach the
U.S., said Mike McConnell, the former director of national
intelligence, in an interview. Iran would need substantial
foreign assistance to strike America, according to U.S.
intelligence estimates.  “What country is suicidal enough to launch a weapon of
mass destruction on a long-range missile, when it leaves a trail
of where it came from?” says retired Army Lieutenant General
Robert Gard, the chairman of the Washington-based Center for
Arms Control and Non-Proliferation.  The program’s very existence creates uncertainty for
potential enemies, says a former National Security Agency
official who requested anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
discuss the matter. The investment of a few billion dollars
deters potentially trillions of dollars in damage and untold
numbers of human casualties, he said.  Biggest Contracts  Companies with the biggest missile defense contracts over
the past decade are  Boeing Co. (BA) , at $19.45 billion;  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , $5.75 billion; Raytheon, $4.94 billion; and
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , $3.69 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chicago-based Boeing’s missile-contract revenue is about
the same as the biggest jetliner transaction in history, its
sale this year of 200 aircraft to  China  for $19 billion. The
company manages the missile shield program, formally known as
the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense program, or GMD. Boeing is
competing with Lockheed for a new management contract that may
be worth $10 billion over the next decade.  As the GMD is designed, U.S. satellites would identify the
hot plume of an enemy missile within seconds of launch, alert
radar installations and relay tracking data to kill vehicles
ready to intercept the incoming warhead about 200 miles (322
kilometers) in space.  Length of Broomstick  Raytheon’s kill vehicle is a $30 million, 120-pound (54-
kilogram) spacecraft about the length of a broomstick. It looks
like a telescope mounted on a pack of propane gas cylinders and
is supposed to be able to pick out a target from decoys and
debris and smash into it while flying at a combined closing
speed of 6.2 miles a second. It has no explosive -- the
collision alone would do the damage.  Two of the unsuccessful test flights were tied directly to
failures of the kill vehicle, according to Pentagon
investigators.  In 1998, a competition between Boeing and Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Raytheon to design the kill vehicle
collapsed. A federal official inadvertently left technical
documentation related to Raytheon’s design at a Boeing office,
and Boeing employees made photocopies before returning the
material, according to former Air Force Lieutenant General Ron Kadish, who became the missile defense chief in June 1999.  Boeing Disqualified  Boeing was disqualified from competing for the spacecraft,
Kadish said in an interview. He is now a senior vice president
for government consultant Booz Allen Hamilton in McLean,
Virginia.  Development and testing of the Raytheon spacecraft began
just as a panel of civilians and retired officers, led by
retired Air Force General Larry Welch, criticized “the agency’s
‘very aggressive schedules’” that had led other programs to
“poor design, test planning and preflight testing deficiencies;
poor fabrication; poor management; and lack of rigorous
government oversight.” The Welch report warned against a “rush
to failure.”  In 1999, President Bill Clinton’s administration decided
under pressure from a Republican-led Congress to plow ahead. The
agency and its contractors complied.  “We were under a lot of schedule pressure to get into
flight test and demonstrate an intercept,” said John Peller, a
former executive of Boeing who managed the GMD program,
including the kill vehicle, until August 2000. “That was one of
the primary requirements of the program at the time: Get out of
the laboratory and into flight.”  `Everything Memorized'  Early versions of the kill vehicle raised concerns about
production quality, says retired Air Force General John “Pete” Piotrowski, a former commander-in-chief of the North American
Aerospace Defense Command in Colorado.  On a visit in early 2000 to a Raytheon factory in Tucson,
Arizona, Piotrowski says, he watched a worker pull kill-vehicle
parts from a bin in a monthlong assembly procedure. Piotrowski
says he asked the worker how he remembered where he was in the
elaborate process.  “I’ve got everything memorized,” he says the worker
replied.  Piotrowski reported his doubts to the Pentagon that one man
could remember every step in such a complex process, he said in
an interview. A craftsman-like approach was appropriate for the
initial low production rate, said Taylor Lawrence, president of
Raytheon’s Missile Systems business, in an interview.  The system failed two flight tests in 2000, the first when
the kill vehicle’s infrared sensor cooling malfunctioned and the
second when the spacecraft and rocket booster didn’t separate,
according to Pentagon-ordered post-flight investigations.  `Quality' Not Spoken  “When we started the fast deployment of this program,
‘quality’ was a word that was not even spoken. There was no
quality,” says William Sowder, Boeing’s chief tester on the GMD
program until he retired in 2001. “There was not enough
attention paid to component testing like missile testing and
radar testing and command-and-control testing.”  After four successful trials between July 2001 and October
2002, the missile agency cited quality-control problems in a
flight failure Dec. 11, 2002. The agency reported that the kill
vehicle and its booster hadn’t separated again.  Bears, Moose  Six days later, Bush set his deadline for fielding a
national missile defense by the end of 2004. Workers began
drilling 80-foot (24-meter) holes at Fort Greely, a World War
II-era airfield that was slated for closure.  Army Colonel Kevin Norgaard, now retired from the military,
took over transforming the windswept Alaskan range into a
subterranean missile field five miles beyond the end of the
Alaskan Highway, near the town of Delta Junction. Charred stumps
were a reminder of a forest fire three years before, and guards
spoke of listening to bears tear into a moose at the edge of
camp, he said in an interview. Clocks counted down the years,
months, days, minutes and seconds to the deadline, he said.  The work included pouring more than 35,000 cubic yards of
concrete and building 2.5 miles of underground corridors -- or
“utilidors” -- to convey water, electricity and fiber-optic
cables between base installations and the steel silos, the Army
Space Journal, an armed-services publication, reported in 2004.  The job was completed with 27 minutes to spare on Sept. 30,
2004, the last day of the government’s fiscal year, according to
a former military official with responsibility for the program
who requested anonymity because he now works for a contractor.  It was the first of three missile fields with 26 silos in
Alaska and four silos at California’s Vandenberg Air Force Base.
The initial field cost $311 million to construct as part of a
$6.9 billion investment in operational capability.  Food for Mold  Water pipes in the tunnels were covered with paper-backed
insulation that deteriorated and became an incubator for mold as
the vessels sweated from condensation, according to a U.S.
contractor with direct knowledge of the situation who asked not
to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to comment. A lack
of ventilation and heat fueled the mold, he said.  “Paper disintegrates in water and is a wonderful food
source for mold,” said William Lotz, an insulation consultant
and former  Owens Corning (OC)  Inc. engineer who lives in Acton, Maine.
“Somebody clearly didn’t know what they were doing.”  Water pipes in passageways under Fairbanks, 100 miles north
of Fort Greely, are 20 years older and have no mold, according
to Pat Smith, chief of construction management in the city
engineering department. The city’s pipes are insulated with foam,
and the steam-heated corridors are ventilated, he said.  Boeing and subcontractors that built the missile field
declined to discuss the mold and referred a reporter to the
Missile Defense Agency.  Page 128  “No one here has ever seen mold as an issue for
operational readiness,” said  Richard Lehner , a missile agency
spokesman, in an interview. “What you’re concerned about is the
ability to respond operationally, and we can.”  Pipes in the newer missile fields have insulation with
metallic backing, Lehner said in an e-mail. The underground
corridors are now heated and ventilated, according to a
government contractor in Alaska who asked not to be identified
because of confidentiality provisions set by the missile agency.  The U.S. has divulged little more about the contamination.
On page 128 of the fiscal 2011 Defense Authorization is a
disclosure that the first field of six silos need to be
decommissioned because it “lacks backup power and has
significant infrastructure reliability issues.  “These reliability issues include extensive mold
contamination in the Missile Field 1 utilidor, requiring
personnel to suit up for a hazardous environment; inadequate
valve connections in the chilled water system, resulting in
leaks of glycol; and dust intrusion,” the document says.  Human Mold Hazard  The human hazard arises from inhaling microscopic mold
spores, which can cause lung disease, says Curtis Wright, owner
of Anchorage-based Enviro Tech Alaska LLC, a remediation firm.
The average spore is three microns in diameter, a 25th the width
of a human hair, he said.  In December 2004 and February 2005, there were two more
flight-test failures, the first attributed to an incorrect
software configuration and the second related to a safety
feature, according to post-flight investigations.  A review panel commissioned by Air Force Lieutenant General
Henry “Trey” Obering III, the agency head at the time, found
that unresolved technical problems had been allowed to roll
forward, “bow waving” risk, and that greater contractor
accountability was needed, according to a copy of a March 2005
presentation that is public.  Obering temporarily shut down the program until he was
assured the problems had been fixed, he said in an interview.
The retired general is now a senior vice president overseeing
Booz Allen’s aerospace practice.  `The Science Works'  “The science works,” Obering says. “There are issues
with quality control, and that’s not unexpected when you are
trying to get a capability out the door you don’t have.”  The missile agency describes as successful the last flight
test Obering oversaw in December 2008, a month before he retired.
The Pentagon weapons assessor’s report that year found that the
interceptor and the target missile both malfunctioned,
precluding the achievement of all objectives.  After a re-engineered Raytheon kill vehicle failed in a
test last year, in part because of poor quality control,
O’Reilly halted deliveries of new vehicles until they are fixed,
he told the Senate Appropriations Committee in May. The
experiments, which cost as much as $300 million each, are
“obvious cause for concern,” said the committee’s chairman,
Senator Daniel Inouye, a Hawaii Democrat, during a budget
hearing in May.  Raytheon's `NoDoubt' Brand  Such setbacks are at odds with Raytheon publicity. The
company’s systems “provide multilayered protection and NoDoubt
Mission Assurance as they locate, discriminate and eliminate
ballistic missiles in all phases of flight, from boost to
midcourse to terminal,” the company said in an August 2009
advertisement in the Military Space & Missile Forum trade
journal. Raytheon, the world’s largest missile maker, also
developed the Patriot system and makes the SM-3 missiles for the
Navy’s Aegis program. It trademarked the term “NoDoubt.”  William Swanson, the chief executive officer of Raytheon,
defends the company’s management of the kill vehicle and says
trial failures are a normal part of product development.  $1.16 Billion Fixes  “What happens in today’s world is failures are viewed as a
catastrophe, so if a system has a failure, everybody goes, ‘Oh
my God, cancel the damn thing,’” Swanson said in an interview
at the Paris Air Show in June. “Since I’m an engineer, you
understand your system better with failures.”  The $1.16 billion in the Missile Defense Agency’s budget
for fiscal 2012 would mothball the mold-contaminated field at
Fort Greely and complete a newer field there, including a new
power plant. It also contains funds to buy six new rockets,
upgrade radar equipment and complete the investigation and
recovery from the two failed flight tests last year.  “These contractual mistakes and screwups happen far too
often,” Senator Levin said in an interview that addressed the
test failures and construction issues in Alaska. “Taxpayers are
pissed off and we’re pissed off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robert Blau at   rblau1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 