-- 
Misys Shares Drop as Fidelity Abandons Talks

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-04T08:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/misys-fidelity-takeover-talks-said-to-end-over-price.html
Misys Plc (MSY)  fell the most in almost
five years in London trading after  Fidelity National Information
Services Inc. (FIS)  said it’s no longer considering making a bid after
the two parties couldn’t agree on a price.  Misys plunged as much as 20 percent to 286 pence, the
biggest intraday decline since Oct. 2, 2006, and was trading at
287 pence as of 9:10 a.m. That pushed the stock to an 18 percent
drop this year, valuing the London-based financial-industry
software provider at 973 million pounds ($1.6 billion).  Fidelity had been close to an agreement to buy Misys about
two weeks ago before talks hit a snag, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private. Fidelity reserves the right to
revisit a bid should Misys’s management agree to or recommend an
offer, the Jacksonville, Florida-based company said today in a
statement.  Misys had anticipated that an agreement in Congress on
raising the U.S. debt ceiling would allow Fidelity to obtain
necessary financing for the deal and boost its offer, though a
higher bid never materialized, said the person.  Another approach is “unlikely at this time” as the bid
process with FIS would have “flushed out any other potential
bidders already,” Rajeev Bahl, a London-based analyst at Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP, said today by e-mail.  Talks Break Up  The Misys board “believes this offer from FIS materially
undervalues the company and therefore unanimously decided to
reject it and took the decision to withdraw from further
discussions with FIS,” the U.K. company said today in a
separate statement.  A purchase would have helped Fidelity National reduce
reliance on the U.S., where the provider of banking and payment
technology derives more than 80 percent of revenue. Misys shares
had declined in recent weeks on investor concern that deal talks
would fail.  Fidelity advanced 74 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $28.99 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock
has gained 5.8 percent this year.  Other suitors may approach Misys in the next 12 months,
either for the whole company or just for its banking unit, said
Milan Radia, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd.  ‘Key Names’  “Infosys and HCL Technologies are key names, and rival
vendors including Temenos may be interested in the banking
unit,” Radia said in a phone interview. “Management’s
intention to get some kind of exit will still be there.” Radia
has a “buy” recommendation and a price estimate of 500 pence
on Misys stock.  Fidelity said June 23 that it had made “a preliminary
approach regarding a possible cash offer for Misys.” The
company has completed at least four acquisitions since July
2010, including Belgian technology consulting firm Capital
Markets Co. NV in December 2010.  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,200
banking customers in 12 countries, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  