-- 
Hitachi, Mitsubishi Heavy May Merge: Nikkei

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-03T19:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hitachi-mitsubishi-heavy-industries-consider-merger-nikkei-says.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  are discussing a merger that would unite two of
Japan’s largest industrial companies, Nikkei reported.  An announcement is expected today, Nikkei said, without
saying where it got the information. Hitachi, Japan’s second-
largest manufacturer by sales, and Mitsubishi Heavy, a maker of
ships and planes, are studying a tie-up that includes their
infrastructure and information-technology units, Nikkei said.  Hitachi, based in  Tokyo , reported revenue of 9.3 trillion
yen ($121 billion) last year and has a market value of 2.1
trillion yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tokyo-
based Mitsubishi Heavy posted sales of 2.9 trillion yen and is
valued at 1.18 trillion yen.  Atsushi Konno, a Hitachi spokesman in  Japan , said he
couldn’t confirm the Nikkei report. Messages left with
Mitsubishi Heavy before regular business hours today weren’t
immediately returned.  Questions about the future of nuclear power after the
Fukushima reactor meltdown in March and Japan’s surging yen
helped spur the companies to consider a merger, Nikkei said.
Both had seen the atomic industry as a source of growth, Nikkei
said. Regulators would have to approve a merger, Nikkei said.  Hitachi’s product lineup includes communications and
electronic equipment, industrial machinery and consumer
electronics. Mitsubishi Heavy’s subsidiaries include Mitsubishi
Aircraft Corp.  The companies have worked together in the past, Nikkei
said. In 2000, they merged their steelmaking equipment units,
and in 2010 combined their hydroelectric power equipment
businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  