-- 
Mitsubishi Heavy Said to Scrap Merger Talks With Hitachi After Media Leaks

-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-08-04T07:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hitachi-mitsubishi-heavy-discuss-merger-of-units.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  said they’re not holding talks to merge some of
their businesses, hours after the president of Hitachi said that
a deal was being discussed.  Mitsubishi Heavy,  Japan ’s largest maker of heavy machinery,
 said  it has no plan to agree to any merger. Hitachi, the
nation’s second-largest manufacturer by revenue,  said  in a
separate statement that no talks were in progress. The
statements were released after Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi’s televised comments on  Tokyo  Broadcasting System.  Shares of the companies, whose combined annual sales exceed
$150 billion, rose in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei newspaper
first reported they planned to discuss merging businesses
including nuclear  power plants  and railway systems. Mitsubishi
Heavy called off the talks after the media reports, a person
familiar with the matter said.  “The shares are higher as investors still believe that
they will reach agreement at some point,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu ,
an analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The reported
merger would benefit both by complementing each other.”  Hitachi rose 1.7 percent to 471 yen as of the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo trading, extending its gain this year to 8.8 percent.
Mitsubishi Heavy, which has risen 18 percent in 2011, traded 3.4
percent higher. Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
gained 0.2 percent.  Nakanishi’s Confirmation  Footage on TBS showed Nakanishi saying “yes” when asked
by reporters whether Hitachi was holding merger talks with
Mitsubishi Heavy. He said an announcement would be made later
today, according to the broadcast.  Mitsubishi Heavy and Hitachi have worked together in the
past. They merged their steelmaking equipment units in 2000 and
combined their hydroelectric power equipment units last year.  The two companies were planning to discuss a merger of some
operations, including nuclear power plants and railway systems,
a person familiar with the matter said, confirming part of the
earlier Nikkei report.  Such a combination would benefit both companies because
they’d complement each other,  David Rubenstein , a Tokyo-based
analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd., wrote in a report. The
deal would help accelerate Hitachi’s reforms in its power-system
operations, while improving Mitsubishi Heavy’s profit margins
and execution, he wrote.  Largest Infrastructure Firm  An alliance would have led to the creation of one of the
world’s largest infrastructure companies as Japanese
manufacturers reel from this year’s deadly earthquake, tsunami
and strong yen, according to the Nikkei.  Questions about the future of nuclear power after the
Fukushima reactor meltdowns in March and Japan’s surging yen
helped spur the talks, Nikkei said. Both had seen the atomic
industry as a source of growth, the newspaper reported.
Regulators would have to approve a merger, Nikkei said.  Hitachi’s products include communications and electronic
equipment, industrial machinery and consumer electronics. In
March it agreed to sell its hard-disk drive unit to  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  for about $4.3 billion in cash and stock, the
company’s largest disposal on record.  The sale was part of plans to trim some of Hitachi’s
hundreds of businesses to focus on power plants, trains and
other infrastructure projects. The company yesterday said it may
stop making televisions.  Earnings, Market Value  Hitachi reported revenue of 9.3 trillion yen ($118 billion)
last year and has a market value of 2.1 trillion yen, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mitsubishi Heavy posted sales of
2.9 trillion yen and is valued at 1.2 trillion yen.  “Hitachi has done some restructuring in the past, but
putting two horribly run companies together in order to survive
is music to my ears,” said  Winston Barnes , director of sales
and trading for Asian markets at WJB Capital Group Inc. in  San
Francisco . “The merger of some units is not expected until
April 2013. They will undoubtedly deny the reports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in 東京 at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  