-- 
Italian Banks Decline as Debt Contagion Risks Push Yields on Bonds Higher

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-08-03T07:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/italian-banks-plunge-in-milan-as-debt-contagion-risks-push-yields-higher.html
Italian banks, including  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , tumbled in Milan trading as
speculation that the country may become the next victim of
 Europe ’s debt crisis pushed the country’s bond yields higher.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, dropped as much as 4.6
percent, and was down 0.2 cents to 1.13 euros by 10 a.m., giving
the bank a market value of 21.7 billion euros ($30 billion).
Intesa, the second-largest lender, lost as much as 5 percent,
and was down 2 cents to 1.39 euros. The FTSE Italia All-Share
Banks Index fell 4 percent to the lowest since Dec. 2008.  European leaders’ agreement last month on a second bailout
for  Greece  and Italy’s subsequent austerity plan have failed to
convince investors that the government can avoid seeking outside
aid. Italian  government bonds  slumped, pushing the yield on 10-
year bonds 5 basis points higher to 6.13 percent. The extra
yield investors ask to hold the securities over 10-year German
bunds widened by 39 basis points over the past week to 372 basis
points. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.  “Italian banks are hostage to rising bond yields,”
Marcello Zanardo an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. wrote
in a report to clients today. The “market penalizes Italy for
its higher public debt and low growth. The market asks for a
change in political leadership, one-off measures to lower the
debt and structural reforms to increase GDP growth over time.”  Berlusconi will seek to reassure the nation in a national
televised address in the Chamber of Deputies in  Rome  at 3 p.m.
today to lay out his plan to boost growth and tame the euro
region’s second-biggest debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  