-- 
Japan Passes Bill to Back Tepco Compensation For Nuclear Disaster Victims

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-03T03:27:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/japan-s-parliament-passes-bill-on-tepco-compensation-for-disaster-victims.html
Japan ’s parliament approved state
support of Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s compensation for victims
of the Fukushima nuclear disaster with a plan that asks
shareholders to shoulder some of the burden.  The legislation creates a state-backed entity to pay
damages associated with the atomic accident with “necessary
cooperation from shareholders and other interested parties.”
The government aims to establish the entity as early as this
month and will provide 2 trillion yen ($25.9 billion) for its
funding, Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  told lawmakers yesterday.  While Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters
today the passage is a “a major step forward from the
standpoint of helping victims,” many details remain unclear.
Kaieda said yesterday he didn’t know how much other power
providers would have to pay and Nuclear and Industry Safety
Agency spokesman Tatsuji Narita has said the government isn’t
providing an estimate for how many people will be compensated.  “This is certainly a step forward, but the details on the
burden for utilities and the responsibility of Tepco
shareholders are unclear,” Yuji Nishiyama, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG said in a telephone interview
today. “In the end, we won’t see the key points until the
overall picture of damages becomes clear.”  Evacuation, Contamination  About 160,000 people were forced to evacuate near the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami cut power that led to meltdowns. Radiation has
contaminated farm products and Japan has widened a ban on
shipping beef to encompass 13 percent of the nation’s herd.  Tepco’s stock has fallen about 80 percent since the day
before the earthquake. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  told parliament
yesterday the government doesn’t expect Tepco to become
insolvent “for now” under the bill. “But we should discuss
without preconceived ideas whether Tepco will remain in its
current form forever,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net 
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 