-- 
Japan Tobacco’s State Stake Could Be Cut to a Third, Okada Says

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-08-03T11:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/japan-tobacco-s-state-stake-could-be-cut-to-a-third-okada-says.html
The Japanese government could reduce
its stake in  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  to a third from half to raise
money for reconstruction from the March earthquake and tsunami,
a ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan official said.  The government’s holdings in “JT could be sold down, I
think, to a third from one-half,”  Katsuya Okada , secretary-
general of the party, told a news conference today in Tokyo.
“This is an issue that should be debated extensively.”  The ruling party is considering ways to secure about 13
trillion yen ($168 billion) more in funds that Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s government said is needed for rebuilding over the
next five years. Okada today said the sale of government-held
shares of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. and  Tokyo  Metro Co.
should also be considered.  “My party is in the midst of discussing how much funds can
be raised by selling government assets and reducing unneeded
expenses,” said Okada, the DPJ’s number-two official.  Japan Tobacco fell 1.9 percent to close at 338,500 yen in
Tokyo trading today.  Japan Tobacco favors the sale of the government’s stake in
it, to end constraints on management, Hideyuki Yamamoto, a
company spokesman, said on July 28. JT, the world’s third-
largest publicly traded cigarette maker by volume, makes Mild
Seven and Camel cigarettes.  The Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP, the
London hedge fund founded by Christopher Cooper-Hohn, in June
called on the Japanese government to amend the law requiring it
to hold a majority in  Japan  Tobacco, and reduce its holding.  Oscar Veldhuijzen, a partner at the fund who handles its
Asia investments, wrote a letter with those requests to Japan’s
Ministry of Finance.  Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said last month the
government may sell some of its stake in NTT and Japan Tobacco,
adding that any equity sales wouldn’t be significant.  The government’s ability to pay for reconstruction has been
limited by a growing public debt that is projected to reach 219
percent of gross domestic product next year, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 SSakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  