-- 
Doerr Gives U.S. a ‘C’ for Alternative-Energy

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-04T04:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/john-doerr-gives-u-s-a-c-for-alternative-energy-development.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph to add phrase, “research and
development.”)  John Doerr , head of Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers’s alternative-energy practice, said he would
give the U.S. a C grade for development of green technology,
which trails innovation in Internet and biotechnology.  His grade would have been a D or F without $20 billion in
loan guarantees for clean-energy projects under President Barack Obama’s stimulus plan and collaborative work between the
government and private sector, Doerr said yesterday at an event
in  Palo Alto ,  California . He and other members of the White
House Council on Jobs and Competitiveness spoke on a panel about
entrepreneurship.  “Thanks to this administration and the fundamental
sciences, we’re in the game,” said Doerr, 60. “That stimulus
was and is intended to be timely and temporary, and we have to
develop in America the markets for this sustainable clean energy
and the financial capability to cause it to grow.”  Kleiner Perkins , a venture firm based in  Menlo Park ,
California, introduced the $500 million Green Growth Fund in
2008, two years after it started investing in alternative
energy. Doerr’s clean-technology investments include Bloom
Energy Corp., a fuel-cell company, and MiaSole Inc., a thin-film
solar panel startup.  Obama’s 2009  stimulus  bill provided tax breaks and other
incentives to projects such as those focused on developing
alternative sources of energy, modernizing the electricity grid
and creating advanced batteries.  Still, the marketplace has been slow to emerge because of a
lack of privately funded research and development, and the
failure of the financial markets to support the industry, Doerr
said in an interview after the event. The U.S. spends more money
on potato chips than clean energy research and development, he
said.  ‘Huge Change’  There are some positive signs, Doerr said. Automakers last
week agreed to double the fuel economy of the vehicles they sell
in the U.S. to a fleetwide average of 54.5 miles per gallon by
2025. The proposal was negotiated with automakers including
General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp.  “That is a huge change,” Doerr said.  Doerr was joined on stage yesterday by America Online Inc.
co-founder  Steve Case , Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer
Sheryl Sandberg, Netflix Inc. Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings and the Obama administration’s technology chief, Aneesh Chopra. The event, at VMWare Inc.’s headquarters, was held to
foster discussion among entrepreneurs about how the government
and businesses can work together to encourage innovation and job
creation.  Internet, Mobile, Social  For information technology innovation, including the
Internet, mobile and social networking industries, the U.S. gets
an A-plus, said Doerr, who was an early investor in  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and remains a board member at the Internet-search company. In
biotechnology, the U.S. is falling behind other countries in
drug and medical-testing development, though it still merits a B
grade, he said.  Doerr, who joined Kleiner Perkins in 1980, also backed
technology companies such as Intuit Inc. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  He
changed his focus and began investing in alternative energy in
2006.  “Green tech could be the largest economic opportunity of
the 21st century,” Doerr said in February 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  