-- 
JPMorgan Chase Cuts U.S. Third-Quarter GDP Forecast to 1.5% on Consumption

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-03T21:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/jpmorgan-cuts-u-s-third-quarter-gdp-forecast-to-1-5-on-spending-slowdown.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast
for U.S. economic growth in the third quarter by a percentage
point to 1.5 percent, partly because of a slowdown in  consumer
spending , chief U.S. economist  Michael Feroli  wrote in a note today.  Feroli also lowered the forecast for fourth-quarter growth
to 2.5 percent from a prior estimate of 3 percent. The world’s
largest economy will expand 2 percent in the first six months of
2012, less than a previous projection of 2.5 percent.  With the economy expanding at that pace, the jobless rate
will hold at 9 percent or above until the third quarter of 2012,
he said. Recent production data wasn’t “setting up well” for
the current quarter, while early surveys suggested activity
“may have stalled” amid wrangling over the debt-ceiling
extension, Feroli said.  “The revised forecast implies very little improvement in
the  unemployment rate ,” he said. “Anticipated drag from higher
taxes and lower federal outlays” was behind the lower estimates
for next year, Feroli wrote.  JPMorgan also pushed back its estimate for the first
increase in the  Federal Reserve ’s overnight lending rate until
mid-2013 from a prior forecast for the beginning of the year.
The Fed will “undertake further measures to deliver monetary
stimulus to the economy,” even though they may not be
“particularly powerful,” he said.  “We don’t see more asset purchases forthcoming but we do
think the committee will take incremental steps to signal
increasingly accommodative policy,” Feroli wrote, referring to
the  Federal Open Market Committee .  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in the first
three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported last week. Consumer
spending grew 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the second
quarter of 2009, the final months of the recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  