-- 
FrontPoint, JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank, UBS, NBA, Citigroup in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-03T10:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/jpmorgan-kohlberg-deutsche-bank-ubs-nba-citigroup-in-court-news.html
Chip Skowron, the ex-FrontPoint
Partners LLC hedge-fund manager charged as part of a nationwide
insider-trading crackdown, will waive his right to be indicted,
the government said in a court filing.  Skowron, charged in April with conspiracy, securities fraud
and obstruction of justice, was in talks with federal
prosecutors to resolve the case, prosecutors said in court
papers in June. Yesterday, the U.S. attorney’s office in
Manhattan filed a notice of intent to submit a criminal
information in Skowron’s case after he waives indictment.  Defendants regularly waive their right to be indicted when
entering into an agreement in which they plead guilty.  The one-page filing was signed by prosecutors and by James
Benjamin Jr., a lawyer for Skowron. Benjamin declined to comment
on whether his client will plead guilty.  In the U.S. federal system, a defendant charged with a
felony has the right to be charged by an indictment, which is a
document approved by a grand jury. A defendant may instead agree
to be charged in a criminal information, which is filed by
prosecutors.  The government claims Skowron obtained nonpublic
information from Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and
a former adviser for Human Genome Sciences Inc. The tips
concerned hepatitis C drug trials and enabled Greenwich,
Connecticut-based FrontPoint to avoid more than $30 million in
losses, the government said. Benhamou has pleaded guilty.  In addition to the criminal case, Skowron has been sued by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-00997, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  JPMorgan Asks Judge to Toss $19 Billion Madoff Trustee  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  asked a judge to dismiss a $19 billion
lawsuit by the liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm, saying the
trustee lacks “standing” to bring common-law claims against
the bank.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff last week threw out trustee
 Irving Picard ’s bid for almost $9 billion in damages from  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds, saying Picard has no right to sue
using common-law claims against parties “who allegedly violated
a duty to Madoff Securities’ customers by failing to detect
Madoff’s fraud.” Citing the ruling, JPMorgan asked Judge
 Colleen McMahon , who is handling its dispute with Picard, to
toss out similar demands.  “As Judge Rakoff held in the HSBC case, the trustee has no
standing to bring customer damages claims,” the New York-based
bank said in a filing Aug. 1.  Separately,  UBS AG (UBSN) , saying Picard sued it for more than $2
billion based on common-law claims of aiding and abetting the
fraud, asked McMahon to bar the trustee from seeking such
damages.  The JPMorgan and UBS filings were “expected,” said Picard
spokeswoman Amanda Remus. The Madoff trustee is preparing to sue
HSBC for $2 billion in bankruptcy court, she has said.  Remus declined to comment on Rakoff’s remarks.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The review is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Kohlberg Capital Wins Dismissal of Investor Lawsuit  Kohlberg Capital Corp. (KCAP) , the investment company taken public
in 2006 by leveraged-buyout pioneer Jerome Kohlberg, won
dismissal of a lawsuit filed by an investor.  Kohlberg Capital was sued in federal court in Manhattan in
December 2009 by investor Dennis J. Angeleri of Muskegon,
Michigan, who accused the New York-based company of lying about
the value of its portfolio.  Angeleri said in the suit that Kohlberg Capital issued a
release in November 2009 that was “materially false” because
it misstated the value of the company’s investment portfolio.
Kohlberg asked U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldbaum Cedarbaum in
June to dismiss the complaint, saying its investments are
difficult to value.  Cedarbaum on July 28 signed an order approving Kohlberg’s
motion, according to a court document filed yesterday. Cedarbaum
said Angeleri can file an amended complaint no later than Aug.
22.  The case is Angeleri v. Pearson, 09-cv-10609, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Macquarie, Bank of Queensland Lose Bid to Throw Out ASIC Suit  Bank of Queensland Ltd. and two other lenders lost a bid to
dismiss a lawsuit that claims they knew Storm Financial Ltd. was
violating regulations before the fund manager and adviser
collapsed in 2009.  Federal Court of Australia Justice John Reeves  ruled 
yesterday the lawsuit can proceed. Investors will be able to
claim damages from Bank of Queensland, Macquarie Bank Ltd. and
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  if a judge rules that Storm broke
the rules and they knew about it.  The  Australian Securities & Investments Commission , which
filed the lawsuit in December, “has now made a valid and
justiciable claim for relief,” Reeves wrote in a ruling posted
on the Federal Court’s website.  Storm, which had managed A$4 billion ($4.4 billion),
induced investors to mortgage their homes, take out margin loans
and put the money into Storm Australian Index Trusts with the
promise their returns would be enough to pay the loans and live
off the proceeds in retirement, according to ASIC’s statement of
claim.  The banks didn’t exercise due diligence to determine if the
investors could afford the loans, failed to warn them of the
risks and received interest fees, possible commissions and the
prospect of further referrals from Storm, according to the ASIC
statement.  Storm got commissions from the trust investments and had an
incentive to encourage clients to put more money into the funds,
the regulator said.  The company collapsed in January, 2009. Storm said at the
time trading losses resulted in a decline in income which the
company couldn’t absorb any longer.  The case is Australian Securities and Investments
Commission v.  Bank of Queensland Ltd. (BOQ)  NSD1797/2010. Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  New York State’s Fracking Lawsuit Barred by Law, U.S. Says  The U.S. government said it will ask a judge to dismiss a
New York lawsuit that seeks to force a fuller environmental
review of how natural-gas extraction could affect 9 million
water drinkers in the state.  The U.S. plans to ask U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis
in Brooklyn, New York, to dismiss the case on the grounds that
the state can’t prove injury and doesn’t have the right to sue
federal agencies, according to a letter filed with the court
Aug. 1.  The New York state complaint is “barred by well-settled
principles of sovereign immunity,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Sandra Levy wrote in the letter to the judge. Sovereign immunity
protects the U.S. from lawsuits unless it waives the right.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued on May 31,
saying a commission that oversees the Delaware River Basin has
proposed regulations that will allow hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, at 15,000 to 18,000 gas wells without a full
environmental review. Fracking is the process in which water,
sand and chemicals are pumped underground to break apart rock
formations and release natural gas.  “As our complaint makes clear, the federal government has
an obligation to undertake the necessary environmental impact
study,” Schneiderman spokeswoman Lauren Passalacqua said in a
statement.  Schneiderman’s suit seeks to halt the regulations until the
commission complies with the National Environmental Policy Act’s
requirement for a full review of all health and safety risks.  The case is New York v. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 11-
cv-2599, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  TIAA Sues Deutsche Bank Over Mortgage-Backed Securities  Teachers Insurance & Annuity Association of America sued
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in New York state court for fraud over
residential mortgage-backed securities the Frankfurt-based bank
sold it.  TIAA invested in the securities unaware that the bank
internally viewed the loans and securities as “pigs” and
“crap,” according to the suit, filed Aug. 1 in New York state
Supreme Court.  The suit duplicates wording and claims that  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the
lender to local governments rescued by France and Belgium in
2008, made in a similar suit filed against Deutsche Bank last
month in connection with more than $1 billion in residential
mortgage-backed securities.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, originated,
purchased, financed and securitized “exception” loans into the
securities while betting against the U.S. housing market as far
back as 2005, ultimately developing a $10 billion short position
that paid off when the loans backing the securities failed,
according to the TIAA complaint.  “We will vigorously defend ourselves against this suit
which we believe is without merit,”  Renee Calabro , a
spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mailed statement.
The bank gave the same response to the Dexia suit.  The case is Teachers Insurance & Annuity Association of
America v. Deutsche Bank AG, 652122/2011, New York state Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  Ex-UBS Banker Martin Lack Is Indicted in Tax Conspiracy Case  A former UBS AG banker was indicted on a charge of
conspiring to help wealthy Americans evade taxes by hiding
accounts in a smaller Swiss regional bank.  Martin Lack, a Swiss resident and independent investment
adviser, helped U.S. clients hide assets from the Internal
Revenue Service through accounts at UBS and the so-called
cantonal bank, according to an indictment in federal court in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. That bank, not named in the
indictment, is  Basler Kantonalbank , according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The indictment cites nine U.S. customers that Lack
assisted. He helped them withdraw cash from undeclared accounts
and discouraged them from joining an IRS amnesty program,
according to the indictment. UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
avoided prosecution in 2009 by paying $780 million and admitting
it helped Americans evade taxes.  “Lack would and did solicit U.S. customers to open
undeclared accounts at UBS and Cantonal Bank because Swiss bank
secrecy would assist U.S. customers to conceal their ownership
of the accounts,” according to the indictment.  Lack is accused of conspiring with Renzo Gadola, a UBS
banker from 1995 until 2008. Gadola pleaded guilty Dec. 22 in
federal court in Miami, admitting that he encouraged U.S.
clients to move their undeclared UBS accounts to  Basler
Kantonalbank. (BSKP)  He is cooperating with prosecutors.  Lack didn’t immediately return a call left at the firm
yesterday.  Michael Buess, a spokesman for Basler Kantonalbank, a Swiss
regional lender based in Basel, said he couldn’t confirm or deny
any “cooperation between Lack and Basler Kantonalbank.”  The Lack case is U.S. v. Lack, 11-cr-60184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale). The
Gadola case is U.S. v. Gadola, 10-cr-20878, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Miami).  For more, click here.  Ex-News of the World Editor Said to Be Arrested in Probe  London police arrested former News of the World managing
editor Stuart Kuttner as part of their probe into phone hacking
and bribery at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct Sunday tabloid, two
people familiar with the case said.  A 71-year-old man was arrested by appointment at a north
London police station and later released on bail, the
Metropolitan Police said in statements yesterday. The man is
Kuttner, said the people, who declined to be identified because
they’re not authorized to name suspects.  It is the 11th arrest stemming from police investigations
opened this year into allegations that journalists at the
tabloid hacked into the phones of celebrities, politicians, and
murder victims, and bribed police for information. The scandal
forced  News Corp. (NWS)  to shutter the 168-year-old News of the World
and drop its bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Police have previously arrested Rebekah Brooks, a former
chief executive officer of News Corp.’s News International unit,
and ex-News of the World editor Andy Coulson, who was Prime
Minister David Cameron’s press chief until January.  A number for Kuttner couldn’t be located in public filings
or on the Internet. A police spokesman declined to comment
beyond the statement.  “News International continues to fully cooperate with the
Metropolitan Police Service in their ongoing investigations,”
spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  said in a phone interview. She declined
to provide contact information or the name of an attorney for
Kuttner.  For more, click here.  NBA Sues Players Association to Forestall Antitrust Claims  The National Basketball Association sued its players
association, asking a court to rule that the league’s lockout of
players doesn’t violate antitrust law.  The suit arises from the  union’s  “threatened use of
antitrust litigation to extract more favorable terms and
conditions of employment” in collective-bargaining
negotiations, the NBA said in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan.  “The union’s improper threats of antitrust litigation are
having a direct, immediate and harmful effect upon the ability
of the parties to negotiate a new collective bargaining
agreement,” the NBA said in the complaint.  The league said it’s seeking court orders stating that the
lockout doesn’t violate antitrust laws and that federal courts
don’t have jurisdiction to end the lockout. The case was
assigned to U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe.  The NBA and the National Basketball Players Association
made no significant progress Aug. 1 in their first formal
bargaining session on a new labor contract since the lockout
began one month ago.  The NBA also filed an unfair labor practices charge with
the National Labor Relations Board yesterday, accusing the
players association of failing to negotiate in good faith, the
league said in a statement. In May, the union filed a complaint
against the league with the NLRB.  The players’ association will seek the dismissal of both
the lawsuit and the unfair labor practice charge, said William
Hunter, the union’s executive director.  The association “has not made any decision to disclaim its
role as the collective bargaining representative of the players
and has been engaged in good faith bargaining with the NBA for
over two years,” Hunter said in a statement. “We urge the NBA
to engage with us at the bargaining table and to use more
productively the short time we have left before the 2011-12
season is seriously jeopardized.”  The case is National Basketball Association v. National
Basketball Players Association, 11-cv-05369, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-TCW Employee Searched New Space Before Gundlach’s Firing  DoubleLine Capital LP communications director Barbara
VanEvery said she started looking for office space months before
TCW Group Inc. fired her and  Jeffrey Gundlach  in December of
2009.  VanEvery testified yesterday at a trial that pits Gundlach,
her and two other former TCW employees against the company over
claims they stole TCW’s trade secrets and proprietary
information to set up DoubleLine within weeks after they were
terminated. They have countered that TCW fired them to avoid
paying Gundlach’s group hundreds of millions of dollars in
performance fees.  Under questioning by TCW’s lawyer, VanEvery said she
retained a real estate broker in September 2009 to find office
space because she expected that either Gundlach would get fired
or that he and his group would leave TCW through a negotiated
departure.  “I was under the impression that something was going to
happen by December,” VanEvery told jurors yesterday in state
court in Los Angeles. “It was coming to a head. I felt there
was going to be some kind of separation.”  Gundlach, 51, was the investment chief at TCW, the Los
Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale. (GLE)  He started DoubleLine in
December 2009, 10 days after TCW fired him. TCW sued Gundlach a
month later, after half of its fixed-income professionals had
joined  DoubleLine . Gundlach countersued, saying he was fired so
that TCW wouldn’t have to pay management and performance fees.  VanEvery wasn’t cross-examined by DoubleLine lawyers
yesterday and she is scheduled to finish her testimony today.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Gave Negligent Advice to 88-Year-Old, Lawyer Says  Citigroup Inc. (C)  had undue influence over 88-year-old Ie Seng
Hoan and was negligent in its investment advice to the partly
deaf client, resulting in a loss of $18.1 million, his lawyer
said yesterday.  “It knew full well of Pak Ie’s health problems, his
language difficulties and his lack of financial acumen and
education,” Ie’s lawyer Koh Hai Keong said in his opening
statement at a Singapore High Court trial.  Ie, an Indonesian textile businessman, accused Citigroup’s
Singapore unit, where he was a client since 2003, of negligent
misrepresentations and hiding material facts and claimed the
bank had “undue influence” on his investment decisions. He was
also misled by his banker into believing he made a profit when
he suffered a loss after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in Sept. 2008, according to the lawsuit.  Citigroup has denied wrongdoing and sent Ie a letter in
2007 confirming that he had extensive investing experience and
had an “aggressive” risk tolerance, according to the bank’s
defense filed by its lawyer Hri Kumar.  The bank acted professionally in managing the accounts of
Ie and his company Zhen Yin at all times, Hong Kong-based
spokesman Godwin Chellam said yesterday.  “The litigation is wholly without merit and we will defend
it vigorously in court,” Chellam said, adding it would be
inappropriate to comment further.  The case is Zhen Yin Co. v Citibank NA S550/2009 in the
Singapore High Court.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 