-- 
Junk-Bond Trading Lowest Since 2008

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-08-03T15:57:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/junk-bond-trading-lowest-since-2008-on-concern-about-sovereign-debt-ripple.html
Trading in high-yield bonds plummeted
to the lowest level in three years as investors fled from
riskier assets on concern that a sovereign debt crisis was
spreading to the U.S. from  Europe .  About $3.7 billion of publicly traded junk debt exchanged
hands daily on average in the U.S. during July, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. That compares with a daily average of $4.3
billion last July and $5.4 billion for July 2009, the data show.  Investors are slowing their high-yield bond purchases as
the U.S. and  Greece  implement austerity plans to reduce
potentially crippling deficits. Debt buyers are waiting until
they get a clearer sense of the European debt crisis and how
significantly U.S. economic growth has slowed before increasing
their speculative-grade bond purchases, said CreditSights Inc.’s
 Chris Taggert .  “There are definitely investors sitting on the sidelines
waiting for the macro picture before diving into idiosyncratic
high-yield risk,” said Taggert, an analyst at the New York-
based debt research firm. “We’ve had a lot of concerns over the
debt ceiling debate. On top of those issues there’s been a
general lowering of GDP expectations.”  U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly tumbled in June for the
first time in almost two years and manufacturing in July
expanded at the slowest pace in two years. Lawmakers are
planning $2.4 trillion in spending cuts during the next 10 years
to lower the nation’s deficit, which may further slow the
economy.  Gains in Value  Trading volumes are decreasing for high-yield bonds even as
the debt gains on bets that corporate credit will withstand a
market decline better than other types of risky assets. July’s
volumes dropped close to the $3.2 billion daily average in July
2008, after Bear Stearns Cos. collapsed and as the biggest banks
reduced their credit businesses in the wake of plunging subprime
mortgage prices.  Junk bonds  gained 1.2 percent in July, recouping the 1
percent loss from the month before, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Funds that invest in high-yield bonds
reported $2.8 billion of inflows last month, according to a July
29 report from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  In June, investors had
pulled $6.1 billion from high-yield mutual funds, the biggest
outflow ever reported, according to JPMorgan.  Investment-grade bond trading volumes are steadier, with a
daily average of $11 billion compared with $10.1 billion for the
same period in 2010, Trace data show.  Firms’ Trading Plunges  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the  U.S. bank  that makes most of
its money from trading, said last month that it will cut about
1,000 jobs after a plunge in fixed-income revenue. Second-
quarter fees from trading debt, currencies and commodities
tumbled 63 percent from the previous quarter, according to
earnings reported by the bank on July 19.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the second-biggest U.S. bank, said
second quarter fixed-income trading revenue fell 18 percent from
the first quarter to $4.28 billion.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, said revenue from the business
dropped 20 percent from the first quarter to $3.03 billion.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  