-- 
Kate’s Dress, Iron Maiden Laughs, Chekhov Party: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-08-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/kate-s-dress-iron-maiden-laughs-chekhov-s-dance-party-london-weekend.html
Iron Maiden  is having the last laugh
in  London  after three decades of being the subject of critical
derision. The heavy metal band returns to its home city Friday
and Saturday at the end of a triumphant world tour to promote
its most successful album to date.  Expect a raucous rundown of hits such as “Run to the
Hills” and “The Number of the Beast” plus highlights of “The
Final Frontier” album, which hit number 4 in the U.S. charts.
While Iron Maiden will never be cool, those fans who have bought
85 million of its records know it’s fun when you get the joke.  O2, Peninsula Sq., SE10 0DX. Information: +44-20-8463-2000,
 http://www.theo2.co.uk ,  http://www.ironmaiden.com .  Saturday  Kate Middleton ’s wedding frock has visitors lining up by
the dozens outside Buckingham Palace.  Seen from up close in the palace’s annual open-house
exhibition, the figure-hugging ivory gown has an unpuffy train
made of strips of fabric. It avoids the meringue look, and
allowed the royal bride to walk, not toddle, on her big day.  If nuptial gear is not your thing, you can ogle choice
pictures from the Queen’s collection -- a Rembrandt and a
Vermeer, no less -- or peruse her menagerie of little Faberge
animals: a water buffalo, a pelican and even a kangaroo.  “The Royal Wedding Dress: A Story of Great British
Design” is at  Buckingham Palace  through Oct. 3. Information:
 http://www.royalcollection.org.uk  or +44-20-7766-7300.  Quilon, which is a short walk from Buckingham Palace, won a
Michelin star for its South Indian cuisine and is particularly
popular for seafood. The restaurant also serves a wide variety
of beers that it matches with the dishes.  Information:  http://www.quilon.co.uk/  or +44-20-7821-1899.  Saturday Night  An aristocratic lady struggles to afford the upkeep of her
country estate.  Sound familiar? It’s the plot of Anton Chekhov’s “The
Cherry Orchard,” set in turn-of-the-century  Russia . Zoe Wanamaker plays the grande dame who returns from years of
extravagance to find the property slipping through her fingers.  Howard Davies  delivers an effective, classic production,
with a great party scene where indebted revelers dance the night
away. Only the peeling wooden sets leave something to be
desired; they make you wonder what the fuss is all about.  “The Cherry Orchard” ends Aug. 13 at the National
Theatre. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-
20-7452-3000.  Cross the river from the theater to eat at  Somerset House ,
where Michelin-starred Tom Aikens has opened Tom’s Terrace.  The riverside outpost of his Chelsea brasserie, Tom’s
Kitchen, offers burgers, fish and chips and one of the best-
known Aikens dishes, 7-hour braised shoulder of lamb.  Tom’s Terrace, 150 Strand, WC2R 1LA. Information:
 http://bit.ly/pRRuzG  or +44-20-7845-4646.  Sunday  The Siamese twins of contemporary art have split up
momentarily.  Jake& Dinos Chapman -- the brotherly pair who are part of
the Young British Artists -- have gone their separate ways to
create, and only came together two weeks before their dual-venue
exhibition. You won’t know who did what. There are Ku Klux Klan
men, hooded kids with snouts, and charcoal-faced Nazis.  “Jake or Dinos Chapman” runs through Sept. 17 at  White
Cube , 25-26 Mason’s Yard, London SW1, and 48 Hoxton Square, N1.
Information:  http://www.whitecube.com  or +44-20-7930-5373.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 