-- 
Thailand Stocks: Advanced Info, PTT, PTT Exploration, Sri Trang

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-03T10:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/khon-kaen-khonburi-ptt-chemical-thailand-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in  Thailand  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 4:30 p.m. close in Bangkok.  The SET Index fell 6.15 points, or 0.5 percent, to
1,133.46, the steepest decline since July 12.  Oil companies :  PTT Pcl (PTT)  , Thailand’s biggest energy
company, dropped 1.4 percent to 343 baht, the largest decrease
since July 6.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  , the
nation’s only publicly traded oil explorer, lost 1.9 percent to
181 baht, the steepest decline since June 13.  Crude oil declined for a fourth day in New York, its
longest losing streak since May, as investors bet that signs the
 U.S. economy  is slowing indicate fuel demand will falter in the
world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC)  , Thailand’s biggest
mobile phone company, gained 3 percent to 119 baht, the highest
close since February 2005, on speculation the company will
report higher earnings.  “Investors are buying shares of Advanced Info on
expectations that the company will tomorrow announce strong
earnings growth in the second quarter,” said Jitra Amornthum,
the head of research of Finansia Syrus Securities Pcl in
Bangkok. Wilai Keangpradoo, Advanced Info’s spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the company’s results when called on her
mobile phone. She said the company will release its earnings
tomorrow.  Khonburi Sugar Pcl (KBS TB) slipped 1.5 percent to 13.3
baht. Sugar futures in New York dropped 2.8 percent yesterday on
signs supplies are increasing from Brazil, the world’s top
exporter.  Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl (STA)  , the country’s biggest
publicly traded rubber producer, increased 2.4 percent to 31.75
baht, the highest close since April 28. Rubber futures in Tokyo
gained, reversing an earlier decline, as heavy rains in Thailand
increased concern that supplies from the largest producer and
exporter may be disrupted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 