-- 
Komercni Banka Says Quarterly Net Fell on Impairment Charge

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-08-03T11:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/komercni-banka-says-quarterly-net-fell-on-impairment-charge-1-.html
Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of
Societe Generale SA, said second-quarter profit fell 36 percent
after it took a charge on Greek  government bonds . Shares fell as
much as 5 percent, the most in nearly four months.  Net income fell to 2.1 billion koruna ($122 million) from
3.27 billion koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based lender said
in a statement on its website today. That missed an average
estimate of 3.36 billion koruna in a Bloomberg survey of five
analysts. Komercni took the impairment charge of 1.66 billion
koruna.  Komercni fell as much as 5 percent to 3,580 koruna and
traded at 3,690 koruna as of 12:46 p.m. in Prague trading.  Komercni Banka continues to “see risks” from sovereign
debt problems in several countries in  Europe  and elsewhere,
Chief Executive Officer Henri Bonnet said in a separate
statement published by the Regulatory News Service. The bank’s
baseline scenario remains “positive,” he said.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, Komercni’s owner, signed the  Institute
of International Finance ’s rescue plan last month along with
other lenders such as BNP Pariba SA to restructure holdings of
Greek sovereign debt. The French lender’s second-quarter net
fell 31 percent because of a 395 million-euro pretax writedown
on its Greek debt holdings, it said today.  Outlook for Debt  Komercni’s holds about 7 billion koruna of Greek sovereign
bonds is around 7 billion koruna after the impairment charge,
Chief Finance Officer Pavel Cejka said today in Prague at a
press conference with journalists. The lender has “low”
visibility regarding further writedowns as the situation remains
“uncertain,” Cejka said.  Komercni’s has about 8 billion koruna of Italian sovereign
debt, Cejka said. The lender also has holdings of 7 billion
koruna in Polish debt, 5 billion koruna in Slovak paper and 250
million koruna in Portugese sovereign debts.  The amortization charge on Greek bonds won’t have any
impact on capital adequacy, Cejka said. He declined to comment
on how the company’s dividend may be affected.  Komercni has been increasing investments into its staff,
development and implementation of new products, refurbishing and
opening new branches. The lender said in February full-year
costs will grow faster than revenue this year.  Demand for loans from retail and business clients improved
“moderately” in the second quarter, Cejka said. Komercni saw a
pick up in the amount of retail clients beginning in June, he
said.  Czech banks have been benefiting from a decline of bad
corporate loans and economic growth that the central bank
forecasts to reach 1.5 percent in 2011.  Komercni’s rival, the Czech unit of Erste Group Bank AG,
reported a 24 percent increase in profit last week.  Net interest income, Komercni’s most important source of
revenue, advanced 2.8 percent to 5.57 billion koruna in the
second quarter, the lender said.  Total gross volume of loans as of June 30 rose 9.4 percent
to 421.9 billion koruna, helped by the acquisition of the SG
Equipment Finance unit, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  