-- 
Netanyahu Maneuvering to Stay Atop Israel’s ‘Wave of Populism’ Protests

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-04T14:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/netanyahu-maneuvering-to-stay-atop-israel-s-wave-of-populism-.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is aiming to stem growing protests against high prices
that have already included mass rallies and demonstrators camped
out in city centers.  Parliament approved a law yesterday to speed up housing
starts in an effort to lower  home prices . Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz signed an order on July 31 preventing an increase in
gasoline prices. Netanyahu will introduce measures against
monopolies and cartels to increase competition, said a
government official who spoke on condition of anonymity because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  The protests show an increased emphasis in Israeli politics
on issues of social welfare that may undermine support for
Netanyahu, who has appealed to voters by focusing on security
and cutting the government’s role in the economy.  “The protesters’ main message is that security can’t trump
everything else forever,” said Reuven Hazan, a professor of
political science at Hebrew University. “It hurts Netanyahu
because he has been so clearly associated with free-market
economics and privatization, and gives his political opposition
a chance to resuscitate itself.”  Netanyahu in previous stints as prime minister and finance
minister was the key advocate in the sale of several government-
owned businesses, including  El Al Israel Airlines (ELAL)  and Bezeq, the
Israeli Telecommunication Corp., and is now trying to push
through the sale of  Israel ’s ports and public land.  No Imminent Threat  While the protests have put Netanyahu on the defensive,
they pose no imminent threat to his ruling coalition. A longer-
term threat may exist if the protests persist and the
demonstrators are able to transform their complaints into a
political program, say analysts including Hazan.  Netanyahu’s popularity has declined since the start of the
protests, with one-third of Israelis giving him a favorable
rating compared with 51 percent two months ago, according to a
poll by Dialog, a research organization. The study, published
last week in the Haaretz newspaper, has a margin of error of 4.5
percentage points.  If voting for parliament was held today, a new political
party dedicated to addressing the social issues raised in the
protests could win 20 of 120 parliamentary seats, making it
second only to Netanyahu’s Likud, according to a Smith Research
poll with a margin of error of 4.5 percentage points that was
published Aug. 2 in the  Jerusalem  Post and Globes.  ‘Deciding Factor’  “If the protests lead to the formation of a new social-
issues party, one that draws away working-class voters from the
Likud and Liberman’s party and gets enough seats in the next
election to be a deciding factor in determining the next prime
minister, that could be a real threat to Netanyahu,” said Gadi Wolfsfeld, author of “Making Sense of Media and Politics.”  Netanyahu’s parliamentary majority includes Foreign
Minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu and the religious
Shas faction.  Israel’s next parliamentary election is scheduled to be
held no later than October 2013.  Housing protests, which include hundreds of demonstrators
camped out in city centers, come at a time when the Israeli
economy is the envy of many nations. Unemployment dropped to a
record low of 5.7 percent in May, while growth is expected to be
4.8 percent this year, according to  Bank of Israel  estimates.  Those figures don’t assuage middle-class Israelis who say
they are increasingly pressed by the rising costs of some
essential items, especially housing.  Breakeven Rate  Israel’s inflation rate has exceeded the government’s 1
percent to 3 percent target every month this year and was at 4.2
percent in June. The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects the
rate of inflation that traders expect, was at 2.62 percent at
12:02 p.m. local time.  Housing prices have increased about 40 percent in the last
three years, in part due to Israel’s “very slow” planning and
construction process, Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer 
said Aug. 1. Israel ranked fourth in the Knight Frank Global
House Price Index for the first quarter of 2011, with a 12.1
percent increase in housing prices, trailing  Hong Kong ,  India 
and  Taiwan .  In response, the government proposed the National Housing
Committees Law, intended to speed up home construction starts by
removing obstacles to the approval of building permits. Although
opposed by protesters who say the law would be exploited by
contractors primarily interested in high-cost homes, Netanyahu’s
coalition held firm to approve the bill in a 57-45 vote.  ‘Wave of Populism’  “A wave of populism is sweeping over the country,”
Netanyahu said in the Knesset after the measure was approved. He
said he would address the issue of indirect taxes on goods that
have become the target of public ire. The government has pledged
to hold down levies on water and bread.  A Facebook group boycott, over the rising cost of cottage
cheese, was joined by more than 100,000 Israelis in June. It
prompted dairy companies, including  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , to lower
prices and the government to set up a committee to examine
rising food costs. Steinitz announced yesterday that he was
reducing customs fees on some dairy imports to improve
competition.  More than 100,000 Israelis took to the streets on July 30
in  Tel Aviv , Jerusalem, Haifa and other cities across the
country to protest high prices.  “If these protests had risen in the weeks before an
election it would have been a much more serious problem for
Netanyahu,” said Avraham Diskin, a political scientist at the
 Hebrew University of Jerusalem . “He still has time for
initiatives that address these issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 Cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 