-- 
New York Jets’ Top Tackler, Linebacker Harris, Signs Multiyear Extension

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/new-york-jets-top-tackler-linebacker-harris-signs-multiyear-extension.html
New York  Jets linebacker  David Harris 
signed a multiyear contract extension six months after the team
placed a franchise tag on its leading tackler.  Terms of the accord weren’t disclosed by the Jets. The
four-year agreement is worth $36 million, with $29.6 million
guaranteed, a record for an inside linebacker, the  Associated
Press  reported, citing a person familiar with the deal.  Harris has led the Jets in tackles in three of his four
seasons with the team, the exception being 2008. Along with
players including cornerbacks Antonio Cromartie and  Darrelle Revis , and linebacker Bart Scott, the Jets have given up a
league-low 8,701 yards over the past two National Football
League seasons, helping them to within one win of the  Super Bowl 
in each year.  “I’m thrilled to be able to play my career out with guys
like Darrelle Revis and Bart Scott next to me,” the 27-year-old
Harris told reporters last night. “ They make coming to work
every day fun.”  The 6-foot-2, 243-pound Harris, the Jets’ Most Valuable
Player last season, has 428 tackles in 59 games since being
chosen with the 47th overall pick in the 2007 draft.  Each team in the NFL can apply the franchise tag to one
player whose contract is expiring, preventing him from becoming
a free agent.  Roster Moves  Harris’s new contract was revealed a day after Cromartie,
who had three interceptions in 15 games last season, re-signed
with the Jets on a four-year contract that ESPN said is worth
$32 million.  Cromartie was signed to the extension after the Jets failed
to persuade cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha  to join its secondary.
Asomugha got a five-year, $60 million free-agent deal from the
 Philadelphia Eagles .  The Jets have also signed former New York Giants wide
receiver Plaxico Burress since the league and players agreed to
a new 10-year labor contract, ending a 4 1/2-month lockout.  Burress was reinstated by the NFL last week after leaving
prison June 6, having served 20 months of a two-year sentence on
a weapons charge.  Linebacker  Jason Taylor  is leaving the Jets to rejoin the
 Miami Dolphins . Taylor, the NFL’s active sacks leader, spent 12
of his first 13 seasons with the Dolphins before coming to New
York.  Jets General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said reaching a
longterm agreement with Harris was at the forefront of his mind,
even while all the other roster changes were taking place.  “Even though with all the madness last week, and we were
in on dozens of deals, signed a bunch of guys, it was still a
very important priority to us,” Tannenbaum told reporters. “It
gives Dave the well-deserved security in the guarantees which he
richly deserves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 