-- 
New Jersey Doctors’ Group Loses Bid to Reinstate Health-Care Law Challenge

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T19:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/new-jersey-doctors-group-loses-bid-to-reinstate-health-care-law-challenge.html
A U.S. appeals court rejected a bid
by group of New Jersey doctors to reinstate their lawsuit
challenging the federal health-insurance overhaul.  New Jersey Physicians Inc., a nonprofit group, and an
uninsured patient identified only as “Patient Roe” failed to
adequately plead a concrete or actual injury, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Philadelphia ruled today. The ruling affirms a lower-
court decision tossing the case in December.  “The plaintiffs have not met their burden in pleading
facts that establish the requisite injury in fact and therefore
fail to demonstrate standing,” the three-member appeals panel
said in a 15-page opinion.  The nonprofit sued in March 2010, along with Mario
Criscito, a New Jersey cardiologist affiliated with the group,
and Patient Roe challenging the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act’s requirement that citizens purchase
insurance. The entire act is unconstitutional because the
individual mandate exceeded Congress’s authority, the group
claimed in the complaint.  Today’s ruling is a “minor setback,” Robert J. Conroy, a
lawyer for the group, said in a phone interview today. The
nonprofit has 90 days to decide whether to re-file its complaint
or petition the  Supreme Court , he said.  ‘On the Merits’  “It’s inevitable that the Supreme Court will eventually
reach the issue on the merits, and when it does, it will strike
down the act as unconstitutional in its entirety,” Conroy said.  The law, intended to create the first near-universal U.S.
health-care coverage program, bars insurers from rejecting
coverage for people who are already sick and from imposing
limits on lifetime costs. It also requires almost every American
resident to have health insurance starting in 2014 or to pay a
tax penalty.  The appeals court ruled that the complaint alleged no facts
to indicate that Patient Roe was affected by the act or the
mandate. It also failed to demonstrate how Criscito would be
injured and prove the group’s “associational standing” to
bring a claim, according to the opinion.  “This case is thus unlike some of the other pending
health-care challenges, in which the plaintiffs alleged or
demonstrated that they were experiencing some current financial
harm or pressure arising out of the individual mandate’s looming
enforcement in 2014,” the panel said.  The case is New Jersey Physicians Inc. v. President of the
U.S., 10-4600, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 