-- 
Next Sees ‘More Benign Year’ for Input Price Inflation in 2012

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-08-03T08:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/next-expects-more-benign-year-for-price-inflation-sales-slow.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, anticipates a “more benign year” for input
cost inflation in 2012 after higher prices in the first half
contributed to a spending slowdown.  Total brand sales excluding value-added taxes rose 3.2
percent in the 26 weeks ended July 30, the London-based retailer
said in a statement today. That compares to the median estimate
of a 2.1 percent gain from four analysts compiled by Bloomberg
and the first quarter’s 5.2 percent increase.  “Headline inflation is at the moment the biggest drag on
 consumer spending ,” Next Chief Executive Officer Simon Wolfson
said in an interview today. “Our own price inflation, general
employment levels in the economy are all of the key factors that
aren’t set to change” this year.  Sales slowed after more customers bought clothing in April
amid warm weather, he said, and predicted “no real change” for
the next six months as inflation and unemployment weigh on
shoppers. Price inflation will continue at about the same rate
of 8 percent in the second half. Next’s selling prices are
unlikely to rise further in the spring, as cotton prices drop
and manufacturing capacity constraints in Asia ease.  Next shares fell as much as 32 pence, or 1.4 percent, to
2,330 pence and traded at 2,359 pence at 9:05 a.m. in  London .
The stock has climbed 20 percent this year, compared to  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc (MKS) ’s 7.9 percent decline.  Same-Store Sales  Next did not report sales on a comparable same-store basis.
Analysts including  Societe Generale ’s  Anne Critchlow  and  Simon
Irwin  at Liberum Capital have calculated a decline of 6.4
percent for the second quarter which was “slower than
expected.” Wolfson declined to comment on that calculation.
Analysts had anticipated a decline of 4 percent, according to
the median estimate of three surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The indication for the second half is reassuring but
there has certainly been no increase in guidance and people will
be focusing on the like-for-like figure,” Critchlow said by
phone. She has a “hold” rating on the stock.  December will be the start of some decline in pressure as
this year’s value-added tax increase will be annualized in the
comparable figures and input cost pressures abate, particularly
cotton prices, Wolfson said. A reduction in prices is “not
impossible” he said, after gains of 8 percent this year.  Next’s Directory online and catalog business, whose biggest
markets are Australia, America and  Germany , is expanding into
Russia and  China  this autumn, Wolfson added. Directory sales
surged 15.1 percent, more than the 10.1 percent estimate, as
sale stock was moved to its catalog unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 