-- 
Nokia Helps Companies Tag Advertising in U.K. to Get Phone Users Tapping

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-08-03T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/nokia-helps-companies-tag-ads-in-u-k-to-get-phone-users-tapping.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  is offering companies
advertising with embedded tags that can be read by some mobile
phones as it tries to gain a lead in the technology over rivals
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , will announce deals with
companies to use the functions in coming weeks,  Rupert
Englander , head of services in the U.K., said in a phone
interview. Companies in the U.K. can order customized posters,
stickers and business cards with near-field communications tags
from Nokia’s  NFC Hub  website, which opened in June. Nokia is the
world’s biggest maker of mobile phones by units.  “We’ve had some independent analysis done and it suggests
there could be anything between 10 and 14 different devices in
the U.K. supporting NFC by the end of the year,” Englander
said. The NFC Hub is a “toolkit” where business users can
experiment with the technology and track its use, he said.  People with NFC-equipped phones can tap them on the
embedded tags to download a Web page or business card details,
and companies can change the actions and monitor use centrally.
Nokia is trying to advance its capabilities in smartphones after
losing market share to Apple and Samsung Electronics Co., which
beat the Finnish company in unit sales of these handsets last
quarter.  NFC is a wireless communications technology that operates
over very short ranges, most efficiently by tapping one of the
participating objects on the other. It’s a more complex version
of radio-frequency identification, or RFID, that’s already used
in many smart cards and transit passes.  Industry Plans  Apple hasn’t said yet whether its future phones will have
NFC capabilities. Analysts including  Richard Doherty , director
of the consulting firm  Envisioneering Group , have said Apple is
considering the technology for future devices. Microsoft Corp.
also has been working on a version of its Windows Phone software
that will let users buy merchandise with their handsets, two
people familiar with the plans said in March.  NXP Semiconductor NV,  Europe ’s third-largest chipmaker,
last week predicted deliveries of NFC chips this year at the
lower end or “slightly below” a range of 40 million to 100
million units, as adoption proceeds slower than expected.  “We feel NFC is going to be in a high proportion of phones
in 2012 and it does have the potential to be a magical
technology -- it’s very alluring to do things by tapping,” said
 Ben Wood , a London-based analyst at CCS Insight. “The problem
is there aren’t enough NFC phones yet so Nokia is a little ahead
of their time with this.”  Opportunity  Non-secure NFC applications for social contact are more
likely to encourage the spread of the technology than payment or
transport applications, which are “a big machine that will
follow behind,” Wood said.  Nokia hasn’t announced a mobile wallet application using
NFC technology.  “We’re eighteen months to two years from seeing any
realistic opportunity for consumers to leave their wallets at
home,” said Nokia’s Englander. “In the meantime we can engage
consumers with the NFC capability to simplify finding out
information about products, or interacting with social networks,
or whatever a brand is doing to engage with their consumers.”  Mobile-phone operators  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Telefonica SA,
and Everything Everywhere, the partnership between  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  and Deutsche Telekom AG, this year agreed to create a
common platform for mobile payment systems in the U.K. Their
joint venture aims to let people buy items ranging from
groceries to clothes with a swipe of their smartphone.  ‘IPhone Moment’  The operators, who lost the battle for online application
stores to Apple and Google, are scrambling to drive revenue from
additional services and boost smartphone sales.  NFC will be supported in 23 percent of handsets by 2015,
with variations between countries as governments develop
regulations for the payment systems that will drive the
technology, according to  Neil Mawston , a London-based analyst
with  Strategy Analytics .  “NFC will need an ‘iPhone moment’ where Apple or another
major device player in the U.S. market can push a user-friendly,
complete system of devices, readers, and apps into the hands of
affluent consumers,” said Mawston.  Nokia has been experimenting with NFC products since 2004.
The company introduced it as a dormant feature in its C7
smartphone last year and has embedded it in the N9 smartphone
coming this quarter.  Nokia’s prices for posters with the tags start at 20 pounds
($32.60) and business card prices start at 7 pounds.  Industry Standard  The tags will also respond to NFC-equipped handsets from
other manufacturers that share the standard set by the Open NFC
Forum, including Samsung Electronics, LG Electronics Inc.,  Sony
Ericsson  and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)   RIM yesterday announced its first BlackBerry smartphones
with built-in support for the technology.  “The big weakness with NFC Hub is that, although it
supports merchants’ marketing campaigns, there is no use case
for the merchant that has a revenue model,” Martin Garner, an
analyst at CCS Insight, wrote in a report dated July 29. “If we
get to the stage in 2012 where Apple and Google enter the market
with more complete NFC offerings, it is hard to see why large
numbers of merchants would not switch their services. Nokia
needs to partner soon with at least one of the discount coupon
players, such as Groupon, to head off this possibility.”  C7 handsets shipping with Nokia’s Symbian Anna software are
already activated for NFC, and those with earlier software will
get the update soon, Englander said. These handsets lack the
security features that make them suitable for mobile payments,
according to the CCS Insight report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  