-- 
Nuclear Bomb Material Cutoff Plan Pits U.S. Against Pakistan

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-08-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/nuclear-bomb-material-cutoff-plan-pits-u-s-against-pakistan.html
The Obama administration is leading a
new push for negotiations on a global treaty halting production
of nuclear bomb material, a move further aggravating tensions
with  Pakistan , which has blocked the start of talks.  The U.S. won support for the action from China and three
other declared nuclear-weapons powers --  France , Russia and the
U.K. -- during a meeting June 30-July 1 in Paris. The group is
seeking agreement, by September’s start of the  United Nations
General Assembly  session in  New York , on a way of starting talks
on the Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty.  The treaty has been stalled in the Geneva-based UN
Conference on Disarmament for 12 years, where Pakistan has
become the sole holdout against negotiations.  “Our preference is to negotiate an FMCT within the
Conference on Disarmament, but that body has been deadlocked by
Pakistan,” Undersecretary of State Ellen Tauscher told
Commonwealth Club audience July 28 in Lafayette,  California ,
near  San Francisco . “Thus, the  United States  is joining with
other key countries to start preparations for a Fissile Material
Cutoff Treaty elsewhere until the conference can get down to
work.”  The maneuver may allow President  Barack Obama  to make
progress on one item of his nuclear arms control agenda while
Russia and the U.S. political calendar hinder progress on others.  Pakistan Balks  Pakistan’s acting representative to the UN, Raza Bashir
Tarar, last week told a General Assembly meeting in New York on
the impasse that he would “strike a note of  caution  against
taking” the treaty talks outside the Conference on Disarmament.  “Pakistan will not join any such process nor would it
consider accession to the outcome of any such process,” Tarar
said. The 65-member Conference on Disarmament “cannot negotiate
through cherry picking issues that some states consider to be
ripe.”  Pakistan’s objections reflect its existential fear of
nuclear archrival  India , which has enough plutonium for about
140 bombs, according to the Washington-based Arms Control
Association. Pakistan has enough plutonium and uranium for 100
bombs, according to the ACA.  “The CD’s work or inactivity is a reflection of prevailing
political realities,” Tarar said. “No treaty can be negotiated
in the CD which is contrary to the security interests of any of
its member state.”  Pakistan’s opposition to taking negotiations outside the
Conference on Disarmament have become irrelevant because it has
blocked the start of talks anyway, said Daryl Kimball, the Arms
Control Association’s executive director.  Nuclear Firepower  “The sad thing is that both India and Pakistan have more
than enough nuclear firepower to render the other country a
total wasteland,” Kimball said. In similar cases in the past,
countries that didn’t participate in a treaty’s negotiations or
didn’t sign eventually joined, he said.  Ending production of fissile material might serve as
another base for further reductions in nuclear weapons and
reduce the risk of material falling into the hands of terror
groups. The U.S.,  Russia , the U.K. and France have all declared
a halt to fissile material production for weapons, and experts
believe China also has halted production, Kimball said.  “We do not need more fissile material that could be used
to make more bombs,” Tauscher said. “We know terrorist groups
are seeking to get their hands on such material any way that
they can.”  ‘Big Chess Game’  Still, the U.S. and its partners in the new effort should
try to involve India, Israel and Pakistan, countries with
facilities to produce uranium or plutonium that aren’t covered
by international safeguards, Kimball said. Nations with
safeguarded facilities such as  Japan , the Netherlands,  Brazil 
and  South Africa , also should be included, he said.  China  and Pakistan previously had conditioned negotiations
for a fissile material treaty on starting similar talks toward a
treaty to prevent an arms race in outer space, Kimball said. The
U.S. had objected to that kind of treaty.  “It was like a big chess game, and it’s been stalemated
since 1998,” he said.  China in 2007 backed off its insistence on negotiating an
outer-space treaty, and the United Nations General Assembly
unsuccessfully tried to find a way forward at last year’s annual
meeting.  Rose Gottemoeller, the top U.S. negotiator on arms-control
treaties, told last week’s UN meeting that calls for another UN
General Assembly special session “are a distraction at best.”  “Unless we have agreed objectives for such a session,”
she said, “we should better direct our efforts where progress
can be made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  