-- 
Obama Urges Congress to Resolve FAA Impasse by End of Week

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-03T20:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/obama-urges-lawmakers-to-resolve-impasse-over-faa-funding-by-end-of-week.html
President  Barack Obama  accused
Congress of playing politics with the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s funding and urged lawmakers to return to
Washington this week to end an impasse that has led the agency
to furlough 4,000 workers.  The U.S. House of Representatives and Senate finished
voting on legislation this week and recessed for the month of
August without extending the FAA’s funding authority, which
expired at midnight July 22. That idled about 70,000
construction-related workers and furloughed 4,000 FAA employees.
The FAA also is forgoing $28.6 million in aviation taxes each
day the deadlock continues. That would add up to $1.3 billion by
the time Congress resumes legislative business on Sept. 7.  “This is a lose-lose situation that could be easily solved
if Congress gets back into town and does its job,” Obama told
reporters before a meeting with his Cabinet. “Don’t put the
livelihoods of thousands of people at risk, don’t put projects
at risk and don’t let a billion dollars -- at a time when we’re
scrambling for every dollar we can -- get left on the table
because Congress could not act.”  Lawmakers could use a procedure known as unanimous consent
to extend the agency’s funding without having to reconvene in
 Washington , he said.  “They can have the fights that they want to have when they
get back” in September, Obama said.  Extension Possible  When asked at a briefing today if the administration was
considering shifting money in the FAA budget to restart the $2.5
billion in stalled projects or bring furloughed employees back
on the job, White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the
White House is looking at its options.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said legislators should
return to Washington and pass an extension without cutting
subsidies for flights to 13 rural airports. The cuts were in a
House-passed bill to extend the FAA’s authority through Sept. 16
that was introduced by Representative John Mica, the Florida
Republican who chairs the transportation committee in that body.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
yesterday he was prepared to accept the House bill. Other Senate
Democrats refused, said Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid.  The FAA’s last multi-year funding bill expired in 2007.
Congress has passed 20 limited extensions since then without
adopting a new long-term authorization measure.  House Version  House Speaker  John Boehner  said in a statement that Senate
Democrats are playing politics and that “all it will take to
end this crisis is for the Senate to pass the House-approved FAA
extension.”  Reid said  House Republicans  are using the issue of aid to
small airports as “subterfuge” to force the Senate to accept a
labor provision in the House’s long-term FAA authorization bill
that would make it harder for airline employees to win union
representation.  “We could take care of it in a second” if Congress agreed
by unanimous consent to pass an extension of the FAA’s authority
without the subsidy cuts, Reid said.  Mica confirmed he added the rural air service cuts to push
the Senate to negotiate, although he said his goal is to
conclude discussions on all unresolved issues between the two
chambers, not just the labor provision.  “There is no question it’s a negotiating tactic,” Mica
said in a telephone interview. “This was going to be the 21st
extension” of the FAA’s authority, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net  