-- 
Obama Turning 50 Is Still Youngest Candidate in the Campaign

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-03T16:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/obama-turning-50-stays-youngest-candidate-in-2012-presidential-campaign.html
In every general election campaign he
has waged,  Barack Obama  has been the youngest contender on the
ballot. He turns 50 tomorrow and the streak appears safe.  In the 2012 presidential campaign, Obama is likely to still
be the youngest candidate in the field as all of the Republican
challengers who have announced a bid for their party’s
nomination are older than he is.  As he did in 2008, when national  exit polls  showed him
winning 66 percent of voters under age 30, Obama probably will
try to make his age an asset when he runs for re-election.  “For all of his youth, he’s grayer and his wrinkles are
deeper,” said  Bruce Buchanan , a presidential scholar at the
 University of Texas  at Austin. “Given the rigors of that job,
youth can be an advantage.”  Obama is celebrating his birthday tonight, a day in
advance, in his adopted hometown of Chicago with a campaign
fundraiser that will feature fellow Chicagoans jazz pianist
Herbie Hancock and singer Jennifer Hudson.  The concert and dinner for more than 1,500 donors will be
at the  Aragon Entertainment Center , a Spanish-style concert hall
on the city’s north side that can accommodate up to 4,500
people. Ticket prices range from $50 to the legal maximum of
$35,800.  The money will go to the Obama Victory Fund 2012, a joint
Obama campaign and Democratic National Committee fund, according
to a Democratic official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the
event and spoke on condition of anonymity. Obama’s campaign can
accept $5,000 of each $35,800 contribution.  Private Dinner  After the performances by Hudson and Hancock, Obama will
attend a private dinner for a smaller group of 80 to 100 people
at the same venue. He also will conduct a video teleconference
with supporters at more than 1,100 organizing meetings across
the country.  As part of the birthday fundraising, representatives from
the  Democratic Party , the White House and Obama’s re-election
campaign will fan out  nationwide  for events in  Boston ,
 Washington , New York and  Los Angeles , as well as Tampa,  Florida ;
Austin,  Texas ; and Oakland,  California . Among those involved are
former White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs , deputy campaign
manager Jen O’Malley Dillon, White House senior adviser  David Plouffe , Obama campaign strategist David Axelrod and Democratic
National Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a member
of Congress from Florida.  Money Raised  Obama’s re-election effort raised more than $86 million in
the quarter ending June 30, eclipsing the combined haul of the
2012 Republican field.  The president’s fundraising was criticized by Republican
National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus in a conference call
today with reporters.  “The fundraiser in chief is back in  Chicago  doing the
thing that he’s really good at and that’s raising money to save
his job,” Priebus said. “This president, while he’s in love
with the sound of his own voice, he’s not in love with following
through on his promises.”  Priebus, as well as Illinois Republican Party Chairman Pat
Brady, noted the U.S. unemployment rate of 9.2 percent. He also
pointed to a headline and story in today’s Chicago Tribune
noting that more than 1,100 workers at 10 Illinois companies
were told last month that they’ll be losing their jobs in plant
closings or mass layoffs before the end of the year.  Tomorrow, on his actual birthday, Obama is scheduled to
attend meetings at the White House.  Generational Shift  Just as Bill Clinton marked a move to a post-World War II
generation of American presidents, Obama and many of the
Republicans competing for the White House represent another
shift in the age cohort to leaders who weren’t yet adults during
the height of the  Vietnam  War or the Civil Rights era.  Unless Texans Rick Perry or Ron Paul wins the Republican
nomination, the 2012 campaign is likely to be the first modern
presidential election in which neither major party candidate
served in the military. Perry, 61, a governor still
contemplating running, was an Air Force pilot, while Paul, 75, a
congressman in his third White House bid, was an Air Force
flight surgeon.  Former governors Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, who turned 50
last November, and Jon Huntsman Jr. of Utah, who is 51, are
closest in age to the president. Former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney, who leads in polls and fundraising among
Republicans, is 64.  Among the potential Republican candidates who haven’t
announced, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin would, at 47, be
the youngest if she enters the campaign.  Clinton, who entered the White House a year younger than
Obama, was the last president to turn 50 while in office. He
celebrated in August 1996 with a dinner at the  Waldorf Astoria
Hotel  in  New York , as well as a $10 million gala at Radio City
Music Hall to raise money for the Democratic National Committee
and his re-election campaign.  Milestone Birthday  Obama hasn’t said much publicly about his milestone
birthday.  “I’m starting to think a little bit more about Medicare
eligibility,” he joked during a July 15 news conference in
Washington, referencing the federal health insurance program for
senior citizens.  Although he typically projects a stress-free demeanor,
Obama has shown signs of age while in office as he deals with a
 U.S. economy  struggling to recover from the worst recession
since the Great Depression. Most obvious are the speckles of
gray hair on his head.  In his 2008 White House bid, Obama’s relative youth was the
subtext of criticism from his main primary opponent, then-
Senator  Hillary Clinton , that he was too inexperienced to handle
the presidency. One of her campaign’s most memorable television
ads during the primaries suggested she was more ready to answer
a 3 a.m. phone call to respond to a White House crisis.  Experience Question  After directing a mission that killed Osama bin Laden and
handling other presidential challenges, Buchanan said Obama will
no longer have to battle questions of inexperience.  “I don’t know what opposition candidate would be in such a
position to wield such a charge,” he said.  Obama appears to be the healthiest and most robust under-50
president since Teddy Roosevelt, Buchanan said, pointing to
Clinton’s struggle with his weight and John F. Kennedy’s back
and other ailments.  “Age and conditioning go together well to create the
stamina needed to do the work,” he said.  A 2010 physical exam released by the White House showed the
president had a resting pulse of 56.  Obama increasingly plays golf on weekends, instead of
heading to the basketball court as he more commonly did during
the 2008 campaign and during the early days of his presidency.  In the general election, Obama had to navigate the politics
of age against Senator John McCain of  Arizona , who was 72 in
November 2008 and would have been the oldest man ever elected
president had he won.  “I don’t think that’s going to be the issue that people
vote on,” Obama  told  the  Chicago Tribune  in April 2008
regarding McCain, a former Navy pilot who was a prisoner of war
in Vietnam after being shot down. “People respect John McCain.
They know he’s a tough guy. He’s gone through things that I
think most of us can only imagine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  