-- 
Obama, Boehner Look Smaller After Their Big Debt Deal: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T00:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/obama-boehner-look-smaller-after-their-big-debt-deal-margaret-carlson.html
The credit rating on U.S. bonds may
survive the  debt-ceiling  fiasco, but the president and speaker
of the House, the two most powerful figures in American
government, have already been downgraded.  Both leaders are trying to govern in a world that doesn’t
exist.  Barack Obama , who came to the White House as a unifying
force at a perilous moment, is the sole occupant of the post-
partisan utopia he conjured as a candidate -- a land where
reason is king and we all get along. He loves the center the way
a kid loves ice cream. Too bad the center no longer exists in
 Washington , where the Republican opposition is openly determined
to destroy Obama’s presidency.  By announcing his final position at the outset of debt
negotiations, Obama thought he would compel the other side to
reward him for his candor and conduct themselves in kind. How
naive. If Obama tried to buy a car the way he bargained to get
the debt ceiling raised, he would leave the lot paying more than
the sticker price, GPS and satellite radio not included.  John Boehner  is a capable, likable politician of the old
school. He raises prodigious amounts of money for his members,
pals around with lobbyist friends and leaves a trail of Camel
Ultra Lights smoke in his wake. He expected to wield power in a
traditional way; if not in the mode of congressional powerhouses
like Sam Rayburn or Boehner’s idol from  Ohio , Nicholas
Longworth, then at least in the manner of former Republican
House leaders Robert Michel or Dennis Hastert. Boehner wasn’t
afraid to do business with Obama. When it mattered, his
rambunctious troops would fall in line, either for the good of
the country or for an invitation to the Speaker’s Room for pizza
and a post office.  Scary Sound Effects  It didn’t play out that way. With earmarks an evil remnant
of Congress’s past, a speaker doesn’t have much pork to deploy
as bait to lure recalcitrant members to his side. And neither of
these leaders seems to have reckoned just how far the  Tea Party 
faction would go, or that its members would be deaf to concerns
about debt ceilings, credit  ratings  or the potential for an
economy crashing around their ears. The Republicans may have
created the crisis, but its Tea Party wing produced the scary
special effects.  As the deadline drew near, it was the Tea Party that
controlled Speaker Boehner, not the other way around. They
humiliated Boehner by forcing him to deep-six his grand bargain
with Obama (besides having impermissible revenue increases, it
didn’t force Obama to eat worms). Boehner withdrew his own bill
when it became clear that he couldn’t muster a majority.
Instead, the speaker pushed through a symbolic package intended
to make the Tea Party feel good -- large budget cuts topped with
an absurd  balanced-budget amendment . Hours later, the Senate
killed it without serious debate.  With the clock ticking down on default and stock markets
declining day after day, even stalwart Republicans began to
sweat. The Wall Street Journal editorial page lashed out at Tea
Party “ hobbits ” for standing in the way of a deal. The message
from the Tea Party: Damn the default, full speed ahead. At a
news conference last week, Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder of the
Tea Party Patriots, acknowledged the hurt default could cause
people but said it was a risk that she and other Tea Party
activists were willing to take.  Like the Journal editorial board, Obama, too, came to
believe the danger was real; after that, he yielded one
concession after another. Shared sacrifice with cuts balanced by
revenue increases? He let those go when Boehner couldn’t sell it
to the anti-tax absolutists in his caucus. A threat to invoke
the 14th Amendment to uphold the “validity of the public debt”
and unilaterally raise the debt ceiling? Threats are not this
president’s style.  Conscientious Objector  Liberals were at first sympathetic to Obama, understanding
that when one party is willing to scuttle the economy in order
to get its way, the fight is asymmetric. Yet they grew
increasingly alarmed to see the president approaching battle
like a conscientious objector. Yes, he needed to show concern
over out-of-control spending and the debt, $7 trillion of which
was  racked up  under his predecessor. And he would have to endure
some cuts. But his basic miscalculation was apparent back in
December -- a comparatively innocent era -- when he said that he
could trust Boehner to do the right thing on the debt ceiling
because he now had “responsibilities to govern.”  Sensible Republicans felt another responsibility more
acutely: getting themselves re-elected. Because most are in safe
districts where the real threat is a primary from the right,
they followed the lead of their Tea Party brethren, even if they
don’t share the Tea Party vision of a government shrunken to a
point where we don’t have our milk pasteurized or our air
traffic controlled.  By the time the outline of a final deal emerged Sunday,
with the hobbits giving up nothing and gaining much, liberals
could no longer contain their anger. New York Times columnist
 Paul Krugman  chastised the president for giving in to extortion
and for letting the debate shift from saving the economy and
creating jobs to paring the deficit and pleasing the Tea Party.
By ignoring the plight of the unemployed and withdrawing
spending from an already weak economy, Obama and the
Republicans, he  wrote , are like “medieval doctors who treated
the sick by bleeding them, and thereby made them even sicker.”  Obama’s post-partisan reasonableness earned him his lowest
job approval rating of 40 percent from  Gallup  last week. If the
debt deal kills the shaky economic recovery, Obama’s re-election
will probably be collateral damage. Meanwhile, Boehner is stuck
with an extremist minority basking in a triumph that he didn’t
shape. By dancing with disaster, they got their way. Good luck
urging them to unlearn that lesson. If Boehner and Obama both
seem diminished, squeezed into smaller roles, maybe it’s because
the past weeks have proved there is even less room for reason in
Washington than we thought.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 