-- 
Ohio Debt-Deal Revolt Shows U.S. Spending Split

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-03T18:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/ohio-democrats-debt-deal-rebellion-shows-u-s-spending-split.html
(Corrects age in second paragraph.)  Democratic U.S. Representative  Tim Ryan ’s district includes Youngstown and part of Akron, two Ohio
cities once dominated by steel and rubber mills. He’s concerned
that Washington’s debt-ceiling deal will hurt an economy that’s
already struggling.  Congress approved raising the U.S. debt limit yesterday by
at least $2.1 trillion and reducing federal spending by $2.4
trillion or more. The spending cuts come when more money should
be invested to keep and create jobs, said Ryan, 38.  “All the sacrifice is being made by my constituents,” he
said in a telephone interview from Washington. “This idea of
pulling money out of the economy in the next couple of years is
just bad economics.”  Every Democrat in Ohio’s House delegation voted against the
deal, and all Ohio Republicans, including Speaker  John Boehner ,
supported it except  Jim Jordan  of Urbana and  Mike Turner  of
Dayton. The polarization over the impact of the deal in Ohio is
a microcosm of national divisions -- and a possible preview of
the fight in the presidential-battleground state next year, said
 John Green , a political-science professor from the University of
Akron.  “This isn’t just partisanship,” Green said in a telephone
interview from Akron. “There is a fundamental disagreement on
how we’re going to make the economy grow.”  Less Federal Money  Ohio House members who opposed the debt-ceiling deal have
reason to worry: Companies working in their districts got less
in federal contracts in fiscal 2010 than the national median,
data compiled by Bloomberg Government show.  The median amounts for the districts of the seven Ohio
House members voting no on the debt deal was $360.4 million,
compared with the national median of $448.8 million. The median
federal contracts in districts of the 11 Ohio members who
approved the deal amounted to $345.3 million.  The federal cuts will come on top of spending reductions in
Ohio’s two-year state budget that first-term Republican Governor
 John Kasich  and the Republican-controlled Legislature passed in
June, Ryan said. Ohio eliminated an $8 billion deficit without
raising taxes by cutting spending including $1.6 billion for
schools and local governments, according to the state budget
office.  The deal in Washington will mean fewer federal dollars for
Ohio and other states, which could cause the economy to slide
back into recession, said former Democratic Governor Ted Strickland, a six-term congressman who lost a bid for re-
election as governor last November to Kasich.  ‘Reduced Funding’  “What I see coming out of this deal is reduced funding for
activities that keep people working,” Strickland said in a
telephone interview from Columbus. He called the deal “a win
for the plutocrats and a defeat for the working middle class.”  Ohio lost 370,500 jobs during the recession, including
20,200, or 8.5 percent, in the Youngstown area, according to the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . During the past decade, only
Michigan and  California  lost more jobs than Ohio, the BLS data
show.  The state’s economy added 72,400 jobs during the past year,
and its  unemployment rate  declined or remained unchanged for 15
months before increasing to 8.8 percent in June from 8.6 percent
in May, according to the  Ohio Bureau of Labor Market
Information .  Kasich, a former congressman and chairman of the House
Budget Committee who helped craft a balanced federal spending
plan in 1997, has said a compromise debt-ceiling deal was
necessary and that he is monitoring what impact it could have on
the state.  ‘Greater Flexibility’  States will be getting fewer dollars, so “we’re hopeful
that Washington will provide states with greater flexibility to
manage any changes,” Tim Keen,  Ohio ’s budget director, said
yesterday in a statement provided by Kasich’s office.  Ohio, the nation’s seventh most-populous state, is a
presidential battleground. No Republican has won the presidency
without carrying Ohio since  Abraham Lincoln , and only two
Democrats have since 1892:  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  in 1944 and
 John F. Kennedy  in 1960, according to the Ohio Politics Almanac.  The Buckeye State also has experienced the same fast-
swinging political pendulum that the nation has. Ohio voted for
President  George W. Bush  in 2000 and 2004 before supporting
President  Barack Obama  in 2008.  Shift of Control  Republicans had controlled the Ohio governor’s office and
Legislature until Democrats won all executive offices except
auditor in 2006 and the Ohio House in 2008. In last year’s
elections, Republicans retook the governor’s office, the House
and all state executive offices.  The recent fight in  Washington  has set up elections in
November and for the presidential race in 2012 by crystallizing
the choice for voters, Strickland said.  “What’s happening here in Ohio and what’s happening in
Washington has brought clarity to the differences that exist
between the various parties,” Strickland said. “I look forward
to November 2011 and November 2012, so that the people can
express their opinion and make their judgment as to what kind of
country we want to live in.”  The  U.S. Senate  voted 74-26 for the debt-ceiling deal, with
both Ohio senators, Democrat  Sherrod Brown  and Republican Rob Portman, in favor.  Boehner, from  West Chester , said addressing a burgeoning
U.S. debt and deficit will help the economy.  Confidence for Employers  “Beginning to take steps towards fixing our fiscal
problems will in fact provide more confidence for employers in
America, the people we expect to reinvest in our economy and
create jobs,” Boehner said in a news conference before the Aug.
1 House vote.  The bill would cut $917 billion in spending over a decade
and assign a special congressional committee to find another
$1.5 trillion in deficit savings by late November, to be enacted
by Christmas.  Jordan, chairman of the fiscally conservative Republican
Study Committee, voted against the deal. Jordan said in a
statement he’s concerned it “opens the door to dangerous
national security cuts” and raises the possibility the
committee “could put tax increases on the table.”  ‘Extreme’ Position  Polarization was inevitable because of the “extreme, even
radical position on the part of the Tea Party Republicans” who
demanded spending cuts with no new revenue, even at the risk of
default, Strickland said.  Ohio Tea Party supporters are glad the nation is focused on
spending that caused rating companies including Moody’s
Investors Service to threaten downgrading the nation’s credit,
said Tom Zawistowski, president of the Ohio Liberty Council, an
umbrella organization of Tea Party groups.  “If I was Moody’s, I’d downgrade us,” Zawistowski said in
a telephone interview from Brimfield Township near Kent, Ohio.
“What we really are looking for is to change the conversation,
and we did change the conversation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  