-- 
Oil Slides a Fourth Day as U.S. Spending Drops, Moody’s Warns of Downgrade

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-03T12:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/oil-slides-a-fourth-day-as-u-s-spending-drops-moody-s-warns-of-downgrade.html
Oil declined for a fourth day in  New
York , its longest losing streak since May, on concern that a
slowing  U.S. economy  will curb fuel demand in the world’s
biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures dropped as much as 1.1 percent before a U.S.
government report forecast to show a gain in crude stockpiles.
Data yesterday showed U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly fell
in June for the first time in almost two years. Moody’s
Investors Service said the nation’s credit rating may be cut on
concern that fiscal discipline will ease, further debt reduction
measures won’t be adopted and the economy will weaken.  “We’ve seen a spate of negative numbers from the U.S. and
these large budget cuts may only make it worse,” said Torbjoern Kjus, a senior analyst at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo. “Demand is
looking very poor in the U.S. and that’s weighing on the market.
We haven’t really had a driving season this summer, or rather
it’s been much weaker than last year.”  Crude for September delivery dropped as much as $1.02 to
$92.77 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $92.21 at 1:21 p.m. London time. It’s the
longest losing streak since five days of declines to May 6.
Prices have gained 13 percent in the past year.  Brent for September settlement declined 95 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $115.51 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $22.28 to U.S. futures, compared with a record close
of $22.67 yesterday.  Moving Average  Oil is extending losses in New York after dropping below
the 200-day moving average yesterday, a long-term support level
at about $95 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A breach of technical support usually means prices will continue
to fall. Front-month futures may decline to the lower Bollinger
Band, at about $91.11 today.  U.S. spending fell 0.2 percent in June, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday. The median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent increase.
Incomes grew at the slowest pace since November.  The U.S. probably failed to create enough jobs in July to
reduce unemployment. Payrolls probably climbed by 85,000 workers
after an 18,000 increase in June that was the smallest this
year, according to the median forecast of 81 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before a Labor Department report Aug. 5.  Oil Supplies  “Commodity investors are expected to remain cautious ahead
of this Friday’s U.S. jobs report,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Melbourne, said in a note today. The bank estimates oil in
New York will average $100 a barrel in the third quarter. Prices
fell “as investors focused on the weaker state of the U.S.
economy and softer demand,” he said.  An Energy Department report today may show inventories
climbed 1.5 million barrels, the median of 14 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey shows.  U.S. crude stockpiles declined 3.31 million barrels last
week to 354.9 million, according to the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute .  Gasoline supplies gained 2.55 million barrels to 212.2
million, the API said. The government report may show they rose
250,000 barrels, according to the Bloomberg News survey.  The API collects stockpile data on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed for its weekly survey.
Oil-supply totals from the API and the department have moved in
the same direction 71 percent of the time over the past year and
76 percent over the past four years.  The U.S., rated AAA since 1917, was placed on negative
outlook, New York-based Moody’s said in a statement as it
confirmed the rating. Moody’s warned on July 29 a negative
outlook was “more likely” as lawmakers reduced the size of
spending cuts being negotiated to win approval on a plan to lift
the nation’s borrowing limit.  Tropical Storm Emily will weaken when it makes landfall at
the Caribbean island of Hispaniola today and bring as much as 10
inches (25 centimeters) of rain, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said in an advisory released at 5 a.m. Miami time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  