-- 
Oman Awards Contract for Mideast’s First Solar Oil-Recovery Site

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-08-03T14:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/oman-awards-contract-for-mideast-s-first-solar-oil-recovery-site.html
Petroleum Development Oman, a third
owned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc, awarded a contract to  GlassPoint
Solar Inc.  to build the  Middle East ’s first solar plant
generating steam to boost output from aging oil deposits.  The 7-megawatt, four-acre site will deploy enhanced oil
recovery, or EOR, technology, injecting steam into oilfields to
loosen denser crude, according to an e-mailed statement today
from Fremont, California-based GlassPoint. Previous such
operations have burned natural gas to produce the steam.  Persian Gulf nations, suppliers of about a quarter of the
world’s oil, are introducing EOR technology to make the most of
depleting reserves. Oman, the biggest Arab oil producer that
isn’t a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has reversed output declines as the country leads the
region in its use of the system.  “Over time, the light oil at the top of fields gets used
up, so ultimately everyone will be producing heavier and heavier
oil,” GlassPoint Chief Executive Officer Rod Macgregor said
today in a telephone interview. “Oil producers will need steam
from somewhere, so they can either burn gas, which many lack, or
they can use solar energy.”  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait   Saudi Arabia, the biggest crude exporter, will probably use
EOR technology for more than 1 million barrels a day of its
output by 2030, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration’s World Energy Outlook.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  uses steam
to produce oil from part of the Wafra field that Kuwait shares
with Saudi Arabia. Kuwait, OPEC’s fourth-largest member, plans
to produce 60,000 barrels a day of heavy oil by 2016.  While GlassPoint’s plant will reduce Oman’s use of gas by
only 1.6 million cubic meters a year, barely denting the 5.4
billion cubic meters it employs for EOR, “there’s no reason you
couldn’t displace 80 percent of it,” Macgregor said.  Oman is reducing exports of liquefied natural gas and has
delayed building petrochemicals plants as it feeds the needs of
its own oil production and power plants. The country plans to
produce 850,000 barrels of oil a day this year, rising to 1
million barrels a day in the next five years, Oil Minister
Mohammed al-Rumhy said in November.  Carbon Dioxide Injection  Saudi Arabia, with the world’s largest crude reserves
according to BP Plc, also needs to use gas to fire its  power
plants  as energy demand soars, and is seeking alternative ways
to boost oil extraction. Both Saudi Arabia and the  United Arab
Emirates  are considering employing carbon dioxide for EOR.  Saudi Aramco  plans to start injecting CO2 into its Ghawar
oilfield, the world’s largest, by 2013, it said in February. The
U.A.E.’s Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. successfully piloted a
project using 60 metric tons of CO2 a day at the Rumaitha field
and is studying an expansion, according to CO2 EOR Strategy
Advisor Ghaniya Bin-Dhaaer al-Yafei.  “The main EOR worldwide is steam with heavy oil, so demand
for this solar technology depends on the heavy-oil reserves of
big oil producers,” said Nansen Saleri, CEO of Quantum
Reservoir Impact LLC, a Houston-based adviser to  oil companies .
“Saudi Arabia or Kuwait’s heavy oil is a very small part of
their production, while steam injection is all over  Venezuela 
because about 70 percent of its oil is heavy.”  The Sultanate of Oman is Petroleum Development Oman’s
largest shareholder with a 60 percent stake, while Royal Dutch
Shell owns 34 percent,  Total SA (FP)  holds 4 percent and Partex Oil &
Gas has 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  