-- 
Montgomery County Sells $532 Million Facing U.S. Spending Cut: Muni Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/montgomery-county-sells-532-million-facing-u-s-spending-cut-muni-credit.html
Montgomery County, where 68,000
people work for the federal government, is selling $532 million
of bonds a day after President  Barack Obama  signed a law raising
the U.S. debt limit and cutting spending to avoid a default.  The  Maryland  county, which borders the nation’s capital, is
vulnerable to changes in U.S. credit quality, Moody’s Investors
Service said July 28 as Congress wrangled over the borrowing
limit. It gave the U.S. a negative outlook yesterday and said it
may be downgraded, and it also put Montgomery County's top grade
of Aaa on review.  Montgomery should get “a heck of a reception” for its bonds,
said John Mousseau, a Vineland, New Jersey-based portfolio manager
at Cumberland Advisors, which oversees $1.1 billion in municipal
securities.  “If they were downgraded to AA+ from AAA, does it really
change their pecking order?” Mousseau said in a telephone
interview. “No. They’re still among the best of the best.”  The law enacted yesterday raises the $14.3 trillion U.S.
debt ceiling enough to fund the government until 2013 and calls
for $2.4 trillion of spending cuts over the next decade.  Finance Director Joe Beach said Montgomery is studying the
new legislation to see how it affects the county, home to 23
U.S. agencies including the  National Institutes of Health  and
the  Food and Drug Administration , according to Moody’s.  The federal presence “really benefited us in terms of our
economic development,” said Beach, who’s in his first week as
finance director. “In circumstances like this, it may not be so
good.”  State Reception  Beach said the deal should be well-received based on
Maryland’s $418.2 million sale last week. The state, also on
review pending U.S. spending cuts, was able to lower yields on
10-year bonds amid demand from individuals.  The winners and losers in the debt-ceiling deal will be
determined in the next few months, said R.J. Gallo, a senior
vice president at Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors who
manages about $900 million.  “It creates opportunities to try to adjust the muni
portfolio pursuant to who is hit by these cuts,” Gallo said.
“We are going to be paying close attention.”  Yields on 10-year top-rated general-obligation tax-exempts
fell below 2.6 percent yesterday for the first time since June
15. Ten-year Treasury yields fell to the lowest since November
as a report showed personal spending unexpectedly fell in June,
reinforcing speculation the economy is slowing.  Yield Difference  A general-obligation Montgomery County bond maturing in
August 2021 yielded 2.77 percent on Aug. 1, 10 basis points more
than an index of top-rated tax-exempts with the same maturity
and up from seven basis points on Feb. 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “When you get an opportunity like Montgomery County,
Maryland, you might get a lot of people overpaying,” said Tony Shields, who covers Maryland as a senior trader at Charles
Schwab & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “There’s going to be a
lot of people falling all over themselves to try and buy this,
particularly with the tone of the market.”  Montgomery County’s deal is the second-largest this week.
The New York City Transitional Finance Authority yesterday began
a $900 million sale of bonds backed by personal-income and sales
taxes.  The transaction includes $300 million of federal and state
tax-exempt debt to refund existing top-rated subordinate bonds.
That portion was offered yesterday to individual investors at a
yield of 2.98 percent for debt maturing in 2021, according to a
person involved with the sale who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to comment.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt:  SOUTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, which
transports 242 million passengers yearly in Philadelphia and
surrounding counties, will issue $214.8 million of tax-exempt
bonds backed by federal grants as soon as tomorrow. The
transaction will help finance new commuter-rail cars and capital
projects. The debt is rated A1, the fifth-highest grade from
Moody’s. (Added Aug. 3)  VIRGINIA  COLLEGE BUILDING AUTHORITY, which sells debt for
infrastructure at Virginia at state universities, plans to issue
$274.9 million of bonds as soon as tomorrow through competitive
bid. The state-appropriation-backed credit is rated Aa1, the
second-highest grade from Moody’s, and one grade below
Virginia’s AAA rating. The authority is on review for potential
downgrade as Moody’s placed the state on review July 19. (Added
Aug. 1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  