-- 
Moody’s Warns Turkey on Failure to Address Imbalances

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-03T14:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/moody-s-warns-turkey-on-failure-to-address-imbalances-1-.html
Turkey ’s ability to address domestic
and external imbalances will determine the country’s positive
ratings momentum, Moody’s Investors Service Ltd. said.  “We have a positive outlook right now, however, the kind
of domestic and external imbalances Turkey is running are of
concern to us,”  Sarah Carlson , Moody’s vice president and
senior analyst, said in a phone interview after the company
issued a report on Turkey today. “If they’re left unaddressed,
they will begin to affect the positive rating trajectory.”  Turkey is “susceptible to sudden shocks or shifts in
investor sentiment” because of its large current-account
deficit, Carlson said. The gap has surged to record levels this
year, doubling from a year earlier to $68.2 billion in the 12
months through May. The  International Monetary Fund  projects the
deficit will reach 10.5 percent of gross domestic product by
year-end.  “We particularly focus on the current-account deficit,
both because it’s very large and because the way the current-
account deficit is financed is using more volatile sources of
capital,” Carlson said. “It’s not primarily sourced through
foreign direct investment, which is more stable, it’s through
portfolio inflows” and other sources including loans, the draw-
down of overseas assets by companies and foreign-exchange
deposits, she said.  An improvement in Turkey’s fiscal fundamentals would be
positive for Turkey’s rating, Carlson said. Moody’s will be
paying particular attention to the government’s medium-term
program to be announced in October, she said.  Restraining Demand  Turkey’s “immediate challenge is to strengthen its
resilience to external shocks by restraining domestic demand,”
Moody’s said in the report. At the same time, the country should
accumulate a larger buffer of foreign-exchange reserves to fend
off a deterioration in the current account, Moody’s said.  “If vulnerabilities continue to increase, such as the
large current-account deficit, growing inflationary pressures
and strong credit growth, and external buffers diminish or
remain the same, Turkey’s resilience could be undermined,”
Moody’s said. “This, in turn, could cause downward pressure on
the credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net  