-- 
Top U.S. Rating Not Completely Assured After Debt Deal, Fitch’s Riley Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-03T16:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/top-rating-not-completely-secure-after-u-s-accord-fitch-s-riley-says.html
The U.S. government’s top credit
rating of AAA may be lowered in the medium term even after
President Barack Obama signed into law a debt-limit compromise
that prevented a default, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “While that agreement does take some of the near-term
pressure off the U.S. AAA rating, over the medium term it’s
still not completely secure,”  David Riley , Fitch’s head of
sovereign ratings in  London , said in an interview on
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” on Bloomberg Television.
“The agreement that was set out is just an initial first step.
It’s not going to be the end of the process, and there’s still
some very tough choices that have to be made on tax and
spending.”  Obama signed legislation yesterday that raises the nation’s
debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic spending cuts to
enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions over the next 10
years. The compromise defers decisions on the nation’s finances
to a bipartisan panel of lawmakers and may reduce government
deficits only modestly while slowing economic growth.  Treasury two-year note yields touched a record low
0.3081 percent on demand for a refuge from a slowing economy and
bets the  Federal Reserve  will keep borrowing costs low.  Fitch said in a statement yesterday that the U.S. is under
review as the nation’s debt burden increases at a pace that
isn’t consistent with its AAA sovereign credit rating, and that
the slowing economy may mean “significant revisions to tax and
spending policies will be required to materially reduce the
 budget deficit .”  The U.S. recovery that began two years ago has been losing
momentum, and there’s now a 50 percent chance of a return to
recession, said  Martin Feldstein , a Harvard University professor
and a member of the panel that dates economic slumps, in an
interview yesterday on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  “We are seriously concerned about the economic outlook,
and that is a material influence in our assessment of the U.S.
rating,” Riley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  