-- 
Pentagon’s First Installment on Cutting Debt May Be $28 Billion

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-04T04:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/panetta-says-trigger-spending-cuts-may-do-real-damage-to-u-s-military.html
Pentagon officials may have to
eliminate as much as $28 billion from the pending fiscal 2012
 defense budget  in the first installment of the Defense
Department’s contribution to the new debt-ceiling agreement,
administration officials and congressional aides say.  Under the deficit-trimming measure President  Barack Obama 
signed into law yesterday, an initial $350 billion will be cut
from defense spending over 10 years, with about $325 billion
coming from the Pentagon, according to an administration
official.  The savings targets based on the military’s current
planning are closer to $400 billion, about 7 percent of planned
spending over 10 years, and are achievable, a defense official
told reporters at the Pentagon today, speaking on condition of
anonymity.  Separately, the law requires a special congressional
committee to find an additional $1.5 trillion in overall deficit
reduction by late November. If the committee fails to act by
that time, the deal calls for an automatic cut of $500 billion
over a decade from Pentagon spending.  Most immediately, the reductions take effect with the $553
billion defense budget for the 2012 fiscal year; $539 billion is
basic defense spending controlled by the defense appropriations
subcommittees, while the remainder is in military construction
accounts.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Aerospace & Defense
Index fell less than 1 percent in New York trading today. L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  were among the 29
member stocks that declined.  Reviewing Options  The Pentagon is reviewing options to present the Senate
Appropriations Committee to meet a potential $28 billion cut,
another official said. Lawmakers can accept or apportion the
reduction to other security agencies, congressional aides said.
The House has already completed action on its version of the
fiscal 2012 bill, which cut $9 billion.  The Pentagon would provide informal suggestions for how to
reach a potential $28 billion reduction in fiscal 2012, the
defense official said.  For Congress to cut an additional $28 billion, it would be
necessary to look at an array of programs, the official said,
pointing to the House’s $9 billion in cuts, of which $6.7
billion would come from procurement.  Freezing Spending  A decrease of about $28 billion in the $539 billion request
controlled by appropriators would roughly freeze defense
spending at the current fiscal-year level, officials said.  The debt agreement freezes overall security spending at
$684 billion, $4 billion less than this fiscal year and about
$35.4 billion less than the fiscal 2012 request, according to a
Bloomberg Government analysis.  The fiscal 2012 request overall called for $719.4 billion
in security spending, which includes the Pentagon.  The $553 billion Pentagon base budget had already been cut
$11 billion from last year’s plan as part of $78 billion in
deficit reductions through 2016 the White House directed.  In a message to department personnel today, Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  said the $350 billion is “in line” with
what has been anticipated. The potential of as much as $500
billion in additional cuts “would be completely unacceptable,”
he said.  ‘Dangerous’ Cuts  Congress’s failure to agree on further reductions would
“trigger a round of dangerous across-the-board defense cuts”
that may do “real damage,” he said.  Obama said in April that he wanted to reduce security
expenditures by $400 billion over 12 years. Most of those cuts
would have been Pentagon spending.  “We can implement these reductions while maintaining the
excellence of our military, but to do that spending choices must
be based on sound strategy and policy,” Pentagon said of the
$350 billion. That review of strategy is continuing.  More troubling is the potential additional $500 billion,
which “is not meant as policy,” he said. “Rather, it is
designed to be unpalatable to spur responsible, balanced deficit
reduction and avoid misguided cuts to our security.”  An automatic defense cut probably won’t occur, and the
Pentagon at this point isn’t developing a contingency plan, the
defense official told reporters. Still, an automatic cut could
result in worker furloughs in the thousands, involuntary
separations and program disruptions, the official said.  Panetta’s  message  was posted on the Defense Department
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  