-- 
Peru Miners Seeking to Lift Output Won’t Fight Windfall Tax

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-08-03T19:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/peru-miners-support-tax-on-profits-not-sales-buenaventura-says.html
Peruvian miners, who are struggling
to halt a slide in metals output, won’t fight a proposed mining
windfall tax as long as it allows them to reinvest, the nation’s
biggest precious metals producer said.  The tax proposed by President Ollanta Humala should be
applied to profits rather than sales to ensure the country
remains competitive with copper producers based in Mexico and
 Chile , said Roque Benavides, chief executive officer of Cia. de
Minas Buenaventura SA. Benavides said the Andean country’s
three-year decline in metals output is “worrying.”  “No one opposes paying taxes,” Benavides told reporters
in  Lima  today. “But mining production will continue to fall as
long as social conflicts and bureaucracy continue.”  Mining executives, including Southern Copper Corp. CEO
Oscar Gonzalez Rocha, have said a tax on sales could derail as
much as $42 billion in planned investments. Humala, a former
army rebel, is seeking to kick-start projects that have been put
on hold even as he moves to raise mining royalties and tighten
state control over natural resources, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said Aug. 1.  First-half copper output in  Peru  fell 3 percent to 589,684
metric tons and gold declined 7 percent to 79,738 kilograms as
production slumped at mines operated by Southern and Barrick
Gold Corp., the Energy & Mines Ministry said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Copper futures for September delivery fell 6.9 cents, or
1.6 percent, to $4.326 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Gold for December delivery rose $21.80, or 1.3 percent, to
$1,666.30 an ounce after earlier touching a record $1,675.90.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  