-- 
Peru Dollar Bonds Rise to Nine-Month High on Investment Outlook

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-03T17:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/peru-dollar-bonds-rise-to-nine-month-high-on-investment-outlook.html
Peruvian dollar bonds rose to a nine-
month high as traders bet increased private investment will fuel
economic growth under President Ollanta Humala.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 6.55 percent dollar-
denominated bond due March 2037 fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 5.09 percent at 12:49 p.m. New York time.
The bond’s price rose 0.35 cent to 120.75 cents per dollar, the
highest since Nov. 5.  Demand for Peruvian assets has increased after Humala made
a “market-friendly” inaugural speech July 28 and allayed
concern his government would deter the mining and energy
investment driving the economy, said Kathryn Rooney Vera, an
emerging markets analyst at Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami.  “There’s diminishing uncertainty on the political front,
and with the U.S. and  Europe  posing more near-term risk than
some emerging countries with fundamentally sound macro policies,
it’s led to this impressive rally,” Rooney said. “There should
be an improvement in confidence that the government won’t be so
interventionist in its policies.”  Bond yields rose to a 14-month high during the presidential
election campaign amid concern Humala’s plans to increase mining
royalties and enlarge state companies might derail $50 billion
of private investment in mostly mining and oil and gas projects.  The government expects to reach an agreement with mining
companies on a windfall tax that allows investment in mine
expansions to grow, Humala’s Cabinet Chief Salomon Lerner told
reporters yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 159 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The sol was little changed at 2.7430 per  U.S. dollar  from
2.7425 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  