-- 
Pimco, BlackRock Say U.S. Economy Is Running at ‘Stall Speed,’ Fed May Act

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-03T08:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/pimco-blackrock-say-u-s-economy-is-running-at-stall-speed-fed-may-act.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. and
BlackRock Inc., which together oversee almost $5 trillion, say
the U.S. economy is stalling.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pimco,
and  Peter Fisher , head of fixed income at BlackRock, say the
 Federal Reserve  is preparing measures to counter the slowdown.  “We’re not looking at a recession yet, but we’re at a
tipping point,” Gross said yesterday in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “We’re at what we call a stall speed in
which corporate profits don’t grow, jobs aren’t created,” said
Gross, who is based in  Newport Beach ,  California .  The U.S. recovery that began two years ago has been losing
momentum and there are even odds the nation will slip into a
recession, according to Harvard University economics professor
 Martin Feldstein . Investors who are seeking safety from a
slowing economy and betting the central bank will keep  interest
rates  on hold are snapping up Treasuries, sending two-year
yields to a record low 0.3081 percent today.  The Fed may arrange a third round of quantitative easing,
known as QE3, Gross said. The central bank purchased bonds to
cap borrowing costs in the first two easing efforts. The Fed has
also promised to keep the target for overnight bank lending low
for an “extended period.” Policy makers cut the target rate to
a range of zero to 0.25 percent in 2008 to support the economy.  QE3 ‘Potential’  “There’s a potential for a QE3,” said Gross, who oversees
$1.28 trillion as Pimco’s co-chief investment officer. “I
suggest, however, that that takes the form really of language,
of extended period language, and maybe some type of cap on five-
or even 10-year Treasury securities.”  Two-year notes yield seven basis points more than the upper
end of the Fed’s target range, the least since Dec. 15, 2008.
Policy makers cut the benchmark to the record-low current range
the following day.  The U.S. economy is “very close to stall speed” and the
Fed may need to consider signaling a longer commitment to low
interest rates, according to BlackRock’s Fisher, who is based in
 New York .  “I believe the Fed is dusting off contingency plans if the
economy does not improve,” he said in a report that BlackRock
distributed by e-mail today. Fisher worked for 15 years at the
Fed Bank of New York, according to BlackRock, which has $3.66
trillion in assets.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, after a 0.4 percent pace in
the prior period, the worst six months since the recovery began
in June 2009, according to the Commerce Department.  “This economy is really balanced on the edge,” Feldstein
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “There’s now a 50
percent chance that we could slide into a new recession,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  