-- 
Playboy Founder Hugh Hefner’s Son-in-Law Sued by SEC for Insider Trading

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-03T18:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/playboy-founder-hugh-hefner-s-son-in-law-sued-by-sec-for-insider-trading.html
The son-in-law of Playboy magazine
founder  Hugh Hefner  settled allegations of  insider trading  in
Playboy stock, agreeing to resolve a lawsuit by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for $168,352.  William A. Marovitz, who is married to former Playboy
Enterprises Inc. Chief Executive Officer Christie Hefner, made
$100,952 on the trades, according to the SEC complaint filed
today in federal court in Chicago.  “Despite instructions from his wife that he should not
trade in shares of Playboy and a warning from the general
counsel of Playboy about his buying or selling Playboy stock,
Marovitz bought and sold shares of Playboy in his own brokerage
accounts between 2004 and 2009,” the SEC said.  An attorney and former Illinois state senator, Marovitz,
66, has been married to Hefner since 1995, according to the
complaint. Hefner led Chicago-based Playboy from 1988 to 2009.  Before her departure, Playboy had been negotiating its
possible sale to New York-based Iconix Brand Group Inc. Hefner
met with Iconix CEO Neil Cole in October and December 2008 and
continued to represent Playboy in the talks after stepping down,
the SEC alleged.  Non-Public Information  During that time, Marovitz bought Playboy stock after
obtaining non-public information about the Iconix negotiations
from his wife, according to the complaint. Sale negotiations
broke off in December 2009 and the deal was never consummated.  “Mr. Marovitz has no comment on the complaint or the
settlement agreement,” his attorney, Jim Streicker of  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview. “He lost substantial sums of
money on his investments in Playboy over the years,” he said.  Marovitz’s trades were based on confidential information
that he misappropriated from Hefner, who was the CEO when most
of the illegal trades were made, the SEC said in a press
statement.  Playboy founder Hugh Hefner led a $207 million deal that
took the 58-year-old magazine publisher private in March.  While Hefner’s husband didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s
allegations, he consented to a court order barring him from
further violation of the SEC’s regulations, according to the
commission’s statement. The settlement is still subject to court
approval.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Marovitz,
11cv5259, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  