-- 
Prudential Profit Falls 22% to $838 Million on Investments

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-03T21:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/prudential-profit-falls-22-in-insurer-s-third-straight-quarterly-decline.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer, said profit declined for a
third straight quarter as the company booked a loss on
investments.  Second-quarter net income fell 22 percent to $838 million
from $1.08 billion in the same period a year earlier, the
 Newark , New Jersey-based company said today in a statement
distributed by  Business Wire . Excluding the results of policies
sold before the company went public and some investments, profit
was $1.71 a share, beating the $1.55 average estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld is
reshaping the business and expanding in  Japan  as he seeks to
improve return on equity to 13 percent to 14 percent.
Prudential’s ROE, a measure of how well the firm reinvests
shareholder money, was less than 10 percent last year.  “We got rid of health care, property and casualty, retail
brokerage,  investment banking , and whatever else went on down in
that place, and recently commodities because that stuff didn’t
fit with our strategy,” Chief Financial Officer Richard Carbone
said at a Prudential investor meeting on June 10.  Strangfeld boosted Prudential’s business in Japan by buying
two units from  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in February for
more than $4 billion. The company is considering further
acquisitions and in June announced a plan to spend $1.5 billion
on share repurchases.  Book Value  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$68.09 a share at the main business, from $63.50 on March 31.
Net unrealized gains on fixed maturity holdings at the main
portfolio climbed to $7 billion on June 30 from $4.6 billion at
the end of the first quarter. The results, which don’t count
toward earnings, are monitored by investors and ratings firms as
a measure of financial strength.  The insurer climbed 58 cents to $57.65 in extended trading
at 4:55 p.m. in  New York . Prudential has dropped 2.8 percent
this year on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with the 11
percent decline of  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer.
Results were released after the close of regular trading.  MetLife said last month that second-quarter profit fell 21
percent to $1.24 billion as catastrophe costs climbed and
derivative gains narrowed.  Prudential said it posted a realized loss of $11 million on
investments, compared with a gain of $620 million in last year’s
second quarter when derivatives boosted results.  Net sales of individual annuities dropped 27 percent from a
year earlier to $2.57 billion, the insurer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 