-- 
Publicity Shy Tycoon Forging Modern Peru Amid Expanding Economy

-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/publicity-shy-tycoon-forging-modern-peru-amid-expanding-economy.html
As confetti and balloons fall from
the ceiling, scores of bankers dressed as characters from TV
shows and movies hit the dance floor in a circus-sized party
tent in  Lima , Peru. Jedi knights from Star Wars wave glowing
green light sabers while the Flintstones groove to blasting
techno-pop. Carlos Rodriguez-Pastor, one of Latin America’s
least known billionaires, joins the throng, wearing a white wig,
a silly hat and a big smile.  Rodriguez-Pastor, who normally shuns publicity, is hosting
the costume party on this June evening for 4,000 employees of
IFH Peru Ltd., the Lima-based financial services and retail
conglomerate he has built and run since 1995. His top managers,
made up as Batman, Herman Munster and Happy Days’ Fonzie,
perform musical skits that showcase corporate values such as
innovation and teamwork, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its September issue.  “This is the best team-building exercise I know,” says
Rodriguez-Pastor, 52, as members of his bank’s board of
directors, dressed in Star Trek uniforms, dance behind him. “We
can all be ridiculous together.”  The tycoon, little known outside  Peru , belongs to a new
breed of Latin empire builders who are capitalizing on a decade-
long boom in the region. Rodriguez-Pastor has cobbled together a
family of companies that offers everything from credit cards to
groceries to mutual funds, making him worth about $3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on his various holdings.  Wave of Wealth  “Our sweet spot is the emerging middle class,” Rodriguez-
Pastor says. “Our big bet is that it’s going to take off.” He
granted Bloomberg Markets his first extensive interview to
highlight how his company’s growth reflects the rising fortunes
of Peru, one of South America’s most impoverished nations.  Rodriguez-Pastor’s story shows how the industrialization of
 Asia  and the commodities boom in  Latin America  have set off a
wave of wealth creation reaching from Beijing and New Delhi to
Sao Paulo and Lima.  After enduring debt meltdowns and hyperinflation in the
1980s and 1990s, governments in  Brazil , Colombia, Peru and other
Latin American nations have embraced free trade and fiscal
discipline. Even left-leaning leaders such as Luiz Inacio Lula
da Silva, Brazil’s president from 2003 to 2010, have produced
budget surpluses and repaid International Monetary Fund loans
early.  Latin nations cleaned up their act just as  China ’s
explosive growth drove demand for the natural resources found in
abundance in the region. While corruption and income inequality
still plague Latin America, not even the global financial crash
in 2008 could derail its robust economies. The region’s GDP grew
6 percent in 2010, and the IMF forecasts it will expand another
4.7 percent this year, compared with an average of 2.3 percent
for the Group of Seven nations.  A Different Reality  No major Latin American country has grown more than Peru
since 2001, according to the IMF. Its mineral-rich, $168 billion
economy jumped 73 percent from 2001 to 2010. Peru, which
defaulted on its sovereign debt in the mid-1980s and suffered
years of runaway inflation and the terrorism of the Shining Path
insurgency, now boasts a solid government-debt-to-GDP ratio of
23 percent compared with 93 percent for the U.S.  The  World Bank  reports that Peru has lifted more than 65
percent of its 29 million people out of poverty from less than
50 percent in 2000. And Lima, a sprawling city of 9 million that
has long been emblematic of Third World misery, is today
bristling with construction cranes and new shopping centers. The
Plaza San Martin, in its historic center, which used to be
overrun by child thieves known as piranhas, is now ringed with
bustling sidewalk cafes.  State of Crisis  “Our generation grew up in a constant state of crisis, and
for the first time, we see a different reality,” says Luis
Enrique Pardo-Figueroa, 48, a Lima-based lawyer who represents
industrial companies. “We feel like Peru is a viable country.”  Rodriguez-Pastor has focused his conglomerate of
supermarkets, department stores, fast-food restaurants, hotels
and movie theaters directly on Peru’s rising tide of consumers.
The group, which is on course to produce $3 billion in revenue
this year, has even started developing for-profit private
elementary schools that immerse students as young as 3 years old
in English. Rodriguez-Pastor and his family control these assets
through IFH Peru, a private holding company.  Intergroup Financial Services Corp. (IFS) , his flagship, is a
consumer-banking and insurance group that trades on the Lima
Stock Exchange. Known as Interbank in Peru, the company is the
country’s No. 4 financial services firm, with more than $8
billion in assets.  106 Percent Return  The bank’s return on equity, which shows how well it
manages its capital, was 32 percent in the first quarter
compared with an average ROE of 7.7 percent for U.S. retail
banks. As of Aug. 3, Intergroup’s shares had returned 120
percent since the company’s initial public offering on June 20,
2007.  The stock’s performance has made Rodriguez-Pastor a
billionaire: IFH Peru owns a 71 percent stake in Intergroup
Financial. In March, he also raised a $350 million private-
equity fund with outside investors under the name Nexus Group,
which buys stakes in many of IFH Peru’s companies.  “Carlos Rodriguez-Pastor understood that our economic
growth would require modernized offerings,” former Peruvian
President Alan Garcia, who was set to step down on July 28 after
completing his second non-consecutive term in office, said in an
interview at the presidential palace in Lima. “He built shopping
centers in parts of the country where none had existed before. I
believe Interbank is, perhaps, the most modern company in Peru.”  Growth in Jeopardy  This new Peru was thrown into doubt on June 5 when Ollanta
Humala, a former army lieutenant colonel, was elected president
after promising more programs to help the poor. Humala has long-
standing ties to Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, and in the
past, he embraced the socialist firebrand’s policies of
nationalization. Humala supports steep tax hikes on mining
operators to fund anti-poverty initiatives and the introduction
of a national pension system financed solely from  tax revenue .
He has pledged not to nationalize Peru’s natural gas reserves
and to respect private enterprise. The Lima Stock Exchange has
increased less than 1 percent from the election through Aug. 3,
and Intergroup slid 10 percent.  “People feel our growth could be in jeopardy,” says Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, Peru’s finance minister, who was prime minister
from 2001 to 2006 and a presidential candidate this year for a
center-right coalition party.  Fled by Foot  Rodriguez-Pastor says he’s confident that Peruvian
consumers will keep spending. IFH Peru’s real-estate development
arm, headed by Carlos Casa-bonne, is building Interbank villages
in Peru’s provinces that bring together the company’s numerous
businesses in one location to maximize sales.  In Chimbote, an industrial city on the north coast, the
company is financing the construction of 5,000 houses around a
town center that features a new courthouse. Interbank will
supply home-owners with their mortgages, and the $170 million
development will be anchored by the company’s Plaza Vea
supermarket, its InkaFarma pharmacy and its movie theater,
private school and burger joint.  “We are in full development mode, and unless there are some
crazy things that happen in the next five years, I see no need
to slow down,” Rodriguez-Pastor says. “We only have Plan A;
there is no Plan B.”  Savored the Action  Rodriguez-Pastor was 9 years old when General Juan Velasco Alvarado seized power in a nonviolent coup in 1968. Rodriguez-
Pastor’s father, Carlos, chief executive officer of Peru’s
central bank, resisted Velasco’s efforts to nationalize
industries. When Velasco ordered his arrest in March 1969,
Carlos Sr. fled by foot across the Ecuadorian border and
eventually settled with his wife and six children in Lafayette,
 California , a suburb east of  San Francisco .  Carlos Sr. went to work as an international banker at  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Rodriguez-Pastor enrolled at the  University of
California , Berkeley, in 1979 and worked as a teller in a Wells
Fargo branch for four years to pay for school. He forced himself
to overcome his shyness by taking a job conducting marketing
surveys in a suburban shopping mall.  After earning a bachelor’s degree in social studies,
Rodriguez-Pastor went on to receive an MBA at  Dartmouth College 
in Hanover, New Hampshire, in 1988. He then moved to  New York 
and became co-head of the emerging-markets sales and trading
desk at Citigroup Inc.  He savored the action on  Wall Street , and in 1993, he
jumped at the chance to set up a New York-based hedge fund at
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  with fellow Citi alumni Hari Hariharan and
Manuel Balbontin. Called New World Investments, the firm focused
on emerging markets.  Returns to Peru  By 1994, Carlos Sr. had returned to Peru and led a group of
investors that acquired a distressed 98-year-old firm called
Banco Internacional del Peru from the government for $51
million. The next year, he asked his son to come and help him
run it.  Rodriguez-Pastor, then 36, was torn. He was determined to
make his own way without his father’s help, and he loved his
hedge-fund career. He also had a long-standing agreement to work
with his dad once they each managed about the same amount of
money. Rodriguez-Pastor was overseeing $1 billion at New World
compared with the $600 million that Carlos Sr. managed in Lima.
He agreed to return to Peru for a spell.  “I wanted my independence, but my heart was always in Latin
America,” he says, sitting at a table heaped with platters of
grilled octopus and other Peruvian delicacies at Central, a Lima
eatery. “So I said, ‘Let’s see how this goes.’”  Assumes Full Control  Four months after father and son joined forces, Carlos Sr.,
then 60, suffered a fatal heart attack on a treadmill during a
business trip to  Detroit . Rodriguez-Pastor, who had invested in
the bank, now assumed control of the company and considered
selling it. Peru, then in the throes of President Alberto Fujimori’s autocratic rule, was roiled by corruption scandals
and the aftershocks of the war on Marxist insurgencies.  Yet the government had curbed inflation largely through
introduction of a new currency, the nuevo sol, and gross
domestic product had rallied almost 13 percent in 1994.
Rodriguez-Pastor bet that Peru was stabilizing and opted to stay
at what is now Interbank. There was only one problem: He didn’t
know how to run a retail bank.  So Rodriguez-Pastor called Thomas Brown, an analyst at
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. in New York who took clients
on tours of U.S. banks. Rodriguez-Pastor showed up for Brown’s
1996 trip with five deputies in tow, and they visited Commerce
Bank and Wells Fargo. They quizzed executives on everything from
customer service to credit card management, to locating ATMs.  Balloon-Filled Playrooms  “What he really wanted to know was: How do you get engaged
front-line employees? How do you get them motivated?” says
Brown, who now runs a New York-based hedge fund called Second
Curve Capital LLC.  Rodriguez-Pastor figured that the only way to break into a
market dominated by Banco de Credito del Peru was salesmanship.
Emulating marketing maestros such as former Southwest Airlines
Co. CEO Herb Kelleher, he cultivated a loose corporate culture
that turned branches into balloon-filled playrooms for kids and
encouraged employees to sell products with humor.  Rodriguez-Pastor, who shuttles between Lima and an
apartment in  Manhattan , has surrounded himself with Ivy League-
trained Peruvian executives willing to perform in company talent
shows. He introduced his management philosophy by riding a
Harley-Davidson on stage dressed as  Elvis Presley  at the company
party in 1996.  Sense of Urgency  He’s also an exacting, detail-obsessed boss who’s fond of
posing as a customer in his supermarkets to see how well clerks
know their shelves. And he imparts his sense of urgency on his
managers, says Luis Felipe Castellanos, the retail bank’s CEO
and a former investment banker at Salomon Smith Barney in New
York.  “I can come out dressed as a clown one day, but we have to
hit our goals every month,” says Castellanos, 40, a Dartmouth
grad.  Rodriguez-Pastor’s push into retailing came about almost by
accident. In 1996, he negotiated a deal to place Interbank mini
branches in stores operated by Grupo de Supermercados Wong, the
No. 1 grocery chain in Peru. He dressed up as a giant carrot and
handed out credit card promotions at the markets. By 2003,
Interbank was operating more than 20 percent of its outlets
inside Wong supermarkets. Negotiations to renew the deal
stalled.  A Serious Threat  “That posed a serious threat,” says Juan Carlos Vallejo,
head of Interseguro, Interbank’s insurance unit. “So Carlos
decided to go out and buy our own supermarkets.”  In 2003, Interbank acquired a troubled chain of 30 Peruvian
supermarkets owned by Dutch retailer Royal Ahold NV for only $70
million and transferred its mini branches from Wong stores.
Eight years later, Interbank’s Supermercados Peruanos unit, with
68 stores and plans for nine more, expects to record $1 billion
in revenue in 2011 compared with $787 million for the bank.  Rodriguez-Pastor says he wants to take his retail group
public in the next 12 to 24 months. And his real-estate unit, in
partnership with a Peruvian builder, plans to break ground next
year on IFH Peru’s most ambitious venture to date: a $500
million project designed by Pritzker Architecture Prize-winning
architect Jean Nouvel that will place three office towers, a
luxury hotel, 300 residences and a shopping mall featuring IFH
Peru stores on 16 acres of the Lima waterfront.  Sheepish Billionaire  Rodriguez-Pastor’s big plans might backfire if Chinese
demand for metals, Peru’s No. 1 export, ebbs. And should Humala,
who was to take office on July 28, pursue radical tax and
spending policies, investors may export their capital to more-
favorable countries.  There’s no sign of worry inside the mammoth tent at IFH
Peru’s annual party. Several young women dressed as Morticia
Addams ask Rodriguez-Pastor, beer in hand, to pose with them for
a smartphone photo. The billionaire looks sheepish afterward.  “I’m a very public figure inside my company but not on the
outside,” he says. As IFH Peru grows more influential, and
Rodriguez-Pastor’s wealth mounts, his days of anonymity are
coming to an end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Robinson in San Francisco at 
 edrobinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  