-- 
Traders Increase Bearish Bets on Bharti Airtel After Profit Lags Estimates

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-08-03T08:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/traders-raise-bearish-bets-on-bharti-airtel-amid-weak-earnings.html
Options traders increased bearish
bets on  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  after first-quarter profit at  India ’s
biggest wireless operator fell 27 percent as costs for
purchasing third-generation phone-service airwaves cut earnings.  Combined open interest, or the number of contracts held by
traders, was 3,435 in  call options , about 60 percent more than
the previous day’s average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Open interest in put options rose 30 percent from the previous
day’s average to 1,493.  Bharti’s net income fell to 12.2 billion rupees ($275
million) in the three months ended June 30, from 16.8 billion
rupees a year earlier, the New Delhi-based company said today.
Profit trailed the 14.8 billion-rupee median estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Massive call-option writing at 440 rupees strike
indicates that the stock is likely to find near-term resistance
there,” Navneet Daga, derivatives analyst at Kisanlal Ratilal
Choksey Shares and Securities Pvt., said in a phone interview
today. “Bharti is seeing bearish buildup as huge costs incurred
for network rollout will hurt company earnings.”  The shares dropped as much as 4.6 percent to 412.7 rupees
and traded at 426.45 rupees at 1:59 p.m. in Mumbai.  Traders are also writing put options at a strike of 400 and
420 rupees, suggesting shares are likely to consolidate around
410 rupees, Daga said.  Bharti, which spent 156 billion rupees at an auction of
airwaves to introduce faster wireless services, has started
amortizing the spectrum costs and interest on borrowings to make
that payment. The mobile-phone carrier controlled by billionaire
Sunil Mittal is also expanding into  Kenya  and other African
countries with its purchase of the assets held on the continent
by  Kuwait ’s Mobile Telecommunications Co. to offset slowing
growth at home.  A call option gives investors the right to buy a security
at a set price by a specific date. A put option gives the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the prices of securities they own, speculate on share-price
moves or bet that volatility will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  