-- 
Rand Pares Its Decline as Gold Surges to Record on Global Growth Concerns

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-03T15:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/rand-slumps-most-in-2-weeks-as-slowing-global-growth-poised-to-hit-exports.html
The rand erased a decline versus the
dollar after gold surged to a record on concern the  U.S. economy 
is faltering and slowing growth will worsen Europe’s debt
crisis.  The South African currency strengthened as much as 0.4
percent to 6.7371 per dollar, reversing an earlier decline of
1.1 percent. It traded at 6.7704 per dollar as of 4:32 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand slipped 0.6 percent to 9.6631 per euro.  Bullion jumped to a record and the dollar declined against
most of it major counterparts after a report yesterday showed
U.S. consumer spending fell in June for the first time in almost
two years and Moody’s Investors Service said the outlook for the
U.S. debt grade is negative after President  Barack Obama  signed
into law a plan to lift the nation’s borrowing limit and cut
spending. Ten-year bond yields for Spain and  Italy  have climbed
to euro-era records.  “The dollar has weakened quite a bit, and the gold price
is strong,” Deon van Zyl, who oversees about 13 billion rand
($1.9 billion) of debt at Cape Town-based Metropolitan Asset
Managers, said by phone. “The data out of the U.S. looks very
weak.”  Gold rose to a record $1,675.90 an ounce in  New York .  South
Africa  is the world’s fifth-biggest producer of the metal,
which, together with platinum, accounts for 20 percent of the
nation’s export earnings, according to government data.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, fell for the first time in
three days, slipping 0.7 percent to 74.023 after Moody’s said
yesterday the U.S. credit rating may be cut for the first time.  ‘Rand Risks’  Concerns about slowing growth in the U.S. and  Europe  are
creating “two-way risks” for the rand,  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in a research note. Economic weakness in the
U.S. and euro region “could result in the rand gaining against
a weak dollar and euro,” while a euro-region crisis would
“generate a rand blowout,” they wrote.  Currency options traders are more bearish on the rand than
at any time in the past 11 months, with the extra cost of
contracts to sell the rand rather than to buy it jumping as much
as 96.75 basis points, or 0.97 percentage point, to 3.40
percentage points, the widest since Sept. 2, based on the
currency’s one-month risk reversal rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  