-- 
Treasury 30-Year Yields Fall to Lowest Since October on Economic Weakness

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-03T21:14:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/treasuries-fluctuate-as-private-report-shows-july-jobs-gain-beat-forecast.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields dropped
below 3.80 percent for the first time since October as  service
industries  expanded in July at the slowest pace since February
2010, adding to concern the economy is slowing.  Two-year note yields touched a record low as analysts
forecast the economy added fewer-than-average jobs last month.
Treasuries rose yesterday as President  Barack Obama  signed
legislation to raise the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1
trillion, averting a first-ever U.S. financial default amid
signs of ongoing debt turmoil in  Europe .  “People are remembering 2008, when the 30-year rallied,”
said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy in New
York at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that
trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “People were short the
back end of the curve because they thought there was growing
credit risk for the U.S. That is being unwound in a very
ferocious manner.” A short position is a bet that an asset will
decline in value.  Yields on 30-year bonds fell one basis point, or .01
percentage point, to 3.9 percent at 5:01 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Traders prices. The price of the
4.375 percent note maturing in May 2041 rose 1/8, or $1.25 per
$1,000 of face value, to 108 9/32.  Treasury bonds pared gains as U.S. stocks erased losses.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed after
dropping 1.6 percent earlier today.  Stocks Recover  “The stock market has recovered,” said  Ray Remy , head of
fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc.,
a primary dealer. “So we’re seeing a pullback from a pretty
good-size rally.”  The 30-year bond yields touched 3.79 percent, the lowest
level in almost 10 months. The yields hit a record low 2.509
percent on Dec. 18, 2008, amid the worst economy since World War
II and credit-market losses exceeding $1 trillion.  Yields on 10-year notes rose one basis point to 2.62
percent after touching the lowest level since November 2010.
Two-year yields rose two basis points to 0.33 percent after
touching 0.308 percent, a record low. The yields on 10-year
notes fell to within 2.23 percentage points of two-year
securities, the narrowest since November.  Executives from firms such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. who advise the Treasury Department said
a cut in the U.S. credit rating isn’t imminent, according to
minutes of their meeting.  Outlook for Downgrade  Members of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, which
met yesterday in  Washington , discussed the implications of a
potential downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating. “None
of the members thought that a downgrade was imminent,”
according to the minutes.  The U.S. will sell $32 billion of three-year notes, $24
billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year bonds on
three consecutive days beginning Aug. 9, the Treasury announced
today. The amounts are the same as the grouping of auctions of
these maturities sold in May.  Rates on the $90 billion in six-month bills due tomorrow
dropped today to negative 0.01 percent. The rate rose to 0.3
percent on July 29, the highest since they were issued in
February, on concern Congress wouldn’t raise the debt limit by
the deadline yesterday.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings yesterday
affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. while saying that
downgrades are possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt
reduction measures and the economy weakens.  El-Erian’s View  “People are unsettled,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “They are not used to seeing
a threat to the triple-A.”  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, dropped to 52.7 last month from 53.3 in June. Readings
above 50 signal expansion, and economists projected 53.5 for
July, according to the median forecast of 75 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The fears of the economy sliding into a double dip are
greater than they were a week ago,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc.
“Sentiment is so poor. It’s hard to get the market to go
anywhere but higher in this environment. Dips are well
supported.”  A Labor Department report on Aug. 5 is forecast to show
U.S. employers added 85,000 jobs in July, according to the
median forecast of 84 economists in a separate survey, compared
with 18,000 the previous month. That compares with an average
monthly increase of 126,000 from January through June. The
 unemployment rate  remained at 9.2 percent, according to the
median forecast.  Treasury yields remained near 2011 lows as Spanish and
Italian bonds rose for the first time in six days after the
Swiss central bank cut  interest rates  to weaken its currency,
stoking speculation euro-area policy makers may also take action
to ease stresses in financial markets. The Italian 10-year bond
yield dropped to 6.10 percent today. The yield on 10-year
Spanish bonds also fell to 6.22 percent.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , facing record
bond yields and calls for his resignation, said Italy is “up to
the task” of tackling the debt crisis as its economic
fundamentals are solid, in a speech to the Chamber of Deputies,
the lower house of Parliament today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  