-- 
RIM Overhauls BlackBerry in Bid to Regain Ground on IPhone

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-03T20:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/rim-overhauls-blackberry-phones-in-bid-to-regain-ground-on-apple-s-iphone.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  is releasing
three new versions of its BlackBerry smartphone simultaneously
in the first overhaul of the handsets in a year as the company
tries to regain ground against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   RIM is introducing the first touch-screen version of its
Bold model, plus an updated Torch slider phone and a new touch-
screen-only BlackBerry, all based on RIM’s new BlackBerry 7.0
platform, said Patrick Spence, managing director for global
sales and regional marketing. The three devices will be
available from 225 carriers, with some operators starting next
week, in the “biggest launch in the history of BlackBerry,” he
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  RIM is counting on the phones, the first new models since
August 2010, to reverse a revenue slowdown that led to RIM’s
prediction in June that sales this quarter may drop for the
first time in nine years. All the models include pinch-and-zoom
browsing and Web-page loading speeds that are 40 percent faster
than the old Torch, Spence said.  “We’re taking it a step further by enhancing the browsing
experience, which is something we know we had to work on,” he
said. With the addition of what RIM calls liquid graphics that
render images faster and make zooming smoother, “it’s an
industry-leading experience,” he said.  RIM rose $1.18, or 4.9 percent, to $25.33 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has lost 56
percent this year.  New IPhone  While the Waterloo, Ontario-based company continues to gain
market share in regions like  Africa  and the  Middle East  at the
expense of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , RIM is losing customers in the U.S. to
Apple’s iPhone and handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. Those devices appeal to consumers with their Web
browsing features and a wider selection of applications.  RIM’s share of U.S. smartphone subscribers dropped 4.2
percentage points to 24.7 percent for the three months through
May, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   AT&T Inc., the biggest U.S. phone company, said today it
will start selling the new Torch slider in August, without being
more specific. The new Bold and touch-screen-only Torch will be
available this year, the Dallas-based carrier said. Telus Corp.,
 Canada ’s third-largest carrier, said it will “soon” begin
selling the phones.  Competing against the new BlackBerrys will be a slew of new
rival models. Apple plans to introduce an iPhone version in
September that boasts a more powerful chip for processing data
and a more advanced camera, two people familiar with the plan
said in June. Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. will release the
Droid Bionic, its latest Android phone, the same month.  Narrowing the Gap  That means that RIM has to have an early and successful
debut ahead of its rivals in the U.S., which accounted for about
40 percent of RIM revenue last year, said  Will Stofega , a
technology analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  “It’s critical that they get a jump start now,” he said.
“They’ve definitely narrowed the gap with the competition.
Display is definitely crisper and had to be, given what we’ve
seen in terms of its competitors.”  The new Bold 9900, first shown at RIM’s BlackBerry World
trade show in May, features a larger keyboard and thinner case.
The Torch 9810 with slide-out keyboard looks similar to the
first edition of the device. The last of the three new phones,
the Torch 9850, is RIM’s first touch-screen-only phone since the
BlackBerry Storm, which was criticized for software glitches.  Spence declined to say whether that older model was being
discontinued, saying only that “we’re trying to keep it as
clear as possible with a Torch, Bold and Curve family when you
look at the BlackBerry portfolio.”  Quelling Concerns  The BlackBerry Curve, one of RIM’s most popular models in
emerging markets, may soon be available with a touch screen, he
said.  “We’ll be back shortly to talk to you about the Curve,”
Spence said, declining to say more.  The introduction of the new phones comes at a critical time
for RIM. Last week, the company said it will cut 2,000 jobs to
rein in costs, leaving it with about 17,000 employees. These
phones are set to be the last models that use the BlackBerry
operating system as the company shifts to a platform called QNX
that run RIM’s BlackBerry PlayBook tablet.  With the new BlackBerry 7 phones debuting now, “they’ve
quelled a lot of concerns,” said IDC’s Stofega. “The sooner
they get to QNX devices, the better.”  Instant Messaging  In the same week as the job cuts, RIM introduced a new
version of its popular BlackBerry Messenger instant-messaging
platform that will let consumers use their own applications with
BBM, as it’s known. BlackBerry 7 is designed to capitalize on
the BBM software and offer voice-activated search, Andrew
Bocking, vice-president of BlackBerry software, said in the
joint interview with Spence.  The Torch slider has a 3.2-inch display, the Torch 9850’s
screen measures 3.7 inches, and the Bold 9900 has a 2.8-inch
display.  The new phones also feature near-field communications, or
NFC, capability that is gradually being adopted as a means of
scanning information or making payments by tapping your device
against a reader.  Individual carriers will make their own announcements about
details on pricing and availability, Bocking said.  While new BlackBerrys have typically gone on sale first in
the U.S., neither Spence nor Bocking would say which markets
will debut the new phones first.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  