-- 
Romania’s Central Bank Leaves Rate on Hold for 10th Meeting

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-03T10:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/romania-s-central-bank-leaves-rate-on-hold-for-10th-meeting-1-.html
Romania’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low for a 10th
meeting as inflation slows and policy makers seek to boost a
recovery amid the U.S. and European debt crises.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  left the main interest rate
at 6.25 percent, matching the forecast of all 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank left its minimum  reserve
requirements  on foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the
ratio for leu deposits at 15 percent.  Central and east European policy makers have kept rates
steady over the past month, with Poland and  Hungary  halting
monetary-policy moves to assess a slowdown in inflation.
Romania, which has left the rate unchanged for more than a year,
is also weighing whether the effect of last year’s tax increase
on inflation has waned, while seeking to spur economic recovery.  “I think it’s the correct decision by the central bank
because inflation will create further positive surprises,
especially due to a very good agriculture output,” Lucian
Anghel, chief economist at Banca Comerciala Romana SA, said by
phone. “I think the central bank shouldn’t hurry with a
tightening as the external environment is still uncertain.”  The  Magyar Nemzeti  Bank kept the two-week deposit rate at 6
percent on July 26 after the sovereign debt crisis weakened the
forint to a record low against the Swiss franc in which most
Hungarian mortgages are denominated. The  Narodowy Bank Polski 
left the seven-day  interest rate  at 4.5 percent last month after
raising borrowing costs by 1 percentage point this year.  The leu, the fifth-best performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg so far this
year, rose 0.1 percent to 4.2330 per euro as of 1:20 p.m. in
Bucharest trading. Romania’s benchmark BET Index fell 1.4
percent to 5224.21.  Rate History  Policy makers have kept the rate steady since June 2010
after a value-added tax to meet international bailout pledges
boosted inflation to the fastest in two years. Before that, the
bank cut the rate four times to combat the worst recession in
two decades and contain price growth after a 5 percentage-point
VAT increase to 24 percent boosted consumer prices.  Romania ’s inflation rate, the European Union’s highest,
unexpectedly fell to 7.9 percent in June from an almost three-
year high of 8.4 percent in the previous month. The central bank
targets an inflation rate of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point, for this year and next and expects the rate to
end the year at 5.1 percent.  The rate may fall to between 3.8 percent and 5 percent in
September, according to the most likely scenario, as a good farm
harvest drives food prices lower and the effects of a government
tax increase dissipate, central bank Governor Mugur Isarescu
said on July 15.  “The inflation will slow substantially in July on base
effects to as much as 5.5 percent, which is still far above the
inflation target range and therefore no cut is justified,”
 Daniel Hewitt , a senior economist at  Barclays Capital , said by
phone. “The economy is spiraling downward, thus there is no
pressure to raise rates and inflation will likely decline
further. The only upside pressure will be from government
adjustments of administrative price.”  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts a 5.5 percent
rate for the year, the lender’s Mission Chief to Romania Jeffrey
Franks said on Aug. 1.  The central bank should keep a bias toward tightening
monetary policy to counter possible energy-price increases even
as inflation slows after the effect of last year’s tax increase
wanes, Franks said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  