-- 
Tropical Storm Emily Will Weaken When Making Landfall Today on Hispaniola

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-03T12:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/tropical-storm-emily-will-weaken-when-making-landfall-today-on-hispaniola.html
Tropical Storm Emily, the fifth named
storm of the Atlantic hurricane season, will make landfall in
the  Dominican Republic  and Haiti today, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said.  Emily will weaken when it hits mountains on the island of
Hispaniola, where the two countries are located, according to a
NHC  advisory  issued at 8 a.m. in Miami. The storm is “poorly
organized” and may strengthen after it passes the island.  Emily is 145 miles (230 kilometers) south-southeast of
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; it has wind speeds of 50
miles per hour and is moving west at 14 mph.  A tropical storm warning is in effect for  Puerto Rico , the
Dominican Republic, Haiti, the southeast Bahamas and the Turks
and Caicos Islands, the center said, and the Bahamas has issued
a tropical storm watch. “Large and dangerous waves” will
affect the islands, while high winds and as much as 10 inches
(25 centimeters) of rain could trigger life-threatening flash
floods and mudslides in mountainous areas, the NHC said.  The storm is projected to move toward the Bahamas and the
Turks and Caicos Islands tomorrow and may reach  Florida  on Aug.
6. Storm-force winds extend as far as 115 miles from the north
and east of the core.  In the Pacific, Hurricane Eugene is expected to weaken
later today and presents no threat to land on its current track,
the NHC said in a  separate advisory  at 2 a.m. Los Angeles time.
It’s 570 miles south-southwest of Baja California, moving west-
northwest at 14 mph with maximum winds of 115 mph. That speed
ranks Eugene as a “major” hurricane above Category 3 on the
five-step  Saffir-Simpson  scale.  A low pressure system over the Pacific has a 60 percent
chance of a becoming a tropical cyclone in the next two days,
the NHC said. It’s 225 miles southeast of  Acapulco ,  Mexico , and
moving west at a speed of 5 mph to 10 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Conor Sullivan in  London  at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 