-- 
Tropical Storm Emily Moves on Course Toward Cuba, Florida

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-04T15:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/tropical-storm-emily-may-strengthen-threaten-u-s-east-coast-this-weekend.html
Tropical Storm Emily is expected to
drench  Haiti  and the Dominican Republic as it moves on a course
that may skirt the east coast of  Florida  this weekend,
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Emily, with top winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
was 90 miles south of Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and moving west-
northwest at 5 mph, according to an advisory posted by the
 center  before 11 a.m. in Miami. The center of the storm will
cross Haiti today, bringing heavy rain and severe flooding to
the island of Hispaniola, where the Dominican Republic is also
located. Storm force winds extend for 115 miles to the north and
east of the center.  “The south-facing sides of those mountains in Haiti and
the  Dominican Republic  will receive upwards to two feet of
rain,” said  Paul Walker , a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania . “It is not a big wind storm but it
is a big rainmaker.”  Warnings remain in effect for the southern coast of
Hispaniola from Cabo Engano to the southern border of Haiti, the
northern coast from Cabo Francis Viejo to the northern border of
Haiti and Haiti itself.  Storm Warnings  Warnings have also been issued for the eastern Cuban
provinces of Guantanamo and Holguin, the south and central
Bahamas, and the Turks and Caicos islands. A tropical storm
watch is in effect for the northwestern islands of the Bahamas.  In the Pacific, Hurricane Eugene’s top winds weakened to
120 mph from 140 mph yesterday, making it a Category 3 storm on
the five-step  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale .  It was 720 miles southwest of  Baja California ’s southern
tip, moving west-northwest at 14 mph.  “It is just going to be a fish storm, so it is not going
to be a problem,” Walker said.  A low-pressure system over the Pacific about 670 miles
southwest of the southern tip of Baja California has a 20
percent chance of a becoming a tropical cyclone in the next two
days, the center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net . 