-- 
Russia Says May Begin Selling Stake in Transneft Next Year

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-03T17:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/russia-says-may-begin-selling-stake-in-transneft-next-year-1-.html
Russia may begin selling a stake in
OAO Transneft, a pipeline operator that ships more than 90
percent of the country’s oil, from next year after President
Dmitry Medvedev ordered the state to speed up asset disposals.  The government will cut its holding to 75 percent from all
of the ordinary shares currently, First Deputy Prime Minister
Igor Shuvalov’s office said in an e-mailed statement today.  The decision flies in the face of opposition from the
Moscow-based company’s management, which says a sale would
hinder its ability to borrow for projects. Transneft President
Nikolai Tokarev in September called privatization “the worst
thing” that could happen to the company.  The company would be forced immediately to repay about $4
billion in eurobonds and may see a downgrade in its credit
rating should state ownership fall below 75 percent, he said.  Transneft is building the first oil pipeline linking
Siberia to the Pacific coast, as well as a pipeline to bypass
Belarus. The company estimates the cost of projects being built
at $34.3 billion, it said today in a statement on its website.  The first link for the ESPO pipeline carrying oil to Asia
may cost 389 billion rubles ($14 billion), it said. The second
link extending the pipe to the Pacific Ocean may cost 327
billion rubles, the company added.  Baltic Pipeline System-2, a link allowing oil to bypass
Belarus on its way to European markets, may cost 100 billion
rubles by completion, Transneft said. The line will probably be
ready to pump oil in October, spokesman Igor Dyomin said Aug. 1.  Medvedev ordered the government, in a speech in June, to
improve Russia’s investment climate by boosting asset sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Nicholson at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net  