-- 
Russian Billionaires Buy U.S. Mansions

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-08-03T16:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/russian-billionaires-buy-u-s-estates-as-overseas-wealth-flows-to-mansions.html
Roustam Tariko, billionaire owner of
Russian Standard Bank and Russian Standard Vodka, completed the
most expensive home purchase in Miami Beach since 2006 when he
bought a $25.5 million estate on Star Island in April.  The transaction made Tariko the neighbor of another wealthy
Russian with a taste for  Florida  luxury living. Vladislav Doronin, chairman of Moscow-based real estate developer Capital
Group, paid $16 million in 2009 for the Star Island home
previously owned by Shaquille O’Neal, the now-retired
professional basketball player.  “In Russia, it’s a status thing now,” Jorge Uribe, a real
estate agent with  One Sotheby’s International Realty Inc . in
Coral Gables, Florida, said in a telephone interview. “If
you’re wealthy and you say you have a place in Miami, it’s like
saying back in the old days, ‘I own a place in Ibiza or Monaco.’
It’s a cocktail conversation thing.”  International investors are buying some of the priciest
homes in America as the broader housing market slumps and a weak
dollar makes U.S. property more of a bargain. Sales of
residences above $20 million are rising in  New York , California
and Florida, which are popular business and vacation
destinations for foreigners, according to  Miller Samuel Inc. ,
 DataQuick  and real estate brokers who cater to luxury buyers.  Manhattan  Record  More than two-thirds of the nation’s residences with asking
prices of at least $20 million were in those three states, said
Rick Goodwin, publisher of  Unique Homes  magazine in Princeton,
New Jersey, which releases an annual list of luxury homes on the
market each March.  Seven homes have sold in Manhattan for more than $20
million in the first six months of this year, up from five in
the same period of 2010, data from New York-based appraiser
Miller Samuel show. The median price of those transactions was
$27.5 million, up 15 percent from the year-earlier period. The
deals included a $48 million sale to Russian composer Igor
Krutoy that set a record for a condominium in the city.  In  Los Angeles  County, 42 houses were listed for more than
$20 million earlier this year, Goodwin said. Six properties sold
above that level through June, compared with four in the first
half of 2010, according to DataQuick, a real estate data service
based in San Diego. Thirteen changed hands in all of last year,
up from seven in 2009.  25% of Deals  The DataQuick tally for 2011 didn’t include the priciest
mansion sold in Southern  California  this year. In July, British
heiress Petra Ecclestone paid $85 million for the late
television producer Aaron Spelling’s Holmby Hills estate.  Brokers with Sotheby’s International Realty Affiliates LLC
sold about two dozen U.S. homes priced at more than $20 million
in the first six months of this year, said Philip White,
president and chief operating officer of the unit of Parsippany,
New Jersey-based Realogy Corp. As many as 25 percent of those
transactions were to international buyers, he said.  “We’re hopeful the second half of the year will be as good
as the first in terms of the very high-end market,” he said in
a telephone interview.  International buyers purchased an estimated $82 billion
worth of U.S. homes in the 12 months ended March 31, a 24
percent increase from the year-earlier period, the National
Association of Realtors reported May 18.  Forbes Billionaires  The precise number of foreign deals for U.S. luxury
properties is difficult to calculate because many purchasers are
registered as trusts or limited liability companies. Jed Smith,
managing director of quantitative research for the National
Association of Realtors, said the number of overseas buyers for
multimillion-dollar homes is increasing, helped by the rise of
emerging markets such as  Russia ,  Brazil ,  China  and  India .  “There’s substantial growing wealth overseas,” Smith said
in a telephone interview from  Washington . “Just go to the
Forbes list of billionaires and see that we’re no longer the
only folks on it.”  Of the 214 newcomers to Forbes magazine’s annual global
ranking of billionaires this year, 54 were from China and 31
from Russia. The Asia-Pacific region had more billionaires than
 Europe  for the first time in more than 10 years and gained the
most of any region, with 105 additions, according to the list.
Moscow displaced New York as the city with the greatest number
of billionaires with 79, compared with New York’s 58.  Aspen Sales  The Forbes list was topped for a second year by  Mexico ’s
 Carlos Slim , who in July 2010 bought a Manhattan townhouse known
as the Duke Semans mansion for $44 million.  Foreign buyers are also turning to resort locales such as
the ski area of Aspen,  Colorado , said Tim Estin, a broker at
 Mason Morse Real Estate  in the town.  “It’s a pre-eminent international mountain resort brand,”
Estin said of Aspen, where luxury properties are selling at
discounts of as much as 30 percent from the peak.  In the last three years, Aspen had at least five deals
above $10 million in which the purchaser was from Russia,
according to Craig Morris, president of the town’s  Morris &
Fyrwald Sotheby’s International Realty .  “Four years ago we didn’t have any Russian buyers,” he
said.  In Miami Beach, Tariko’s home is the city’s only sale
exceeding $20 million since three lots sold on Star Island for
$27 million in April 2006, said Ron Shuffield, president of
Esslinger Wooten Maxwell Inc., a real estate brokerage based in
 Coral Gables , Florida.  Nine Bedrooms  The 15,000-square-foot (1,400-square-meter) mansion at 13
Star Island has nine bedrooms, nine full bathrooms and three
half-baths, said Shuffield, citing tax records. The driveway is
lined with palm trees and the home has views of downtown Miami
across Biscayne Bay.  Tariko declined to comment on his purchase, his assistant,
Tatiana Kapusta, said in an e-mail.  The seller of the property, Thomas H. Morgan, declined to
discuss details of the transaction. Morgan, the founder of
Morgan Energy Corp., a closely held oil and gas exploration
company based in Englewood, Colorado, said it’s no surprise that
foreigners are stepping up to buy while Americans hold back.  “Americans don’t want to put down 80 percent or pay
cash,” Morgan said in a telephone interview. “A lot of
Americans are tapped out.”  Morgan, who said his “hobby” is building trophy homes,
constructed the Star Island mansion in 2003.  Slower Price Gains  New York and Los Angeles were near the bottom of a list
measuring luxury real estate price appreciation in 15 cities
that attract “the world’s global elite,” ahead of only Moscow,
according to a June 4 report by Knight Frank LLP, a London-based
property consulting firm. In the year through March 31, prices
rose 1 percent in Manhattan and fell 2.2 percent in Los Angeles.
Prices in Paris increased the most, with a 22 percent gain,
followed by  Hong Kong , Helsinki, Shanghai and Beijing.  The firm defines luxury as the top 5 percent to 10 percent
of the market in each city.  “Compared to other markets around the western world, the
U.S., including New York and Los Angeles, lost significant value
during the crash and are more fairly priced,”  Liam Bailey , the
head of residential research at Knight Frank in  London , said in
an e-mail. “There is no doubt a surge in interest in New York,
particularly for people looking for deals.”  Selling at Discounts  U.S. home prices in 20 cities are 32 percent below their
peak in July 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index.
While luxury values haven’t been hit as hard, the sellers don’t
always get what they want. The Spelling home in Los Angeles was
on the market for two years at $150 million before selling at a
43 percent discount. The  Miami Beach  estate bought by Tariko
fetched 20 percent less than its $32 million list price.  A weakening U.S. currency helps make the nation’s homes
seem like a good deal, said White, the Sotheby’s president. The
dollar has fallen against each of the 16 most-traded currencies
in the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among emerging-market currencies, the Russian ruble
increased 7.7 percent against the dollar in the 12 months
through yesterday. The Brazilian real advanced 12 percent, while
the Chinese yuan gained 5.2 percent.  For Russians, interest in luxury properties is as much
evidence of conspicuous consumption as it is efforts to capture
bargains, said Edward Mermelstein, a real estate attorney Rheem
Bell & Mermelstein LLP with offices in New York and Moscow.  Making a Splash  “Those trophies, they’re buying them to make a splash,”
Mermelstein said in a telephone interview from New York.
“They’ll definitely gravitate to a property that’s higher
profile as much as to a property with a long-term investment
potential.”  Yuri Milner, founder of Moscow-based DST, which invests in
Internet companies including Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and
Groupon Inc., paid $100 million for a 25,500-square-foot mansion
in Los Altos Hills, California, according to property records.
The transaction is the biggest for a U.S. single-family home
sale this year.  Milner’s spokesman, Leonid Solovyov, declined to comment on
the purchase because it is private.  In Manhattan, Krutoy and his wife, Olga, bought their
6,000-square-foot condo at the Plaza hotel in March. The deal
came six months after the couple completed the purchase of a
$12.85 million home in Long Island’s beach area of the Hamptons.  Gin Lane  The Krutoys razed the Southampton mansion and are building
a new house at the site on Gin Lane, where neighbors have
included designer Vera Wang, shopping-mall magnate Alfred
Taubman and New York Times publisher Arthur Sulzberger.  “He was looking at Gin Lane because that’s what he knows -
- it’s the Fifth Avenue of the Hamptons,” said Susan Breitenbach, a senior vice president at  Corcoran Group , the
Krutoys’ broker for the sale, one of five deals she handled this
year involving Russian buyers. “That’s what they really wanted
and that’s what they stuck with.”  Krutoy bought the Manhattan property because he was seeking
a home in the city, rather than looking to take advantage of a
bargain, said Ilya Bykov, principal at  Protax Services Inc. , a
New York-based firm that provides legal, tax and property-
management services for international clients. Bykov represented
Krutoy in his search, negotiation and closing for the Plaza
apartment, and helped provide legal representation for the
Hamptons home.  Russian buyers “have the money and they always want the
best in everything,” Bykov said of the people he represents.
“Most of these people are buying pied-a-terres and it’s quite
common that the person would buy a luxury apartment in New York
and a condo or penthouse in Miami.”  $100 Million  Kirk Henckels, director of the private brokerage at New
York’s Stribling & Associates, said he was approached by a
would-be buyer from Russia seeking to spend $100 million on a
Manhattan home.  “I said, ‘We don’t have properties that high,’” Henckels
said in an interview.  The most expensive single residential property currently
for sale in Manhattan is the Woolworth Mansion, a 1916 “neo-
French Renaissance” edifice on East 80th Street. The sellers
are asking $90 million, according to StreetEasy.com, a real
estate listings website.  Buyers from Russia and China have expressed interest in the
seven-floor mansion, said Paula Del Nunzio, the broker with
Brown Harris Stevens who is listing the  property .  Extell’s One57  The newest Manhattan condo building to catch the attention
of foreign buyers is a 90-story tower under construction on West
57th Street by Extell Development Co., according to Mermelstein
and Bykov. The property, known as One57, will be the tallest
residential tower in New York when completed in 2013.  The 95-unit building will record “a number of signed
contracts” in the next 30 days for units ranging from $7
million to “north of” $40 million, Gary Barnett, Extell’s
president, said in a telephone interview. He declined to say
where the buyers are from, but said inquiries have come in from
overseas, including Russia.  Among the contracts to be signed in the next month is one
for a full-floor, 6,200-square-foot unit that offers panoramic
views of Manhattan, including Central Park, Barnett said.  “Three-hundred-sixty-degree views, unobstructed. That’s
something special,” Barnett said. “If you were worth $100
million dollars or you were a billionaire, this is something
unusual. If you can afford the best of the best, why shouldn’t
you do that?”  In the Los Angeles area, about 75 percent of the people
looking at “super luxury homes” for $20 million or more are
from countries such as China, Indonesia, Korea and Russia, said
 Sally Forster Jones , a Beverly Hills broker. Forster Jones plans
an October trip to China to seek potential customers, she said.  Glitz, Glamour  Asian clients prefer Bel Air, Beverly Hills and Holmby
Hills, known as the Platinum Triangle of Los Angeles, with their
palm-tree shaded boulevards and history as home to Hollywood
celebrities, Forster Jones said.  “They prefer the West Coast, because it’s much easier for
the Asian buyers to get to,” she said. “There’s a lot of
glitz, a lot of glamour, a lot to do.”  Europeans also like Los Angeles mansions, said Forster
Jones, who shared the listing of Spelling’s 56,000-square-foot
estate. The buyer is the daughter of British billionaire Bernie Ecclestone, the president and chief executive officer of London-
based Formula One Management Ltd.  Russian Interest  Russians are among the best customers for luxury homes in
the Los Angeles area, said Jeff Hyland, president  Hilton &
Hyland Real Estate Inc.  in Beverly Hills, who shared the
Spelling mansion listing with his partner, Rick Hilton, and
Forster Jones.  One example is the 2010 purchase and resale this year of a
$19.5 million mansion by Dasha Zhukova, art collector and
partner of Chelsea soccer club owner Roman Abramovich, said
Hyland, who wasn’t involved in those transactions.  “You have the new wave of the oligarchs with their big
yachts they dock off the beach at Malibu when they’re here,” he
said in a telephone interview. “It’s all about the weather
here. It’s about the ease with which people can move back and
forth in Los Angeles. They can get in their Ferrari or their
Rolls Royce Ghost and drive where they want without need of
security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 