-- 
Russia to Hold Interest Rates Unchanged

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-08-04T06:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/russia-to-leave-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-as-global-growth-falters.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
leave interest rates unchanged for a third month this week as
weaker global growth threatens to damp demand for the country’s
oil and gas exports and inflation slows.  Bank Rossii will hold its refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
after increases in February and April, according to all 21
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Inflation probably slowed to
9.2 percent in July from 9.4 percent, according to the median
estimate of 18 economists in a separate survey. The central bank
may meet this week. The Federal Statistics Service will release
inflation data today or tomorrow.  “The bar for them to raise rates, given what’s going on in
the world, is becoming even more insurmountable,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at Moscow-based  Renaissance Capital ,
said yesterday by phone. “They’ll do absolutely nothing this
time.”  External shocks such as the worsening debt crisis in
 Europe , slower-than-expected U.S. growth and tighter monetary
policy in countries including  China  may support arguments for
Russia’s central bank to leave borrowing costs unchanged. The
world’s largest energy exporter expects consumer-price growth to
slow in the second half as food costs ease.  Interest rates are at a level that will balance risks of
quicker inflation and an economic slowdown for the “coming
months,” the central bank said in a statement June 30 after its
last rate meeting. Policy makers will keep the overnight
auction-based repurchase rate at 5.5 percent and the overnight
deposit rate at 3.5 percent this month, two separate Bloomberg
News surveys showed.  Rate Bets  Investors have scaled back bets for higher  interest rates .
Forward-rate agreements show a likelihood of 23 basis points, or
0.23 percentage point, of interest rate increases in the next
three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ruble strengthened to 27.51 per dollar at the close on
July 26, the strongest in two months. The Russian currency
gained 0.2 percent to 27.8290 per dollar at 10:32 a.m. in Moscow
and added 0.1 percent to 39.8100 per euro.  Central bankers in  Brazil , China and  India  raised borrowing
costs in July to tame consumer-price growth. Russian prices
declined 0.1 percent in the week to Aug. 1, the first weekly
decline in almost two years, the statistics service said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. The inflation rate fell in June
from a 19-month peak as food costs fell.  The central bank expects to keep this year’s inflation
within 7 percent, the slowest since the fall of the  Soviet Union 
in 1991.  External Risks  Full-year inflation may be near the lower end of the
government’s 6.5 percent to 7.5 percent forecast, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters July 21. Economic growth
may accelerate in the final six months of the year because of
rising domestic demand and a rebound in crops after droughts
destroyed a third of last year’s harvest, said Klepach, who
oversees macroeconomic forecasting.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.7 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, less than the 4.1 percent
recorded in the first, Klepach said July 21.  While the government and economists including Alexei Devyatov from Moscow-based investment bank UralSib Capital
predict faster growth over the second half of 2011, a slower
global economy may curb expansion.  “The remaining risks are external, related to commodity
prices, capital flows, and world economic growth,” Devyatov
wrote yesterday in a note to clients. “Recent U.S. macro
statistics suggest the risks of deceleration are growing, which
should have consequences for the Russian economy.”  Oil Prices   The  U.S. economy  expanded less than forecast in the second
quarter, after almost stalling at the start of the year,
according to Commerce Department figures released July 29. GDP
grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate after a 0.4 percent gain in
the previous quarter as consumers retrenched.  Oil declined for a fourth day in  New York  yesterday, its
longest losing streak since May, on concern that a slowing U.S.
economy will curb fuel demand in the world’s biggest crude-
consuming nation.  “It’s clear that a global slowdown would be bad because it
negatively affects oil prices,” said Ksenia Yudaeva, chief
economist at OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 