-- 
Salgado Vows to Carry Out Spanish Bond Sale

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-08-04T07:21:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/salgado-vows-spain-will-stick-to-plan-for-bond-auction-as-turmoil-persists.html
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  vowed to press on with today’s bond sale as the nation’s
borrowing costs hover close to a record high for the euro era.  “ Spain  has never canceled an auction, even when markets
were very turbulent,” Salgado told reporters in Madrid late
yesterday after a meeting with Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. “It is positive to go ahead and show
Spain’s capacity to raise funding.”  The government plans to sell as much as 3.5 billion euros
($5 billion) of three-year and four-year bonds today. The
auction will test Spain’s ability to fund itself while the
nation’s 10-year yield approaches the 7 percent mark that
heralded the bailouts of Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland.  “We watch with concern the stresses in financial markets
and how it affects the debt of the Kingdom of Spain,” Salgado
said. “We treat this situation with concern, with
responsibility and the confidence that we are doing the work we
have to do” and “we estimate this situation could last a few
days more.”  The auction will take place at 10:30 a.m. in Madrid. The
Treasury may have to pay  interest rates  on its three-year bond
as high as 4.98 percent, which is the yield fetched today on the
secondary market. The last time three-year  government securities 
were sold, on July 7, the average yield was 4.291 percent, with
bids exceeding offers by 2.29 times.  Market Turmoil  Spanish 10-year yields have jumped about 70 basis points to
a high of 6.46 percent since a euro region leaders’ summit on
July 21 failed to convince investors the spread of the debt
crisis can be halted by a so-called selective default for
 Greece . Salgado attributed turmoil this month to thin volume
because of the vacation season. Spanish 10-year bonds yielded
6.10 percent today as the spread, or difference, between Spanish
and German bonds of that tenor narrowed to 368.7 basis points
from 385.2 basis points yesterday.  “We had anticipated volatility in August as often occurs
when trading volumes are low,” Salgado said.  She also attributed the situation to the U.S. standoff on
the government’s borrowing limit and unresolved concerns after
the summit, and said she doesn’t expect borrowing costs to
remain so high during the whole month. Commenting on an estimate
due for economic growth in the second quarter, Salgado said it
will be “in line” with expansion in  Europe .  Spanish Austerity  Today’s sale will likely be Spain’s only bond auction this
month. The country still needs to sell about 38 billion euros in
bonds be the end of the year and has completed 60 percent of its
2011 financing, less than the euro-area average of 67 percent,
according to a report by UniCredit SpA.  The Spanish government has tried to counter investor
concern that rising debt-servicing costs may wipe out the
benefits of austerity measures, further hampering efforts to
lighten the nation’s debt burden. Should bond buyers spurn
Spanish and Italian government bonds, the two countries risk
getting sucked into a spiral of higher borrowing costs and
subsequent credit-rating downgrades.  The Spanish  budget deficit , at 9.2 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, was below only Greece and Ireland
among the countries sharing the euro.  Moody’s Investors Service put Spain’s Aa2 rating on review
for a possible cut on July 29, citing “funding pressures.”
Moody’s said the precedent established by the Greek bailout
signaled a “clear shift” in risks for bondholders, and that
one of the main drivers of its decision was the “increased
vulnerability of the Spanish government’s finances to market
stress.”  Zapatero interrupted his vacation in the south of Spain
yesterday and returned to Madrid to discuss the worsening fiscal
crisis with ministers and to brief political parties on the
situation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  