-- 
Samsung Said to Be Examining InterDigital After Being Invited to Make Bid

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-03T20:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/samsung-is-said-to-examine-interdigital-s-patents-after-approach-for-bid.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
second-largest maker of mobile phones, is examining InterDigital
Inc.’s patent portfolio after being approached to make a bid,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Samsung is looking at the patents along with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other potential bidders, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
InterDigital, which holds patents related to mobile technologies
used to transfer information, said last month that it hired
bankers as it considers a sale.  InterDigital’s engineers invented some of the technology
for high-speed mobile phone networks now used by the world’s
biggest handset makers. The King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based
company may fetch more than $5 billion, according to analysts at
Algorithm Capital and Dougherty & Co.  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  and
other companies also are selling their patent portfolios.  Should Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung pursue a bid, it
would vie against Apple and Google to purchase all or part of a
portfolio of about  8,800 patents  on inventions used in devices
ranging from the iPhone to Google’s Android-based handsets and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry. Smartphone sales are
forecast to almost double to 1.1 billion in 2015, according to
Gartner Inc., based in Stamford, Connecticut.  ‘Pretty Risky’  “InterDigital has a lot of key patents,” Lee Seung Woo, a
Seoul-based analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co., said by
telephone. “The fight between Apple and Samsung is getting
serious, so if the assets go to Apple, it could be pretty risky
for Samsung. To hedge the risk, Samsung could go ahead with
bidding, although they may have to pay a big premium.”  Samsung is involved in patent lawsuits with Apple since the
iPhone maker sued the South Korean company in April, saying the
Galaxy devices “slavishly” copied its products.  InterDigital has gained 73 percent since July 18, the day
before it disclosed plans to explore a sale. The stock rose
$8.75 to $71.96 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. Samsung fell 2.2 percent to 833,000 won in Seoul
trading today.  Apple and Google are weighing possible bids, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  Jack Indekeu, a spokesman for InterDigital, declined to
comment. Adam Yates, a U.S.-based spokesman for Samsung, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Smartphone Supremacy  During the second quarter, Apple and Samsung became the top
two makers of smartphones. Their shipments trumped those of
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  for the first time, research firm  Strategy Analytics 
 said last week . Apple’s iPhones accounted for 18.5 percent of
global smartphone shipments, followed by Samsung’s 17.5 percent
and Nokia’s 15.2 percent, according to the research firm.  Samsung ranks second behind Nokia in terms of overall
mobile-phone shipments.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays Capital  will “explore
and evaluate potential strategic alternatives” that may include
a sale, InterDigital said last month.  Google, whose Android operating systems runs smartphones
that compete against the iPhone, lost in a bid for Nortel’s $4.5
billion portfolio to a group that included Apple and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  InterDigital’s patents in cellular technology are “deeper
and stronger” than Nortel’s, InterDigital Chief Executive
Officer William Merritt said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 