-- 
Saudi Banks Lower Loan-Loss Provisions by 52% in Second Quarter

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-08-03T14:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/saudi-banks-lower-loan-loss-provisions-by-52-in-second-quarter.html
Saudi banks, led by  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) ,
reported a 52 percent decline in provisions for bad loans in the
second quarter as lending improved in the Arab world’s largest
economy.  Provisions of 11 publicly traded lenders dropped to 871.3
million riyals ($232 million), from 1.83 billion riyals in the
year-earlier period, according to Bloomberg calculations from
data posted on the  Saudi bourse  website. Bank Al Jazira, the
last to post provisions data on the site, reported today a 33
percent decline in money set aside to cover bad loans to 43.9
million riyals.  Saudi banks have been cleaning their loan portfolios after
large provisions for credit losses reduced their earnings over
the past three years. Provisions in the previous quarter dropped
35 percent to 1.01 billion riyals compared with the year-earlier
period.  “Provisions should remain at similar levels for the rest
of the year, said John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Riyadh-
based Banque Saudi Fransi. “Banks have upped their risk-profile
measures since 2009 in light of a growing economy.”  Al Rajhi , the kingdom’s largest publicly-traded lender by
market value, lowered provisions by 18 percent to 346.8 million
riyals in the three months ended June 30, while  Samba Financial
Group (SAMBA) ,  Saudi Arabia ’s second-largest lender by market value,
decreased provisions by 80 percent to 11 million riyals.  “Corporate profitability has improved in the second
quarter, which will positively affect the repaying capabilities
of the corporate,” said Akef Al Tanbouz, head of asset
management at The Investor Securities in Riyadh.  All banks except Samba reported gains in second-quarter
profit. Al Rajhi’s net income rose 3.6 percent to 1.84 billion
and  Riyad Bank (RIBL) ’s profit advanced 9 percent to 836 million
riyals. Samba’s net retreated 10 percent to 1.1 billion riyals.  “Provisions for the next two quarters will not total above
2 billion riyals, which is very good news for banks’
profitability and prudence,” said Sfakianakis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  