-- 
SEC Paid Bonus to Employee Faulted in Madoff Case, Watchdog Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-03T17:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/sec-paid-bonus-to-employee-faulted-in-madoff-case-watchdog-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission paid a performance-based bonus to an employee for
work on a 2009 investigation related to Bernard L. Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme, even though the person had played a key role in
earlier botched probes of the fraud, the agency’s watchdog said.  Both the employee who received the $1,200 award and his
supervisor who approved it had been cited “for numerous
performance issues and were subject to potential disciplinary
action at the time the award recommendation was made,”
Inspector General H. David Kotz said in a report published
yesterday on the SEC’s website.  The payment was made in part to reward the employee’s 2009
efforts in a follow-on investigation related to Madoff, who had
been arrested in December 2008 for running a $50 billion fraud,
Kotz said. The award was proposed in September 2009, just two
weeks after Kotz had admonished the employee for his critical
role in a 2005 examination and 2006 investigation that failed to
uncover the scheme, according to the report.  Following the recommendation, the agency withheld payment
until April 2010, when an independent review by the firm Fortney
& Scott, LLC, determined that disciplinary action against the
employee wasn’t warranted, according to the report. Kotz said
that Fortney & Scott didn’t dispute the “serious performance
issues” that he had raised in his 2009 review of the agency’s
failure to catch Madoff, and recommended formal disciplinary
action against the assistant regional director who had approved
the award nomination.  New Controls  Kotz’s report didn’t identify the employee or the
supervisor.  Even though the award wasn’t related to the earlier failed
efforts to catch Madoff, Kotz said the agency should implement
controls to prevent awards to staff who are under review for
disciplinary action. The agency agreed with the recommendation.  Madoff, who was arrested in December 2008, is serving a
150-year sentence in federal prison. In his 2009 critique of how
the agency handled Madoff’s fraud, Kotz detailed missed
opportunities dating back to 1992 in which the SEC assigned
inexperienced lawyers to inquiries, supervisors denied requests
to expand probes and staff failed to follow up on leads.  In the report released yesterday, which also reviewed the
SEC’s recruitment, relocation and retention incentives, Kotz
said the SEC’s overall awards budget and average award per
person are “nominal,” and that the agency needs to develop
alternatives so that it is competitive with other federal
agencies’ awards programs.  “While we agree it’s useful to incentivize employees
through cash awards, we often find ourselves needing to direct
our limited resources to monitoring the markets and pursuing
enforcement actions,” SEC spokesman  John Nester  said, declining
to comment on the award related to the Madoff investigation or
on any possible disciplinary actions that have been taken
related to the Madoff probes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  