-- 
SEC Restructure, Germany Antitrust, Greek Banks: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-08-03T12:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/sec-restructure-germany-antitrust-greek-banks-macquarie-compliance.html
U.S. Representative Spencer Bachus
said he is planning legislation to restructure the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to implement changes
recommended by the agency’s inspector general, the  Government
Accountability Office  and a consultant’s report mandated by the
Dodd-Frank Act.  Bachus, an Alabama Republican who leads the  House Financial
Services Committee , said his “SEC Modernization Act” shouldn’t
be interpreted as criticism of Chairman  Mary Schapiro  or any of
her predecessors.  “It is the structure of the agency itself that is the main
problem,” Bachus said yesterday in a statement announcing plans
for the legislation. “This legislation will be a comprehensive
restructuring of the SEC. It will make the SEC more efficient,
consolidate duplicative offices, enable the agency to use better
technology, and strengthen ethical safeguards to avoid conflicts
of interest.”  The legislation would shutter the Office of Compliance,
Inspections and Examinations and move its duties under the
Division of Trading and Markets and Division of Investment
Management. It would similarly split up the Division of Risk,
Strategy and Innovation that Schapiro created as an agency
research arm, re-assigning that role to separate offices inside
the other four divisions.  Dodd-Frank required an independent analysis of the agency,
produced in March by Boston Consulting Group Inc., which found
the SEC is hundreds of employees short of what it needs to
manage its duties and that too many of its offices report
directly to the chairman.  Bachus’ bill would also limit how the SEC can spend a $100
million  reserve fund  set up by Dodd-Frank, requiring that the
money go toward technology improvements.  The agency would also have to submit an annual agenda to
Congress each year.  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz declined to comment on
the bill. His office has issued 11 reports this year examining
SEC performance, making recommendations for improving economic
analysis of rulemaking and investigating “improper actions” in
securing agency leases.  Compliance Policy  Germany Tempers Plan to Split Companies Abusing Market Powers  Germany watered down a plan to create new antitrust powers
to break up companies suspected of abusing their market
position, suggesting government concern at the price-setting
capacity of the four main utilities has eased.  Proposals by former Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  to
split up companies on suspicion of abusing their position have
now been dropped, a  report  posted yesterday on the Berlin-based
ministry’s website shows. The government must instead prove
market abuse.  Germany is revamping antitrust rules to bring them in line
with European Union legislation that already permits unbundling,
or splitting up. Bruederle had targeted  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  RWE AG (RWE) , EnBW
Baden-Wuerttemberg AG and Vattenfall Europe AG, which together
generate about 80 percent of Germany’s power.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered a quicker phase-out of
nuclear power in June that may loosen the big utilities’ grip on
generation as more renewable-energy operators enter the market.
The utilities started to divest their power grids after the EU
stepped up regulatory pressure on transmission prices.  Greek Banks Should Consider Mergers to Help Funding, OECD Says  Greek banks should look at mergers with foreign lenders to
help them tap market funding and shouldn’t rush to reduce their
reliance on the  European Central Bank , according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Greek banks have been left largely reliant on emergency
support from the ECB amid a shrinking economy, downgrades by
credit-ratings companies and concern over their holding of Greek
government bonds. The country has received two international
bailouts and its banks own about 48.4 billion euros ($69
billion) of the country’s sovereign debt.  “Further bank consolidation could be one option to
increase access to market liquidity,” the Paris-based OECD said
in a report yesterday. “Managers and shareholders should,
however, explore the option of partnerships or mergers with
foreign banks.”  The OECD said the financial system will remain “hobbled”
until the public finances are strengthened and risks related to
the economy decrease. The banking system is in a “difficult
situation” and a balance must be found between “adequate
prudential restraints” and allowing enough credit to fuel an
economic recovery, it said.  For more, click here.  For more on Europe’s debt crisis, see EXT4  Greenspan Is Wrong on Equity Rules, Economists Argue in FT  Alan Greenspan , the former chairman of the U.S. Federal
Reserve, who argued in a July 27 article in the Financial Times
that compelling banks to use more equity funding is
misconceived, was criticized by a group of prominent economists
in yesterday’s issue of the newspaper.  In a letter signed by, among others, Anat Admati of
Stanford University,  Charles Goodhart  of the London School of
Economics and  David Miles  of Imperial College London, it’s
argued that tougher capital requirements don’t constrain how
banks invest their funds but merely require them to use less
debt and more equity funding for investments.  Changing the funding mix “imposes few, if any, costs on
the economy,” while offering better incentives to manage risk
and fewer refinancing difficulties because of overhanging debt,
the economists said.  In the 19th century, banks funded their assets with as much
as 40 percent equity, and today banks often require borrowers to
contribute equity of more than 25 percent, according to the
letter.  The signatories conclude that “low equity requirements and
manipulable risk-weighting systems,” rather than excessive
equity, permit systemic risk to develop.  Compliance Action  Google Faces Nine Complaints in EU Probe, Reuters Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces nine formal complaints in a European
Union antitrust probe, Reuters reported, citing two people it
didn’t identify.  Reuters said five recent complaints over Google’s behavior
came from small companies. Three of those were transferred to
the  European Commission  from national antitrust regulators and
two were made directly to the Brussels-based EU agency, Reuters
said, without identifying the companies.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google, declined to immediately
comment on the report when contacted by Bloomberg News, as did
Mark English, a spokesman for the commission.  MetroPCS Is Latest Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Trading in the stock of MetroPCS Communications, Inc., the
wireless communications company based in Richardson, Texas, was
halted by circuit breakers implemented in June 2010.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  companies as well as 
more than 300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes.  New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5, 2011, would
shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system that prevents
shares from moving more than a certain amount.  For a table of securities that have been halted by U.S.
circuit breakers since they were implemented, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, click here.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank to Assist Consob on Inquiry of Italy Debt Sales  Deutsche Bank AG said it will work with Consob as the
Italian market regulator seeks information on the lender’s
reduction in exposure to the country’s debt.  “Deutsche Bank will, of course, cooperate with Consob,”
spokesman Ronald Weichert said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Consob has asked Deutsche Bank for details on transactions
relating to Italian debt in the first half of the year,
including where they were managed from, said a Consob official.  Lloyds May Post Loss on Rising Funding Costs, Loan Provisions  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, may report a first-half loss as rising funding costs
depress margins and it set aside 3.2 billion pounds ($5.2
billion) for mis-selling loan insurance.  Lloyds may post a net loss of 2.1 billion pounds for the
six months to June 30, compared with a profit of 596 million
pounds in the year-earlier period, according to the median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The net
interest margin, the difference between what a bank earns on
loans and its funding cost, may shrink to 2.04 percent from 2.1
percent in 2010,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  analysts including Carla
Antunes-Silva wrote in a note to investors last week.  Lloyds’s funding costs are rising as Chief Executive
Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio tries to wean the bank off state
support and onto costlier wholesale funding. Horta-Osorio said
in June the bank would cut 15,000 jobs and reduce costs by an
additional 1.5 billion pounds as it re-focuses on its U.K.
business.  For more, click here.  South Africa  Bails Out Swaziland as Cash Crunch Sparks Riots  South Africa agreed to lend Swaziland, Africa’s third-
largest sugar producer, 2.5 billion rand ($368 million) to help
its neighbor plug a budget shortfall, said Hlengani Mathebula,
spokesman for South Africa’s central bank.  The South African Reserve Bank will facilitate the payment,
Mathebula said in a phone interview today from Pretoria, the
capital. Central Bank of Swaziland Governor Martin Dlamini said
by phone from Mbabane the “matter has not been finalized.”  Swaziland, a landlocked country of 1.2 million people
bordering South Africa and Mozambique, raised taxes and cut
state spending after losing a third of its revenue when the
global economic crisis reduced trade and slashed income from a
regional customs union that includes South Africa. The  African
Development Bank  wanted the government to cut salaries to access
a loan from the lender.  South Africa’s National Treasury will hold a news
conference today on the loan, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Courts  Macquarie, Bank of Queensland Lose Bid to Throw Out ASIC Suit  Bank of Queensland Ltd. and two other lenders lost a bid to
dismiss a lawsuit that claims they knew Storm Financial Ltd. was
violating regulations before the fund manager and adviser
collapsed in 2009.  Federal Court of Australia Justice John Reeves  ruled 
yesterday that the lawsuit can proceed. Investors will be able
to claim damages from Bank of Queensland, Macquarie Bank Ltd.
and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  if a judge rules that Storm
broke the rules and they knew about it.  The  Australian Securities & Investments Commission , which
filed the lawsuit in December, made a valid claim for relief,
Reeves wrote in a ruling posted on the Federal Court’s website.  Storm, which had managed A$4 billion ($4.4 billion),
induced investors to mortgage their homes, take out margin loans
and put the money into Storm Australian Index Trusts with the
promise their returns would be enough to pay the loans and live
off the proceeds in retirement, according to ASIC’s statement of
claim. The banks didn’t exercise due diligence to determine if
the investors could afford the loans, and failed to warn them of
the risks and costs.  The company collapsed in January, 2009. Storm said at the
time trading losses resulted in a decline in income which the
company couldn’t absorb any longer.  The case is Australian Securities and Investments
Commission v.  Bank of Queensland Ltd. (BOQ) , NSD1797/2010, Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  SEC Claims Biotech Firm Lied About Goat Blood-Based Drug Tests  Four biopharmaceutical executives and their companies
illegally raised $20 million from investors including terminally
ill patients without disclosing that U.S. authorities had halted
clinical trials on a drug derived from goat blood, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said.  Immunosyn Corp. (IMYN) , which claimed its drug had the potential
to treat illnesses ranging from HIV to diabetic ulcers, didn’t
tell investors the Food and Drug Administration had stopped the
trials, the SEC said in a lawsuit filed Aug. 1 in U.S. District
Court in Chicago. The San Diego-based firm also claimed European
approvals were near for trials of the drug, SF-1019, when no
applications had been submitted, the SEC said.  Douglas McClain Jr., Immunosyn’s chief financial officer,
his father Douglas McClain Sr., the firm’s chief scientific
officer, and James Miceli, Argyll Biotechnologies LLC’s chief
executive officer, engaged in insider trading when they sold
Immunosyn stock while knowing disclosures about the drug’s
regulatory status were false, the SEC said. Immunosyn CEO
Stephen Ferrone was also sued over the false statements.  Phone calls to the McClains, Ferrone, Miceli and Immunosyn
weren’t immediately returned. A phone call to Blair Krueger, who
was listed by the SEC as a defense counsel, also wasn’t
immediately returned.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs. Ferrone
et al, 11-cv-05223, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  Interviews/Speeches  Ex-BOE’s Wadhwani and Goodhart Comment at London Event  Former Bank of England policy maker Sushil Wadhwani said he
would probably vote to extend the central bank’s 200 billion-
pound bond-purchase program this year if the economy weakened
further.  Economic data is “gloomy” and if the “tail risk” of the
U.K. tipping back into recession materialized, the U.K.
government should also reassess its budget squeeze, Wadhwani,
founder of Wadhwani Asset Management LLP, said at an event in
London yesterday hosted by  Fathom Financial Consulting . “I
would use both monetary and fiscal policy to ease” the
recession, he said.  In attendance at the same event, former Bank of England
policy maker Charles Goodhart said he wouldn’t vote to extend
the central bank’s 200 billion-pound bond-purchase program now.  “I wouldn’t vote for more QE now,” Goodhart, a professor
at the London School of Economics, said at the Fathom Financial
event. “I would wait and see.”  Comings and Goings  Geithner Says He Hasn’t Decided Whether to Leave Obama Team  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he hasn’t
decided yet whether to leave the Obama administration now that
Congress has raised the debt limit, changing his tone from
previous comments on his future plans.  Geithner earlier signaled to White House officials that
he’s considering leaving the administration after President
Barack Obama reaches an agreement with Congress to raise the
federal debt limit, three people familiar with the matter said
in June.  Since then, Geithner has said several times he would remain
in office for the “foreseeable future.” On June 30 he also
said his son would return to  New York  to finish high school,
“and I’m going to be commuting for a while.”  The House voted 269-161 August 1 to raise the debt limit,
and the Senate voted 74-26 yesterday for the measure.  CFTC Nominee Wetjen Awaits Confirmation Vote in Full Senate  Mark P. Wetjen, President Barack Obama’s pick to sit on the
U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , moved one step closer
to confirmation after a Senate committee voted to support his
nomination.  The Senate Agriculture Committee action yesterday sets up a
confirmation vote in the full Senate. The agency is leading U.S.
efforts with the  Securities and Exchange Commission  to write new
rules, required under the Dodd-Frank Act, for the $601 trillion
global swaps market.  Wetjen is a policy adviser to Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid. He would replace Michael Dunn, a Democrat, whose term
expired on June 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 