-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Likely Little Changed

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/service-industries-in-u-s-were-probably-little-changed-in-july.html
Service industries  probably expanded
in July at about the same pace as the prior month, a sign the
biggest part of the U.S. economy had little momentum entering
the second half of 2011, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, was 53.5 last month after 53.3 in June, according to
the median forecast of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Readings above 50 signal growth. Factory orders fell and private
employers added fewer jobs, other data may show.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is among companies bracing for
weaker demand as unemployment holds above 9 percent and wages
stagnate. The lack of sustained strength in services combined
with limited manufacturing growth point to a broader slowdown in
the world’s largest economy.  “The economy is barely growing,” said  Nigel Gault , chief
U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington. “The labor
market is very weak and we don’t have the  consumer spending  we
need.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. in
 New York . Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from 50 to 55.5.  At the same time in Washington, Commerce Department figures
may show orders to factories fell 0.8 percent in June, the
second drop in three months, according to the median projection
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance.  Manufacturing Cools  The group’s Aug. 1 figures showed manufacturing almost
stalled in July as orders shrank. The ISM factory index slumped
to 50.9, the lowest since July 2009, from 55.3 a month earlier.  Signs of an economy struggling to gain strength more than
two years into the recovery have shaken investors. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has declined for seven straight days, the
longest streak since October 2008.  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter after almost stalling in the prior three months at a 0.4
percent pace. Household spending was the weakest since the
second quarter of 2009, at the end of the last recession.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
congressional testimony in July that the central bank could take
further action if the economy stalls, including beginning a
third round of bond purchases. Policy makers next meet on Aug. 9.  Consumer purchases tailed off toward the end of the April
through June period, with a 0.2 percent decline in the final
month, indicating this quarter is starting on a weaker footing,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  Labor Market  A slowdown in hiring and stagnant wages may keep holding
back households. The jobless rate climbed to 9.2 percent in June
while payrolls grew by 18,000, the fewest in nine months. The
economy also failed to create enough jobs in July to trim
unemployment, economists forecast before an Aug. 5 Labor
Department report.  Private payrolls are cooling. Figures from the ADP Employer
Services, due at 8:15 a.m. today, may show companies added
100,000 workers last month, following a 157,000 gain in June,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Businesses that announced job cuts in July included Merck &
Co., Cisco Systems Inc., and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Executives at Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s largest
package-delivery company, said domestic package volumes were
“relatively flat” in July, and cited an “uneven economic
environment.”  “Given the softness in the  U.S. economy , we expect third-
quarter volume growth to be slow and operating margins to be
similar to last year,” Kurt Kuehn, chief financial officer,
said on a July 26 teleconference with analysts.  Housing, included in the ISM services report, is struggling
to overcome foreclosures and a glut of unsold homes that are
pushing down prices and depressing homebuilding.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  