-- 
Shell Gambles U.S. Rules on Arctic Drilling

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-08-03T16:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/shell-gambles-u-s-rules-on-drilling-before-arctic-freezes.html
Long winter nights and ice that clogs
Arctic seas from November through June haunt  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ’s ambitions to explore for oil off Alaska.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, says it must decide
by October whether to assume that U.S. regulators will issue all
35 permits it would need to explore under the Beaufort and
Chukchi seas next year during the four mildest months, from July
to October.  Shell may win approval within days from  the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement  of an exploration
plan for drilling as many as two wells a year in the  Beaufort
Sea  in 2012 and 2013. The company says that after investing more
than $3.5 billion in the Arctic, it still awaits permits from
the drilling regulator, the Coast Guard and the Environmental
Protection Agency. Some are unlikely to come before its October
deadline to make plans for next year.  It’s a “frustrating and disappointing” slog through a
regulatory maze,  Marvin Odum , the president of Shell’s American
operations, said in a speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in
Washington on July 28. The company must make its decision for
next year by October because Shell faces “investment decisions
that can’t be deferred,” according to spokeswoman Kelly op de
Weegh.  “The blueprints need to be put in place several months in
advance to ensure our program is safe and that the assets and
personnel are available to commence drilling in July 2012,” op
de Weegh said in an e-mailed statement.  Second-Largest Reservoir  Alaska’s waters may hold as much as 26.6 billion barrels of
oil, according to a federal  report , making it the second-largest
domestic oil reservoir after the  Gulf of Mexico . Shell, based in
 The Hague , has been seeking permission to drill since 2007, and
some of its permits expire in four years.  Shell was ready to begin exploration in 2010, until
Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  pledged a review of the Alaska
plans after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s well exploded in the Gulf of Mexico,
causing the largest U.S. offshore oil spill.  Shell has said a spill in the Beaufort Sea may release as
much as 9,468 barrels a day if ruptured, compared with as much
as 62,000 barrels a day that spewed from BP’s ruptured well.  The company has pledged to have  skimming vessels , booms,
tankers, icebreakers, barges and helicopters available in case
of a spill from one of its Alaska wells.  Shell may spend as much as $100 million on equipment such
as a containment dome that would be lowered onto a well in a
spill, Pete Slaiby, the vice president of Shell  Alaska , said in
a May interview.  ‘No Certainty’  “It’s really quite impressive when you look to what they
have built up specifically for the Arctic with, at this point,
no certainty that they will be able to begin the exploration,”
Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican, said in a July 29
interview at Bloomberg’s Washington office. “I don’t know how
much longer they can make the commitment without being able to
do anything.”  Continued delays make it harder to persuade Shell’s top
management to keep investing in the U.S., Odum said during his
appearance in Washington last month.  “When I get questions about the regulatory system in the
U.S., and how much risk is there around investing in the U.S. --
that is becoming a very difficult conversation,” Odum said.  While  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s largest oil and gas company,
and Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP)  also hold leases in Alaska,
their preparations for drilling are less advanced than Shell’s,
Murkowski said.  ‘Guinea Pig’  “Shell right now is the guinea pig,” Murkowski said. “If
Shell can’t make this happen, you’re going to have other
companies who had hoped to be able to move in, that are going to
look at this and say, `You know, if a company with resources and
reserves of Shell can’t make it, why would we put our assets on
line?’”  Alaska’s rough winter and the short drilling season off its
north coast are cited by environmentalists opposed to Shell’s
drilling plans.  Shell’s spill-response plan was based on a hypothetical
accident in August, when weather conditions are better than at
the end of drilling season, according to Leah Donahey, Western
Arctic and Oceans Program Director for the  Alaska Wilderness
League , a Washington-based non-profit organization.  ‘Just One Piece’  “We would like them to have a worst-case scenario in
October, if they’re planning to drill through October,” she
said in an interview. “Shell’s Beaufort exploration plan is
just one piece of several permits that Shell will need to get
and the Interior Department will be reviewing, so we will
continue to submit comments throughout the process and urge the
administration not to approve risky oil drilling in the
Arctic.”  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , which challenged air
permits the company obtained last year, said “we do not know
how to clean up oil in broken ice.”  “Proceeding with oil and gas drilling at this time is
simple and plain lunacy,” Chuck Clusen, director of Alaska
projects for the New York-based group, said in an interview.
“America’s Arctic is our last frontier, and this magnificent
ecosystem supports a vast array of marine mammals: whales, polar
bears, walrus, ice seals.”  Coming to Rescue  Shell’s  draft  exploration plans assume the company will
drill in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas the same year. That way,
a rig from the Beaufort could come to the rescue if there were
an accident in the  Chukchi Sea , and vice versa, according to
Slaiby, the Shell vice president.  Approval for the Chukchi Sea exploration plan may not come
until November because the offshore regulator can’t approve it
until a legal dispute over the underlying lease sale is
resolved, he said.  The 2008 oil lease sale on the Chukchi Sea, in which Shell
purchased $2.1 billion of leases, was challenged by a coalition
of environmental groups and Alaska natives, and a U.S. District
Court judge ordered the Interior Department to revise the
environmental impact statement.  After the amended  statement  is submitted, the court will
determine whether the information provided is sufficient, and
then the Interior secretary has until Oct. 3 to decide whether
to approve the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  