-- 
Shortening Unemployment Benefits Will Help U.S. Jobless: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-03T00:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/shortening-federal-unemployment-benefits-will-help-jobless-in-u-s-view.html
In 2009, Congress extended jobless
benefits to 99 weeks, the longest period in U.S. history. Those
payments were meant to help unemployed workers get through a
tough recession, while shoring up a faltering economy. Was it a
wise approach? And with extended benefits expiring at year’s
end, should compensation be prolonged again?  Drawn-out benefits have been most effective at sustaining
 household income  for displaced workers. State and federal
programs will pay  $129.5 billion  this year in jobless benefits,
according to Labor Department actuaries. Those payments provide
roughly 50 percent of lost wages.  Nearly all that cash re-enters the economy quickly as
recipients pay for food, clothing or housing. For that reason,
jobless benefits have long been thought of as one of the most
efficient ways to prevent  consumer spending  from collapsing
during a slump.  Unfortunately, the 99-week experiment hasn’t been so
successful in helping people get re-employed. Drawn-out benefits
have caused job hunts to stretch out by almost a month -- with
no greater guarantee of success -- according to economists Mary Daly, Bart Hobijn and Rob Valletta. All three work for the
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco .  In a  discussion paper  published this month, the Fed
economists conclude that 99-week benefits have pushed up the
U.S. jobless rate as much as 0.8 percentage point. The long-term
unemployed now account for nearly half of all people out of
work, an unusually high share.  Benefits Run Out  Many of the 99-weekers are exhausting their benefits
without finding work. In June, the average jobless person had
been out of work for a seasonally adjusted  38 weeks , up from
32.8 weeks a year earlier. Meanwhile, the U.S. jobless rate
remains stuck above 9 percent.  Until this downturn, jobless benefits never stretched
beyond 65 weeks, a level briefly tried in the late 1970s. More
typically, states provide six months of benefits regardless of
economic circumstances. The federal government adds three to six
months of federal coverage during downturns, so job seekers can
wait out a slump or be pickier about their next career move.  Offering almost two years of benefits runs the risk of
sidelining workers rather than helping them. Displaced workers’
skills and job-hunting networks tend to be strongest immediately
after losing a job. If claimants shun early prospects that
aren’t ideal because of location, wages or working conditions,
there’s no guarantee of better work later.  Protracted unemployment brings about a  cascade of problems ,
including poorer health and a slim likelihood of ever regaining
prior earning power, according to Columbia University economist
Till von Wachter.  Shunning the Jobless  Making matters even tougher, some employers may be shunning
the long-term unemployed, regarding them as less desirable
workers. Bloomberg News reported in February that the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission was examining whether some
help-wanted ads target only people with jobs or recent dismissal
notices.  Recoveries from most recessions since 1980 have taken place
with unemployment compensation totaling 39 weeks to 52 weeks.
Given the difficulties of getting new spending measures approved
in straitened times, Congress would be well advised to adopt the
39-week standard for 2012, providing an extra 13 weeks of
federal support beyond what states provide.  As matters stand, extended federal benefits are due to
expire at the start of 2012. If nothing changes, jobless
claimants next year will face a bare-boned 26 weeks of coverage
under standard state benefits. That’s not enough, especially
because laid off workers in some states will face even less.
Florida and  Michigan  are among states that will shorten maximum
benefits next year, in response to budget pressures.  By limiting benefits coverage to 39 weeks, the federal
government would free many billions of dollars that could be
used to more effectively put people back to work. We will spell
out promising ways of doing so in a coming editorial.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 