-- 
Siemens to Have Osram IPO Resolve Tested as Valuations Plunge

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-08-03T14:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/siemens-to-have-osram-ipo-resolve-tested-as-valuations-plunge.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  faces a decline in the
valuations placed on its Osram lighting unit by as much as 50
percent, testing the will of the German engineering company to
pursue an initial public offering, analysts including SRH
Alsterresearch’s Oliver Drebing said.  UniCredit analyst  James Stettler  has cut his estimate for
Osram’s value by 32 percent to 3.42 billion euros ($4.9
billion), while Drebing shaved his by almost 600 million euros
to 4.31 billion euros on July 28. Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.
analysts including Ben Elias on March 29 had put Osram’s value
at as much as 7.5 billion euros.  Siemens’ plan to exit Osram, in what could be  Germany ’s
largest share sale in a decade, is coinciding with a faltering
economic recovery that’s hurting sales of bulbs and lighting
systems. Drebing estimates the threshold Osram valuation, at
which Siemens would go ahead with an IPO, is about 4 billion
euros. Osram is the world’s No. 2 lighting supplier.  “The third quarter was a very bad one for Osram, but I
believe that was a slip-up,” Drebing said. “In the end it’ll
be a question of how badly Siemens wants to IPO Osram.”  The business is now worth 3.91 billion euros, down from a 5
billion-euro estimate, according to JPMorgan Cazenove’s Andreas Willi.  Economic growth is slowing as  Europe ’s debt crisis, U.S.
political haggling over the nation’s debt limit and monetary
tightening in  China  combine to restrain the global recovery.
Order growth for plants and machinery in Germany was 1 percent
in June, the slowest pace in 17 months, Germany’s VDMA machinery
maker’s association said on Aug. 1.  Deteriorating Markets  Osram posted quarterly sales of 1.16 billion euros through
June, little changed from a year earlier. The unit’s operating
income dropped 48 percent to 61 million euros, as higher input
costs and pricing pressure narrowed margins.  The deterioration is mirrored at larger rival Royal Philips
Electronics NV. Second-quarter sales of lighting at the
Amsterdam-based company fell 4.4 percent to 1.78 billion euros.
Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization fell 52 percent
to 101 million euros.  Philips on July 18 cut its outlook for sales growth in the
global lighting market to as little as 5 percent per year until
2015 from as much as 9 percent. It also cut its margin target
for lighting to between 8 percent and 10 percent, from 12
percent to 14 percent.  As recently as June, Osram’s enterprise value had been
estimated at 6.18 billion euros by Royal Bank of  Scotland 
analysts including Daniel Cunliffe.  Shares of  Cree Inc. (CREE) , which competes with Osram in light-
emitting diodes, have fallen by about half this year. Cree’s
valuation, measured by enterprise value as a multiple of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
has fallen to 7.8 compared with 20.4 a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  