-- 
Silent Scream of Swiss Franc Shows Great Distortion Amid Great Moderation

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-08-04T08:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/silent-scream-of-swiss-franc-shows-great-distortion-amid-great-moderation.html
Swiss exporters are being tortured as
investors flee the euro region debt crisis for the haven of the
franc’s fiscal virtue.  The franc has surged 42 percent since the start of 2008
against a basket of currencies of Switzerland’s main trading
partners, after remaining little changed over the previous
decade. With the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development now calculating that the franc is the world’s most
overvalued currency, the Swiss central bank yesterday
unexpectedly cut  interest rates  to zero to dull its allure.  The franc has swung away from its 10-year average as
investors pile into the currency to find a haven from turmoil
provoked by the debt crisis in  Europe  and the political standoff
over the U.S. government’s borrowing limit. That’s throttling
foreign earnings of Swiss exporters including watchmaker  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power-
transmission gear.  “We’re losing money every day,” Daniel Frutig, chief
executive officer of AFG Arbonia-Forster Holding AG, a maker of
heating technology, said in an interview in Zurich yesterday.
“Little changes in the currency have dramatic throughputs on
our profits. The situation is extremely critical.”  Frutig said Arbon-based AFG may try to buy its way out of
trouble by acquiring companies in the euro region to spread his
firm’s cost base.  Japan  Intervenes  Japan, also faced with a strengthening currency that
threatened to damage its export competitiveness, intervened in
the foreign-exchange market today. It acted alone in the market,
while officials were in contact with other nations, Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in  Tokyo .  The franc fell to 1.1085 versus the euro at 10:22 a.m. in
Zurich after reaching a record 1.0796 yesterday. Against the
dollar, the currency traded at 77.83 centimes after touching an
all-time high of 76.10 centimes yesterday.  The franc’s appreciation has accelerated in the past month
as European politicians struggled to assure investors that the
Greek crisis won’t engulf Spain and Italy and as President
Barack Obama battled to renew the U.S. government’s borrowing
authority. In contrast to the U.S. and the euro region,
 Switzerland  forecasts budget surpluses in every year through
2015 and boasts a jobless rate of 3 percent.  Swiss ‘Problems’  The franc is also favored because Switzerland has a
current-account surplus, the broadest measure of trade, meaning
it doesn’t need to rely on foreign capital to balance its books.  “We have these problems in Switzerland because we’re in a
very positive situation and because there are big problems in
Europe but also in the U.S.,” Swiss National Bank President
Philipp Hildebrand told Swiss state television SF yesterday. He
also said that there are “no easy answers” to the problems.  “There is a lot of bad news and people are looking for the
safest assets,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic
research at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. “You’re left with the
franc and maybe gold. There’s not an endless list of options.”  Gold traded near an all-time high today and has risen 40
percent in the past year. The franc jumped 36 percent against
the dollar in the same period.  While Switzerland’s exporters have been able to weather
past franc gains partly by focusing on high-quality goods such
as power transmission gear as well as pharmaceuticals, the
current surge is the most severe over the past two decades with
the so-called real franc  exchange rate  increasing 20 percent in
two years, according to the KOF Swiss Economic Institute.  ‘Substantial Pressure’  Swatch Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek told
SonntagsZeitung in an interview published on July 31 that the
watchmaker has to accept declining earnings prospects. Zurich-
based ABB called the franc’s ascent “challenging.” Swiss
chemicals maker  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , based in Basel, said last month
that earnings are “under substantial pressure.”  “The danger is that we’ll face a lack of profitability,”
said Juerg Brand, chairman of Zug-based piping-systems maker
VonRoll Infratec AG, which is paying some salaries in euros.
“Bigger firms will outsource, they will start production
abroad, they will buy from abroad. In the long run, Switzerland
risks losing its industrial capacity.”  Exports account for about half of gross domestic product,
making Switzerland more vulnerable to currency swings. The
benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  has slumped 14 percent this year,
compared with the 8.9 percent drop of France’s CAC 40 Index
while  Germany ’s DAX Index has shed 3.4 percent.  Appreciating Currency  The Swiss central bank has been grappling on and off with
its exchange rate since March 2009. The SNB in June 2010
abandoned its campaign to stop the currency’s appreciation that
led to a record $21 billion loss last year and the franc has
gained 27 percent against the euro since then.  While the SNB yesterday didn’t indicate whether it’s ready
to start selling the franc in markets again, the currency fell
as much as 3 percent against the euro after policy makers said
they are ready to “take further measures” if needed. The
Zurich-based SNB also said it will boost the supply of liquidity
to the franc money market.  For some economists, the SNB will struggle to put a brake
on the franc.  “The franc isn’t driven by interest rates differentials at
the moment, but by investors’ risk aversion,” said Thorsten Polleit, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in Frankfurt. “The
Swiss franc’s appreciation will seriously curb Swiss economic
expansion this year. Today’s measures will do little to
alleviate the situation.”  Economic Slowdown  The Swiss economy is showing increasing signs of slowdown.
The KOF leading indicator dropped for a third month in July,
investor confidence fell to the lowest in 2 1/2 years and a
consumption indicator slipped in June.  In Zurich, home to  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , some
restaurants are touting meals in euros to avoid losing money to
tourists from euro-region countries. At Swiss Chuchi, meaning
Swiss kitchen, located just off the river Limmat, the menu
offers a cheese fondue for four for 126 francs ($161) or 97
euros ($138). The actual bill derived from the spot rate at 7
a.m. each day may show a different total.  “The prices are completely insane,” said Peter Eaver, a
20-year old student visiting Zurich from Norwich,  England . “I
knew it was going to be expensive but I didn’t think it was
going to be as expensive as it is.”  With bond yields on Spain and  Italy  closer to euro era
highs and the U.S. still trying to avoid a downgrade by rating
companies, the franc nevertheless still holds some attraction
for investors. It may remain the “least ugly” among global
currencies, according to Daragh Maher, deputy head of global
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole SA in  London .  “No currency do you look at and kind of go ‘well, that’s
fantastic,’ maybe aside” from the franc, Maher said in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene  on Aug. 2. “All the others are ‘ugh, that’s pretty
grim.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  