-- 
MSMB Capital Makes Unsolicited $378 Million Bid for Amag Pharmaceuticals

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-08-03T20:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/msmb-capital-offers-378-million-to-take-over-anemia-drug-maker-amag.html
MSMB Capital Management , a  New York- 
based hedge fund, made an unsolicited, $378 million takeover bid
for  Amag Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMAG)  and said it will fire the
drugmaker’s top management if successful.  MSMB Capital will offer $18 a share in cash for Lexington,
Massachusetts-based Amag, 25 percent more than yesterday’s
closing price, the fund said today in a statement. MSMB Capital,
already an investor in Amag, thinks the company has been
mismanaged and opposes its proposed merger with  Allos
Therapeutics Inc. (ALTH) , Martin Shkreli, chief investment officer,
said yesterday in an interview.  “This is a universally hated deal,” Shkreli said.
“People want this deal to stop. They want an alternative, and
I’m offering it to them.”  Sales fell 20 percent in the second quarter for Amag’s
biggest drug, a treatment for iron deficiencies called Feraheme,
after changes in U.S. Medicare payments cut its use in dialysis
clinics. Amag shares have fallen 49 percent in the past year and
1.9 percent since the Allos merger announcement on July 20.  Amag rose $1.61, or 11 percent, to $16 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Westminster, Colorado-based
Allos, maker of a blood cancer treatment, was unchanged at
$1.78.  ‘No Guarantee’  “There is no guarantee that this deal would materialize,”
Eun K. Yang, a Jefferies & Co. Inc. analyst in New York, said of
the MSMB bid in a note to clients. “To us, it is more to derail
the proposed Allos transaction.” The analyst recommended
selling the stock “to take profits on today’s share strength.”  Five more analysts recommend buying Amag stock while four
rate it a “hold,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The companies said July 20 that their all-stock combination
would value the merged business at $686 million and lead to
annual savings of $55 million to $60 million a year.  The two companies already share a common customer base, in
hospitals and cancer clinics that use Amag’s anemia drug and
Allos’ lymphoma treatment, Folotyn, according to their July 20
statement. The U.S. lymphoma market represents a $400 million
opportunity and the merged companies may potentially earn more
than $530.5 million in milestone payments and royalties from
partnerships with other drugmakers, they said.  Enhancing Value  “We continue to believe that the proposed merger with
Allos represents a transaction that enhances value for our
shareholders,” said Frank Thomas, the company’s chief financial
officer, in a telephone interview today. He and a spokeswoman,
Carol Miceli, declined to comment further.  Amag’s board “will carefully consider and evaluate the
MSMB proposal in due course” and will inform shareholders of
its position, the drugmaker said in a separate statement.  If he wins control of the company, Shkreli said he’d
dismiss top management at Amag, starting with Chief Executive
Officer Brian Pereira. Pereira, who took over in July 2007, has
failed to diversify the company beyond Feraheme and hasn’t done
enough to cut waste, Shkreli said.  The time for Amag to propose a deal like the Allos merger
was two years ago or more, when its stock was near $60 and could
fetch more in return, Shkreli said.  “When your stock goes from $60 to $14, there’s something
wrong,” he said. “The hope is to get management fired and then
we can negotiate with the board on a much less emotional
level.”  Increased Offer  The hedge fund may increase its offer, which is contingent
on reaching an agreement with Amag before Sept. 11, according to
a letter sent to the drugmaker’s board. While MSMB Capital has
enough cash to pay for the company, it also is seeking financing
for the deal, Shkreli said.  “MSMB is a long-term investor in Amag and believes that
the management’s current strategy does not protect the interests
of Amag’s stockholders or ensure Amag’s long-term viability,”
the fund said in its statement.  Shkreli said MSMB owns about 5 percent of Amag. He declined
to give details of MSMB’s assets under management. The fund has
10 employees, and its investors include about 20 “high net-
worth individuals’ as well as other investment funds, he said.  Amag had $239.2 million in cash and short-term investments
as of June 30, according to its second-quarter earnings
statement. It also had $50.9 million in long-term borrowings and
liabilities.  SeraCare Bid  In June, MSMB Capital made an unsolicited bid for  SeraCare
Life Sciences Inc. (SRLS) , a Milford, Massachusetts-based maker of
products used in drug research and diagnostic testing. Since
then, SeraCare announced the departure of its chief executive
officer, Susan Vogt, and said it would explore “strategic
alternatives,” including a possible sale.  While it’s hard to gauge the credibility of Shkreli’s
offer, the bid “does raise some valid points,” said
Christopher Raymond, a Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst in  Chicago ,
in a note to clients.  “We have struggled with the logic behind the need for the
Allos deal,” he wrote. Amag shares don’t represent the value of
Feraheme’s potential growth or a possible sale of the company,
he said.  “We continue to believe shareholders will ultimately see
this value - whether it is delivered by management, MSMB or some
other player,” Raymond said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  