-- 
Societe Generale May Miss Target After Net Falls on Greece

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-08-03T15:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/societe-generale-may-miss-2012-earnings-target-after-greek-debt-writedown.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s second-
largest bank, said the company may miss its 2012 earnings target
after second-quarter profit fell 31 percent because of a
writedown on Greek government debt.  The shares plunged to their lowest in more than two years
after the bank said net income dropped to 747 million euros
($1.06 billion) from 1.08 billion euros a year earlier. That’s
below the 1.01 billion-euro average estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The lender took a 395 million-euro pretax
writedown on its Greek sovereign-debt holdings.  Societe Generale’s target of reaching net income of 6
billion euros in 2012 “appears difficult to attain from now
on,” it said in a statement today. Chief Executive Officer
 Frederic Oudea , 48, had reiterated the goal in May.  The Paris-based company follows  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  in writing down holdings of Greek debt after signing the
 Institute of International Finance ’s rescue plan last month.
Societe Generale’s earnings also were hurt by the lender’s
international consumer-banking unit, which posted a 7.2 percent
decline in profit in the quarter.  The bank “recognizes there are clouds hanging over
macroeconomic prospects and over the markets,” said Alex Koagne, a Paris-based analyst at Natixis SA who has a “buy”
rating on the stock.  Societe Generale fell 9 percent to 29.59 euros in Paris
trading, its lowest since April 2009. That gives the company a
market value of about 23 billion euros.  ‘Less Visibility’  “The second quarter marked maybe a kind of rupture,”
Oudea told reporters in Paris today. “We are probably entering
a period of 12 to 18 months with a more wait-and-see attitude
from investors and firms, with less visibility.”  Should Societe Generale abandon its earnings target
altogether, it would join UBS AG.  Switzerland ’s largest bank
scrapped its 2014 profit goal last week after second-quarter net
income dropped 49 percent following a slump in investment-
banking earnings.  Societe Generale’s Greek exposure was one reason Moody’s
Investors Service said on June 15 that it was reviewing the
ratings of the bank along with BNP Paribas and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , in anticipation of a downgrade. French lenders held more
Greek loans than banks from any other European country at the
end of 2010, according to figures from the Basel, Switzerland-
based  Bank for International Settlements .  BNP Paribas said yesterday second-quarter profit advanced
1.1 percent as higher consumer-banking earnings helped cushion a
534 million-euro provision for its Greek government debt.  Credit
Agricole  reports its earnings for the period on Aug. 25.  Geniki Provisions  Societe Generale’s second-quarter profit from consumer-
banking networks outside of France fell to 116 million euros
from 125 million euros a year earlier. That beat analysts’
estimates for 96 million euros. Bad-loan provisions at its
unprofitable Athens-based unit  Geniki Bank (TGEN)  SA remained “at a
high level,” the company said. The lender has never earned a
penny from Geniki since buying a majority stake in 2004.  Societe Generale had a net loss of 73 million euros from
Geniki in the second quarter and the loss will probably stay at
the “same order of magnitude” quarterly until the end of the
year, Chief Financial Officer Didier Valet said.  Risky Assets  Oudea, who took over three years ago after Societe Generale
suffered a record trading loss from unauthorized bets by a
single trader, told shareholders on May 24 that the bank was
“on a good track” to reach its 2012 profit goal. Earnings
jumped almost sixfold last year to 3.92 billion euros as
provisions for risky assets declined.  Oudea has said he plans to balance earnings from corporate
and investment banking with higher revenue from  consumer lending 
in countries such as  Russia . He became CEO in May 2008, four
months after the company announced a 4.9 billion-euro trading
loss it blamed on  Jerome Kerviel . Oudea added the title of
chairman in 2009, when  Daniel Bouton  stepped down.  The French bank also has had about 11 billion euros of
losses since 2007 from risky assets, including asset-backed
securities. The risky assets generated 43 million euros of
revenue in the second quarter, while provisions rose to 130
million euros from 97 million euros a year earlier.  Societe Generale still had 27.1 billion euros of securities
in its legacy assets division, which holds risky assets whose
market value plummeted during the financial crisis.  Profit at Societe Generale’s corporate- and investment-
banking division advanced 9.5 percent to 449 million euros as
capital-markets sales increased 11 percent, helped by a “good
performance” of structured products, the bank said.  Rivals’ Job Cuts  European lenders including Switzerland’s Credit Suisse
Group AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by
assets, have announced job cuts in the past week after reporting
declines in second-quarter investment-banking profit as the
continent’s sovereign-debt crisis hurt trading.  “Compared to many players, we have a different investment
policy” in corporate and investment banking, Oudea said,
without referring to any specific competitor. “We did not
recruit thousands of people in 2009 and we have not envisioned
massive layoff plans.”  Revenue at the corporate- and investment-banking unit will
probably be “weaker than the initial target,” Oudea said when
asked whether the company can reach its 2012 goal of 9.5 billion
euro in annual sales at the division.  Provisions Gain  Societe Generale’s overall provisions rose to 1.19 billion
euros in the second quarter from 1.01 billion euros a year
earlier, hurt by the Greek sovereign-debt writedown, the bank
said. Excluding the Greek debt loss, provisions fell.  Profit at the French consumer-banking network climbed 23
percent to 384 million euros, beating analysts’ estimates for
366 million euros. Societe Generale’s earnings from its
insurance and financial-services division rose 59 percent to 146
million euros, the company said.  Societe Generale can reach a core Tier 1 ratio, a key
indicator of financial strength, of above 9 percent by the end
of 2013 under new Basel III rules, the bank said. Core Tier 1
under  Basel II  rose to 9.3 percent by June 30 from 8.5 percent
at the end of December. Oudea said today the bank has
“completely” ruled out any rights offer.  Societe Generale is now aiming for a return on equity, a
measure of profitability, of between 12 percent and 15 percent,
Oudea said, without giving a specific time frame. The bank
previously forecast 14 percent to 15 percent for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  