-- 
South Africa Bails Out Swaziland After Cash Crisis Fueled Union-Led Riots

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-03T15:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/south-africa-provides-368-million-loan-to-swaziland-central-bank-says.html
South Africa  agreed to lend
Swaziland, Africa’s third-largest sugar producer, 2.4 billion
rand ($356 million) to help its neighbor plug a budget shortfall
that sparked riots in April.  South Africa’s government will guarantee the loan that will
be paid through the central bank, Finance Minister  Pravin
Gordhan  told reporters in the capital,  Pretoria , today. Reserve
Bank spokesman Hlangeni Mathebula had earlier said the loan was
2.5 billion rand.  Swaziland, a landlocked country of 1.2 million people
bordering South Africa and  Mozambique , raised taxes and cut
state spending this year after losing a third of its revenue
when the global economic crisis slashed income from a regional
customs union. Police fired tear gas, rubber bullets and water
cannons to break up anti-government riots in April. The state
may need to cut salaries by half if loan requests are rejected,
Swazi Finance Minister Majozi Sithole said June 27.  The crisis “has manifested in a budget shortfall that the
government of the Kingdom of  Swaziland  is unable to finance,”
Gordhan said. “While the need for fiscal reforms is the primary
objective, this has to be anchored by governance reforms.”  Rand Peg  The Swazi currency, the lilangeni, is pegged one-to-one
with the rand, which weakened 0.2 percent to 6.7805 per dollar
as of 4:40 p.m. in Johannesburg. The average yield on 182-day
Treasury Bills jumped to 6.446 percent at a July 27 auction by
Swaziland’s central bank from 5.8 percent on Jan. 20. The
equivalent notes by South Africa’s central bank were 5.72
percent on July 29.  No competitive bids were received for 100 million
emalangeni ($14.8 million) worth of 91-day and 182-day bills
today, the country’s central bank said in an e-mailed statement.  The loan is conditional on “governance reforms” in
Swaziland and the government holding talks with “all
stakeholders” in the country, Gordhan said. Swaziland is also
required to cut fiscal spending and protect the currency peg, he
said.  Labor unions in Swaziland and South  Africa  have demanded
political reforms in sub-Saharan Africa’s last absolute monarchy
and are opposed to a bailout that doesn’t include that
condition.  The 43-year-old King Mswati III appoints the country’s
prime minister, while its lawmakers aren’t allowed to belong to
political parties. Mswati, who has ruled the nation for 25
years, has 14 wives and a personal fortune of $200 million,
according to Forbes magazine.  Wage Cuts  South Africa, which has an unemployment rate of 25.7
percent, is concerned a collapse in Swaziland may lead to a
“flood” of immigrants across its border, Jerry Matjila, the
director-general of South Africa’s international relations
department, said June 22.  Gordhan said Swaziland must cut fiscal spending in line
with targets set by the  International Monetary Fund . The IMF has
recommended Swaziland cut state salaries by 10 percent.  The European Union said the financial aid it gives to
Swaziland is “ongoing” and doesn’t involve budget support to
the country. The EU pledged in 2007 to give Swaziland 2.2
billion rand in the six years through 2013, most of it to the
sugar industry, it said in an e-mailed statement today  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  