-- 
South Africa’s Ruling ANC Party Says Youth Wing Undermining Party Leaders

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-03T16:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-party-says-youth-wing-undermining-party-leaders.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  accused its youth wing of undermining its
leadership, the latest sign of a rift within its ranks.  Julius Malema, the leader of the youth league, has been
pushing for the government to nationalize mines, banks and land,
and on July 30 called for regime change in Botswana, which he
accused of being a puppet of the U.S.  “When it comes to the ANC youth league, we have had many
incidents that show the desire to undermine the ANC
leadership,”  Gwede Mantashe , the party’s secretary-general,
said in an e-mailed statement today. The challenge to the ANC’s
position on Botswana “constitutes a serious transgression.”  The comments come after the youth league yesterday rebuffed
earlier criticism of Malema’s comments, saying in an e-mailed
statement the party had no right to criticize it publicly and
that it stood by its statements. The ANC had called Malema’s
statement “extremely thoughtless and embarrassing” and showed
the youth league has “clearly crossed the political line.”  Malema said on Sept. 30 that Botswana’s government posed a
threat to regional security because of its close ties to the
U.S. and the league would help opposition parties in Botswana
oust the “puppet government” of President Ian Khama.  Mantashe Challenge  Local newspapers have reported that the league wants to
replace Mantashe with former youth league leader Fikile Mbalula
when the ANC holds leadership elections in December next year.  Botswana is the world’s largest diamond producer and has
Africa’s highest credit rating. Khama was the only leader of the
15-nation  Southern African Development Community  to publicly
reject assertions by Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe  that he
won 2008 elections. Malema said Botswana was in the process of
creating a “military base of imperialism” in the country and
“we cannot have a neighbor like that.”  The “ANC clearly has no policy of supporting regime
changes even in countries governed by parties who may not share
our ideological outlook,” Mantashe said. “We believe in the
respect of the sovereignty of other countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders in  London  at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 