-- 
Southern Reactor Work Before Approval a ‘Danger,’ Markey Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-03T20:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/southern-reactor-work-before-approval-a-danger-markey-says.html
A  Southern Co. (SO)  request to start
building two  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  reactors in Georgia before the design
is approved should be rejected by the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, U.S. Representative  Edward Markey  said.  Southern proposed in May that the Atlanta-based company be
allowed to begin some foundation-related construction on
generators at its Vogtle power plant so it can stay on schedule
to open in 2016 and 2017, spokesman Steve Higginbottom said
today in an interview.  The utility may not get the federal license to build and
operate the $14 billion project this year as it anticipated. The
NRC is reviewing the AP1000 reactor design, developed by
Toshiba’s  Westinghouse Electric Co . and selected by the company
for Vogtle. The NRC hasn’t issued a construction permit for a
new reactor in more than 30 years.  “Putting the public in potential danger by relaxing the
application of safety regulations to help the nuclear industry
meet deadlines is simply irresponsible,” Markey, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said in a letter to NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  released today.  Southern won an $8.33 billion conditional commitment from
the Energy Department in February 2010 for loan guarantees on
the reactors at the plant, near Waynesboro, Georgia.  The NRC has already given Southern permission to perform
limited construction, including digging a hole for the
foundation and preparing it for later work, Scott Burnell, an
agency spokesman, said in an interview.  ’Limited Work’  Southern “cannot build” a new reactor with this “limited
work authorization,” he said. “They need a full combined
license to do that.” Such licenses let plant owners build and
operate new reactors.  The company wants to broaden the scope of the permitted
preparation to lay some concrete and perform additional
foundation work, Higginbottom said.  The NRC must complete certification of the reactor design
before it can issue a combined license for the plant, Burnell
said in an e-mail. The NRC’s decision on Southern’s license is
currently expected by December, he said. It may slip until early
next year, Southern Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom Fanning said on a July 27 call with investors.  The NRC’s approval of the AP1000 design would affect
pending applications for reactors in Alabama, Florida,  Georgia ,
 North Carolina  and  South Carolina , according to Markey’s letter.  The agency, which is weighing approval of reactors and
considering regulations on the U.S. industry after  Japan ’s
nuclear disaster, in May sought additional information on how
the AP1000 would fare in earthquakes and other accidents. An
earthquake and tsunami in March led to meltdowns and radiation
leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
which uses a different reactor design. An NRC structural
engineer in November questioned the sturdiness of the
Westinghouse reactor’s shield building.  The NRC has received seven applications to build AP1000
reactors since 2007. Developers include  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  of
Charlotte, North Carolina, the Tennessee Valley Authority and
 Scana Corp. (SCG)  of Cayce, South Carolina. The combined cost to build
the reactors is $95.27 billion, according to developer
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  