-- 
South African Bond Yields Fall to 8-Month Lows on Economic Growth Outlook

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-03T15:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/south-african-bond-yields-fall-to-8-month-lows-on-economic-growth-outlook.html
South African  government bonds 
surged, driving four-year yields to the lowest in eight months,
as reports signaled slowing growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy
and yields breached technical levels that triggered buy orders.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 32 cents to 122.29
rand as of 4:24 p.m. in Johannesburg, reducing the yield nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.12 percent, the
lowest since Nov. 23. The yield has declined 25 basis points in
the past four trading days.  The Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged on July 21 for a fourth consecutive meeting after
cutting it three times last year to 5.5 percent, even as
inflation rose to the highest rate in 15 months in June.
Investors are betting rates won’t rise this year as the central
bank supports a recovery in the country’s economy, which it
described as “fragile”.  “The outlook for the local economy remains weak and rates
are expected to stay on hold well into 2012,” Tradition
Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “Fundamentally, local bonds
are attractive.”  Bonds may extend gains, driving the yield on the 2015 notes
to 7.05 percent after breaching 7.20 percent, a significant
technical level where traders clustered orders to buy the debt,
according to Deon van Zyl, who helps manage about 13 billion
rand ($1.9 billion) of debt at Cape Town-based Metropolitan
Asset Managers.  “We’ve broken some technical levels, and the guys are
trying to push yields lower,” Van Zyl said by phone. “The data
out of the U.S. is looking weak.”  Rate Expectations  Forward-rate agreements starting in December, which
investors use to lock in borrowing costs, dropped two basis
points today to 5.68 percent, indicating traders see less chance
of an  interest-rate  increase in November, when the Monetary
Policy Committee meets for the last time this year. The rate has
declined from 5.9 percent on May 16, the highest this year.  South African vehicle sales rose at a slower pace in July
than the month before as unemployment increased and economic
growth eased in Africa’s largest economy, the National
Association of Automobile Manufacturers of  South Africa  said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. The nation’s purchasing
managers’ index dropped to a two-year low in July, Kagiso Tiso
Holdings said on Aug. 1.  ‘Low-Growth Environment’  South Africa is facing “a low-growth environment which
could benefit bonds, at least initially, as the real and
inflation components of the nominal yield are depressed,” Rand
Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet said in a research
note.  Foreign investor demand for South African bonds supported
the rally, the Rand Merchant Bank analysts said. The extra yield
investors receive for buying South African 10-year bonds over
U.S. Treasuries is 5.4 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The spread has widened from 5.57
percentage points on July 12, the highest this year.  Foreign investors bought 1.02 billion rand ($150.3 million)
of South African bonds in the first two days of this week,
bringing the amount bought by foreigners this year to 45.2
billion rand, according to the JSE Ltd., which runs the
country’s bond and stock exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  