-- 
Spielberg to Get Smaller Payday as ‘Cowboys & Aliens’ Misfires With Fans

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-03T17:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/spielberg-to-get-smaller-paycheck-as-cowboys-aliens-misfires.html
“Cowboys & Aliens,” the space-
invaders western that barely beat “The Smurfs” in theaters
last weekend, will return light paychecks to some of Hollywood’s
heaviest hitters, including  Steven Spielberg .  Executive producer Spielberg, producers  Brian Grazer  and
Ron Howard, director Jon Favreau and stars like  Harrison Ford 
and Daniel Craig usually command a percentage of a film’s
revenue, as well as a salary. In “Cowboys & Aliens,” made for
$163 million, expenses must be recouped before such shares are
paid, said three people with knowledge of the situation who
declined to speak publicly because the agreements are private.  That may never happen, given the ticket sales and
competition starting with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s “Rise of the Planet of
the Apes” on Aug. 5, said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with
Wunderlich Securities. The parties probably accepted the terms
to get the film made. Rights to “Cowboys & Aliens,” based on a
graphic novel, were first sold 14 years ago.  “It is a tough economic time,” said John Schulman, a
former general counsel for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., who
wasn’t a party to the movie’s contracts. “To get something done
everyone’s got to make some compromise.”  Studios such as “Cowboys & Aliens” distributor  Universal
Pictures , part of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , have been changing how they pay
directors and actors, trying to improve the economics of film-
making by recovering production and marketing costs first and
awarding incentive compensation from a profit pool later.  In “Cowboys & Aliens,” the participants will be entitled
to 50 percent of the film’s earnings if it breaks even, one of
the people said.  Cast of Producers  “Cowboys & Aliens” was produced by DreamWorks Studios
SKG, Spielberg’s closely held company, Universal and Relativity
Media LLC, the studio created by film financier Ryan Kavanaugh.
Reliance Big Entertainment, the Mumbai-based company with a $325
million equity stake in DreamWorks, is listed as a production
company, along with Imagine Entertainment.  In all, “Cowboys & Aliens” has 16 producers and eight
credited writers.  The film generated $36.4 million in its opening three-day
weekend in U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Box Office
Mojo, which also estimated the production cost. “The Smurfs,”
from  Sony Corp. (6758) , collected $35.6 million for second place.  “For this type of movie it’s soft,”  Brandon Gray ,
president of Box Office Mojo, said in an interview. “And that
means it’s more likely to lose money in the market.” The
numbers of theaters showing the film will shrink as the weeks go
by, he said.  High Hurdle  Marvin Levy, a spokesman for Spielberg, declined to
comment, as did Michael Rosenberg, a spokesman for Grazer and
Howard’s Imagine Entertainment, producer of Oscar winners
including “A Beautiful Mind.” Adam Keen of Relativity Media,
also declined to comment, along with a Universal spokeswoman.  Ina Treciokas, a publicist for Ford and Favreau, said the
actor and director had no comment.  With a $163 million production cost, plus marketing and
distribution fees, the movie is unlikely to earn a profit during
its worldwide theatrical run, according to  Tony Wible , an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “I’m not sure they’ll ever get there,” Wible said. It may
reach profitability in the DVD and pay-TV markets, he said.  “Cowboys & Aliens” is expected to collect $88 million to
$93 million in U.S. cinemas, the estimate of Boxoffice.com, a
website that tracks films. It opens overseas next week in some
markets, and could take in twice that much internationally,
based on other summer action films tracked by Box Office Mojo.
Studios split the proceeds with theater operators.  Box-Office Performance  When producing films, Imagine Entertainment can command as
much as 7.5 percent of a film’s revenue, the trade publication
Variety reported this week. Ford negotiates his fees
individually, as does Favreau, who got $10 million to direct,
according to the Internet Movie Database, or IMDB.com. Lead
actor Craig was paid $6 million, said the site.  The box-office performance of “Cowboys & Aliens”
demonstrates that well-known stars and directors no longer
guarantee theatrical success, Harrigan, the Denver-based
analyst, said in an interview.  The comparable performance of “The Smurfs” “really tells
you Hollywood is a little less star-driven and a little more
project-driven” than in the past, Harrigan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  