-- 
Standard Chartered Forecasts Eighth Year of Record Profit After 19% Gain

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-03T15:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/standard-chartered-posts-first-half-profit-2-6-billion-beating-estimates.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by market value, forecast an eighth
successive year of record net income after reporting a 19
percent jump in first-half profit.  “We’ve got income up, profit up, deposits up, lending up,
dividend up,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands , 49, said on
a call with journalists today. We have a “somewhat different
story to tell to other banks -- we’re growing, we’re hiring,
we’re delivering profit growth.”  Net income climbed to $2.57 billion for the six months
ended June 30 from a year earlier, the bank said in a statement
today. That beat the $2.38 billion median estimate of 13
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Pretax profit surged 17 percent
to an all-time high of $3.64 billion for the period.  Standard Chartered , which earns most of its profit in  Asia ,
said it plans to hire a net 1,000 people this year, even as U.K.
rivals announce job cuts -- HSBC Holdings Plc this week said it
would eliminate 30,000 posts by the end of 2013, while  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  yesterday said it planned to cut 3,000 employees in 2011 as
revenue in  Europe  and the U.S. slows.  “It’s very impressive that they can report numbers like
this even when they have a couple of problems in quite large
markets,” said  Bruce Packard , a banks analyst at Seymour Pierce
in London. “It’s a very resilient bank. I’m very happy to stick
with Standard Chartered as a ‘‘buy”.  Standard Chartered declined 0.6 percent to 1,545 pence in
London trading, valuing the bank at 36.8 billion pounds ($60.4
billion). The shares have declined about 10 percent this year.  Curtailing Costs  Standard Chartered said today that staff costs were
increasing at a slower rate than revenue as the bank and its
rivals face rising wages in their fast-growing Asian markets.
HSBC said Aug. 1 it plans to hire 3,000 to 4,000 people a year
in emerging markets.  “Given the markets we are in, and the momentum of our
businesses, we expect to deliver double-digit income growth in
2011 and beyond,” Sands said. “Costs remain tightly managed.”  The biggest risk facing the bank is “chaotic” and
uncoordinated regulation, Sands said at a press conference
today.  “There are too many actors doing too many things at once
without thinking through the full consequences,” Sands said.
“The unintended consequences pose a risk not only to economic
recovery and job creation but also to financial stability.”  Standard Chartered has been reducing its investments and
lending to banks in the euro area as the banking crisis morphed
into a sovereign debt crisis.  ‘Reduced Exposure’  “We have significantly reduced our exposure to euro-zone
banks, we are placing much more of our surplus liquidity with
Asian banks, supranationals and governments,” Sands said.  Barclays this week posted a decline in first-half profit as
revenue from investment banking shrank, while  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA, France’s second-largest bank, said it may miss its 2012
earnings target.  India  remains “challenging” after the  Reserve Bank  of
India raised rates 11 times in the past 17 months and
competition increased from local and foreign banks, eroding
margins, Standard Chartered said. Pretax profit in the country
declined 39 percent to $378 million.  Pretax profit in  Hong Kong  rose by a record 55 percent to
$790 million, lifted by consumer and corporate banking. In
 Korea , costs “are too high” and there’s “an inefficiently
structured balance sheet” the bank said. An attempt to change
practices has caused the longest strike in South Korea’s banking
history.  The company said its cost-to-income ratio shrank to 54
percent from 54 percent. It increased its interim dividend by 10
percent to 24.75 cents a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  