-- 
Storm Emily May Bring Up to 12 Inches of Rain to Haiti, Dominican Republic

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-03T19:43:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/storm-emily-may-bring-up-to-12-inches-of-rain-to-haiti-dominican-republic.html
Tropical Storm Emily is expected to
strike  Haiti  and the  Dominican Republic  today, bringing heavy
rain that may cause deadly flash floods and mudslides, according
to the U.S.  National Hurricane Center .  Emily is expected to drop 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30
centimeters) of rain across Haiti and the Dominican Republic,
according to a center advisory issued just before 2 p.m. New
York time. As much as 20 inches may fall in isolated areas of
Hispaniola, the island that is home to the two nations, the
advisory showed.  Forecasters are unsure what will happen to Emily after it
passes over the island. The official projection by the hurricane
center in Miami calls for it to cross eastern Cuba and the
Bahamas later this week, then strengthen into a hurricane on a
course parallel to the U.S. East Coast.  There is also a chance the 10,000-foot mountains on
Hispaniola will tear the storm apart.  “We will know tomorrow whether she survives the crossing
as she turns north,” said  Matt Rogers , president of the
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Emily, with winds of 50 mph, was about 120 miles south of
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, moving west at 14 mph,
according to the hurricane center.  Tropical Storm Warnings  Cuba issued tropical storm warnings today covering the
eastern provinces of Guantanamo and Holguin. Warnings are also
in effect for the Dominican Republic, Haiti, the southeast
Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos islands. A tropical storm watch
has been issued for the central Bahamas.  A tropical storm warning issued for  Puerto Rico  earlier
this week has been dropped.  In the Pacific, Hurricane Eugene is expected to weaken
later today and presents no threat to land on its current track,
the NHC said in a  separate advisory  at 8 a.m.  Los Angeles  time.
It was 570 miles south-southwest of Baja California’s southern
tip, moving west-northwest at 14 mph with maximum winds of 125
mph. Eugene is a “major” hurricane, Category 3 on the five-
step Saffir-Simpson scale.  A low-pressure system over the Pacific has a 60 percent
chance of a becoming a tropical cyclone in the next two days,
the NHC said. It is 225 miles southeast of  Acapulco ,  Mexico , and
moving west at 5 to 10 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  