-- 
Suez Environnement Shares Climb on Higher Profit, Waste Volumes

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-03T13:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/suez-environnement-climbs-on-higher-profit-waste-volumes.html
Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s second-
largest water company, advanced the most in three months in
Paris trading after reporting an 18 percent increase in first-
half profit led by higher waste-treatment volumes.  Suez Environnement rose as much as 3.9 percent, the
steepest one-day gain since April 28, and was at 12.90 euros as
of 2:36 p.m. local time. The shares are down about 17 percent
this year.  The utility has said 2011 will be a year of growth after
struggling, like larger rival  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , to boost
industrial waste sorting following the 2009 recession that
shuttered factories. Veolia plans 800 million euros of
writedowns and said last week that profit targets won’t be met.  “It’s a relief,” Julien Quistrebert, an analyst at KBL
Richelieu Finance in Paris, said by telephone. “The results are
reassuring after Veolia’s announcement last week.”  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization increased to 1.23 billion euros ($1.75 billion),
the company said today in a  statement . That was in line with the
1.22 billion-euro estimate of 14 analysts by Bloomberg. Net
income fell 42 percent to 221 million euros as proceeds from a
Spanish transaction weren’t repeated.  ‘Remained Sustained’  “Commercial activity remained sustained,” Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Louis Chaussade said today. European growth was
driven partly by an increase in the amount of waste treated at
new treatment sites, he said.  The slowdown in  Spain ’s economy hasn’t hurt Suez
Environnement, the CEO said.  “We are confident about the situation in Spain,”
Chaussade said. The utility’s Agbar water distribution unit,
which provides drinking water for 13 million Spaniards, has
encountered few payment problems, he said.  Suez Environnement said it’s keeping targets for 2011
through 2013. This year it aims for Ebitda growth of at least 10
percent at constant foreign exchange rates, and at least 7
percent on average for 2012 and 2013. The company plans to raise
the dividend around 5 percent annually for the three years,
while net income is expected to exceed 425 million euros this
year.  Suez Environnement’s like-for-like Ebitda for its European
waste-handling division rose 10 percent in the first half, while
the total volume of waste treated increased by 5.6 percent.  “Growth is exceptional against such a complex economic
environment,” Chaussade said.  Higher Volumes  The utility opened two new sites during the first half
which helped push volumes higher, according to Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Marc Boursier.  At the European water division, like-for-like Ebitda grew
9.2 percent, Suez Environnement said. This stemmed from higher
drinking water volumes in Spain and “overall stability” in
 France .  The utility is seeking to reduce its debt-to-Ebitda ratio
to about 3 by the end of 2011, from 3.22 at the end of 2010,
following the acquisition of Spanish water supplier Sociedad
General de Aguas de Barcelona SA.  Net financial debt was stable at 7.58 billion euros on June
30 compared with the end of the year, the company said. It said
“abnormal weather conditions and labor action” in  Australia 
cost it 52 million euros in the first half. The expense, related
to a contract for Australia’s biggest desalination plant located
in  Melbourne , helped drive Ebitda 4 percent lower at the
international division.  Provisions have been made for any possible fines that may
have to be paid should the project be delayed, Chaussade said
today, noting that the construction site was hit by severe
flooding that made work impossible on some days.  Suez Environnement has a target for cost savings of 300
million euros in the three years through 2012. It gets three-
quarters of its revenue from Europe.  The utility was spun off by Suez SA in 2008 when that
company merged with Gaz de France SA. The combined entity,  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  SA, owns 35 percent of the water and waste utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  