-- 
Surging Latin American Economies Unmasking Hidden Billionaires

-- B y   M a t t h e w   G .   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-03T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/surging-latin-american-economies-unmasking-hidden-billionaires.html
Carlos Rodriguez-Pastor says he never
wanted the world to know how rich he is.  “I don’t see what the big deal is,” says the Peruvian
mogul, who amassed much of his $3 billion fortune by selling
financial services in  South America ’s burgeoning economy through
his IFH Peru Ltd. “It just happened, and my life hasn’t changed
that much.”  Rodriguez-Pastor, 52, and the seven fellow billionaires that
Bloomberg Markets reports on in its September cover package have
kept low profiles as they created empires.  Brazilian real-estate developer Rubens Menin Teixeira de Souza found his ticket to wealth in homes for his country’s
rising middle class. Alain Taravella of France survived a slump
and is building malls and offices along with houses and
apartments.  These tycoons haven’t appeared in any major international
wealth rankings. Most of their fortunes crested the 10-figure
mark in the past two years as the value of stakes in publicly
held companies soared.  Siegfried Meister, the reclusive founder of Germany’s
 Rational AG (RAA) , is enjoying the proceeds from the kitchen equipment
that goes into hotels and restaurants. Rational shares rose 51
percent in the 12 months ended on Aug. 1 amid surging profits.
Elisabeth Badinter profited from a 42 percent jump in the stock
of Paris-based advertising giant  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  over two
years as the firm expanded in Asia and  Latin America .  Anas Sefrioui has been a billionaire since he took
Casablanca, Morocco-based real-estate developer  Douja Promotion
Groupe Addoha SA (ADH)  public in 2006. He has never been identified as
a billionaire, until now: His 61.74 percent stake was valued at
$2.3 billion in early August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Miller  at   mmiller144@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  