-- 
Suspect in $5.7 Million Columbia Theft Pleads Not Guilty, Kept in Custody

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-03T22:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/suspect-in-5-7-million-columbia-university-theft-set-to-appear-in-court.html
A man arrested in connection with the
theft of $5.7 million from  Columbia University  pleaded not
guilty and was ordered held without bail.  Jeremy Dieudonne, 46, appeared today in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan and is scheduled to return to court
Aug. 8. He was arrested July 29 in Lawrence, Massachusetts, said
Judy Wang, a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.  A Bronx, New York, man, George Castro, 49, was indicted in
December on charges of stealing the funds from Columbia by
redirecting payments intended for a hospital. Dieudonne and a
third man, Walter Stephens Jr., 65, were indicted in June on
related charges of grand larceny and possession of stolen
property.  Castro was accused of sending 56 payments intended for  New
York  Presbyterian Hospital to a TD Bank account registered in
the name of IT & Securities Solutions LLC, a company he formed
which wasn’t affiliated with Columbia, prosecutors said.  Castro distributed the money to bank accounts in his name,
sent money to friends and family and bought an $80,000 Audi Q7
and more than $18,000 worth of Apple Inc. products, according to
the government.  He was arrested outside his home Nov. 24 while entering his
newly purchased vehicle and had more than $200,000 in cash when
he was taken into custody, according to Vance’s office.  25-Year Maximum  About $4.1 million of the $5.7 million was identified,
frozen or seized as of Dec. 15, prosecutors said.  The three men face maximum sentences of as long as 25 years
in prison if convicted.  Dieudonne had been living at an apartment in Lawrence under
an assumed name, Hector Santiago, and New York City police
detectives had traveled to  Massachusetts  last week in an attempt
to find him, Lawrence Police Chief John J. Romero said in a
phone interview.  The detectives couldn’t locate Dieudonne during their trip
and returned to New York, Romero said. A few days later, a
 Lawrence police  sergeant returned to the apartment with
Massachusetts State Police troopers and took Dieudonne into
custody after pretending to respond to a 911 call, Romero said.  Dieudonne denied his identity at first before eventually
admitting his real name, Romero said. The fugitive was carrying
a Massachusetts driver’s license and a Social Security card in
the name of Hector Santiago, Romero said. He appeared in court
in Massachusetts earlier this week and was turned over to New
York City police, Romero said.  Not Columbia Employees  None of the defendants worked for Columbia and the
university hasn’t done any business with the company, said a
person close to the investigation who declined to be identified
because the information hasn’t been revealed in court.  Scott Davis, an attorney who represented Dieudonne during
today’s court appearance, declined to comment on the case.
Castro and Stephens, who both pleaded not guilty, haven’t posted
bail and are being held pending an Aug. 31 court appearance,
Wang said.  The case is People vs. Castro, 11-02922, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 