-- 
Suzlon Can Pay Bondholders as ‘Worst Is Over,’ Tanti Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T11:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/suzlon-can-pay-bondholders-as-worst-is-over-chairman-tanti-says.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  Asia ’s third-
largest maker of  wind turbines , will be able to pay bondholders
if they choose to redeem convertible securities next year rather
than accept stock that’s below the conversion price.  “The worst is over,” Chairman and Managing Director Tulsi Tanti said in an interview in Mumbai today. The Indian company
won’t seek to negotiate new terms with bondholders, he said.  India ’s biggest wind-turbine maker has been raising cash
and boosting orders ahead of next year, when $389 million in
convertible bonds mature and principal repayments resume on 100
billion rupees ($2.25 billion) of loans. Those obligations come
due amid greater competition in an industry facing a supply glut
and slowing growth in China, the largest wind-energy market.  “We’re very comfortable paying” bondholders if necessary,
Tanti said. Suzlon plans to raise 115 million pounds selling its
26 percent stake in  Hansen Transmissions International NV (HSN) , its
Belgium-based gearbox unit. It also expects by March to recover
10 billion rupees owed by a U.S. customer, Edison International,
he said.  Suzlon’s zero percent convertible notes due June 2012 rose,
and the yield narrowed in relation to similar U.S. Treasuries by
158 basis points to 14.78 percent today, according to Frontier
pricing data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock reversed a loss of
as much as 2.1 percent and traded at 52.8 rupees, up 1.25
percent, at 3:59 p.m. local time in Mumbai.  Suzlon has four foreign currency convertible bonds maturing
next year. The floor price for their conversion ranges between
76.68 and 97.26 rupees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Upgrades  Suzlon was upgraded this week by Citigroup Inc. and
Macquarie Group Ltd. citing signs of a turnaround. Last week,
the company trumped estimates with an unexpected profit of 600
million rupees in the first quarter, compared with a 9.1
billion-rupee loss a year earlier, after sales rose 80 percent
to a record for the period.  In contrast, Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest
wind-turbine maker, saw its loss more than double in the first
quarter, while  China ’s Sinovel Wind Group Co., the second-
largest, said profit growth slowed to 1 percent.  Suzlon, which has lost about 88 percent from a record high
in January 2008, emerged more nimble than its competitors over
the past 12 months as it was forced to restructure and shift
focus to new markets to meet its debt obligations, Tanti said.  “We’re the best-positioned among the competition,” he
said. “There are no more worries about our debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  