-- 
Swiss Stocks Fall for Eighth Day in Longest Decline Since 2000

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-03T16:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/swiss-stocks-halt-longest-losing-streak-since-2003-ubs-rallies.html
Swiss stocks dropped for an eighth
day, the longest stretch of losses since 2000, as concern that
the global economy is faltering overshadowed action from the
nation’s central bank to stem a surge in the franc.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)   Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
led the retreat, all dropping more than 3 percent. Petroplus
Holdings AG plunged 23 percent after posting a wider second-
quarter loss.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, fell 1.2 percent to 5,483.15 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, a two-year low. The gauge has sunk 18
percent from this year’s high on Feb. 18 as Europe’s debt crisis
and the slowing global economy prompted investors to buy the
Swiss franc, reducing the value of exporters’ revenue. The
broader Swiss Performance Index declined 1.4 percent today.  “Another day, another selloff as the same concerns
continue to cause panic amongst investors,” said  James
Campbell , head of sales at Capital Spreads in London. “In order
to turn things around and end the panic, we need to see some
good economic data out of the U.S.”  The SMI earlier rallied as much as 1.3 percent after the
Swiss National Bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and said it
will increase the supply of francs in the market in an effort to
stem a surge in the “massively overvalued” currency.  SNB Rate Cut  SNB policy makers lowered their target for three-month
Libor to “as close to zero as possible” from 0.25 percent.
They also said they will expand banks’ sight deposits, or cash
that can be withdrawn on demand.  “The attraction of the franc’s haven qualities is unlikely
to dissipate,” said  Lena Komileva , global head of Group-of-10
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in London.
“The intervention is likely to work by way of disrupting one-
way flows into Swiss francs and discouraging speculative
interest, but it is unlikely to change the franc’s fundamental
direction.”  Transocean, the world’s largest offshore driller, dropped
4.4 percent to 44.58 francs, while  Julius Baer , which last month
cited a strong currency for a decline in profit, fell 4 percent
to 30.78 francs. Actelion, Switzerland’s largest biotechnology
company, lost 4.6 percent to 36.1 francs.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  also declined, both
loosing 1.6 percent to 11.91 francs and 25.93 respectively.
Switzerland’s largest banks had earlier rallied after the SNB
announcement.  Petroplus sank 23 percent to 7.88 francs, the largest drop
since its 1996 initial public offering. Europe’s biggest
independent refiner posted a wider second-quarter loss of $198.2
million, citing an “extremely weak” refining market.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  climbed 1.2 percent to 137 francs, one of
two stocks on the 20-member SMI to advance today. The drugmaker
won European Commission approval for its Roactemra treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  