-- 
Franc Retreats After Interest-Rate Cut; Dollar Declines as Services Slow

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-03T21:31:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/swiss-franc-plunges-on-snb-s-warning-dollar-index-declines.html
The Swiss franc fell against all of
its 16 most-traded peers after the central bank unexpectedly cut
 interest rates  to weaken the currency as it strengthened to
records and threatened the nation’s economic recovery.  The dollar extended losses against the yen after U.S.
service industries expanded at the slowest pace in 17 months.
Australia’s dollar slumped versus most major currencies. The
franc pared drops against the euro and dollar as investors
sought stability, even as the  Swiss National Bank  said it will
increase the supply of the currency to money markets.  “Until the global picture gets better, there is still
going to be movement into safe havens like the Swiss franc from
currencies like the Australian dollar,” said  Brian Taylor ,
chief currency trader a Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co. in
Buffalo,  New York . “Multilateral intervention is the only way
to prop up a currency.”  The franc depreciated 1.9 percent to 1.1033 versus the euro
at 5 p.m. in New York, from 1.0827 yesterday. It fell as much as
2.8 percent, the most since March 12, 2009, when the SNB said it
began selling the franc. The currency earlier today rose to a
record 1.0796 per euro. It slid 1.1 percent to 77.04 centimes
per dollar after earlier strengthening to a record 76.10
centimes and weakening to 77.88.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s
gauge of purchasing power parity shows the franc is overvalued
49.5 percent against the dollar and 42 percent versus the euro.  Top Performer Yesterday  Switzerland ’s currency was the top performer yesterday
among the most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and the
yen was No. 2. The franc still maintained a 4.4 percent advance
versus the euro and a 4.1 percent increase against the dollar
for the past five days. The currency has gained favor as bond
yields surge across the euro region’s most indebted nations and
economic data are weaker than forecast in developed nations.  “The market’s reaction speaks volumes because although
we’ve had a large move in euro-Swiss, it hasn’t even managed to
retrace yesterday’s move,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto. “The BOJ
has an interest in scaring the long side of the market every
once in a while, so that threat has obviously increased.”  Japan ’s policy makers signaled increased concern this week
that the yen’s approach toward a post-World War II high are
hurting domestic industries and undermining the nation’s
recovery from the March 11 earthquake. Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said today the government must do everything it
can to prevent companies from relocating, and that authorities
will do their best to combat the currency’s advance.  ‘Maximum Effect’  “Intervention is supposed to affect investor sentiment,”
Noda told lawmakers in parliament in  Tokyo  today. “I think we
need to do our best to ensure it has the maximum effect if we
were to intervene.”  Central banks intervene in foreign-exchange markets by
selling or buying currencies to influence prices.  Australia ’s dollar fell for a fifth day against the U.S.
currency and dropped to the lowest since March versus the yen
after the Bureau of Statistics reported an unexpected drop in
retail sales in June and a lower-than-forecast  trade surplus .  The Aussie weakened 0.2 percent to $1.0755, from $1.0779
yesterday. It slid as much as 1.3 percent to 82.08 yen.  The Swedish krona rose versus all major currencies on
speculation the country’s economic growth will warrant further
interest-rate increases. The krona strengthened 1.1 percent
against the dollar to 6.3456.  U.S. Credit Rating  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, fell for the first time in
three days. It dropped 0.7 percent to 74.013 after Moody’s said
yesterday the U.S. credit rating may be cut for the first time.  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was placed on a negative
outlook even as Moody’s confirmed the top rating after President
 Barack Obama  signed into law yesterday a plan to lift the
nation’s borrowing limit and cut spending. Investors speculated
the budget cuts will damp economic growth.  The dollar depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.4323 versus the
euro, from $1.4203 yesterday. The yen fell 0.7 percent to 110.38
per euro and gained 0.1 percent to 77.06 per dollar. It touched
76.25 yen on March 17, a postwar record.  Service Industries   Canada ’s dollar declined versus the greenback as the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, fell
to 52.7 from 53.3 in June. It was the slowest pace since
February 2010. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  The Canadian currency weakened as much as 0.4 percent to
96.47 cents per greenback before trading at 96.21 cents. The
U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner.  The Swiss National Bank lowered its target for the three-
month London interbank offered rate to “as close to zero as
possible,” from 0.25 percent. The Zurich-based central bank
said it will also expand banks’ sight deposits, or cash that can
be withdrawn on demand, to 80 billion Swiss francs ($104
billion), from 30 billion francs, and repurchase outstanding SNB
bills, according to an e-mailed statement today.  The franc soared 25 percent in the past 12 months, making
it the best-performing currency among 10 developed-nation peers
in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  