-- 
Syria Presses Tank Attacks on Hama as Clinton Says Assad Loses Legitimacy

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-05T08:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/syrian-tanks-shell-city-of-hama-as-un-security-council-condemns-violence.html
Syrian tank crews and snipers pressed
on with their assault on Hama, site of a 1982 massacre, as U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said that President Bashar al-Assad has “lost his legitimacy to govern.”  Government forces have killed more than 180 people this
week, most of them in the west-central city where homes and
mosques have been hit by tank fire, according to Ammar Qurabi of
the National Organization for Human Rights and Mahmoud Merhi,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights. Rallies took
place late yesterday in parts of the capital Damascus, Merhi
said. Protesters also rallied in Zabadani near the border with
Lebanon. Hundreds have been arrested in the past week.  Assad’s latest crackdown is the bloodiest since Syrians
began to demonstrate nearly five months ago as unrest spread
across the Arab world. The wave of attacks began July 31, the
eve of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, as opposition forces
vowed to step up their campaign.  The recent attack has focused on Hama, where  Human Rights
Watch  said 10,000 people were killed in the 1982 uprising that
was crushed by Assad’s father. Hama has been mainly under the
control of protesters for the past month.  Corpses in Streets  Corpses are lying in the city’s streets as sniper fire
makes it difficult to retrieve them, said the activists. The
exact number of casualties in Hama in the past day is difficult
to assess as communications and power have been cut off, they
said. There is a shortage of bread and people are rationing
food, Merhi said.  About 2,200 protesters have been killed in  Syria  since
March, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than 500 members of
the security forces have been killed, Deputy Foreign Minister
Fayssal Mekdad told  India’s News X channel  this week. Most
foreign journalists have been banned from Syria since the onset
of the revolt.  “Actions speak louder than words,” Clinton said when
asked by reporters in  Washington  why she stopped short of
calling for Assad to give up power. The U.S. is seeking
international support for “actions to send a very clear message
to the Assad regime that there’s a price to pay,” she said.  The  United Nations Security Council  hasn’t issued the
resolution condemning violence in Syria that the U.S. and
European allies have sought.  Russia , one of the countries
opposing a resolution, has been more critical of its Syrian ally
in recent days. Assad faces a “sad end” if he doesn’t end the
violence, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said yesterday.  Assad, who inherited power from his father Hafez in 2000,
has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired plots, while
acknowledging that the demonstrators have some legitimate
demands. He issued a decree yesterday easing curbs on political
parties and setting up a commission to regulate parliamentary
elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net  