-- 
Syrian Forces Shell Hama as UN Struggles for Agreement on Condemning Assad

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-03T12:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/syria-violence-escalates-as-un-struggles-for-agreement-on-condemning-assad.html
Syria  pressed on with attacks against
protesters in restive cities including Hama as the  United
Nations Security Council  struggles to agree on action to condemn
President Bashar al-Assad’s intensified crackdown.  After two days of discussions, disagreements linger within
the 15-member body on how to react to the deadliest episodes in
the uprising that started in mid-March. The Security Council
will resume talks at 10 a.m. today in  New York  after a European-
crafted draft resolution was sent back to capitals for feedback.  With at least 12 more protesters killed in Syria yesterday,
pressure is mounting on the UN’s decision-making body to take a
stand against Assad. Attacks that began on July 31, the eve of
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, resumed early today in Hama,
activists said. The current crackdown is the bloodiest since
Syrians began to demonstrate following unrest across the Arab
world that ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt .  The security forces have killed at least 176 people in the
last three days, most of them in Hama, the fourth-biggest city,
where tanks shelled residential areas, including mosques, said
Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights and
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  Tanks, Snipers  In addition to Hama, in west-central Syria, yesterday’s
killings occurred in the central city of Homs and in the suburbs
of Damascus and Deir Al Zour in the east, where the army sent
reinforcements including tanks and used snipers, according to
the activists. Hundreds of people were arrested around the
country, including the Damascus suburbs of Douma, Erbin, Kisweh
and town of Zabadani, near the border with Lebanon, they said.  Government forces and the army entered Hama today, setting
up checkpoints, raiding homes and deploying tanks at Assi Square
in the center of the city, where thousands have gathered against
Assad, the activists said.  “Electricity and communication have been cut, while bread
is in short supply in some areas or not available, and this is
dangerous considering people are fasting” for Ramadan, Merhi
said, adding that gunfire and shelling was heard in Hama today.  Russia  has led opponents that include  China ,  Brazil ,  South
Africa  and  India  in blocking the adoption of a UN resolution on
Syria that was circulated in May. Brazil suggested the inclusion
of a reference to violence from “both sides” in the latest
proposal, wording that may dissolve some members’ reservations.  Presidential Statement  The Security Council may gravitate toward a presidential
statement, which doesn’t carry the same weight as a resolution
yet may win over skeptics. Still, that would require unanimous
consent. Lebanon, the only Arab country on the council, has a
pro-Syria government. While Security Council members struggle to
break the impasse, governments from Washington to  Rome  are
looking for other ways to step up the pressure on Syria.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met with Syrian-
American opposition supporters who asked for increased sanctions
against Syria and for the council to refer the actions taken
during a recent crackdown on protesters to the International
Criminal Court. They told Clinton they want President Barack Obama to demand that Assad step down.  While U.S. lawmakers announced new sanctions legislation
against the Assad government, U.S. Ambassador to Syria Robert Ford, who met with Obama two days ago, told senators at his
confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill yesterday that unilateral
U.S. sanctions “don’t have much bite” because there is so
little trade between the two countries.  Financial Sanctions  The sanctions bill would extend a ban on most trade with
Syria to foreign companies and require Obama to block access to
U.S. financial institutions, markets and federal contracts for
those who do business with Syria’s energy industry. Sanctions
with allies that have closer ties with Syria would be more
effective, Ford said.  “Europeans and Canadians have greater investments in
Syria’s energy sector,” he said, adding that conversations
about sanctions with those countries are under way.  European Union officials will meet tomorrow to discuss
possible additional sanctions against Syria, the German Foreign
Ministry said today. Ambassadors from EU members will hold the
talks at  Germany ’s behest because Assad has failed to respond to
calls to curtail violence, ministry spokesman Martin Schaefer
told reporters today in Berlin.  Embassy Evacuation  Italy  yesterday recalled its ambassador to Syria to protest
the “horrible repression” and urged other European countries
to do the same. The U.S. Embassy in Damascus will evacuate more
staff members, including diplomats, starting tomorrow, a State
Department official said, asking not to be identified because
the plan hasn’t been made public yet. Ford will return to Syria
in the next few days, the official said.  More than 2,100 protesters have been killed in Syria since
March, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than 500 members of
the security forces have been killed, Deputy Foreign Minister
Fayssal Mekdad said in an interview with  India’s News X channel .  The recent assault came as opposition forces vowed to step
up their campaign against Assad during Ramadan, the Islamic
month of fasting and prayer. Family and community groups
typically gather for evening meals during the month to break
their fasts, and more people attend special services at mosques.  The unrest poses the biggest challenge to Assad’s rule
since he inherited power from his father, Hafez al-Assad, 11
years ago. Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots, while conceding that some demonstrators have legitimate
demands and pledging political changes.  Hama’s 1982 Uprising  Amnesty International said the killings should be referred
to the  International Criminal Court , which investigates charges
of genocide. Hama was the site of a 1982 uprising that was
crushed by Assad’s father, leaving 10,000 people dead, according
to  Human Rights Watch .  Ford told senators that backing the forces of change may
give the U.S. a chance to reshape the  Middle East .  “We have a real opportunity with change in Syria to see
both Iranian influence and Hezbollah influence in the region
diminish,” he said.  Syria is  Iran ’s chief ally in the region and both support
Hezbollah, the Lebanon-based Shiite Muslim political group that
the U.S. considers a terrorist organization.  The U.S. and its allies want to aggravate the situation in
Syria by supporting “terrorist groups against the will of the
overwhelming majority of the Syrian people, who support” Assad,
Mekdad told News X.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 