-- 
U.K. Wage Growth Slows, Led by Services

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-03T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/u-k-wage-growth-slowed-in-july-led-by-services.html
Take-home pay growth at Britain’s
largest listed companies slowed in July from a 28-month high,
led by the services industry, VocaLink Ltd. said.  Incomes after tax and other deductions climbed 2.9 percent
in the three months through July from a year earlier, the group
said in a statement in  London  today. That compares with 3.3
percent in the quarter through June, when the result was boosted
by a tax change. Wage growth at service companies slowed to 2.9
percent from 3.4 percent.  Britons are seeing their finances squeezed at the fastest
pace since the 1970s as inflation at 4.2 percent outpaces wage
growth. That’s putting pressure on retailers such as Marks &
Spencer Group Plc, which said last month the outlook is
“challenging.” The  Bank of England  will keep its key  interest
rate  at a record low today as policy makers try to boost
economic growth, economists forecast.  “Pay growth remains weak for both public and private-
sector sector workers,” VocaLink Chief Executive Officer Marion King said. “Household spending power continues to fall compared
with a year ago -- a key contributor to the weak economic growth
in the U.K.”  Among manufacturers, wage increases accelerated to 2.6
percent in the three months through July, up from a 2.4 percent
gain in the quarter through June, VocaLink said. Public-sector
pay growth was unchanged at 1.3 percent.  The company, which processes 90 percent of British salaries
paid directly to bank accounts, used salary-payment data from
more than 200 members of the U.K.’s  FTSE 350 Index (NMX)  and more than
600 government-related organizations for the report.  All 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast that
the Bank of England will hold its benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent. The central bank will also keep the target of its bond-
purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($328 billion), according
to all 37 economists in a separate survey. The announcement will
be made at noon in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  