-- 
U.S. Stocks Erase Losses on Bets Fed to Provide More Stimulus

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-03T18:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-benchmark-s-p-500-may-snap-seven-day-slide.html
U.S. stocks erased losses amid
speculation Federal Reserve policy makers were considering
another stimulus program to prevent the nation from slipping
into a recession.  A rally in technology and industrial companies helped the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index snap a seven-day slide.  MasterCard
Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest payments network, advanced 10 percent
after profit rose 33 percent as customers’ spending increased.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,255.84 at 1:11 p.m. in New York after losing as much as 1.6
percent in morning trading. Stocks recovered as the Wall Street
Journal reported that three former top officials at the Fed
believe the central bank may consider a new round of securities
purchases to bolster growth. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
fell 4.96 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,861.66.  “There was a real whiff of panic in the market today,”
said Etai Friedman, head of derivatives trading at MKM Partners
LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “People were saying that there’s
going to be a QE3 and now you have a Fed governor tossing it in
the air. There was a big short covering because who wants to be
short in the face of that.”  Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc., which
together oversee almost $5 trillion, say the U.S. economy is
stalling.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pimco, and  Peter Fisher , head of fixed income at BlackRock, have
said the Fed is preparing measures to counter the slowdown.  Economic Weakness  Growing concern that the U.S. economy is faltering has
erased $1.07 trillion from American equities in less than two
weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  S&P 500 
plunged 2.6 percent yesterday, its biggest one-day loss in a
year and giving the index the longest losing streak since
October 2008, in the depths of the financial crisis caused by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  Investors sought the safety of Treasuries yesterday even as
President  Barack Obama  signed a plan to raise the federal debt
limit, avoiding an American default. Attention has shifted from
the political debate in  Washington  to weakening economic data.
Treasury 30-year bonds rose today, extending the biggest two-day
gain in more than a year.  Stocks fell earlier today after a report showed  service
industries  expanded in July at the slowest pace since February
2010 as orders and employment cooled, a sign the biggest part of
the  U.S. economy  had little momentum entering the second half.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses dropped to 52.7 from 53.3 in June. Readings above 50
signal expansion, and economists projected 53.5 for July,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  ADP Report  Companies in the U.S. added 114,000 workers to payrolls in
July, according to figures from ADP Employer Services. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for an advance of 100,000. The data comes two days before a
government report projected to show an increase of 85,000 jobs.  U.S. stocks have become a “strong buy” following declines
in the past seven days, according to  Barton Biggs , managing
partner and co-founder of Traxis Partners LP in  New York . Biggs
spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” with Erik
Schatzker and Deirdre Bolton.                              “I
do feel right now this is not the time to put out any shorts and
I am very tempted to think this is a time to be buying stocks
pretty aggressively,” said Biggs, whose firm manages $1.4
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  