-- 
U.S., Australian, Japanese Bonds Rise on Outlook for Slowing Global Growth

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-03T08:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/u-s-australian-japanese-bonds-rise-on-outlook-for-slowing-global-growth.html
U.S., German, Australian and Japanese
bonds rallied, sending two-year Treasury yields to a record low,
as signs of slowing global economic growth stoked demand for the
relative safety of government debt.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries sank to a nine-month low while
equivalent maturity German bunds yielded the least since
October. Investors cut bets on inflation in the U.S. for a
fourth day before reports today that economists said will show
the expansion in service industries stagnated in July and
companies hired fewer workers. BlackRock Inc., the New York-
based  money manager  that oversees $3.66 trillion, said the  U.S.
economy  is close to stalling.  “Recent economic data from across the world hasn’t been
very promising and that’s sparked off fears of a global
slowdown,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “The focus for the market
right now is very much on safe haven assets like Treasuries, but
investors are also pushing their rate hike expectations
considerably further out. Rates will stay lower for a lot longer
than people previously anticipated.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury declined three basis
points to 2.58 percent as of 8:20 a.m. in London, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent note due in May
2021 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 104 21/32.  Ten-year yields sank to as low as 2.57 percent, the least
since November, while two-year yields slid to a record low
0.3081 percent. Yields on 30-year Treasuries fell four basis
points to 3.88 percent.  German Bunds  German 10-year bund yields fell for a ninth straight day,
dropping five basis points to 2.36 percent.  Australian 10-year yields fell as low as 4.57 percent, the
least in more than two years. Yields on similar-maturity
Japanese bonds set 2011’s low of 1.01 percent.  A report yesterday showed U.S. consumer spending
unexpectedly fell in June while data the previous day indicated
manufacturing almost stalled in July, adding to signs that a
recovery in the world’s biggest economy is losing momentum.
Manufacturing in the U.K.,  Russia  and  Australia  also shrank,
while the pace of factory output slowed in Europe and China,
according to reports from the nations this week.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares fell for a sixth day, losing
0.8 percent, as money managers shunned higher-yielding assets in
favor of safer investments.  “There is a flight-to-quality movement that is sending
yields lower,” said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, Tokyo-based head of fixed
income at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has the
equivalent of $72.4 billion in assets. “The economic situation
worldwide is not good.”  Relative Strength  The 14-day relative strength index for U.S. 10-year yields
suggests rates won’t fall much further. The index dropped to
28.57 today. Readings below 30 suggest yields will rise, while
figures above 70 show the opposite.  “It’s a sign that the rally will end,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who helps oversee the equivalent of $119.96 billion as
an investor in  Tokyo  at Daiwa Asset Management Co., a unit of
 Japan ’s second-biggest brokerage by market value. “The market
is overbought.”  The U.S. economy is “very close to stall speed” and the
Federal Reserve many need to consider signaling a longer
commitment to low  interest rates , according to  Peter Fisher ,
head of fixed income at BlackRock.  “I believe the Fed is dusting off contingency plans if the
economy does not improve,” he said in a report that BlackRock
distributed today. Fisher worked for 15 years at the Fed Bank of
 New York , according to the statement.  Breakeven Rate  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the securities, dropped to as
low as 2.27 percentage points, the least since July 21.  The rally in Australian bonds pushed yields on all
maturities below the central bank’s benchmark, the target rate
for overnight lending, for the first time since 2009.  Retail sales in the South Pacific nation unexpectedly fell
in June, a government report showed today. The central bank kept
its key rate unchanged at 4.75 percent yesterday, saying that
while it considered increasing borrowing costs, it was prudent
to hold off due to the global economic outlook.  Japanese Bonds  Japanese yields fell as the yen traded near a post-World
War II high, fueling speculation the central bank will expand
stimulus to support the economy. The  Bank of Japan  starts a two-
day policy meeting tomorrow.  “The BOJ will likely announce an easing measure as soon as
possible this time to respond to the strong yen and weak dollar
caused by the U.S.’s slowing economy,” said Masaaki Kanno, the
chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a
former BOJ official. “The Japanese economy has become less
resilient to a stronger yen as competition from Asian companies
has become more severe.”  U.S.  service industries  expanded in July at about the same
pace as the prior month, a sign the biggest part of the economy
had little momentum entering the second half of 2011, analysts
said before the Institute for Supply Management report today.
U.S. companies reduced hiring to 100,000 last month, from
157,000 in June, a Bloomberg survey showed before the data from
ADP Employer Services.  Debt Limit Raised  President  Barack Obama  signed a debt-limit compromise
yesterday to prevent a U.S. default. Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S.
while warning that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to
enact debt reduction measures and the economy weakens.  China ’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. cut its rating for
the U.S. to A from A+ with a negative outlook, it said in a
statement today. China’s central bank will “closely” monitor
U.S. efforts to tackle its debt, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  also
said today. China is America’s biggest creditor, holding $1.16
trillion of the $9.34 trillion of publicly traded debt.  Concern over the  U.S. debt  hasn’t stopped Treasuries from
rallying. They returned 3.92 percent in the past three months as
of yesterday, versus 2.50 percent for an index of bonds around
the world, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks handed investors
a 7.5 percent loss in the period, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  