-- 
U.S. Service Industries Expanded Less Than Forecast in July

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-03T14:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/u-s-service-industry-growth-slowed-in-july.html
Service industries  expanded in July
at the slowest pace since February 2010 as orders and employment
cooled, a sign the biggest part of the U.S. economy had little
momentum entering the second half.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, dropped to 52.7 from 53.3 in June. Readings above 50
signal expansion, and economists projected 53.5 for July,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is among companies bracing for
weaker demand as unemployment holds above 9 percent and wages
stagnate. The lack of sustained strength in services combined
with limited manufacturing growth point to a broader slowdown in
the world’s largest economy.  “The numbers suggest the U.S. economy slowed in July from
the second quarter,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, who projected a reading of 53.
“That’s quite depressing given how weak growth was in that
quarter. Further moderation in orders doesn’t bode well for
coming months, either.”  Estimates from the 75 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 50 to 55.5. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s index
averaged 56.1 in the five years to December 2007, when the last
recession began.  Stocks declined, extending the longest slump for the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  since 1978. The Dow fell 1.2 percent to
11,723.95 at 10:37 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries rose, pushing
down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.56 percent
from 2.61 percent late yesterday.  July Employment  Private employment is cooling, another report today showed.
ADP Employer Services said companies added 114,000 workers last
month following a 145,000 gain in June that was smaller than
initially reported. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for an addition of 100,000.  Orders placed with U.S. manufacturers dropped 0.8 percent
in June, reflecting decreases in demand for machinery and
computers, the Commerce Department said today.  The non-manufacturing survey’s measure of new orders
decreased to 51.7 in July, the lowest since August 2009, from
53.6 the prior month, today’s report showed.  A measure of business activity rose to 56.1 from 53.4. A
gauge of order backlogs dropped to 44 from 48.5.  The group’s employment gauge decreased to a three-month low
of 52.5 from 54.1 in June. The index of prices paid declined to
56.1 from 60.9.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance.  Manufacturing Eases  The group’s Aug. 1 figures showed manufacturing almost
stalled in July as orders shrank. The ISM factory index slumped
to 50.9, the lowest since July 2009, from 55.3 a month earlier.  Recent reports indicate the U.S. is struggling to gain
strength more than two years into the recovery.  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter after almost stalling in the prior three months at a 0.4
percent pace. Household spending was the weakest since the
second quarter of 2009, at the end of the last recession.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
congressional testimony in July that the central bank could take
further action if the economy stalls, including beginning a
third round of bond purchases. Policy makers next meet on Aug.
9.  Odds of Recession  Harvard University economics professor  Martin Feldstein 
said he sees a 50 percent chance of a renewed recession. He is a
member of the committee that dates recessions for the  National
Bureau of Economic Research .  “Nothing has given us much growth,” Feldstein said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday on “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene .  Consumer purchases tailed off toward the end of the April
through June period, with a 0.2 percent decline in the final
month, indicating this quarter is starting on a weaker footing,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  A slowdown in hiring and stagnant wages may keep holding
back households. The jobless rate climbed to 9.2 percent in June
while payrolls grew by 18,000, the fewest in nine months. The
economy also failed to create enough jobs in July to trim
unemployment, economists said before an Aug. 5 Labor Department
report.  Job-Cut Announcements  Businesses that announced job cuts in July include Merck &
Co., Cisco Systems Inc., and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Executives at Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s largest
package-delivery company, said domestic package volumes were
“relatively flat” in July, and cited an “uneven economic
environment.”  “Given the softness in the  U.S. economy , we expect third-
quarter volume growth to be slow and operating margins to be
similar to last year,” Kurt Kuehn, chief financial officer,
said on a July 26 teleconference with analysts.  Housing, included in the ISM services report, is struggling
to overcome foreclosures and a glut of unsold homes that are
pushing down prices and depressing homebuilding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  