-- 
Postal Service Needs Fewer Workers to Deliver: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-03T00:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/u-s-postal-service-needs-fewer-workers-to-keep-delivering-the-mail-view.html
(Corrects by removing mention of Carper bill in penultimate
paragraph.)  Here are three remarkable facts about
the United States Postal Service: Its union workers have no-
layoff contracts; no post office branches can be closed solely
because they lose money; and, as revealed in an investigation by
 Bloomberg Businessweek , the service is so dependent on low-
profit junk mail for revenue that it has a marketing officer
tasked with lobbying banks not to switch to  electronic
statements.  All of which leads to an unsurprising reality: The USPS
lost $8 billion last year, and has been kept on life support
with $15 billion from the Treasury. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe warns that it could default on those loans in October.  The USPS, which is supposed to be self-financing, faces a
dismal future. Total mail volume fell by 20 percent between 2006
and 2010, with the biggest drop-off in first-class mail, the
most profitable type.  Donahoe has proposed  shuttering  3,700 of the nearly 32,000
post offices across the U.S. and having mom-and-pop stores,
pharmacies and possibly large retailers take over local postal
services. This is a sensible plan -- European agencies have done
the same with great success -- but it would save only about $200
million, a drop in the bucket. And even this timid step has
lawmakers waxing nostalgic over the mail: Senator  Susan Collins 
of  Maine  insists that closing branches “simply is not an option
in many rural and remote areas.”  In the long run, closing branches doesn’t get to the root
of the fiscal problem: Eighty percent of the USPS budget goes to
salaries and benefits. By contrast,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
spends 61 percent on those costs, and FedEx only 43 percent.
Postal employees pay a smaller share of their salary for health
care than most other federal workers, and, as reported by the
Washington Post, more than 850 senior managers get their health
care absolutely free.  Yet the USPS continues to plant the seeds of its own
destruction. This year it reached a new contract with the union
representing its mail clerks, drivers, mechanics and custodians
that included a continuation of the no-layoffs clause for
current workers, a 3.5 percent raise over 4 1/2 years, and
regular cost of living increases. (The postal service claims
that it was trying to avoid arbitration that might have resulted
in an even more costly package, and it may have a point.)  The service’s management and unions are living in denial --
both want the service to be freed from having to finance its
health-care plan for retirees in advance to the tune of $5.5
billion a year. They also push a sketchy claim that the USPS has
overpaid the Civil Service Retirement System by as much as $75
billion since the 1970s and deserves the money back from
Congress.  A number of bills kicking around Congress would attempt to
bring some fiscal sanity. A leading proposal, sponsored by
Senator Tom Carper, Democrat of  Delaware , would give the
postmaster general the authority to save money by closing
branches and reducing service to five days, which would save $3
billion a year. It would also force labor arbitrators to take
the fiscal condition of the USPS into consideration in contract
disputes.  Another bill, sponsored by Republican Representatives
 Dennis Ross  of  Florida  and  Darrell Issa  of  California , would go
further. It would create a commission charged with finding more
than $2 billion in savings through closing post offices and
processing facilities, and would require postal employees to pay
more for their health care and life insurance.  Most important, it would not allow the service to
stop advance contributions to its retiree health-care
program or to use money it claims it is owed by
Congress to make them. They persuasively argue that exempting
the service from this obligation would result in an unfunded
liability of almost $100 billion by 2017 -- for which taxpayers
would likely be on the hook.  All of these ideas deserve support, and together could help
the service out of the immediate crisis. Postmaster General
Donahoe seems intent on changing the mindset of the USPS’s
stultified bureaucracy, but until he finds a way to rein in
worker costs, a storied and vital American institution remains
on the brink of insolvency.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 