-- 
U.S. 2-Year Swap Spread to Widen as European Crisis Worsens, Nomura Says

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-03T16:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/u-s-two-year-swap-spread-to-widen-as-european-crisis-worsens-nomura-says.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. advised betting
that U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spreads will widen on
renewed concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will increase
demand for dollar-denominated funding in the region.  The gap between two-year swaps and comparable maturity
Treasury note yields will widen from 24.7 basis points to an
initial target of 33 basis points and then to 40 basis points,
 George Goncalves  and Marcus Phua, strategists at Nomura, said in
a note yesterday. They advised setting a stop-loss, or a pre-set
level to exit the trade, if the gap narrows to 21 basis points.  Dollar London interbank offered rate, or what London-based
banks say they pay for three-month loans in dollars, rose today
to the highest level since May. The swap spread is based in part
on expectations for dollar Libor and is used as a gauge of
investor perceptions of credit risk in the banking sector.  “Markets are in a risk-reduction mode,” Goncalves, head
of interest-rate strategy at Nomura, said in a telephone
interview. “The market has been televising since the recent EU
summit that there has to be a bigger plan in place to address
the real crux of the problem, European banks and their capital
base and funding needs. The overall health of the European
banking system is tied to the sovereign issue.”  Italian and Spanish bond yields rose this month as the
latest European Union and  International Monetary Fund  rescue
deal for  Greece , struck two weeks ago, failed to reassure
investors the contagion from the debt crisis will be contained.  Libor Rises  The EU bailout includes contributions from banks and other
private bondholders through a series of exchanges and buybacks
that will cut the debt load. The agreement also consists of 109
billion euros ($155 billion) from governments and the
International Monetary Fund.  Three-month dollar Libor was set today at 0.26828 percent,
up from 0.26444 percent yesterday, according to data from the
British Bankers’ Association. The dollar Libor-OIS spread, a
gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, was little changed at 14.8
basis points today, compared with 13 basis points on July 29.  The June completion of the Federal Reserve’s $600 billion
Treasury purchase program, which helped lift bank reserves to
over $1.6 trillion, raises the probability of Libor rising and
swap spreads widening, Goncalves said.  Swap rates are usually higher than Treasury yields in part
because the floating payments are based on  interest rates  that
contain credit risk. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for
investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and
auto-loan securities.  FRA/OIS Spreads  “Spot Libor may not actually prove to move as much as
swaps spreads may widen but it’s more so about the markets’
expectations of frictions in the  interbank market ,” Goncalves
said. “We may see that in the forward spreads -- which may
widen even if spot Libor rates aren’t moving that fast.”  Predictions for the dollar Libor-OIS spread at the end of
the year, based on contracts trading in the forwards market, or
so-called FRA/OIS spreads, are at 35.29 basis points by
December, based on Tullett Prebon Plc data. The spread has
widened from about 22 basis points on June 30.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders forecasts of
what the  Federal Reserve ’s overnight-lending effective rate will
average for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate
has held in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  