-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Fall for a Sixth Day

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-03T12:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-fall-for-a-sixth-day.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Fall for a Sixth Day on Concerns Economy May Slow  Commodities fell for a sixth day, the longest streak since
May 2010, amid concerns that the global economy may be slowing
down. Gold surged to a record for a second day.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Evraz Said to Consider Seeking Primary Share Listing in  London   Evraz Group SA, Russia’s largest steelmaker by production,
may seek a primary listing in London in a bid to qualify for the
U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index, two people with knowledge of
the plan said.  Dividend Cut Seen at EON, RWE as Nuclear Exit Erodes Profit (2)  EON AG and RWE AG, the European power companies with the
highest dividends, are poised to cut their payouts as Germany’s
pledge to phase out nuclear plants erodes profit and increases
costs.  Chevron Nigeria Gas-to-Liquids Plant to Start Output in 2013 (1)  Chevron Corp., the world’s fourth-largest energy company,
said its Nigerian Escravos gas-to-liquids plant is more than 70
percent complete and on course to start production in 2013.  Suzlon Can Pay Bondholders as ‘Worst Is Over,’ Tanti Says (2)  Suzlon Energy Ltd., Asia’s third-largest maker of  wind
turbines , will be able to pay bondholders if they choose to
redeem convertible securities next year rather than accept stock
that’s below the conversion price.  Hindustan Petroleum Refinery Gasoline Unit Has Unplanned Outage  Hindustan Petroleum Corp., India’s third-largest state
refiner, had an unplanned shutdown of a fluid catalytic cracking
unit at its Vishakapatnam plant two days ago, according to two
company officials.  Egypt Seeks to Broaden Wheat Imports as Russian Prices Climb  Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat importer, is stepping up
efforts to find more sources after prices it paid for Russian
grain climbed almost 5 percent in less than a month.  Paulson, BlackRock, UBS Lead London Mining Analyst Hiring Spree  Paulson & Co., BlackRock Inc. and UBS AG are leading a
hiring spree of London-based mining analysts as banks, brokers
and  hedge funds  compete to bolster research teams in an industry
valued at more than $350 billion in the U.K.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls to Three-Week Low as U.S. Rebound May Be Slowing  Copper fell to a three-week low in London on concern the
economic rebound is faltering in the U.S., the world’s second-
biggest user of the metal.  Antofagasta Copper Output Rises 22% in Second Quarter From First  Antofagasta Plc, the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, said copper output rose to 158,700 metric tons in
the second quarter from 129,800 tons in the first.  MINING:  Ivanhoe Mines Says Oyu Tolgoi to Cost Less Than Budgeted (1)  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Robert Friedland
said the company’s Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia may cost less
than budgeted, partly because of the site’s proximity to Chinese
supplies.  Ferrexpo First-Half Profit Doubles on Iron Ore Price Gains (1)  Ferrexpo Plc, a producer of iron ore pellets in Ukraine,
said first-half profit more than doubled on higher prices for
the raw material used to make steel.  Eurasian Natural Resources Quarterly Iron Ore Output Falls 4.8%  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., the Kazakh metals
producer, said total second-quarter output of saleable
ferroalloys rose 0.8 percent from a year earlier.  Escondida Union Says Resolution ‘Close’ at Strike-Hit Mine  Workers and company officials at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
Escondida unit in  Chile  are “close” to resolving a pay dispute
that has cut output at the world’s largest copper mine, union
officials said.  Lynas Says China Showing No Sign of Boosting Rare Earth Exports  China is showing “no real sign” of boosting rare earths
exports, Lynas Corp. Chief Executive Officer Nick Curtis told
reporters in Kalgoorlie,  Western Australia .  Diamond Jewelry Demand in India May Slow After Gem Prices Surge  Demand for diamond jewelry in India, the world’s biggest
exporter of the polished precious stones, may slow as a surge in
prices discourages buyers and spurs consumers to favor gold,
according to Titan Industries Ltd.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Rallies to Record as Economic Concerns Spur Investor Demand  Gold climbed to a record in  New York  and London as concern
that the U.S. economy is faltering and debt woes in the nation
and Europe boosted demand for a protection of wealth.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil  Advances on Speculation Soybean Production May Decline  Palm oil advanced to its highest level in almost two weeks
on speculation that demand for the tropical oil may increase as
hot weather erodes the condition of the U.S. soybean crop.  Corn, Wheat Fall as Slowing U.S. Rebound May Cut Into Demand  Corn fell in Chicago on speculation demand for raw
materials may wane as consumers curb spending amid concern the
U.S. economy’s rebound is slowing. Wheat and soybeans declined.  Coffee Rises for Fourth Day on Delayed Exports; Raw Sugar Gains  Coffee rose for a fourth day in London, the longest winning
streak since June, on concern supplies may be limited as
Vietnamese exporters delay shipments. Raw sugar climbed.  Thai Rice Exports Through July 29 Surge 56% to 7.33 Million Tons  Rice exports from Thailand, the world’s largest shipper,
rose 56 percent to 7.33 million metric tons from the start of
the year to July 29, according to the Thai Rice Exporters
Association. Shipments in July gained 46 percent to 993,543
tons, the group said on its website today.  Japan Buys 33,700 Tons of Feed Wheat, 81,050 Tons Feed Barley  Japan bought 33,700 metric tons of feed wheat and 81,050
tons of feed barley in a tender today, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said.  SHIPPING:  Pacific Basin First-Half Profit Slumps 94% on Write-Off (1)  Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd., Hong Kong’s largest operator
of dry-bulk vessels, said first-half profit slumped 94 percent
after it wrote off investments in two new vehicle-carrying
ships.  Dry Bulk Shipping Won’t Improve Until 2014, Merrill Lynch Says  The dry bulk shipping market may not strengthen until
2013-2014 when fleet growth slows, allowing demand to catch up
with supply, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report.  Denmark DUC September Crude Daily Shipments to Rise by 18% (1)  Daily  crude oil  shipments from Dansk Undergrunds
Consortium, the producer part-owned by A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S,
will increase by 18 percent next month from August, a loading
program obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  Tanker Rates Not Negative Because of Slow Steaming, Platou Says  Oil-tanker rates are probably not negative because the
calculation used by the Baltic Exchange doesn’t take into
account ships cutting speeds to reduce fuel costs, RS Platou
Markets said in a report.  Goldman Lowers Estimates for Crude  Oil Tankers , Suezmax Vessels  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its rate estimates for
very large crude carriers by 11 percent and for Suezmax vessels
by 14 percent, citing reduced oil imports into the U.S. from the
 Arabian Gulf  given higher North American production and slower
petroleum demand.  ECONOMIES:  China  Non-Manufacturing Industries Grew in July, Surveys Show  A Chinese non-manufacturing index rose for the first time
in three months in July, indicating some industries are
withstanding the government’s campaign to cool inflation in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  China’s Zhou to Monitor U.S. as Xinhua Sees Debt ‘Bomb’ (2)  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China’s central bank will
monitor U.S. efforts to tackle its debt as the official Chinese
 news agency  criticized what it called the “madcap”
brinksmanship of American lawmakers.  Record Yield Premiums Drive Faster Yuan Gains: China Credit  The yuan is strengthening at the fastest pace in three
months as Chinese bonds’ near-record yield premiums over U.S.
Treasuries draw funds from abroad.  Geithner Says He Hasn’t Decided Whether to Leave Obama Team (1)  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he hasn’t
decided yet whether to leave the Obama administration now that
Congress has raised the debt limit, changing his tone from
previous comments on his future plans.  SNB Unexpectedly Cuts Rate to Curb ‘Overvalued’  Swiss Franc  (3)  The Swiss central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and
said it will increase the supply of francs to money markets to
curb the “massively overvalued” currency. The franc dropped
from a record.  U.S. Economy Running at ‘Stall Speed’ Pimco, BlackRock Say (1)  Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc., which
together oversee almost $5 trillion, say the U.S. economy is
stalling.  Odds of U.S. Recession Seen Rising by Academic Panel Majority  The two-year-old U.S. recovery’s staying power may be
diminishing as consumers and the government pare spending, say
five of the nine economists on the academic panel that dates
recessions.  Ireland Vies With Greece for Highest Bond Returns: Euro Credit  For all of Ireland’s efforts to distinguish itself from
Greece, it’s their similarities that have helped debt sold from
Dublin outperform all peers since last month’s meeting of
European leaders.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Drop on Growth Concern as Gold at Record; Franc Weakens  Stocks fell for a sixth day, the longest stretch of losses
since November, amid concern the U.S. recovery is faltering. The
franc weakened the most since March 2009 against the euro after
Switzerland unexpectedly cut its interest rate and gold rose to
a record.  Swiss Franc Plunges on SNB’s Warning; Dollar Index Declines  The Swiss franc fell against all of its major peers,
dropping the most in more than two years against the euro, after
the central bank said it will take measures to weaken the
currency if necessary.  Asian Currencies Slide, Led by Won, on U.S. Slowdown Concern  Asian currencies slumped, led by South Korea’s won, as
signs the U.S. economic recovery is losing momentum cooled
demand for higher-yielding assets and worsened the outlook for
regional exports.  European Stocks Fall, Extending 11-Month Low; SocGen Shares Drop  European stocks retreated, extending an 11-month low, amid
concern the U.S. economy is faltering and the nation may lose
its top  credit rating . Asian shares fell while U.S. index
futures gained.  Emerging Stocks Poised for ‘Ominous’ Drop:  Technical Analysis   An “ominous” head-and-shoulders pattern has formed over
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which may foreshadow declines
that will take it to the lowest level in almost a year,
according to Auerbach Grayson & Co.  Oil Declines as U.S. Spending Slides, Moody’s Warns of Downgrade  Oil declined for a fourth day in New York, its longest
losing streak since May, as investors bet that signs of a
slowing U.S. economy indicate fuel demand will falter in the
world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Mubarak on Trial From Hospital Stretcher as  Egypt  Confronts Past  Egypt’s former president  Hosni Mubarak  was wheeled into a
Cairo court on a stretcher today to face charges of conspiracy
to kill some of the protesters who drove him from office in
February.  Zapatero Breaks Vacation on First Day to Discuss Fiscal Crisis  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
returned to Madrid this morning to discuss the worsening fiscal
crisis with ministers, less than a day after departing for a
vacation in the south of the country.  SPORTS:  Ferguson Raises Questions About Berbatov’s Future: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
media, with clickable links to the Web.  Tiger Woods Says He’s Fully Recovered, Ready for Return (1)  Tiger Woods said he’s fully recovered from knee and
Achilles tendon injuries that forced him out of competition for
the past 2 1/2 months.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  