-- 
UN Is Nearing Agreement on Statement Condemning Violence by Syrian Forces

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-03T18:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/un-security-council-close-to-statement-on-syria-violence-1-.html
The United Nations  Security Council 
is close to adopting a statement from its president to condemn
“widespread violations of human rights and the use of force
against civilians by the Syrian authorities.”  A  statement  from the council president, which requires
unanimous consent from all 15 members, doesn’t carry the same
weight as a resolution, which was sought by European nations and
the U.S. and opposed by  Russia .  Lebanon, the only Arab country on the council, has a pro-
Syria government and could still object.  The UN decision-making body would express “grave concern
at the deteriorating situation in Syria” and “profound regret
at the death of many hundreds of people,” according to a copy
of the statement obtained by Bloomberg News. It is to be read at
3 p.m. in  New York  by  India ’s UN ambassador, Hardeep Singh Puri,
who holds the monthly rotating presidency.  The Security Council also asked Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon for an update on the situation in Syria within seven days.  The statement “contains an unambiguous and clear-cut call
to end all sorts of violence,” Russia’s UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, told reporters on his way out of the meeting.  After two days of discussions, the 15-member body ironed
out some of their disagreements over how to react to the
deadliest episodes in the uprising that started in mid-March.  ‘Stop a Massacre’  A fresh wave of attacks that began on July 31, the eve of
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, resumed early today in Hama,
the fourth-biggest city, said Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights and Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights.  “The gap between what needs to done to stop a massacre and
what U.S. and the European Union are actually doing couldn’t be
larger,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center, a Qatar branch of the Washington research
institution. “If the regime continues moving into Hama,
international pressure will continue to mount and perhaps that
will force Russia and  China ’s hand. But then what?”  With at least 12 more protesters killed in Syria yesterday,
pressure has been mounting on the UN’s most important body to
take a stand against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Sticking points in the discussion were the extent of
violence by both sides and attempts by Russia to equate
attempted action on Syria with  Libya , where the Security Council
in March authorized “all necessary measures” to protect to
protect civilians from forces loyal to dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  Wakeup Call  Assad’s crackdown is the bloodiest since Syrians began to
demonstrate following unrest across the Arab world that ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt .  “With even  Syria ’s close allies expressing concern, let’s
hope this is the wakeup call that President Assad finally
answers,” Peggy Hicks, global advocacy director for  New York- 
based  Human Rights Watch  said in an interview. “In our view
access to Syria for human rights monitors is a key test of
whether or not the Security Council message has been received.”  The Security Council calls on the Syrian authorities to
allow aid agencies, which have been prevented from entering the
country, “unhindered access” for humanitarian relief.  The security forces have killed at least 176 people in the
last three days, most of them in Hama, where tanks shelled
residential areas, including mosques, said Qurabi and Merhi.  “Grotesque and Appalling”  White House press secretary Jay Carney today dubbed Assad’s
actions “grotesque and appalling” and said, “The U.S. has
nothing invested in Assad remaining in power.”  The U.S. has been looking at ways to bolster existing
sanctions against the Syrian regime even as the administration
has held back from explicitly calling on Assad to go. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton , who on July 11 became the first senior
administration official to say Assad had lost legitimacy, met in
 Washington  yesterday with Syrian-American opposition supporters.  While U.S. lawmakers announced new sanctions legislation
against the Assad government, U.S. Ambassador to Syria  Robert Ford , who met with Obama two days ago, told senators at his
confirmation hearing on  Capitol Hill  yesterday that unilateral
U.S. sanctions “don’t have much bite” because there is so
little trade between the two countries.  Ford, a fluent Arabic speaker who visited Hama last month
in a show of solidarity for protesters, will be returning to the
Syrian capital “in the next couple of days,” State Department
spokesman Mark Toner told reporters today.  Death Toll  More than 2,100 protesters have been killed in Syria since
March, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than 500 members of
the security forces have been killed, Deputy Foreign Minister
Fayssal Mekdad said in an interview with  India’s News X channel .  The recent assault came as opposition forces vowed to step
up their campaign against Assad during Ramadan, the Islamic
month of fasting and prayer. Family and community groups
typically gather for evening meals during the month to break
their fasts, and more people attend special services at mosques.  The unrest poses the biggest challenge to Assad’s rule
since he inherited power from his father, Hafez al-Assad, 11
years ago. Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots, while conceding that some demonstrators have legitimate
demands and pledging political changes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  