-- 
UniCredit Writes Down Greek Debt Holdings as Profit Triples

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-08-03T16:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/unicredit-second-quarter-profit-of-731-5-million-tops-analysts-estimates.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
said second-quarter quarter profit more than tripled after lower
provisions countered losses on Greek government debt holdings.  Net income rose to 511 million euros ($731 million) from
148 million euros in the year-earlier period, the Milan-based
bank said in a statement today. That exceeded the 463 million-
euro average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The net income of 2.6 billion euros estimated by analysts
in 2011 is achievable,” Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  told reporters in Milan. “For sure, 2011 earnings will
be better than 2010.”  UniCredit joined  France ’s BNP Paribas SA, Credit Agricole
SA and  Germany ’s Deutsche Bank AG in writing down Greek debt
after signing the  Institute of International Finance ’s rescue
plan last month. The bank wrote down a quarter of its 535
million euros of Greek bonds, exceeding the accord’s 21 percent
requirement for holdings that mature by 2020.  “The bank wrote down all of its bonds portfolio, not only
bonds expiring by 2020, applying an internal mark-to-market
model consistent with the IIF guidelines,” Ghizzoni said.  UniCredit rose 1.8 percent to 1.15 euros in Milan trading,
giving the company a market value of 22.2 billion euros. The
stock was the second-best performer after Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA on the 46-company Bloomberg Banks and Financial
Services Index, which fell 2 percent.  Provisions Decline  Loan-loss provisions dropped 31 percent to 1.18 billion
euros in the quarter from a year earlier. Revenue rose 0.3
percent to 6.46 billion euros in the quarter, while net trading
income increased fivefold to 290 million euros from a year ago,
the bank said.  “The beat is almost entirely explained by lower
provisions, that’s good news,” said Patrizio Pazzaglia, a  money
manager  at Bank Insinger de Beaufort NV in  Rome  who holds the
bank’s shares.  UniCredit is cutting costs and reviewing its strategy after
being the only Italian bank to face stress tests without selling
new shares to bolster capital this year. The bank may
restructure or sell non-performing assets when the review is
completed, the CEO said.  “We are working on a new business plan that will be
presented in the last quarter of the year,” said Ghizzoni. “In
the plan, management capital actions will be taken into account
and explained to the markets.”  Capital Position  He didn’t elaborate on what measures the bank might take to
boost capital.  The lender will need to raise 6 billion euros to meet
regulators’ stricter capital requirements, analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg said in June.  The bank said its core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of
financial health, rose to 9.12 percent as of June 30, from 9.06
percent three months earlier.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s
second-biggest bank, forecast a ratio of 10 percent this year
following a 5 billion-euro share sale.  UniCredit may look at next year’s 32.1 billion-euro funding
requirement before the end of December “if opportunities
arise,” Ghizzoni said. The bank has completed 85 percent of its
32 billion-euro funding needs for 2011, he said.  UniCredit, which holds about 40 billion euros of Italy’s
sovereign debt, or 5 percent of the bank’s total assets, wasn’t
asked by the country’s Treasury to buy bonds amid the crisis,
Ghizzoni said. Italian banks have dropped by an average of 30
percent this year in Milan trading on speculation that the
country may become the next victim of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Cutting Deficit  Ghizzoni urged the government to implement measures to cut
debt in order to shore up confidence in Italy after bond yields
soared to euro-era records.  “Italy should bring forward budget measures to 2012 from
2014,” he said.  Italy has “solid” economic fundamentals and liquid banks,
and its bond-market rout is due to speculation and sagging
international confidence, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said
today in a televised address in the Chamber of Deputies in Rome.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  