-- 
Unilever May Report Fastest Sales Growth Under Polman’s Tenure

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-03T11:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/unilever-may-report-fastest-sales-growth-under-polman-s-tenure.html
Unilever may report the fastest
quarterly sales growth since Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman
took the helm two years ago as the company raises prices to
combat soaring raw material costs.  The world’s second-largest maker of consumer products may
say tomorrow that underlying sales of its products, including
Dove lotions and Marmite spread, grew 5.8 percent in the second
quarter, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The gain, which excludes the impact
of acquisitions, disposals and currency swings, would be the
greatest since the last quarter of 2008.  “The reason sales are looking good is because there’s more
pricing, and there’s more pricing because there’s more input
costs,” said Harold Thompson, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in
 London . “If organic growth is more than five percent, that’ll
be seen as very good.” Thompson estimates sales rose 5.2
percent last quarter.  The amount of goods sold may have increased 3.2 percent,
compared with a 2.5 percent rise in the first three months of
the year, according to Bloomberg data. Unilever may say prices
grew 2.6 percent, the most since the first quarter of 2009. The
company raised prices in the first quarter to combat an increase
in the price of commodities such as  palm oil , which is used in
spreads, soup, ice cream and soap.  Knorr Goes Jelly  Polman, who took over at London- and Rotterdam-based
Unilever in January 2009, has introduced products such as Knorr
Jelly bouillon to new markets including  Brazil . He aims to
double sales by expanding in faster-growing emerging markets and
selling more health and personal-care products. Polman bought
Sara Lee Corp.’s shower-gel and European detergents unit and
Alberto Culver Co., adding the hair-care brand Nexxus.  Unilever, like rivals Danone and Nestle SA, is suffering as
raw-material prices increase, sapping profit margins. Danone
reported first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates last
week as higher costs for commodities, particularly milk and
plastic, held back profit improvement even as the company
boosted sales growth by a greater-than-estimated 8.7 percent.
Nestle reports results next week.  Prices for three-month put options to sell Unilever’s
Amsterdam-listed shares are 38 percent higher than calls to buy,
a two-month high, according to Bloomberg data, reflecting
concern that slowing sales in  Europe  and high commodity prices
may stint profit.  Margin Questions  Unilever in April said that first-half profitability would
drop before recovering in the second half and commodity costs
would amount to about 500 to 550 basis points of revenue this
year. Analysts anticipate a reduction of 50 basis points in the
so-called underlying operating margin in the half, according to
the median of nine estimates.  “Margins will fall, but it’s the scale of the fall that’ll
be looked at and more importantly how they’ve limited that
fall,” Thompson said, citing expected cuts to advertising and
promotional spend.  Analysts at MF Global including Andy Smith wrote in a note
dated yesterday that Unilever may abandon its guidance for an
improvement in full-year profitability if the margin narrows by
90 basis points, which they forecast. Smith has a “sell”
rating on Unilever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 