-- 
Unilever Options Are Most Bearish in Two Years Before Tomorrow’s Earnings

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-08-03T10:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/unilever-options-are-most-bearish-in-two-years-before-tomorrow-s-earnings.html
Unilever options traders are pushing
bearish bets to a two-year high before the world’s second-
biggest consumer-goods company reports earnings tomorrow amid
slower consumer demand and higher commodity costs.  Prices for three-month puts to sell the Amsterdam-listed
shares are 38 percent higher than calls to buy, according to
Bloomberg data. On July 21 the premium increased to 39 percent,
the highest since February 2009, the data show. The Rotterdam-
and London-based maker of Magnum ice cream and Dove soap dropped
1.6 percent to 22.09 euros as of 12:24 p.m. in Amsterdam today.  Falling  consumer spending  in western  Europe  and  North
America  and rising commodity prices may curb Unilever profits,
Julian Lakin, head of research at Mirabaud Securities Ltd. in
London, said in a phone interview. Lakin has an “add” rating
on the stock and a 12-month price estimate of 24.50 euros.  “There’s a lot more demand for protection,” Kokou Agbo- Bloua, an equity and derivatives senior strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London, said in an interview. “Companies that
have reported in Europe have missed their numbers, especially
consumer-exposed companies. Unilever might be subject to either
earnings misses or earnings revisions, and that’s because
European consumer spending is not doing that well.”  More European companies have missed analysts’ estimates
since July 11 than in any earnings season in at least five
years. About 50 percent of companies in the Stoxx 600 have
posted earnings that fell short of projections, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumers, Commodities  Commodity prices rose 5.9 percent in the first half of the
year, according to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index. The gauge
of 24 commodities had gained 20 percent as of this year’s peak
on April 8.  Unilever may say that underlying sales of its products,
which include Marmite spread, grew 5.8 percent in the second
quarter, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The gain, which excludes the impact
of acquisitions, disposals and currency swings, would be at the
fastest pace since the fourth quarter of 2008.  The stock was down 3.7 percent this year through yesterday
as the Stoxx 600 Food and Beverage Index was almost unchanged.
Unilever is valued at 14.86 times earnings for the past year,
less than the 16.94 price-earnings ratio for the food and
beverage gauge.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility for three-month Unilever options 10
percent below the stock price rose to 23.71 for contracts listed
in Amsterdam, while the equivalent calls traded at 17.22. That
premium, known as skew, gauges how much puts cost relative to
calls. Implied volatility is the key gauge of option prices.  Unilever had the fourth-highest skew in the benchmark Euro
Stoxx 50 Index of the largest euro-region companies as of
yesterday, trailing Deutsche Boerse AG,  Munich Re  and SAP AG,
Bloomberg data show.  Danone (BN)  and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  both declined after their
earnings reports on July 28. Paris-based Danone, the world’s
largest yogurt maker, missed analysts’ profit estimates amid
higher costs for financing and raw materials. New York-based
Colgate, the world’s largest toothpaste maker, said on a
conference call with analysts that 2011 U.S. operating profit
may decrease at least 10 percent.  Asia and  Africa  accounted for 40 percent of Unilever’s
sales last year, followed by the Americas with 33 percent and
Europe at 27 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Twin Pull’  “It’s very much a twin pull between a very slow revenue
generation in Europe against much stronger growth in the
developing world,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage
about 16 billion pounds ($26 billion) including Unilever shares
at Rathbone Brothers Plc in  London . “We’re very happy with that
portfolio in the developing world but obviously concerned about
slow economic growth in Europe and whether that’s going to
affect sales there.”  Put prices are rising as investors boost buying of the
contracts for protection. Eight of the 10 options with the
biggest increase in open interest over the past week through
yesterday were puts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  August 22.50 euro puts had the biggest growth in open
interest in that period, increasing to 10,831 contracts,
followed by August 22 euro puts. December 20 euro puts have
Unilever’s largest open interest, at 34,199 contracts. The
shares haven’t closed below 20 euros since October 2009.  “There’s a heightened factor of fear,” Zubin Ramdarshan,
London-based head of Europe,  Middle East  and Africa equity
derivatives trading at Jefferies Group Inc. “Unilever is such a
bellwether stock. Investors manage their risks in a much more
tight and disciplined manner because of the macro picture.
There’s a lot of people buying protection.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  