-- 
United Microelectronics Second-Quarter Net Income Declines on Weak Demand

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-08-03T08:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/united-microelectronics-second-quarter-net-income-declines-on-weak-demand.html
United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , the
world’s second-largest contract maker of chips, posted its first
profit decline in two years and forecast its biggest peak-season
revenue drop in a decade amid global economic uncertainty.  Second-quarter net income fell 39 percent to NT$3.19
billion ($110 million) from NT$5.27 billion a year earlier, the
Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said in a statement today. The
average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for
profit of NT$3.58 billion.  United Microelectronics joins larger rival Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. in facing slower growth as
clients cut orders to reduce inventory amid global economic
uncertainty. Revenue and profitability will drop during this
quarter, the industry’s high season, as demand for the company’s
communications chips declines.  “It’s the first time in 10 years that the third-quarter
will fall this much” from the second quarter, Chief Executive
Officer Sun Shih-Wei said at an investors’ conference today.
Clients started “overstocking” after the March Japan quake,
while overall demand is also declining, he said.  Third-quarter revenue will decline by a “low teen”
percentage from the second quarter, Sun said. By comparison,
the average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg had
projected sales at NT$28.6 billion, or an increase of 1.4
percent in the three-month period through September.  Sales Fall  Unconsolidated sales dropped 5.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier to NT$28.2 billion, the first
decline in two years. The shares fell 1.2 percent to NT$12.65 at
the 1:30 p.m. close in Taipei trading before the earnings
announcement, and have lost 22 percent this year.  United Microelectronics maintained its 2011 capital
expenditure plan at $1.8 billion. The median of seven analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for equipment spending
to be cut to $1.6 billion this year.  TSMC lowered its budget on July 28 to $7.4 billion from
$7.8 billion after forecasting revenue and profitability below
analysts’ estimates. The revised spending plan is still higher
than the $7.25 billion median estimate from the same Bloomberg
News survey.  “We expect UMC to take a bigger hit in the second half
versus TSMC,” Taipei-based Randy Abrams, who rates the stock
“neutral” at Credit Suisse Group Inc., wrote in a July 25
report. “UMC has continued to see order cuts” since June.  Operating margin will be a “low single-digit” percentage
this quarter, United Microelectronics said. Analysts had
expected 7.6 percent, according to the median of seven
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey.  United Microelectronics’ factory utilization will drop to a
low-70 percent range, from 87 percent in the second quarter, it
said. Profit break-even is when utilization is in the low 70
percentage range, Chief Financial Officer Liu Chitung said.  “We’re working hard to ensure we do post a profit this
quarter,” Liu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  