-- 
Turkey Bank to Cut Rate Tomorrow, Not Back Lira, Nomura Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-03T13:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/turkey-bank-to-cut-rate-tomorrow-not-back-lira-nomura-says-1-.html
Turkey’s central bank will likely cut
its benchmark  interest rate  at an extraordinary meeting tomorrow
as its bearishness on global growth is proving true, according
to Nomura International Plc.  Today’s announcement of lower-than-expected inflation in
July removed “the only constraint the bank had on fresh
easing,” Nomura strategist Olgay Buyukkayali said in an e-
mailed report. The bank will probably decide to cut the
benchmark rate to 6 percent from 6.25 percent at the meeting
tomorrow, Buyukkayali said. Cuts to reserve requirement ratios
are also likely.  The bank may also increase its overnight borrowing rate to
five percent from 1.5 percent, providing some support to the
lira, the report said.  “It’s crystal clear: the Turkish central bank’s global
macro bearishness has landed,” Buyukkayali said. Speculation
that the bank called an extraordinary session to intervene for
the third time in a week and defend the lira, the world’s worst-
performing major currency this year, is inconsistent with the
bank’s outlook, he said.  “It doesn’t make sense with the framework the bank is
looking at the world and looking at  Turkey ,” Buyukkayali said.
“The bank believes its policies are working and we think it
will want to give a loosening signal to the market. Otherwise,
there is no point to the meeting.”  Tomorrow’s surprise meeting was called in response to
“growing worries for public debt problems in some European
countries and the global growth outlook,” according to the
central bank’s announcement today.  Central bank governor Erdem Basci has defied calls to raise
rates from an all-time low as Turkey’s growth and current-
account deficit surged to record levels, citing pessimism about
the global economic outlook. Basci told economists at a meeting
on July 29 that he could loosen policy should the outlook
deteriorate further.  The central bank may narrow the spread between its
overnight borrowing and lending rates gradually if European debt
problems and global growth concerns cut investor appetite, it
said on July 21. The bank’s overnight lending rate is at 9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  