-- 
Turkish July Inflation Accelerated to Less Than Expected 6.3% on Food Cost

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-03T07:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/turkish-july-inflation-accelerated-to-less-than-expected-6-3-on-food-cost.html
Turkish inflation accelerated less
than expected in July as food prices fell, backing central bank
arguments that the economy is slowing and there is no threat to
medium-term inflation goals.  The inflation rate rose to 6.3 percent from 6.2 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its
website today. Prices were expected to increase 6.7 percent,
according to the median estimate of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. In the month, prices fell 0.4 percent.  The central bank is likely to keep the benchmark one-week
repo rate at a historic low of 6.25 percent throughout this year
on expectations that inflation will slow to 5 percent in 2013,
Governor Erdem Basci said July 28. The 9 percent depreciation of
the lira against the dollar this year won’t prevent inflation
from easing in the medium term, he said.  The figures are “benign, mainly because of a sizeable
decline in food prices,”  Inan Demir , chief economist for
Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in a telephone interview. “ Core
inflation  is rising but Basci has forecast it may hit 7 percent,
so we’re still below the bank’s pain threshold.”  The index of annual core inflation, which excludes energy,
food, tobacco and gold prices, rose to 5.4 percent from 5.3
percent a month earlier. In the month, food prices fell 1.2
percent, while transport costs gained 0.8 percent.  Currency Impact  “We’re already seeing the impact of the currency on some
goods, particularly transport and fuel, and we’ll see it for a
while longer,”  Haluk Burumcekci , chief economist for EFG
Istanbul Securities, said in a telephone interview. “Still it
probably won’t have a policy impact because the bank has said it
can tolerate it.”  The lira weakened to the lowest in two years on July 25,
when the bank acted to arrest the slide by halting dollar-
purchase auctions and returning $590 million to banks by cutting
 reserve requirements .  Inflation will end the year at 6.9 percent, compared with a
goal of 5.5 percent, Basci said July 28. Weaker domestic demand
and productivity gains by Turkish companies are limiting the
impact of the lira, he said.  The cost of goods leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
an annual 10.3 percent in July, compared with an increase of
10.2 percent the previous month, the statistics agency said
today. Producer prices fell 0.03 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 