-- 
Turkish Central Bank Announces Surprise Rates Policy Meeting As Lira Falls

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-03T08:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/turkish-central-bank-announces-surprise-rates-policy-meeting-as-lira-falls.html
Turkey ’s central bank announced plans
to hold a previously unscheduled meeting of its rates-setting
committee tomorrow that may decide to increase the overnight
borrowing rate to support the lira.  The meeting at the bank in Ankara is being convened in
response to “growing worries for public debt problems in some
European countries and the global growth outlook,” it said in
an e-mailed statement today. The committee will convene at 10
a.m. local time and a statement will be issued at noon, it said.  Governor Erdem Basci has acted twice in the last two weeks
to support the lira, canceling dollar purchases on July 25 and
making what he called a “verbal intervention” on July 28.
Tomorrow’s meeting may see him increasing the bank’s overnight
borrowing rate from 1.5 percent to make the lira more appealing
to so-called carry traders, who borrow foreign currencies to
invest in higher-yielding assets.  “The bank is likely to raise the overnight rate,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the region at  Morgan Stanley & Co .,
said in comments e-mailed from  London . That would make the carry
trade more attractive and also allow any Turkish banks with
excess liquidity to “park it in lira rather than buying foreign
currency,” he said.  The lira weakened as much as 0.8 percent today to 1.7236
per dollar, approaching a two-year low of 1.7347 reached July
25. It recovered most of those losses after the bank announced
its meeting and was little changed at 1.7101 at 11:48 a.m.  Basci’s Tools  The bank acted to arrest the slide July 25 by halting
dollar-purchase auctions and returning $590 million to banks by
cutting  reserve requirements . Basci said July 28 that he has
tools to prevent further lira weakness. Those include narrowing
the 7.5 percentage-point gap between the bank’s overnight
borrowing and lending rates, according to a policy document
posted on the bank’s website July 29.  “We expect the bank to move initially by hiking its
overnight borrowing rate by 200-400 basis points, to narrow the
current wide corridor,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, said in
e-mailed comments. “It wants to send a pre-emptive signal to
the market that it cares again about the  exchange rate .”  The central bank has held its benchmark one-week repo rate
at a historic low of 6.25 percent since January and is likely to
keep it there throughout this year, Basci said July 28. He said
monetary loosening is a possibility if European debt problems
threaten to halt global growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 