-- 
Corporate Bonds Break Worst Losing Streak on Recovery Signs: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-08-04T06:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/utilities-lead-bonds-from-worst-slump-on-recovery-optimism-japan-credit.html
Japanese investment-grade corporate
bonds gained in July for the first time this year, breaking
their longest losing streak on bets the world’s third-largest
economy has begun to rebound after the March earthquake.  Company debt returned 0.3 percent, trimming this year’s
losses to 1.2 percent, compared with gains of 5 percent for
corporate bonds globally and 6.8 percent in the U.S., Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Notes sold by utilities
rallied, while the debt of Tokyo Electric Power Co., the company
at the center of the nation’s nuclear crisis, was removed from
Merrill Lynch’s Japan Corporate Index after being cut to junk.  Growth will probably accelerate in the second half of 2011
after three quarters of contraction, according to a survey of 41
economists by the government-affiliated Economic Planning
Association. Exports rose 5.4 percent in June from May on a
seasonally adjusted basis as manufacturers such as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  restored production damaged by the March 11 temblor.  The economy is “recovering as supply chain disruptions
caused by the quake have been solved faster than expected,”
Toshiyasu Ohashi, the chief credit analyst at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co., said in a telephone interview from Tokyo.
Strong corporate balance sheets are also helping the bond market
perform relatively well, he said.  Cash and near-cash items rose 31 percent to 113.33 trillion
yen ($1.4 trillion) from a year ago for Japan’s biggest
companies listed on the main board of the Tokyo Stock Exchange,
according to the latest filings compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Risk  The cost of protecting Japanese corporate bonds from
default fell in July for the first time in three months,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index of credit-default swaps
declined 9 basis points in the month and was at 118 basis points
as of 9:28 a.m. in Tokyo, according to CMA and Citigroup Inc.
prices. The risk gauge dropped below the broader Markit iTraxx
Asia index on July 18 for the first time since March 22.  July’s gains for corporate bonds followed a record six
straight months of losses, Merrill Lynch data show. The debt of
Kyushu Electric Power Co., Kansai Electric Power Co. and other
utilities gained an average 0.41 percent as lawmakers approved a
bill to help compensate those affected by the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl.  Bank debt gained 0.22 percent, technology companies
returned 0.24 percent and bonds sold by automakers rose 0.23
percent, the index shows. The Topix index, which tracks 1,668
shares listed on the main board of the TSE, lost 0.92 percent.  Toyota Profit  Toyota, the world’s biggest automaker, may return to full
production of all models in October, two weeks earlier than
planned, Executive Vice President Atsushi Niimi said on July 4.
The company raised its full-year profit forecast by 39 percent
on Aug. 2, a day after Honda Motor Co. increased its profit
forecast 18 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own Toyota’s 60 billion
yen of 1.073 percent bonds due June 2014 instead of government
debt has narrowed to 14 basis points from a post-temblor high of
18 basis points, according to Japan Securities Dealers
Association prices.  “The corporate  bond market  was paralyzed just after the
quake but investor demand remained strong,” Yasunobu Katsuki,
the chief credit analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. said in a
telephone interview. A lack of corporate debt sales is causing
bond spreads to tighten as demand exceeds supply, Katsuki said.  Sales of domestic corporate bonds in the three months
through June 30 declined 35 percent from the same period a year
ago to 1.824 trillion yen, the least for the quarter since 2006,
Bloomberg data show.  Economic Forecast  Japan’s gross domestic product will probably shrink at a 3
percent annualized pace in the three months through June, the
third straight quarter of contraction, before growing 4.3
percent in the third quarter and 5 percent in the fourth,
according to the Economic Planning Association’s survey.  Manufacturers see a 21 percent increase in profit in the
six months ending March 2012, the  Bank of Japan ’s quarterly
Tankan survey indicated on July 1.  Japan’s export-led recovery is clouded by a strengthening
yen and the outlook for global growth.  Manufacturing indexes in  China , the U.S. and  Europe  fell in
July as the global recovery lost momentum and debt crises in
Europe and the U.S. disrupted financial markets. Japan’s
industrial production rose less than expected in June as
companies warned that a yen close to a post-World War II high
threatens to drag down exports.  Strengthening Yen  The yen appreciated 4.95 percent against the dollar in July
and traded at 79.34 per dollar as of 2:31 p.m. in Tokyo after
Japan intervened in the  currency market  for the first time since
March. Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today’s
intervention was unilateral.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield declined 0.5 basis point to
1.01 percent as of 2:22 p.m. in Tokyo, according to prices
provided by Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. Contracts to insure Japanese government
debt against default for five years were little changed at 90
basis points Aug. 2, CMA prices in New York show.  The Bank of Japan eased monetary policy today by expanding
its asset-purchase fund to 15 trillion yen from 10 trillion yen,
as well as increasing a credit facility by 5 trillion yen to 35
trillion yen. The central bank also kept its benchmark  interest
rate  near zero.  Japan’s parliament approved a bill yesterday to create a
state-backed entity to help  Tokyo  Electric pay damages to those
affected by the disaster from its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.
About 160,000 people were evacuated and radiation contaminated
Japanese beef and other products after the earthquake and
tsunami led to reactor meltdowns at the site.  Tepco Downgrade  The extra yield investors demand to own Tepco’s 1.97
percent bonds due in June 2016 instead of similar-maturity
government debt narrowed 52 basis points to 433 basis points
last month and was at 416 on Aug. 3, according to JSDA prices.  The company’s debt fell 3.75 percent in June, the worst
return in the Japan Corporate Index, and wasn’t included in the
benchmark in July after its long-term  credit rating  was cut four
steps to B1, the fourth-highest non-investment grade, by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Bonds sold by Osaka-based Kansai Electric, Japan’s second-
largest operator of nuclear reactors, returned 0.33 percent in
July after dropping 0.39 percent the previous month. Fukuoka-
based Kyushu Electric’s debt gained 0.46 percent, after losing
0.45 percent in June.  Nuclear plant operators have offered no notes since the
temblor, compared with 555 billion yen sold in the same period a
year ago, Bloomberg data show. Kansai Electric and Kyushu
Electric pulled sales in June.  “We need to wait a bit more for sales of power company
bonds,” said Tomone Kawachi, chief investment officer at WERU
Asset Management Co., a Tokyo-based investment advisory firm.
“We can’t forecast the outcome of the nuclear power industry
and that may have a huge impact on their business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  