-- 
Verizon Unions May Strike on Plan for ‘Gutting Health Care’

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-03T20:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/verizon-unions-threaten-strike-on-plan-for-gutting-health-care-.html
Lowell McAdam, who just started as
chief executive officer at  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , is
facing the possibility of a strike by thousands of repairmen,
service workers and phone operators his first week on the job.  The New York-based company is negotiating with more than
45,000 workers at two unions over the terms of a contract to
replace one that expires at midnight Aug. 6. Among the issues to
be resolved, health care has the company and unions most sharply
divided. Verizon wants workers to contribute more for health
benefits, including beginning to pay monthly premiums for the
first time, while the unions say their members can’t accept the
financial burden given the current economy.  “The company is insisting on gutting health care,” Bob
Master, a legislative and political director for the
 Communications Workers of America , said in an interview. “I
have never seen bargaining this unproductive in 25 years.”  Richard Young, a spokesman for Verizon, said the company is
only asking that union workers contribute upfront for health
care like other employees do. The changes are necessary to keep
the country’s second-largest phone company competitive, he said.  If Verizon can’t reach an agreement with the CWA and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers by the contract
deadline, union leaders could call their workers out on strike
on Aug. 7. Such a move could disrupt installations for telephone
and Internet service, delay service calls and result in non-
union workers taking over a range of unionized jobs.  Verizon rose 48 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $35.97 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
are little changed this year.  Wireline Decline  McAdam, who took over as CEO from Ivan Seidenberg Aug. 1,
had run  Verizon Wireless  for more than three years before
becoming president at Verizon Communications last year. He wants
to bring the competitive culture of the wireless business to the
parent company. In an interview last month, McAdam, 57, said
changing the union contract would ultimately benefit workers
because lower costs would help the business compete.  “If we do that, I think the union will have a much
stronger future because the company will be stronger,” he said.  Verizon’s revenue and profit fell last year as declines in
the wireline business offset growth in wireless. The number of
wireline access lines, including residential and business
customers, slid 8.2 percent to 26 million at the end of last
year, extending declines since 2003. Over the same period, the
wireless subscribers more than doubled to 94.1 million.  Its rivals include  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest U.S. phone
carrier and second-largest wireless operator. AT&T has proposed
acquiring Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA, allowing it to
surpass Verizon Wireless as the country’s largest provider.  ‘$400,000 an Hour’  Verizon wants unionized workers, who currently pay no
monthly premiums for health care, to begin contributing at least
$100 a month, or $1,200 a year.  “We’re looking to bring our union more in line with what
the rest of the workers pay,” said Young, adding that about
130,000 of the company’s approximately 196,000 employees already
contribute to health-care premiums.  “Verizon pays $400,000 an hour on health care,” he said.
“This is a significant cost factor.”  The CWA called the proposal a radical change. Verizon is a
profitable company that pays senior executives well and isn’t in
danger of going out of business, said Master.  “These are really, really hard economic times,” he said.  “This is a significant cost shift to our members,” said
Bill Huber, a business manager for the IBEW. “If you’re retired
and on a fixed income, this is going to be a very difficult pill
to swallow.”  1963 Work Rule  McAdam also wants to change several work rules, including
one dating to 1963 that requires two service people on calls to
the Upper East Side. The practice was instituted when the
neighborhood was considered dangerous, though now it’s arguably
the safest in the city, he said.  “It’s an antiquated rule that doesn’t make any sense,”
McAdam said.  Another work rule proposal would allow the company to route
service calls to other states with more capacity to handle them
and allow phone representatives to answer technical questions
rather than transferring calls to tech support.  Master said Verizon also wants to limit sick days to five a
year from an unlimited number, and to freeze pensions for
current employees while eliminating them for future workers.  The union isn’t giving ground.  “There is no movement at the bargaining table
whatsoever,” said Master. Young declined to comment on the
specific issues under negotiation.  Strike Authorized  The CWA said July 28 that in a vote by 35,000 of its
Verizon members, 91 percent authorized the union’s leaders to
call a strike after the current labor contract expires at the
end of Saturday. About 12,500 Verizon workers with the IBEW have
also voted for a strike.  On July 30, thousands of workers took to the streets
outside Verizon’s Manhattan headquarters, carrying signs that
read “We are people, not machines.”  “We will strike you,” they chanted.  Though the unions authorized strikes in 2008 and 2003, they
haven’t been on strike since 2000. The 18-day standoff affected
28 million customers and cost Verizon $40 million in revenue.
The company ended up agreeing to a 12 percent wage increase over
three years.  This time, Verizon has trained more than 40,000 managers
and contractors over the past several months to step into the
roles of union workers if need be, Young said.  “We’re confident that we will be able to handle an adverse
scenario,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  