-- 
Verizon Owes $115 Million for Patent Infringement, Jury Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-03T00:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/verizon-owes-115-million-for-patent-infringement-jury-says-1-.html
Verizon Communications Inc. owes
$115 million to a  San Jose ,  California , company for infringing
four of its patents, a U.S. jury found after a three-week trial
in Norfolk,  Virginia .  ActiveVideo Networks Inc. sued the New York-based
telecommunications company last year, alleging it and three
units infringed patents relating to interactive television
services including on-demand video. The jury returned its
verdict today. Verizon immediately said it will appeal.  “Verizon disagrees with the verdict and is confident that
the court of appeals will agree,” the second-largest U.S. phone
company said in an e-mailed statement. “The company will not be
paying any damages while the appeal is under way.”  ActiveVideo, in its complaint, described itself as a
provider of interactive television technology and services.  “We’re extremely pleased that the judge found that
ActiveVideo intellectual property was valid and that the jury
found that Verizon infringed on all asserted claims,”
ActiveVideo Chief Executive Officer Jeff Miller said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are seeking immediate payment of the
damages that have been awarded by the court.”  The company’s trial counsel, the Philadelphia-based law
firm Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, will seek a court order
blocking Verizon’s further use of ActiveVideo technologies,
Miller said.  The jury rejected ActiveVideo’s claims that Verizon’s
infringement of its patents was willful. The panel also awarded
the telecommunications company $16,000 in damages after finding
ActiveVideo had infringed two of its patents.  The case is ActiveVideo Networks Inc. v.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , 10cv248, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Norfolk).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  