-- 
Wal-Mart Visits Drop 2.6% as Added Products Fail to Draw Buyers, Memo Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-08-03T18:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/wal-mart-visits-drop-2-6-as-added-products-fail-to-draw-buyers-memo-says.html
Visits to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s U.S.
locations open at least a year dropped 2.6 percent from February
through June, according to an internal memo, while rivals are
attracting customers.  Those Wal-Mart stores had 82.8 million fewer visits through
the first five months of the company’s fiscal year than a year
earlier, says the memo, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Wal-Mart doesn’t disclose those traffic numbers, and  David Tovar , a spokesman, declined to comment on the memo.  Wal-Mart’s plan to recapture customers by returning
thousands of products to U.S. store shelves has failed to
reverse a decline in foot traffic at the world’s largest
retailer, said Jeff Stinson, an analyst at Cleveland Research
Co. That’s primarily because Wal-Mart’s core low-income
customers are shopping less and going to other retailers more
often, according to two recent shopper surveys.  “The biggest issue remains weak store traffic,” Stinson
wrote in a July 14 report. “We believe sales have slowed in the
second quarter and are running below plan primarily due to
further traffic declines.” The Cleveland-based analyst rates
the shares “neutral.”  Wal-Mart, led by Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke , is
restoring an average of 8,500 products to its stores to lure
back shoppers still pinched by persistent unemployment and gas
prices that have risen 36 percent in the past year. Sales in
U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least 12 months have declined for
eight straight quarters.  Wal-Mart’s traffic decline comes as some of its direct
competitors are getting more visits.  Kroger Traffic  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. supermarket chain, boosted
traffic in each of the previous three quarters.  Dollar General
Corp. (DG) , the biggest dollar discount chain in the U.S., has
increased traffic for 13 straight quarters, the company said
June 1. At  Target Corp. (TGT) , traffic including its PFresh grocery
sections and REDcard rewards program rose for six consecutive
quarters and was little changed in the first quarter of 2011.  Wal-Mart’s decline is close to the 2.5 percent drop in
shopper traffic at all retailers from February through June,
according to retail industry data provider ShopperTrak in
 Chicago .  Wal-Mart fell 14 cents to $51.54 at 2:06 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the shares had
fallen 4.2 percent this year.  The two shopper surveys, from Morgan Stanley and retail
consultancy WSL Strategic Retail, found that the removal of
items from stores in 2009 to reduce clutter wasn’t among the top
reasons why shoppers are visiting Wal-Mart less frequently.  ‘Not Very Concerned’  “Consumers are not very concerned about removed items or
breadth of assortment,” Mark Wiltamuth, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley, said in a July 11 report that included the survey. In
the WSL survey, 7 percent of Wal-Mart shoppers said they were
going there less because it stopped carrying products they buy.  Many shoppers don’t believe Wal-Mart’s prices are the
lowest anymore, the surveys found. These consumers are shifting
more of their spending to dollar stores, Target, and
supermarkets such as Kroger’s, WSL said. Both surveys polled
about 1,500 shoppers.  “The biggest surprise from our survey is that Wal-Mart
appears to have lost some of its low-price reputation,”
Wiltamuth said in the report. “Wal-Mart now has a price
perception problem.” The New York-based analyst rates the
shares “equal-weight.”  ‘Defensive’ Moves  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , has responded by
pledging to match local rivals’ prices, a move that Wendy Liebmann, CEO of New York-based WSL, said was “defensive.”  “They are taking incremental mini-steps at a time when
they need to knock shoppers’ socks off,” Liebmann said.  Traffic declined by an undisclosed amount at U.S. Wal-Mart
stores in the fiscal year ended Jan. 31 after increasing 1.3
percent in the previous year. Shopper visits continued to drop
in the first quarter of the current fiscal year. Duke has said
customers are making fewer shopping trips and spending less when
they do shop because of higher gas prices.  “Our priority right now is trying to provide that
opportunity for customers to go to one place and have everyday
low prices on the full assortment that they purchase,” Duke
said at an April investor conference.  Wal-Mart has forecast that the change in second-quarter
fiscal 2012 comparable-store sales in the U.S. would be negative
1 percent to positive 1 percent. Cleveland Research estimates
same-store sales to be down as much as 2 percent.  Risk to Sales  “The data points don’t look great,” Dan Binder, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in an Aug. 2 note to clients.
“There is downside risk to sales in the second quarter and
potentially over the balance of the year.” The New York-based
analyst cut his recommendation to “hold” from “buy” in the
note.  In a May  study  from Deloitte Research, almost three out of
four respondents said they are making fewer trips to the grocery
store to save money and two-fifths said they are purchasing
fewer items overall.  “Wal-Mart shoppers believe they are still living in a
recession,” Liebmann said. “They simply have, and will
continue to have, less to spend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  