-- 
Treasuries Decline as Surprise Swiss Interest-Rate Cut Curbs Safety Flows

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-03T10:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/two-year-treasury-yields-stay-near-today-s-record-low-on-demand-for-safety.html
Treasuries fell, pushing the two-year
note yield up from a record low, after a surprise interest-rate
cut by the Swiss central bank helped ease European financial
sector debt concern.  Yields on 10-year notes and 30-year bonds climbed from
nine-month lows as the  Swiss National Bank  lowered its target
for three-month Libor to “as close to zero as possible” from
0.25 percent to curb the “massively overvalued” franc. The
currency had touched a record high versus the euro on demand for
a refuge. European stocks pared losses.  “The SNB move to weaken the franc acts to contain some of
the risk-off flows that we’ve seen into the Swiss currency, and
that’s helping to push Treasury yields up a little after a big
drop recently,” said Morten Hassing Povlsen, senior rates
analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “A lot of European
corporates and also the private sector have borrowed in Swiss
francs, so it also helps to ease some of the concerns about
financial sector debt.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.64 percent at 6:52 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
3.125 percent securities maturing in May 2021 dropped 1/4, or
$2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 104 1/8.  The 10-year note yields touched 2.57 percent, the lowest
level since November. Two-year note yields gained one basis
point to 0.33 percent after falling to a record 0.3081 percent.  Franc as Haven  The franc, considered a haven in times of turmoil, has
surged 10 percent against the euro over the past two months as
 Europe ’s debt crisis worsened, hurting Swiss exports and
economic growth. The SNB joins the  Federal Reserve  and the Bank
of  Japan , which have also cut their benchmark rates to virtually
zero in an effort to boost their economies.  The Zurich-based central bank said it will also expand
banks’ sight deposits to 80 billion Swiss francs ($104 billion)
from 30 billion francs and repurchase outstanding SNB bills,
according to an e-mailed  statement  today.  “We’re just seeing a bit of a respite in the market after
the storm created by the headlines on global growth fears,”
said Mark Schofield, head of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in  London . “Growth will still pick up in the second half.
Some of the concerns are petering out. The SNB liquidity
injection has also taken a bit of the sting out of  risk aversion 
created by the issues in Europe.”  Drop in Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index decreased 0.8 percent, paring an
earlier 1.7 percent decline. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index expiring in September added 0.6 percent, indicating
the gauge of stocks is poised to rebound from its lowest level
since December.  Bonds earlier rallied from Australia to Japan to  Germany 
earlier today as signs of slowing global economic growth stoked
demand for the relative safety of government debt.  U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly fell in June, and
manufacturing almost stalled in July, reports showed this week.
Manufacturing in the U.K.,  Russia  and  Australia  also shrank,
while the pace of factory output slowed in Europe and  China ,
according to reports from the nations this week.  “Economic data from across the world hasn’t been very
promising, and that’s sparked fears of a global slowdown,” said
 Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London. “Investors are also pushing their rate-hike
expectations considerably further out. It’ll be hard for the
10-year Treasury yield to push lower than about 2.5 percent.”  U.S. Debt  The move to reduce the U.S. debt shifted to the makeup of
the special congressional panel charged with finding further
spending cuts and whether its 12 members can consider rewriting
the  tax code .  Republican leaders at the Capitol are pledging to appoint
members who oppose tax increases. Their Democratic counterparts
make clear they will name lawmakers who’ll fight to raise new
revenue and protect entitlement benefits Republicans say should
be targeted.  Under the debt-ceiling measure that President  Barack Obama 
signed into law yesterday, House and Senate Democratic and
Republican leaders have two weeks to decide on the three
appointees each can make.  The panel must vote on its $1.5 trillion deficit-cutting
plan by Nov. 23. Congress must then accept the recommendations
by Dec. 23 or face the triggered round of automatic cuts worth
$1.2 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  