-- 
Worst Currency to Tumble as Turkey’s Pain Threshold Tested

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-03T13:40:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/worst-currency-may-tumble-as-lira-traders-test-turkey-s-pain-threshold-.html
Turkey ’s lira, this year’s worst-
performing major currency, may tumble as a record current-
account deficit and rising inflation undermine the central
bank’s week-long attempt to stem the drop, options prices show.  Central bank chief Erdem Basci, who had encouraged a weaker
lira to reduce the current-account deficit, resisted further
depreciation last week as the lira sank to a two-year-low of
1.73 by suspending dollar-purchase auctions and returning $590
million to banks through reduced  reserve requirements .  “Investors will probably try to take the lira back to
previous lows,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a phone interview. “The
central bank will definitely be tempted to intervene verbally or
de-facto again. The question is: What is the central bank’s pain
threshold?”  There’s an 86 percent chance that the lira will hit 1.75
per dollar by year-end, according to implied probability
calculated from currency options contracts. Traders are paying a
premium of 3.4 percentage points more for one-month contracts
granting the right to sell the lira than to buy the currency,
compared with 2.3 percentage points a month ago, according to
so-called risk-reversal rates compiled by Bloomberg.  Worst Performer  The lira is the world’s worst-performing currency this year
among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank
has held  interest rates  at an all-time low to make the currency
less attractive to speculators in an effort to reduce the
current-account deficit.  The  trade gap  expanded to a record $10.2 billion in June,
contributing to a current-account deficit that the International
Monetary Fund projects will reach 10.5 percent of gross domestic
product this year. Basci said July 28 that the current-account
gap will narrow by the end of the year.  The lira advanced today for the first time in four days,
reversing earlier losses, after the central bank announced an
unscheduled meeting of its rate-setting committee for tomorrow,
citing “growing worries for public debt problems in some
European countries and the global growth outlook,” according to
a statement today.  The bank is likely to raise the overnight borrowing rate,
used in carry trades and banks with excess lira, for the first
time since 2008, according to economists at Morgan Stanley,
Citigroup and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The lira gained 0.6 percent to 1.7002 at 3:55 p.m. in
Istanbul, after falling 0.8 percent. The currency has
depreciated 9.2 percent this year.  ‘Pre-Emptive Signal’  The bank “wants to send a pre-emptive signal that it cares
again about the  exchange rate ,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-
market research at RBS, said in e-mailed comments.  Nomura International Plc predicted the central bank, which
has left its benchmark one-week repo rate at a record low of
6.25 percent since January, may cut the rate to 6 percent
tomorrow, while lifting overnight rate to 5 percent from 1.5
percent, providing some support to the lira, he said.  Inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent in July from 6.2
percent a month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said
today. Prices were expected to rise 6.7 percent, according to
the median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The slower-than-forecast inflation has removed “the only
constraint” on easing, according to Olgay Buyukkayali, an
analyst for Nomura in  London .  Basci said last week the lira wasn’t “overvalued” and
that he had the tools to stem its decline. The central bank had
about $92 billion of foreign-currency reserves, according to
Bloomberg data.  Debt Crisis  The risk that European debt problems will continue to
depress global growth means there’s little chance that rates
will rise this year, the central bank’s Basci said last week.  “It’s going to be a bumpy ride though, and if the central
bank fails, it will definitely be some very ugly uncharted
territory,” Henza Tukel, a currency trader at Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS, said in e-mailed responses to questions. “Last
week’s spike certainly made us question the ‘orderly manner’ of
the currency’s depreciation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  