-- 
Yandex, Mail.ru Will Gain From Online Ad Growth, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-08-03T12:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/yandex-mail-ru-will-gain-from-online-ad-growth-jpmorgan-says.html
Russian Internet companies Yandex NV
and  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  may increase their revenues as online
advertising growth accelerates from next year, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said today, recommending that investors buy the shares.  Russia ’s advertising market is nearing the point at which
online ads may grow significantly at the expense of print and
outdoor media, Alexei Gogolev, a Moscow-based analyst at
JPMorgan, wrote today in an e-mailed report initiating coverage
of Yandex. The company, which operates Russia’s most popular
search engine, had its share-price estimate set at $46, 42
percent higher than yesterday’s traded value.  Mail.ru, an investor in Facebook Inc., had its price
estimate increased to $57.02 from $51.7, a premium of 68 percent
to its share value as of 11:36 a.m. in  London . Last month, the
company increased its stake in Russian social networking site
VKontakte to 39.99 percent, paying $112 million for an
additional 7.4 percent.  Yandex, which makes most of its money through online
advertising, raised $1.3 billion in May in one of the biggest
technology initial public offerings worldwide this year. It’s
now covered by analysts at six institutions, including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, five of which recommend
that investors buy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe ’s second-biggest Internet market by users generated
revenue of $19 billion, or 1.6 percent of gross domestic
product, in 2009, according to a report commissioned by Google
Inc. That may double to 3.7 percent by 2015, according to a May
report by  Boston Consulting Group .  Yandex and Mail.ru are “likely to overtake state-owned TV
channels by daily reach of population” and may see a compounded
annual growth rate of more than 40 percent between 2010 and
2013, Gogolev said in the report. Online ads accounted for 11
percent of total advertising in 2010, he said, adding that that
will increase “once the audience share reaches a certain
critical mass level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  