-- 
Young Gay Men Have More Than 25% of New HIV Cases in U.S., Researchers Say

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-08-04T19:47:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/young-gay-men-have-more-than-25-of-new-hiv-cases-u-s-says-1-.html
(Corrects phrasing on new infections in second paragraph of
story published Aug. 3.)  The number of new HIV infections has
surged among young, black homosexual males even as the overall
spread of the virus that causes AIDS stabilized, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention said.  The number of U.S. residents who became infected with HIV
each year was on average 50,000 from 2006 to 2009, the agency
said in a  report  published today on the website of the journal
PLoS One. New infections among black men ages 13 to 29 who have
sex with men jumped to 6,500 in 2009, a 48 percent increase from
2006 and the only statistically significant change in any
segment of the population, according to the CDC.  The findings suggest young people view the threat of HIV
and AIDS as less serious since of the advent of multidrug
cocktails in 1996 that have doubled  life expectancy  for
patients, public health officials said.  “We obviously have to re-educate the community,” said
Georges Benjamin, the executive director of the  American Public
Health Association  in Washington. “ Thirteen-, 14-year-old
people today weren’t around 30 years ago. They were certainly
not around when the height of our advocacy efforts and
prevention messages were commonplace.”  More than one-quarter of new HIV infections in the U.S. in
2009 struck gay and bisexual males from ages 13 to 29, the
Atlanta-based CDC said.  First Since 2008  The report by the agency is the first of its kind since
2008. About 1.2 million people in the U.S. have HIV, CDC
Director  Thomas Frieden  said in a conference call with
reporters.  Though the rate of new HIV infections was stable in the
four years studied, the new cases justify heightened efforts to
halt the spread of the virus, Frieden said.  “While we’re glad it’s not increasing, it’s not good
enough,” he said. “The number of HIV infections remains far
too high. HIV is preventable and we need to do more to prevent
it.”  Men who have sex with men are most at risk of HIV
infection, according to the report. Sixty-one percent of new
cases in 2009, or 29,300, affected these men, who are 2 percent
of the  U.S. population , the agency said. Gay and bisexual males
ages 13 to 29 represented 27 percent of new HIV infections.  The fact that 50,000 new HIV infections occur every year is
“unacceptable” and the CDC’s findings indicate the spread of
the disease will worsen if young, black homosexual males aren’t
given access to comprehensive health-care services, said Chris
Collins, vice president of public policy for New York-based
 amfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research .  Prevention Programs  “Prevention programs have worked to bring incidence far
down from their peak earlier on in the epidemic but they have
not succeeded in getting us below this plateau of infections,”
he said by telephone.  Expanding access to HIV screenings, health care services
and antiviral drug are more important to curtailing the spread
of HIV than prevention efforts, said  Michael Weinstein ,
president of the  AIDS Healthcare Foundation  in  Los Angeles , in a
telephone interview.  Antiviral drugs made by the world’s biggest seller of AIDS
treatments, Foster City, California-based  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,
and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  of Brentford,  England , helped reduce the
transmission rate by 96 percent when patients began taking them
as soon as they were diagnosed, according to a U.S.-funded study
published in May. Millions of new infections could be prevented
through this approach, the study said.  Racial Disparity  The infection rate among blacks was almost eight times that
of whites in 2009. Forty-four percent of new HIV cases affected
blacks, who comprise 14 percent of the U.S. population, the
report said.  In 2009, 48,100 people contracted HIV, the agency said,
based on the results of laboratory tests that can differentiate
between new infections and older cases that hadn’t been
detected. The CDC revised its estimates for new infections in
2006 to 48,600 from the 56,300 it estimated in a 2008 report.  OraSure Technologies Inc. (OSUR)  of Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania ,  Alere
Inc. (ALR)  of Waltham,  Massachusetts , and Bray, Ireland-based  Trinity
Biotech Plc (TRIB)  sell rapid HIV test kits.  In 1996, researchers combined use of the three existing
families of drugs as a way to limit the virus’s ability to
overcome any one roadblock. As a result, the life expectancy of
diagnosed patients has increased to about 24 years from less
than 10 years, according to studies.  President Barack Obama launched the first U.S. domestic
strategy to combat HIV and AIDS last year with a stated goal of
reducing new infections by 25 percent and expanding access to
medicines. The campaign emphasizes HIV prevention among gay men
and blacks.  The U.S.  spent  $26 billion to fight HIV during fiscal 2010,
according to the Kaiser Family Foundation in  Menlo Park ,
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 