-- 
Hypermarcas Bonds Sink on Bets Second-Quarter Earnings to Trail Estimates

-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y ,   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-03T21:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/hypermarcas-bonds-shares-sink-on-concern-brazil-consumer-demand-is-waning.html
Hypermarcas SA (HYPMY) ’s 10-year bonds fell
the most since they were sold in April amid concern earnings for
Brazilian consumer companies will fall short of forecasts.
Shares recovered from a 9 percent drop.  Yields on dollar-denominated notes due in 2021 from
 Brazil ’s fifth-largest consumer goods company surged 32 basis
points, or 0.32 percentage point, to 6.81 percent at 3:35 p.m.
in  New York . Hypermarcas American depositary receipts declined 1
percent to $7.10, while Sao Paulo-traded shares closed 1.4
percent higher at 11.10 reais after sinking to as low as 9.97
reais. The stock is down 25 percent in the past month, the
third-worst performer in the Bovespa index.  The declines follow worse-than-anticipated second-quarter
earnings from  Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) , Latin America’s largest
cosmetics company, on slower sales growth. Hypermarcas, whose
first-quarter net income fell 40 percent from a year earlier, is
scheduled to report second-quarter results on Aug. 15.  “There’s concerns on the earnings number,” said Alfredo Viegas, director of emerging-market strategy at fixed-income
broker-dealer Knight Libertas in New York.  BTG Report  The shares erased earlier declines today as Banco BTG SA
wrote in a report that speculation the company used
inappropriate financial adjustments was unfounded. BTG said
Hypermarcas isn’t close to breaching financial covenants.  “There were a lot of rumors regarding the company that
weren’t true,” said Iago Whately, an equity analyst at Fator
Corretora in  Sao Paulo  a phone interview.  Hypermarcas, which sells foods, cosmetics and
pharmaceuticals, trades at 16 times 12-month forward earnings
compared to 9.1 times for the Bovespa stock index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Executive Director Gabriela Garcia
said last month that after making 25 acquisitions in two years,
Hypermarcas plans to focus on consolidation.  Company officials declined to comment today, citing a quiet
period before earnings.  Bank of America Corp. lowered its forecast for Brazilian
growth this year to 3.6 percent from 4.1 percent previously, and
for 2012 to 4.2 percent from 4.6 percent.  First-Quarter Earnings  In May, Vila Olimpia-based Hypermarcas reported first-
quarter earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates. Profit fell
40 percent from a year earlier to 32.9 million reais ($21
million.  Brazilian corporate bonds carrying the lowest credit
ratings paced declines today. The yield on OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA’s securities due in 2018 climbed 21 basis
points to 7.79 percent, while notes due in 2017 from Minerva SA
rose 21 basis points and debt from  JBS SA (JBSS3)  due 2014 gained 15.  Hypermarcas is rated BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , three steps
below investment grade, while OGX, the  oil company  controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , and Minerva, a meatpacker,
are rated B, five steps below.  BTG said in its note it recommends buying the company’s
bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  