-- 
Zapatero Interrupts Spanish Vacation on First Day for Talks on Debt Crisis

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-03T20:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-03/zapatero-interrupts-spanish-vacation-on-first-day-for-talks-on-debt-crisis.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero returned to  Madrid  to discuss the worsening
fiscal crisis with ministers, less than a day after departing
for a vacation in the south of the country.  The premier was back at his desk in Moncloa Palace hours
after his office said he left the Spanish capital for a vacation
in the southern region of Andalusia yesterday. Zapatero
maintained close contact with other European leaders and the
European Commission and met with Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
and government spokesman Jose Blanco after the country’s
borrowing costs approached the 7 percent mark that heralded
bailouts of  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland.  Political leaders are responding to the latest stage of the
European debt crisis that has pushed Spanish and Italian 10-year
borrowing costs above 6 percent, stoking concern they could
become the next victims of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “We are treating this situation with concern, responsibly
and with the confidence we are doing the work we have to do,”
Salgado told reporters in Madrid after meeting Zapatero. “We
watch with concern the stresses in the financial markets and how
it affects the debt of the Kingdom of Spain.”  Zapatero earlier spoke on the phone with European Union
President Herman van Rompuy and both agreed the implementation
of Greece’s rescue should be accelerated to boost confidence in
the markets, the premier’s office said in a statement.  ‘Strange’  “Hopping back and forward from Madrid looks kind of
strange -- I guess Zapatero is trying to show he’s ‘hands-on,’”
Javier Diaz-Gimenez, an economics professor at the University of
Navarra’s IESE business school, said in a phone interview. “The
best way for  Spain  to bolster confidence is to take steps that
will prove to its creditors that it’s serious about cutting the
deficit.”  Meanwhile, Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  told
lawmakers today that financial markets aren’t measuring risk
correctly because the nation’s public finances are in better
shape than most major economies, banks are well capitalized and
family indebtedness is low.  Zapatero also called Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, who will lead
the ruling Socialist Party into the coming elections, opposition
People’s Party candidate Mariano Rajoy and officials from seven
other Spanish parties. Spain will not need a bailout because it
is solvent, Rajoy said in comments broadcast by Television
Espanola’s news channel.  Crisis Statement  Zapatero “passed on the unanimous opinion of experts and
analysts that the financial crisis that’s afflicting the  euro
zone , made worse by the uncertainty about the U.S. economic
situation, needs a single response from the affected
countries,” the statement said.  Politicians from the parties that will contest the early
elections called for Nov. 20 by Zapatero last week took to the
airwaves today to react to the latest developments in the debt
crisis that have witnessed the difference between what Spain and
 Germany  pay on their 10-year debt climb above 400 basis points
from 175 basis points in February.  “Zapatero has to explain to the Spanish people what’s
going on, why and what it is that we have to do,” Cristobal Montoro, the People’s Party’s economic policy coordinator, told
COPE radio today.  “The situation is complicated but we are not in a
situation of having to ask for money,” Rubalcaba said on Onda
Cero radio.  European ‘Accidents’  Until European governments take steps such as working
toward a fuller fiscal union and bringing Greek debt down to a
sustainable level, Europe will face high financing costs,
according to a report published today by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA’s research department.  “In the meantime, Europe will keep being the object of
‘accidents’ because of fatigue over reforms or bailouts, which
would generate a disorderly restructuring of debt that could
have a global impact,” the BBVA analysts wrote.  Ten-year bond yields for Spain and  Italy  reached euro-era
records this week on concern that increasing debt-servicing
costs and slow growth may wipe out the benefits of government
austerity measures. The yield on the Spanish securities fell to
6.23 percent as of 4:51 p.m. in  London , while the rate on
similar-maturity Italian debt declined to 6.08 percent.  The selloff of Spanish and Italian bonds is “clearly
unwarranted on the basis of economic and budgetary
fundamentals,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said
in an e-mailed statement in Brussels today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  