-- ‘Magic/Bird’ Visits French Lick, TV Ad; ‘Federer’: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-04-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/-magic-bird-visits-french-lick-tv-ad-federer-review.html
With his winning smile, uncommon
gift for both basketball and business, and life-affirming
optimism, Earvin “Magic” Johnson is easy to admire.  Johnson’s nemesis-turned-friend,  Larry Bird , is depicted in
Broadway’s  “Magic/Bird”  as a terse, ferocious competitor who
comes alive only on the basketball court. That creates an
imbalance for the inventively staged but tepid docu-drama that
features only a dollop of onstage dribbling and shooting.  The one-act comes from the team behind last season’s
“Lombardi,” about the perfectionist football coach. Like that
play, it’s scrupulously researched. And for someone who can’t
tell  Bill Russell  from  Bill Bradley , it does offer an
informative slice of basketball and social history.  An offstage announcer at the outset introduces the six
actors, initially wearing white warm-up suits, as if we were in
an arena and they were the starting line-up of a game, which
immediately engages us in a sports story.  Within seconds, there’s footage of a historic 1991 press
conference with Johnson. Most of the highpoints of the legendary
rivalry is shown in clips.  “Because of the um, the HIV virus I have attained,” said
the actor onstage playing Johnson (Kevin Daniels), backed by the
flickering image of the real Johnson, “I will have to retire
from the Lakers, um, today.”  Flashbacks  The story flashes back to 1979 and proceeds from college
hoops to the pros. In clipped live scenes we see Johnson and
Bird (Tug Coker) linked by a fierce work ethic and an obsession
with one another’s latest triumph, Johnson with the  Los Angeles
Lakers , Bird with the  Boston Celtics .  When the two stars are convinced in 1985 to make a
commercial together for Converse, their friendship sparks over
lunch in Bird’s hometown, French Lick,  Indiana .  Eric Simonson’s play gets much of its energy from David
Korins’s constantly re-configuring set and Jeff Sugg’s
projections, including game footage and newspaper clippings on a
scrim in front of the stage.  Daniels nicely evokes Johnson’s bonhomie while Coker plays
Bird as if on Valium.  Francois Battiste gets laughs as Bryant Gumbel, up an
octave or two, and Deirdre O’Connell is sympathetic as both
Bird’s mother and wife.  “Magic/Bird” cries out for an epilogue, about how Johnson
lives with HIV and thrives in business after basketball. Should
this play have another life, it would benefit from having more
Magic, less Bird, and greater distance from its subjects.  Tasteful to a fault, the play is unlikely to offend anyone,
particularly the National Basketball Association or Johnson,
both involved in producing. (Johnson is listed as an investor
and cooperated with Simonson.)  At the Longacre Theatre, 220 W. 48th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200,  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: *1/2  ‘Federer vs. Murray’  “Federer versus Murray”  recalls another bygone sports
era, when a tennis fan could refer to the Swiss master as
“Roger Rex,” without having to explain away defeats to
younger, less graceful guys named Rafael and Novak.  Gerda Stevenson’s 55-minute drama is also about parental
grief, opium in the Afghan economy, American and British foreign
policy and the personal toll of war and unemployment.  The well-intentioned, overstuffed exercise features two
actors with heavy Scottish brogues (Stevenson and Dave
Anderson). Ben Bryden plays saxophone solos during scene breaks.  It’s set primarily in a cramped living room with a
television tuned to Wimbledon. Anderson rises above as the
Federer-worshipping husband, charming in a beige cardigan with
an RF insignia.  Through April 22 at 59 E. 59th Street. Information: +1-212-
753-5959;  http://59e59.org . Rating: *  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 