-- ‘Newt Inc.’ Bankrupt as Campaign Operates on Shoestring
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-04-12T20:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/-newt-inc-bankrupt-as-campaign-operates-on-shoestring.html
A presidential campaign bid, even a
failed one, can open doors to lucrative career options, such as
former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee ’s Fox News contract.  In the case of  Newt Gingrich , a financial comeback may be a
harder climb.  The former U.S. House speaker’s time on the campaign trail
has led to the shuttering of two businesses that generated $107
million in income during the last 10 years and helped him accrue
at least $7.3 million in assets. His campaign is struggling,
bouncing a $500 check for the filing fee in the June 26 Utah
primary, and amassing almost $4.5 million in debt.  His future earnings potential is imperiled, public-
relations advisers and Republican strategists said, in part
because of his campaign rhetoric that derided “the Republican
establishment” and vilified such previous consulting clients as
 Freddie Mac (FMCC) , a government-backed mortgage lender.  “Newt has somewhat become a caricature of himself, and
that’s not very good for business or rebuilding your brand,”
said Mark Corallo, a Republican consultant and founder of a
crisis-communications firm based in Washington, D.C. Corallo
compared Gingrich to “a good TV sitcom that runs a little too
long and becomes so predictable that nobody watches it
anymore.”  Eddie Mahe , a Republican consultant, said he questions
whether ”Newt Inc., in the sense that it was, ever comes back
again.”  Santorum’s Suspension  As former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  suspended his
campaign on April 10, Gingrich issued a statement saying he is
“committed” to staying in the race through the August
Republican nominating convention in Tampa.  He also urged Santorum’s former supporters to make
donations to his campaign. “As the last remaining conservative
in this race, we urgently need your financial support today,”
Gingrich wrote in an e-mail fundraising pitch sent shortly after
Santorum’s announcement.  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s spokesman, said that just as
“wild card” baseball teams can go on to win the  World Series ,
so, too, can Gingrich topple Romney if the former Massachusetts
governor fails to reach the 1,144 delegates needed to secure the
nomination. Barring a major setback, Romney will hit that number
in mid-June, according to an Associated Press calculation.  In an April 8 interview on Fox News Sunday, Gingrich said
his campaign is “operating on a shoestring.”  Building Newt Inc.  Gingrich, 68, built what he refers to as “Newt Inc.”
after resigning as speaker in 1999, the end of a 20-year career
as a legislator from  Georgia . He earned $3.1 million in 2010 as
head of two “think tanks” on K Street in Washington and as a
paid speaker through his Gingrich Productions company that he
runs with wife Callista Gingrich.  Between 2001 and 2010, the for-profit Gingrich Group LLC
grossed $55 million, his campaign said in November. One of his
first clients was  Freddie Mac , which paid the firm $1.6 million
over eight years to develop messages that would “contribute to
the achievement of Freddie Mac business goals,” according to a
contract the Gingrich campaign released in January.  Gingrich initially said he went to work for Freddie Mac as
a “historian,” a description he took back when former
officials at the  mortgage  company said he provided help in
developing a message that could appeal to  Capitol Hill 
Republicans.  Criticizing Freddie Mac  At a Dec. 30 Des Moines town hall meeting before the Iowa
caucuses, Gingrich criticized his former employer, saying he
wanted “to break up  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac because they are
much too big and they’re out of control.”  The Gingrich Group in 2003 became known as the Center for
Health Transformation and focused on advocating on health-care
policy on Capitol Hill. Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America, the industry trade group known as
PhRMA, was among the center’s clients, paying as much as
$200,000 a year for membership, according to company documents.  The Gingrich Group filed for bankruptcy April 4 in Atlanta,
where it has an office, indicating it intends to dissolve and
liquidate its assets, which amount to less than $100,000,
according to the court records. It reported owing the former
speaker at least $5 million.  Gingrich’s nonprofit advocacy group, American Solutions for
Winning the Future, raised about $52 million in contributions
between its formation in 2007 and when it dissolved four years
later, according to the Washington-based Center for Public
Integrity, which tracks political expenditures.  Faltered Without Gingrich  Both groups were centered on Gingrich and, after he
announced his presidential run in May, faltered without him at
the helm, said Stefan Passantino, the campaign’s attorney who’d
represented the Gingrich Group.  The collapse of the firms has left vendors in limbo. In
October, a  District of Columbia  superior judge ordered American
Solutions to pay $20,000 in rent to landlord BGW Limited
Partnership for its seventh-floor  office space . No payment has
been made, said Steve Lustgarten, an executive with Blake Real
Estate, a BGW affiliate.  With the bankruptcy last week of the health firm’s parent
company, a fourth-floor office in the same building now sits
vacant with mail piling up in front of the locked glass doors.  “We’re lucky enough to have both of them as tenants,”
Lustgarten said, declining to comment further.  No Personal Liability  Because his businesses are legally separate entities and he
severed ties with them, Gingrich doesn’t carry personal
liability for their outstanding debts.  The former speaker does have at least one profitable outfit
still operating. Gingrich Productions “is an active, thriving
entity,” Passantino said. That business has continued its media
and book contracts. Gingrich reported earning $541,600 in
speaking fees, according to his 2010 tax filing, coordinated
through Gingrich Productions. The Gingriches also took time out
from the campaign to sell some of their books.  In his 11 months as a candidate, Gingrich has won two of 37
primary contests, in  South Carolina  and his home state of
Georgia. The campaign had spent $19.2 million through the end of
February, according to the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics, which analyzes campaign finance reports.  The campaign owed $1.5 million by the end of February,
according to the most recent FEC reports available. Gingrich
said on Fox News Sunday that his campaign now is “slightly less
than” $4.5 million in debt.  Campaign Debt  “We owe much more than we wanted to,” he said in an
interview with Brit Hume. “Unfortunately, our guys tried to
match Romney. It turned out we didn’t have anything like his
capacity to raise money.”  Gingrich’s intital $500 check for the  Utah  filing fee
bounced, prompting Mark Thomas, the state elections director, to
send the campaign a certified letter on April 9 requesting
payment.  A cashier’s check arrived today, Thomas said. Utah is the
final state to hold a primary, on June 26. Hammond said the
check had bounced because the campaign switched banks, not
because of deficient funds.  Many of the debts listed in Gingrich’s latest FEC report
are for consultants, including $1,666.66 to  Rick Tyler . Tyler
left Gingrich’s campaign last year and is a senior adviser to
Winning Our Future, a super-political action committee
supportive of him. The campaign also owed $903.28 to his
daughter and campaign employee, Kathy Lubbers.  Campaign Infrastructure  The debts reflect the one-time infrastructure of Gingrich’s
campaign operation: He owes more than $30,000 each to the
Patriot Group for security, Premiere Transportation for a bus
charter, Pro Production Services for event production and Airnet
Group for a “web hosting handset.” Another $75,642 was due to
Moby Dick Airlines for charter planes.  Some smaller business outlets are also waiting for
payments. Angel de la Portilla hasn’t been paid any of the
$6,000 contract he had with the campaign to conduct Hispanic
voter outreach in  Florida , even though he’s been assured several
times that “the check is in the mail.”  “That’s not a good way to do business,” said de la
Portilla. “If there’s a problem, don’t lie. Pick up the phone
and call to work out an arrangement.”  Hammond said the campaign is “paying off vendors as
promptly as we are able to.”  To retire campaign debt after he’s left the presidential
contest, Gingrich will have to raise money from donors who are
limited to $2,500. While not obligated to do so, he could dip
into his own pockets to pay off vendors, because he hasn’t used
public financing for his run.  Comeback Possibility  Michael Robinson ,  an executive vice president for Levick
Strategic Communications in  Washington  who was a campaign
official for Republican Presidents  George H.W. Bush  and  George W. Bush , said Gingrich can build a post-presidential career,
particularly if he can land a speaking role at the Tampa
convention in August.  The former speaker’s campaign style -- his call for “big
ideas,” his debate performances, his themes of $2.50 per gallon
gas and space exploration -- could be leveraged into a money-
making enterprise with the right support, Robinson said.  First, though, Gingrich “has to decide who he is and what
he’s going to be,” he said. “There is a lot of confusion now
about what his brand is, and the rest of the campaign is a
moment to define what his future looks like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  