-- ‘Pink Slime’ Furor Means Disaster for U.S. Meat Innovator
-- B y   B r y a n   G r u l e y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-12T22:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/-pink-slime-furor-means-disaster-for-u-s-meat-innovator.html
Thirty-one years ago, a young man
with no college degree and the restless mind of a tinkerer
started an unusual meat-processing company. Eldon Roth’s Beef
Products Inc. bought tons of fatty scraps left over after cattle
were carved into steaks and roasts.  Roth concocted a way to use centrifuges to spin the fat
away and quick-freeze the remaining meat into a pink pulp that
made ground beef leaner when it was mixed in. He called it
“lean finely textured beef.”  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., Burger King Worldwide Holdings Inc., Kroger Co., and  Yum!
Brands (YUM)  Inc.’s Taco Bell chain used it. Roth opened plants in
Texas,  Kansas ,  Iowa , and Nebraska, employing about 1,500
workers. He was inducted into the Meat Industry Hall of Fame
last fall in a ceremony that brought him to tears.  Then last month, a news article referring to Roth’s product
as “pink slime” caught the attention of food blogger Bettina
Elias Siegel. She launched an online petition to have it banned
from the federal school lunch program. As Walt Disney Co.’s ABC
News and other media jumped on the story, portrayals of BPI’s
product as gross and unsafe rippled through the blogosphere.
With his customers abandoning him, Roth on March 26 suspended
production at three plants, laid off almost half his workers,
and now faces a struggle to keep BPI alive, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its April 16 issue.  “It’s gotten to the point of absurdity,” said Craig
Letch, 39, Roth’s son-in-law and BPI’s chief of safety and
quality, as he wound his way through a warren of stainless-steel
pipes and whirring grinders at the company’s plant in South
Sioux City,  Nebraska . “Have you had a hamburger in the last 20
years? Odds are lean finely textured beef was a part of that.”  Overblown  BPI’s predicament is unusual because it wasn’t precipitated
by an outbreak of food-borne illness, and its product has never
been directly linked to one. Plaintiffs attorney  Bill Marler ,
noted for suing fast-food restaurant owner Jack in the Box Inc.
and other companies over unsafe meat, said the rap against Beef
Products is overblown.  “BPI’s product is no more or less safe than other parts of
hamburger,” Marler said. “There’s a lot of scraps that get put
into hamburger because that’s what the hell hamburger is.”  Why the outrage around BPI? The Web petition? The TV
coverage?  “That’s the wrong way to think about this,” said Matthew
Salganik, an assistant professor of sociology at  Princeton
University . “Imagine a forest fire. No one thinks, ‘Which
lightning strike did it?’” More telling are the scant rainfall
and hot weather that set the stage for a blaze, he said.  PR Disaster  The meat industry has been taking heat in books, films, and
news stories for years. Add a catchy phrase, schoolchildren, and
the prospect that some icky-sounding stuff is in Junior’s
Whopper, and you have a PR disaster, he said.  “Social media is something that adds oxygen to the
environment,” Salganik said. “It increases the chance that a
small spark will turn into a big fire.”  Associates describe Roth, 69, as heartbroken. He declined
to be interviewed. He’s paying sidelined employees through May,
but is facing the real possibility that he may be forced to
permanently ditch them.  While blogger Siegel said the job losses are “tragic,”
she notes that BPI “should have had no hesitation to inform
consumers” that its product “was in the ground beef from the
beginning,” perhaps through labeling. “I have never expressed
anywhere a desire to drive this company out of business,” she
said.  Trimming Waste  Roth grew up poor in  South Dakota , where his company is now
headquartered in Dakota Dunes. He became fascinated with
refrigeration while working at an ice cream plant, and in 1971
started a refrigeration company that worked with meat
processors.  Seeing beef trimmings going to waste, he experimented with
ways to harvest the bits encased in fat. Slicing it out by hand
was costly. So, Roth figured out how to cull the meat by warming
ground-up scraps to about 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.8 degrees
Celsius) -- the approximate body temperature of a steer -- and
spinning them in industrial centrifuges at thousands of
revolutions per minute. The meat was frozen on a 14-foot (4.3-
meter) drum Roth developed, then chopped into chips or
compressed into 60-pound (27-kilogram) blocks that look like
 Spam , the meat spread made by Austin, Minnesota-based Hormel
Foods Corp.  He started BPI in 1981 with a plant in Amarillo,  Texas ,
selling to processors that blended the product with other beef.
At more than 90 percent lean, BPI’s product is usually added to
make fattier grinds leaner, mostly in packaged ground beef and
hamburger patties but also taco meat and low-fat hot dogs. At
peak production in the last decade, BPI churned out 500 million
pounds a year.  Bacteria Precaution  After four children died of E. coli poisoning from Jack in
the Box burgers in 1992 and 1993, Roth began looking for ways to
avoid similar tragedies. In 2001, he received  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  approval to treat his product with a puff of
ammonium hydroxide after the fat was spun out. Ammonia occurs
naturally in beef and other foods and has long been approved as
an additive in many products, from cheese to pudding. BPI’s puff
treatment raises the meat’s pH to a level that can kill
bacteria. Every carton of BPI’s beef is tested for E. coli and
other pathogens before going to customers.  “Eldon Roth basically is a genius,” said Steve Kay,
editor of newsletter Cattle Buyers Weekly. “BPI has been in the
forefront of  food safety  in the beef industry for a decade or
more.”  ‘Pink Slime’  BPI has had detractors. About a decade ago, a USDA
microbiologist coined “pink slime” in an e-mail about BPI’s
product. The term surfaced publicly in a prize-winning  New York
Times Co. (NYT)  story about BPI in late 2009, quoting the e-mail as
saying the microbiologist didn’t consider treated trimmings to
be actual ground beef. The story said that E. coli and
salmonella had shown up in beef trimmings destined for school
lunches, but never reached kids’ meals.  A year ago, celebrity chef  Jamie Oliver  mocked BPI’s
product on his Food Revolution television show, sloshing
household ammonia over a mound of beef. Also in 2011, fast-food
restaurants including McDonald’s, Burger King and Taco Bell
stopped using textured beef in their meat.  Oak Brook , Illinois-
based McDonald’s said it wanted to standardize its global beef
supply. Burger King, based in Miami, said its move “wasn’t
related to safety concerns.” Taco Bell, owned by Louisville,
Kentucky-based  Yum! Brands (YUM) , didn’t return calls. BPI’s Letch
said no customers have expressed safety concerns.  Business Lost  Cattle Buyers Weekly reported the defections on Jan. 2,
saying they had cost BPI about 25 percent of its business and
forced the company to reduce production to four days a week from
five. A few short stories about McDonald’s shift ran in
mainstream media later that month.  Then blogger Siegel, who monitors food coverage from her
Houston home, got involved. The 46-year-old Harvard University
law-school graduate started her blog,  The Lunch Tray , in 2010
after working on the Houston school district’s parent advisory
committee on food. That July, her blog reported that the USDA
had announced tougher testing standards for school lunch beef.
Siegel says she thought it meant lean finely textured beef would
no longer be used.  So, she was surprised to read on March 5 of this year a
story about BPI’s product on the website  TheDaily.com , owned by
 News Corp . Headlined “Partners in ‘Slime,’” it was accompanied
by a photo of chef Oliver wielding a bottle of ammonia. The
story said the USDA planned to use 7 million pounds of BPI’s
treated meat in school lunches.  Blogger’s Petition  The next morning, Siegel started a petition at Change.org,
asking Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to “put an immediate
end to the use of ‘pink slime’ in our children’s school food.”  Explains Siegel: “The contrast was stark to me, that
McDonald’s was responding to consumer concern, I believe in
part. And yet schoolchildren have no say.”  The next evening, ABC News aired its first of at least six
reports including material previously reported by TheDaily.com
and the Times. TheDaily.com wrote several follow-up stories, and
Siegel blogged, tweeted, and Facebook-posted about her petition
to great effect: On one weekend, more than 137,000 signed it,
Change.org says.  USDA’s Concession  On March 15, the USDA, while insisting BPI’s product was
safe, said it would let schools choose whether to buy meat with
or without textured beef. BPI started a website,
 pinkslimeisamyth.com , and ran full-page newspaper ads in which
Roth bemoaned a “campaign of lies and deceit.” But one by one,
Kroger and other customers said they would stop using the
product, while Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart and others
said they’d offer a choice of beef with and without it. Three
weeks after TheDaily.com’s first story, Roth closed all but one
of his plants.  Other companies have been affected as well. Minnesota-based
Cargill Inc., which makes a similar product using citric acid
instead of ammonia, has cut production. Meat processor AFA Foods
Inc. cited “ongoing media attention” that hurt beef demand
when it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April 2.  Tyson Foods
Inc. (TSN) , based in Springdale,  Arkansas , and others are seeking USDA
permission to list beef trimmings on package labels in the hope
of calming consumers.  Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, whose state is home to a BPI
plant, is seeking a congressional investigation of what he calls
a “smear campaign” against BPI. Letch and other meat industry
executives still profess bafflement at why this story went
viral. “It’s emotional, it’s concrete, it’s easy to tell
someone about,” said Salganik, the sociologist.  “The most painful part,” Letch said, “was looking 700”
employees “in the eye, and them asking why and not having a
good answer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Gruley in Chicago at 
 bgruley@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  