-- Abramovich Draws Up $393 Million Shopping List: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-12T09:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/abramovich-draws-up-393-million-shopping-list-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Shopping List  Chelsea’s billionaire owner Roman Abramovich has identified
a striker, two fullbacks and an attacking midfielder as priority
acquisitions and will present his new manager with a list of
potential signings for an offseason spending spree, the  Daily
Mail reported .  Abramovich’s scouts have spent six months preparing
dossiers that will save the permanent successor to Andre Villas- Boas time, the newspaper said. A new bid for Tottenham’s Luka Modric will be one of the options on a list valued at 247
million pounds ($393 million), the Mail added.  Vidic, Torres  Juventus, unbeaten in Serie A this campaign, wants to
prepare for its return to the  Champions League  next season by
signing Manchester United’s Nemanja Vidic and Chelsea’s  Fernando Torres , the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Italian club’s manager Antonio Conte has been promised
transfer funds and has identified Vidic and Torres as his top
targets in a package costing at least 50 million pounds, the
newspaper added.  Retrospective Punishment  FIFA told the Football Association it can change its rules
on retrospective punishment to avoid a repeat of the situation
that allowed  Manchester City ’s  Mario Balotelli  to escape further
sanction for a dangerous tackle, the  Mirror reported .  Balotelli wasn’t censured for his studs-up tackle on
Arsenal’s  Alex Song  because referee  Martin Atkinson , who didn’t
punish the Italian at the time, said in his report he had seen
the incident, though hadn’t realized the severity of the
challenge, the newspaper added.  Back to Bordeaux  Arsenal’s Marouane Chamakh has been told he can rejoin
French club Bordeaux provided the Moroccan striker is prepared
to take a pay cut, the  Sun reported .  “I have spoken with Marouane and told him that he is
welcome at Bordeaux and that we still have room for him,” the
Sun cited Bordeaux president Jean-Louis Triaud as saying. “The
main problem will be financial because he has tasted the
salaries in England and Arsenal will ask for a fee.”  Rookie Recall  Liverpool recalled rookie goalkeeper Peter Gulacsi from a
loan spell at Hull City before its F.A. Cup semifinal against
Everton on April 14 after suspensions left it shorthanded in the
position, the  Daily Express reported .  Hungarian Gulacsi, 21, will now be on the bench at Wembley
Stadium having never played a first-team game for Liverpool, the
newspaper added. A request to the Premier League for special
dispensation to sign another goalie was rejected because
Liverpool’s situation has been caused by red cards to Pepe Reina
and Alexander Doni, the Express said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  