-- Abu Dhabi’s Aabar Set to Have Four Seats on Arabtec Board
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-12T07:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/abu-dhabi-s-aabar-set-to-have-four-seats-on-arabtec-board-1-.html
Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR) , which
dropped a $1.74 billion offer for  Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC)  two years
ago, is set to have four seats on the Dubai builder’s board as
it raises its stake in the company.  Aabar Chairman Khadem Alqubaisi, Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed Badawy Al-Husseiny, and board members Mohamed Al Fahim
and Mohamed Al Mehairi were nominated to Arabtec’s board,
according to a statement on the Dubai bourse today. Aabar,
through its units, holds 10.45 percent of Arabtec, the latest
filings on the stock exchange show.  Aabar’s “consolidation to increased ownership was
definite, which is translating to the expected control” of
Arabtec, said  Yazan Abdeen , who helps oversee about $250 million
as a  fund manager  at ING Investment Management in Dubai.  Others nominated to the board include Yasser Zaghloul, CEO
of Abu Dhabi-based  National Marine Dredging Co. (NMDC) , as well as
Arabtec CEO Riad Kamal, Khalifa Al Mehairi, Mohammed Al Marri,
Raja Ghanma and Mutaz Sawwaf, according to the statement. The
recommendations will be considered at a shareholders meeting on
April 28, it said.  Kamal, Sawwaf and Ghanma were part of Arabtec’s previous
board, according to information on the stock exchange. Others in
the previous board included Henry Azzam, Iyad Duwaji, Sheikh
Nawaf Al Thani, Abdulla Jassem Bin Kalban, Adel Al Nowais and
Ibrahim Sharif Belsalah, the filing shows.  Aabar, which owns stakes in Daimler AG and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
in 2010 pulled a bid for a 70 percent of Arabtec through the
purchase of bonds that would be exchanged for shares. After the
deal fell through, Arabtec and Aabar said they planned a
“strategic partnership.”  Arabtec shares  gained 1.2 percent to 3.46 dirhams at 11:14
a.m. in Dubai today. The stock has surged 118 percent this year
compared with a 24 percent increase for the benchmark DFM
General Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  