-- Maiden Lane Redux Joins With Europe to Roil CMBS
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-12T17:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/maiden-lane-redux-joins-with-europe-to-roil-cmbs.html
A $7.49 billion mass of real-estate
debt assumed by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in 2008 is
weighing on the commercial-mortgage bond market, exacerbating a
slide in values as Europe’s debt crisis flares and doubts mount
about the strength of the  U.S. economy .  Relative yields on securities tied to shopping malls,
skyscrapers and hotels have  climbed  to 206 basis points as of
April 10, a six-week high, from a more than four-year low
reached March 27, according to a Barclays Plc index. The 29
basis-point widening compares with a 17 basis-point rise in a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch corporate bond index.  Investors are concerned that a sale from the New York Fed’s
Maiden Lane III LLC may overwhelm the market in a decline
reminiscent of auctions from the district bank last year. The
turmoil comes as Europe’s fiscal imbalances threaten anew to
infect the financial system and as the Fed fails to commit to a
third round of quantitative easing even as the improvement in
U.S. unemployment falters.  The initial sell-off “was a knee-jerk reaction” to a Fed
sale, said Lisa Pendergast, a commercial-mortgage debt
strategist at Jefferies Group Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The Fed learned their lesson with Maiden Lane II. The
potential inability to contain the euro zone debt crisis, the
sustainability of the U.S. economic recovery, and whether we see
QE3 any time soon are the real culprits.”  Mortgage Tensions  The New York Fed said last week that it’s considering
selling assets in its Maiden Lane III portfolio. The holdings,
taken on in the bailout of American International Group Inc.,
include two collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, with a
face amount of $7.49 billion that are tied to commercial
property loans issued by Deutsche Bank AG in 2007 and 2008.  Deutsche Bank, Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG are
preparing bids for the assets, according to people familiar with
the potential sale. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has also approached
investors about preparing a bid, said other people, who declined
to be identified because the process isn’t public.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk fell for a second day. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped by
5.2 basis points to a mid-price of 96.8 basis points as of 1:36
p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Rate Swap Spreads  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined from 105
basis points on April 10, the highest level since January.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
 bond market  stress, declined 1.51 basis points to 28 basis
points as of 1:43 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers, with 73 trades of $1 million or more as of 1:43 p.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Commercial Mortgage Bonds  Investors in the $600 billion commercial-mortgage bond
market are waiting to see if two transactions in Maiden Lane
III, which bundle securities culled from 103 deals, will be sold
intact or broken down into pieces, according to a report dated
April 9 from Jefferies’s Pendergast.  The New York Fed said in a statement last week that it will
only conduct a transaction that “represents good value, is done
competitively and is not market disruptive.”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, Brandon
Ashcraft of Barclays, Steven Vames of Credit Suisse and  Michael
DuVally  of Goldman Sachs, all in New York, declined to comment
on bid preparations.  Commercial real estate CDOs have been the “most opaque and
most complicated” segment of the market, and have been
“embalmed” for the past four years, Deutsche Bank analysts led
by Harris Trifon wrote in a report yesterday. The securities may
be plotting a comeback, according to the New York-based
analysts.  CDOs repackage assets such as bonds or loans into classes
of varying risks and returns.  ‘Getting Bigger’  Underscoring tensions in the market, commercial mortgage
securities have lost 0.75 percent this month, while corporate
debt from the riskiest to the most creditworthy has gained 0.52
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is getting worse and will keep
fueling market instability, according to Pimco’s Mohamed A. El- Erian.  “The problems in Europe are getting bigger,” El-Erian,
co-chief investment officer of the  Newport Beach , California-
based firm, said yesterday on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “Europe has a debt issue and
Europe has a growth issue, and until Europe deals with both, we
are going to have these reoccurring periods of nervousness in
the market.”  In the U.S., hiring trailed forecasts in March, casting
doubt on the vigor of the more than two-year-old economic
expansion. The 120,000 increase in payrolls was the smallest in
five months and less than the most pessimistic estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The  unemployment rate  fell
to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent as people left the  labor force .  Maiden Lane II  The  New York  Fed halted regular and more public auctions of
mortgage securities held by Maiden Lane II LLC, a separate
vehicle, last year after traders blamed the sales for damaging
prices in credit markets with the cost of protecting against
losses on subprime housing debt and commercial mortgages
soaring.  The bank ultimately completed selling the entire portfolio
this year after opting to hold auctions with a more limited
number of dealers in response to unsolicited bids for assets.  After selling the last group of bonds in the Maiden Lane II
pool in February, the New York Fed said that taxpayers earned
$2.8 billion on their $19.5 billion loan to that vehicle.  Commercial-mortgage bond sales have been reviving, with
banks arranging about $28 billion of the securities last year,
up from $11.5 billion in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. More than $4 billion has been sold this year,
compared with a record $232.5 billion in 2007.  JPMorgan  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is marketing about $1.1 billion of
bonds backed by commercial mortgages in the bank’s first sale of
the debt in 2012, according to a person familiar with the
offering. The deal is linked to 49 loans on 118 properties
across the U.S., with properties in Texas accounting for more
than 20 percent of the pool, said the person.  Turbulence in the commercial-mortgage bond market makes it
harder for Wall Street banks to gauge profit from future bond
sales, hindering new lending and choking off funding to
borrowers with loans coming due.  “Recent spread widening, if sustained, will moderately
lower CMBS issuance,” S&P analysts led by Howard Esaki in New
York wrote in a note yesterday.  The rating company will lower its 2012 issuance forecast of
$35 billion to $30 billion if spreads stay in the current range,
the analysts said. Bank projections for commercial-mortgage bond
deals in 2012 range from  Wells Fargo & Co .’s $25 billion to
Credit Suisse Group AG’s projection of as much as $45 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  