-- Air India Set for Bailouts Exceeding Kingfisher’s Value
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-04-13T10:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/air-india-set-for-bailouts-exceeding-kingfisher-s-value.html
Air India Ltd. , the unprofitable
state-owned carrier, may get government bailouts totaling 300
billion rupees ($5.8 billion), an amount about five times the
market value of the nation’s three listed airlines.  The cash injections through 2020, in the form of new
equity, will be tied to performance milestones such as
percentage of seats filled, Aviation Minister Ajit Singh told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday after the cabinet approved a
67.5 billion rupee bailout. He didn’t say if that figure was
included in the 300 billion-rupee tally.  Further support for Air  India  may add to pressure on
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  and  Jet Airways (JETIN)  (India) Ltd., which are
struggling to turn surging  travel demand  into profit because of
price wars and rising fuel costs. The carriers both fell in
Mumbai trading yesterday after the government backed the  Air
India  plan without making a decision on whether to let local
carriers sell stakes to overseas operators.  “I see very little justification for the government to
actively participate in the  airline industry ,”said Rishikesha Krishnan, a professor at the Indian Institute of Management,
Bangalore, who has written papers on Indian aviation industry.
“The government investing in Air India does distort the market
to some extent.”  Singh said he expects Air India to make an operating profit
by 2018 as it restructures operations. The government also
approved the carrier’s plans to add 27  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s and three
777s.  49 percent  The cabinet will take a decision “soon” on whether to
allow local carriers to sell as much as 49 percent to overseas
airlines, he said. Air India would also probably be able to sell
a stake if it wanted, he said.  Kingfisher rose 2.1 percent to 19.70 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai today. Jet Airways gained 1.4 percent while
 SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  jumped 10 percent.  The government will consider investment proposals by
foreign carriers after the rule change on a “case by case”
basis, Singh said. Management control will remain with Indian
executives, he said. A panel of ministers has already backed the
proposal.  Kingfisher, which is seeking funds after more than 10
quarters of losses, has said that potential investments hinge on
the new rule coming into force. The carrier has slumped 56
percent in the past year, giving it a market value of 11 billion
rupees, as it slashes flights and struggles to pay bills.  Aircraft Maintenance  Air India, which has already received 32 billion rupees of
government aid since April 2009, will separate its aircraft
maintenance and ground handling operations as part of the
restructuring, Singh said.  The carrier has been unprofitable since its 2007 merger
with state-owned domestic operator Indian Airlines Ltd. It piled
up losses of about 181 billion rupees in the three years ended
March 31, 2011,  Vayalar Ravi , the then aviation minister, told
parliament in November.  The airline has failed to turn surging demand into profit
as it struggles to combine operations following the merger. It
has 263 employees per aircraft compared to 102 of closely held
 IndiGo , the only profitable carrier in India.  Air India’s debts also swelled to 438 billion rupees
following orders in 2005 and 2006 for 111 planes from Airbus SAS
and Boeing. The airline has a fleet of 121 planes and carried
7.5 million passengers in local routes last year.  Jet Airways, which has 102 planes, carried 11 million
passengers last year and had a market value of 30 billion
rupees. SpiceJet, with a market value of 14 billion rupees, has
a fleet of 39 aircraft and carried 9.6 million passengers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  