-- Taiwan Dollar Rises as Inflation May Spur Gains; Bonds Climb
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-12T08:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/taiwan-dollar-rises-as-inflation-may-spur-gains-bonds-climb.html
Taiwan ’s dollar reached a one-week
high on speculation an improving outlook for the economy and the
risk of a pickup in inflation will prompt policy makers to allow
appreciation.  Government bonds  rose.  The central bank held the benchmark  interest rate  at 1.875
percent on March 22 and said consumer prices will be a bigger
issue than maintaining economic growth this year. Industrial
production rose 8.4 percent in February from a year earlier,
after a 16.8 percent slump the previous month, official data
show. The government plans to raise electricity prices, Hwang
Jung-chiou, vice minister of economic affairs, said yesterday.  “Inflation risks and rate-hike expectations are creeping
higher,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at
 Barclays Capital  in Singapore. “Taiwan will be a strong
beneficiary from the cyclical bounce in electronics shipments,
which we think will be a stronger theme in the second quarter.
All this is pointing to a stronger currency.”  Taiwan’s dollar traded at NT$29.550 against its U.S.
counterpart, compared with NT$29.562 yesterday, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. It touched NT$29.410, the strongest level
since April 5. Leong forecast the island’s currency will reach
NT$29 this quarter. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings traders use to price options, was steady at
4 percent.  The yield on the government’s 1 percent bonds due January
2017 fell one basis point to 1.017 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. That was the lowest level this month.  The overnight  money-market  rate dropped one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 0.45 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  