-- Taiwan’s Finance Ministry Proposes Trading Tax to Cabinet
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2012-04-13T06:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/taiwan-s-finance-ministry-proposes-trading-tax-to-cabinet.html
Taiwan ’s  Finance Ministry  proposed
a capital-gains tax on stock transactions to the Cabinet as the
island seeks to raise revenue and redistribute returns from
trading more equitably among its 23 million people. Shares and
the currency rose.  Individual investors who earn more than NT$3 million
($102,000) annually from trading stocks, futures, and options
will incur a 20 percent tax from next year, Finance Minister
Christina Liu told reporters yesterday. Local institutional
investors who earn in excess of NT$500,000 will face a 12
percent levy, while overseas investors without offices and
direct business operations in Taiwan will be exempt, she said.  “We proposed the tax by choosing a simple and doable way,
and we hope to build a healthy and fair system in the long
term,” Liu said. The proposal needs the endorsement of Taiwan’s
Cabinet before it can be presented to lawmakers for approval,
she said.  The benchmark  Taiex Index (TWSE)  closed 1.6 percent higher today
at 7,788.27, the biggest advance since Feb. 29. Taiwan’s dollar
gained 0.2 percent, the most since March 30, to NT$29.50 against
its U.S. counterpart. The Taiex has lost 3.1 percent since the
Economic Daily News reported on March 29 that the government was
considering the levy. Foreign investors were net sellers of
Taiwanese stocks in eight out of the 10 trading days through
yesterday.  During elections earlier this year, President Ma Ying-jeou
and the opposition said that the tax should be imposed to help
narrow a wealth gap among Taiwan’s population. Securities
transactions have been exempt from capital-gains duty since Jan.
1, 1990, according to the stock exchange’s website. The tax was
scrapped because of widespread evasion and the government has
considered reintroducing it since at least 1993.  Campaign Pledge  “The stock capital-gains tax plan marks the
administration’s commitment to fulfilling a campaign pledge to
social justice and fairness,” Liao Da-chi, director at the
National Sun Yat-sen University’s Institute of Political
Science, said by phone yesterday.  Investors holding stocks for longer than five years will be
taxed based on 50 percent of their gains, Finance Minister Liu
said. The government will retain an existing securities
transaction tax of 0.3 percent, Liu said. About 1 percent of
individual investors and 0.3 percent of institutional investors
will qualify to pay the tax, according to Liu.  “The uncertainty from the capital gain tax has been
removed,” Diana Wu, a vice-president at Capital Securities
Corp., wrote in an e-mail. “Though most investors aren’t happy
about the capital-gains tax issues, the Ministry of Finance
proposal is acceptable.”  Foreign Investors  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
second-largest U.S. public pension fund, was cited by Liu as an
example of a so-called offshore foreign investor that would be
exempt from the capital-gains tax in comments made at the first
meeting of a government tax-overhaul panel on April 5. After the
second meeting on April 9, the panel outlined two options for
investors to assess their taxable income in a bid to ease
investor concerns over the levy.  In 1988, when the plan for a capital-gains tax was
discussed, stocks fell for 19 consecutive days, dropping by
about a third in a month, Schive Chi, chairman of Taiwan Stock
Exchange Corp., said in an April 3 interview. Shares probably
won’t slump as much this time because more companies are traded
on the bourse and there is a larger proportion of overseas
investors, he said.  Foreign investors sold about $234 million more Taiwanese
equities than they bought yesterday, according to stock exchange
data. Net sales this  month  were $1.1 billion.  ADR Trading  The  Bank of New York Mellon Taiwan Index  of Taiwanese
American depositary receipts traded in the U.S. rose for a
second day, adding 0.7 percent to 221.32.  ADRs of  Silicon Motion Technology Co. (SIMO) , a Taiwanese semi-
conductor company, jumped 4.4 percent to $19.33 in  New York 
yesterday, the biggest advance in more than three weeks.  ChipMOS
Technologies Bermuda Ltd. (IMOS) , a semiconductor testing and service
firm based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, rose 3.2 percent, the most for
almost two weeks, to $15.45 in the U.S.  “It’s good news” for the Taiwanese market that foreign
investors are exempted from the tax,  Win Thin , the global head
of emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, said by phone. “They’ve exempted foreigners,
foreigners don’t want to be taxed. That’s a good sign.”  The Taiex has risen 10 percent this year, after 2011’s 21
percent slide, on speculation the  U.S. economy  will recover and
Ma’s re-election as president on Jan. 14 would lead to stronger
economic ties with  China . The  stock index  is valued at 14.9
times estimated earnings for member companies, a 41 percent
premium to the  MSCI Emerging-Markets Index (MXEF) ’s multiple of 10.5,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  