-- Angry Birds Creator in Talks With Baidu, Sohu in China
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-13T11:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/angry-birds-creator-in-talks-with-baidu-sohu-in-china.html
Rovio Entertainment Oy, creator of
the “Angry Birds” mobile-phone game, said it’s in talks with
Chinese companies including  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  to work
on winning players in the world’s biggest Web market.  The discussions involve possible new methods of Internet
distribution in China, Henri Holm, senior vice-president at
Rovio Asia, said in an interview yesterday in  Hong Kong , where
he is based. The Finnish company is also in similar talks with
 Renren Inc. (RENN) , after starting work with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
 Sina Corp. (SINA) , Youku Inc. and  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , he said.  Rovio has recorded more than 100 million downloads for the
“Angry Birds” game in China, helped by demand from users of
phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad devices. China’s biggest Internet
companies such as Baidu and Tencent are adding wireless services
to diversify from businesses focused on personal-computer users.  “The number of smart devices is growing exponentially” in
China, said Holm. Downloads of the game will increase
“dramatically” in the Asian nation this year, he said,
declining to provide a forecast.  Rovio, based in Espoo, Finland, last month introduced a new
edition of “Angry Birds,” and in February started offering a
version for  Facebook Inc. (FB)  users. Tencent, Sina, and Renren
operate social-networking services in China, where Facebook’s
website is restricted. Baidu is owner of the most-popular
Chinese search-engine.  Advertising  “We often have discussions with companies like Rovio, as
we constantly look for potential partnerships and joint products
that would further enhance our user experience,” Renren said in
an e-mail.  Baidu talks to “many companies,” said Kaiser Kuo, a
spokesman at the Beijing-based company. He declined to comment
on the discussions with Rovio, citing internal policy. Sohu’s
online games unit  Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU)  has discussions with “many
developers around the world,” said spokeswoman Angie Chang, who
said she couldn’t comment on specific cases.  Rovio sees an opportunity for companies to place ads
targeted at “Angry Birds” users as they play the game,
according to Holm.  “Advertising is one of the ways we can monetize,” Holm
said. In  China , the majority of “Angry Birds” users play the
free version, where advertising can be placed, he said.  Stuffed Toys  Sales of “Angry Birds”-themed merchandise account for
most of Rovio’s revenue in China, Holm said. Rovio plans to open
its first retail store in the country this year, after starting
a “mock-up” outlet in Shanghai in 2011, where purchases
couldn’t be made, he said.  Rovio sells merchandise such as stuffed toys and coffee
mugs through its online store, as well as retail partners in
China.  “Angry Birds” players use a virtual slingshot to fire
birds at structures populated by green pigs. The touchscreen
game zoomed to the top of the chart in  Apple’s online app store 
in 2010, before Android-based versions were introduced.  Rovio may offer an “Angry Birds” game that can be played
on Web browsers running the HTML5 technology in China, said
Holm, a former executive at mobile-phone maker  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  Only
about 10 percent of  Internet users  in China have access to the
technology now, he said.  Rovio is “working towards” an initial public offering,
though the location hasn’t been decided, Holm said. The sale
won’t happen this year, he said, without providing a timing.  Last year, the Finnish company raised $42 million from
investors including Accel Partners, a shareholder of Facebook,
and Skype Technologies SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom’s Atomico
fund.  China had 513 million Internet users at the end of 2011,
according to the government-backed China Internet Network
Information Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  