-- Moms Praised as Romney, Obama Hunt for Women Voters
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-04-13T17:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ann-romney-takes-stage-as-mother-without-pay-in-campaign-debate.html
Long before the two parties
directly engaged in the 2012 general election, White House
senior adviser  David Plouffe  identified the key political target
for  Barack Obama : a middle-aged white woman in  Ohio .  Less than a week into the full-fledged re-election fight,
that demographic is already the focus of the campaign
conversation.  A Democratic strategist ignited a political furor by saying
that  Ann Romney , the wife of presumptive Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney, “never worked a day in her life.” So
began a debate about stay-at-home mothers that dominated social
media, cable television and campaign messaging, drawing in the
White House and dozens of prominent women.  Through the chatter, what became clear was that in an
election many strategists believe will be decided by a few
percentage points, no one can risk making moms mad.  “The fact that this has become so critical, so sensitive
that neither campaign can afford not to pay attention to some
comments about women says something about the power of women
voters,” said Ruth Mandel, head of  Rutgers University ’s
Eagleton Institute of Politics in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .
“An understanding of American women voters at this moment in
history is a central issue for the campaigns and something that
they have to understand.”  Apology, Cancellation  Democratic strategist Hilary Rosen kicked off the
controversy when she said in an interview on CNN April 11 that
Ann Romney, who grew up wealthy and hasn’t had a career outside
the home, couldn’t relate to other women struggling in the
economic downturn. She publicly apologized yesterday to Ann
Romney, and today canceled a scheduled April 15 appearance on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  “I deeply apologize again to work-in-home moms,” she
wrote in a Twitter message saying she won’t be on the talk show.  “I’m going to be a mom who stays at home,” she said,
referring to her own children.  Ann Romney, 62, fired back at Rosen’s initial comments
yesterday in an interview on  Fox News , saying raising five sons
was a full-time job that her husband considered as important as
his work running a private-equity firm.  “My career choice was to be a mother,” she said. “Other
women make other choices. We have to respect women in all the
choices they make.”  52 Percent  Female voters make up 52 percent of the U.S. electorate,
and polls have shown Obama favored over Romney by as much as 19
percentage points. The gap poses a major electoral hurdle to the
Republican’s chances of winning the White House.  Rosen’s remarks offered Romney’s campaign an opening to
change the narrative following a primary campaign in which he
and his Republican challengers touted such issues as their
opposition to abortion rights and their support for allowing
some employers to deny health insurance coverage for
contraception -- positions which Democrats attacked as a “war
on women.”  On a conference call with reporters yesterday, Romney
backers pushed hard to link Rosen to the White House.  ‘Larger Problem’  “I’m outraged by the remarks that Hilary Rosen made,”
said Penny Nance, president and chief executive officer of
Concerned Women for America. “I think it’s indicative of a much
larger problem with the administration.”  When asked for specifics, several speakers pointed to
broader economic issues such as the health-care overhaul, the
growing federal debt and high gasoline prices.  The effort pulled in some of the biggest names in the
party, including former first lady  Barbara Bush , a Romney backer
and wife of former President George H.W. Bush.  “Raising five boys is a handful, trust me,” she said in a
phone interview with Fox News yesterday. “Raising George Walker
was not easy,” referring to her son who preceded Obama as
president.  Sensing political danger, top Obama campaign advisers
swiftly distanced themselves from Rosen’s remarks, calling them
“inappropriate” and “wrong.” First Lady  Michelle Obama , 48,
joined the fray, with a message on Twitter saying, “Every
mother works hard, and every woman deserves to be respected.”  President’s Comments  Later, President Obama, 50, told ABC affiliate KCRG TV in
Cedar Rapids,  Iowa , “I don’t have a lot of patience for
commentary about the spouses of political candidates.”  Ann Romney “seems like a very nice woman” who supports
her husband, he said.  White House officials stressed that Rosen, a partner in a
 Washington  public-relations firm and a former top executive for
the Recording Industry Association of America, didn’t work for
the re-election campaign or the  Democratic National Committee .  Records suggested Rosen has visited the White House during
Obama’s tenure as many as 35 times. White House press secretary
 Jay Carney , though, said he knows three women with the same name
who come to the White House, and so he couldn’t be sure all
those visits were by the strategist.  Rosen issued her apology to Ann Romney yesterday afternoon,
saying that, as a mother, she knows “raising children is the
hardest job there is.”  ‘Poorly Chosen’  She termed her CNN comments “poorly chosen,” and said:
“Let’s declare peace in this phony war and go back to focus on
the substance.”  The denunciations of Rosen’s comments by Obama campaign
manager Jim Messina and adviser  David Axelrod  underscores the
political harm Rosen’s comments could cause Democrats in
November, said  Karlyn Bowman , a senior fellow studying public
opinion at the  American Enterprise Institute  in Washington.  “There’s good data on women’s attitudes showing they are
happy with the choices they are making, whether it’s to stay at
home and raise kids, work or do both,” Bowman said. “They
resent anyone making them feel as if there’s a wrong choice.”  The debate spurred by Rosen’s initial remarks further
elevated Ann Romney, a frequent presence at campaign events who
is considered an asset for Romney by his supporters and some
Democrats. Romney campaign aides say her life story of raising
five boys and battling  breast cancer  and multiple sclerosis
resonates with female voters.  Still, much of her background and experience is far from
typical, and the flap has a potential downside for her husband,
said Jennifer Lawless, director of the Women & Politics
Institute at American University in Washington.  Mitt Romney , 65, has estimated his wealth to be as much as
$250 million on financial disclosure statements. More than 71
percent of mothers work, according to the 2011 Bureau of Labor
Statistics Databook on Women in the  Labor Force . Women also held
a majority of non-farm payroll jobs in January 2010 for the
first time since the U.S. Department of Labor started collecting
data in 1964.  “Ultimately the issue is really one of class,” Lawless
said. “Most people don’t have the luxury to make the choice Ann
Romney made.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  