-- Apple, Amazon, Google Agree to Royalties on Cloud Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/apple-amazon-google-agree-to-royalties-on-cloud-service.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  reached an agreement with record industry
representatives to set royalty payments for their cloud
services.  The Digital Media Association, which represents technology
companies, the  Recording Industry Association of America  and the
National Music Publishers Association reached an agreement to
set rates for 2013 to 2017. The contract will be submitted to
the Washington-based  Copyright Royalty Board  for ratification,
the groups said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The pact creates five new categories of royalty payments
that include services such as Apple’s iCloud, Amazon’s online
music locker and Google’s free cloud service. The accord also
extends, with little changes, existing royalties for CDs and
downloads.  Musicians and the record industry are obtaining new forms
of payment as technology companies develop alternative ways for
consumers to purchase and listen to music. The sides last
reached an agreement in 2008, only after a court ruling set
royalty rates for ringtones, physical CDs and downloads.  “This is the first time we have settled without going to
trial,” Lee Knife, executive director of the Digital Media
Association, said in an interview. “It shows a closer alignment
between the parties. The future of the industry is on online
services and the more services we allow to develop, the better
off the whole industry will be.”  Royalty Rates  Last year, Apple, Google and Amazon started cloud services
that allow users to access, purchase and store music from
Internet-connected devices -- a development that wasn’t covered
by the earlier royalty agreement.  By creating and setting royalty rates, more companies may
begin offering and experimenting with music services, Knife
said.  Digital Media Association also represents  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
MySpace Music,  Viacom Inc. (VIA) ’s  MTV Networks , Slacker Inc. and
 Nokia OYJ. (NOK)   “In next five years, people will think of new models we
didn’t have the prescience to think of at this time,” Knife
said. “It’s an exciting time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  