-- ArcelorMittal, Tata Lead Europe Emitters With CO2 Permit Surplus
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-12T10:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/arcelormittal-tata-lead-europe-emitters-with-co2-permit-surplus.html
ArcelorMittal and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) 
were given 62.4 million more free carbon permits than the two
steelmakers used last year, the most of any European companies.  The European Union allowances, awarded by governments, are
worth 839 million euros ($1.1 billion), assuming a value of
13.45 euros each, the average price on  London ’s ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange of the December 2011 contract in the 12 months
to expiry. That’s a 36 percent increase in permits from a year
earlier, according to preliminary European Union data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Europe’s flagging economy sapped demand for metals, cement
and power last year, increasing an oversupply of allowances held
by companies. The entire carbon program had 2.1 billion euros
worth of spare allowances last year, according to Bloomberg
calculations. Factories and power stations got 153 million more
emissions permits than needed. Emissions dropped 2.5 percent
across Europe, according to the data.  “This decrease in CO2 emissions surprised most analysts
and might be due to the economic stagnation in Europe,” Cedric
Bleuez, a managing director at Carbon Market Data in Paris, said
in a statement. That’s “combined with the effect of energy 
efficiency and renewable energy policies,” which reduces 
emissions from power generation, he said.  ArcelorMittal Surplus Rises  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s surplus rose 47 percent to 47.3 million
permits last year. The company has had the highest surplus out
of all the installations in the program since trading started in
2005. Almost 13,000 factories and power stations in Europe must
comply with the bloc’s emissions trading system by handing in
carbon permits each year.  ArcelorMittal spokesman Giles Read in London did not return
a call seeking comment.  Bob Jones , a spokesman for Tata Steel in
London wasn’t immediately able to comment on the allowances.  The program’s second phase, which operated in the five
years through 2012, distributed free allowances to help
companies manage their costs. Those free allowances will be
reduced from next year. Any spare permits can be sold into the
market or saved for use in later years.  RWE AG (RWE)  and Vattenfall AB were the two biggest emitters last
year and were required to purchase the most allowances, the
preliminary data show.  RWE AG (RWE)  emitted 55 million metric tons of
carbon dioxide above its quota, which would have cost about 739
million euros at the average price, while Vattenfall produced 31
million tons more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  