-- Argentina Stifles Shale Oil Interest With Seizure Threat: Energy
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C r a z e   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-04-12T17:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/argentina-stifles-shale-oil-interest-with-seizure-threat-energy.html
Argentina will struggle to attract
investors to develop shale fields, holding an estimated 23
billion barrels of oil equivalent, after revoking licenses from
 YPF SA (YPF)  and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  over an investment dispute.  Developing resources at the Vaca Muerta formation, an area
the size of Connecticut in Argentina’s Neuquen province, is
“paramount” for the country to revive its century-old oil and
gas industry,  Buenos Aires-based YPF (YPF)  said in February when it
announced the find. The country may double output in a decade by
investing $25 billion a year to develop the fields, it said.  Argentina is seeking help to develop resources about half
the size of  Brazil ’s 50 billion barrels of so-called pre-salt
reserves after revoking YPF and Petrobras licenses and freezing
oil prices at $42 a barrel for the past decade. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  may announce a YPF takeover after
meeting the heads of oil-producing provinces today, Jorge Sapag,
governor of Neuquen, said April 10. Argentina will take as much
as 50.01 percent of YPF, newspaper Clarin reported, citing a
copy of legislation that’s being sent to Congress.  “None of the majors would want to step into a field that’s
been expropriated from a fellow major,” said  Peter Hutton , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “The shale is on
everybody’s radar, but it’s bumpy at the moment.”  Brufau Trip  Vaca Muerta could revive Argentina’s oil industry in the
same way discoveries of non-conventional fields in North Dakota
and Texas provided new opportunities for the U.S., YPF said in
February. The company is owned by Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   YPF, Argentina’s largest energy company, became a pioneer
in exploration of unconventional oil resources in “record
time” by learning from U.S. companies how to tap deposits that
require horizontal drilling in a process known as hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, it said.  Repsol Chief Executive Officer  Antonio Brufau  traveled to
 Buenos Aires  this week to request a meeting with Fernandez,
according to the company. Six Argentine provinces revoked YPF
licenses over the past two months. The Manantiales Behr field,
which produced about 10 percent of YPF’s oil last year, is among
four licenses the Patagonian province of Chubut plans to revoke.  ‘Hostile Gestures’  The Spanish government said that it considers “hostile
gestures” against local companies to be acts of hostility
against the nation.  “If in some part of the world there are hostile gestures
against the interests of Spanish companies, the government
interprets it as hostility against  Spain  and the Spanish
government,” Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said in
comments aired on state broadcaster RTVE today. “If there are
gestures of hostility, they have consequences.”  YPF’s American depositary receipts rose 9.5 percent to
$23.12 at 2:42 p.m. in New York trading, bringing their year-to-
date loss to 33 percent. Its owner Repsol, Spain’s biggest oil
company, dropped 0.9 percent to close 17.96 euros in Madrid
trading after falling as much as 3.3 percent, the most in two
weeks. Repsol has declined 24 percent this year, the worst
performer on the global benchmark Dow Jones Oil & Gas Titans 30
Index, which gained 1.1 percent in the period.  Statoil, Apache Talks  Neuquen, which holds most of the Vaca Muerta shale-oil
formation, will continue to attract investors even amid a YPF
takeover, Sapag said in comments posted on the province’s
website yesterday. He met representatives of Petrobras, Brazil’s
biggest energy company, earlier this week and will also hold
talks with Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Apache Corp. (APA)  this week, he
said. Foreign companies that pledge to invest in oil reserves in
the province are “welcome,” he said.  The government’s decision to take control of YPF “will be
putting off other companies and it’s not a good way to attract
investment when the country needs foreign expertise,”  Andrea Williams , who manages the 1 billion-pound ($1.6 billion)
European equities fund at Royal London Asset Management, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “The fear is they will take
away more licenses.”  Williams owns Repsol shares and has added to the position
recently.  Kirchner has demanded more investment from  oil companies  in
an attempt to boost sagging production and reduce fuel imports
that doubled to $9.4 billion last year. Argentina’s Santa Cruz
province revoked three YPF oil concessions pending legislative
approval, state news agency Telam said yesterday.  Replicate Revolution  Argentina oil investments dropped over the past decade as
 oil prices  have been capped by the government since 2002. Oil
exporters receive $42 per barrel, with the government retaining
the rest, while oil sold domestically is paid at about $60.  The government also ordered oil producers and miners last
year to repatriate all export revenues, as part as government
policy’s to stem capital flight.  U.S. oil production has gained for three consecutive years
as producers accelerated drilling in unconventional deposits.
North Dakota output almost tripled to a record 546,000 barrels a
day in January from three years earlier, the Energy Department
reported April 2.  “Argentina has the chance to replicate the revolution that
unconventional hydrocarbons have meant for the  United States  by
a development of resources at the Vaca Muerta formation,”
Repsol said in a Feb. 8 statement.  Argentina’s government doesn’t have the capital to develop
the resources alone,  Jason Kenney , an analyst at  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  in Edinburgh, said in a telephone interview.  “Argentina needs someone to invest in its energy
provision, both conventional as well as the shale opportunity,”
Kenney said. “The longer this goes on, the less chance you get
of anyone doing anything in Argentina.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  