-- YPF Jumps on Report Argentina Seeks Control: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-12T21:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/argentina-to-take-as-much-as-50-01-of-ypf-clarin-says.html
YPF SA (YPFD) ,  Argentina ’s largest oil
company, rose as much as 14 percent after newspaper Clarin  said 
the government will propose taking a stake of as much as 50.01
percent, citing a copy of the bill it said was sent to Congress.  YPF soared 8.6 percent to $22.93 in  New York  after earlier
gaining to as high as $24.05. Any acquisition of 14.9 percent or
more would require the government to make a public offer to all
shareholders, according to YPF norms that were created when the
state-run company was sold to investors in the 1990s.  “This would mean the government will probably need to
spend a huge chunk of  international reserves , not only to buy
the company, but also to run it and continue the investment
plan,” said Diego Giacomini, an economist Economia & Regiones
in  Buenos Aires . “This is a short-sighted policy that will end
up hurting the Argentine economy and relations with investors
and the international community,”  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s proposal would
declare that as much as 50.01 percent of YPF’s shares are in the
“public interest,” Buenos Aires-based Clarin said. Fernandez
allies control a majority in both houses of congress. Argentina
newspapers Pagina 12 and El Cronista have reported since January
that the government planned to nationalize YPF.  Officials at Congress said they haven’t received a copy of
Fernandez’s legislation.  The proposal would allow Argentina to buy the full 100
million shares owned by the Eskenazi family’s Petersen Group and
another 96.6 million from controlling shareholder  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,
Clarin said.  YPF has 393.3 million  shares outstanding , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Madrid-based Repsol owns 57 percent of
YPF.  Lost Market Value  The bill comes after more than two months of government
pressure on Buenos Aires-based YPF to boost production and
investments. Provincial governments revoked 15 of YPF’s 104 oil
field licenses, or 16 percent of its production, since March 13.  YPF shares have dropped 43 percent since Jan. 23 as the
dispute with the government intensified. The company’s market
value fell to $9.14 billion from $16.2 billion in that period.  The largest and most recent license withdrawal occurred
yesterday when the southern province of  Santa Cruz  pulled three
permits that represent about 11 percent of YPF’s output.  The government representative on YPF’s board also asked the
company to skip paying dividends with last year’s profit and use
the funds to invest in exploration and production. Instead, the
board proposed to issue new shares, a plan that requires
shareholders’ approval at a meeting on April 25.  Following its sale to private investors in the 1990s, the
government retained a 0.2 percent stake and a so-called golden-
share that entitles it to make certain decisions, including veto
takeovers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  