-- Asian Currencies Strengthen After Fed Monetary-Policy Comments
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-12T09:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/asian-currencies-strengthen-after-fed-monetary-policy-comments.html
Asian currencies rose for a second
day after a Federal Reserve survey showed the  U.S. economy  is
improving and the central bank signaled its loose monetary
policy would probably continue.  The Philippine peso and Malaysia’s ringgit climbed after
official reports showed the nations’ exports surged in February.
Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central bank’s
“highly accommodative” policy, which supports inflows into
higher-yielding emerging-market assets. Indonesia’s rupiah
rebounded from a three-week low reached after an earthquake
yesterday.  “The Fed might keep an easing bias longer than expected,”
said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore.
“That’s why Asian currencies are higher. The scale of the
rebound in exports also caught the market by surprise.”  The ringgit advanced 0.3 percent to 3.0688 per dollar as of
4:20 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Thailand’s baht strengthened 0.2 percent to 30.81 and
the rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 9,180 while the peso rose 0.1
percent to 42.715.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY)  climbed for a
second day, while its 60-day historical volatility was little
changed at 3.27 percent. Philippine exports rose 14.6 percent in
February versus a 3.1 percent gain in January, the government
said today. Malaysia’s overseas sales advanced 14.5 percent,
compared with 0.4 percent in January, official data showed on
April 10.  Aceh Quake  The U.S. economy grew in all 12 of its regions as
manufacturing, hiring and retail sales showed signs of strength,
the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey yesterday. Still,
further policy easing “could be warranted” if the recovery
falters, Yellen said in a speech in  New York .  The rupiah rebounded on speculation the central bank
intervened after an 8.6-magnitude earthquake struck off
Indonesia’s Aceh province yesterday. There have been no reports
of fatalities directly from the quake, although several
buildings were damaged, the Indonesian Red Cross said in a text-
message today.  “ Bank Indonesia  is guiding the rupiah,” said Taufan Tito,
a Jakarta-based foreign-exchange dealer at PT Bank Rakyat
Indonesia.  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 5.75
percent today, after cutting it by 25 basis points in February.
The decision was predicted by all 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  China Growth Slows  The baht reached its strongest level since April 2 on
speculation exporters are converting income before local
holidays that start tomorrow. Currency and bond markets will be
shut through April 16 to ring in the Thai New Year, known as
Songkran. European Central Bank executive board member Benoit Coeure said yesterday policy makers could revive bond purchases
to lower  Spain ’s borrowing costs.  “There may be some exporter demand before the Songkran
holiday, but trade may become more quiet today,” said Kozo
Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp. “Risk sentiment is improving amid speculation about
support for Spain, and that helps to boost regional
currencies.”  China ’s yuan was little changed at 6.3073 per dollar in
 Shanghai . The central bank raised the currency’s reference rate
by 0.05 percent to 6.2984, the strongest level since March 30.
The Chinese economy probably grew 8.4 percent last quarter,
following an 8.9 percent expansion in the final three months of
2011, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey before a government report tomorrow.  The People’s Bank of China may cut  interest rates  in the
“immediate future” as inflation isn’t too high,  Michael Kurtz ,
chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Tokyo ,
wrote in a report dated yesterday.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.04 percent to NT$29.55
against its U.S. counterpart. South Korea’s won was little
changed at 1,140.45 versus 1,139.70 on April 10. Vietnam’s dong
gained 0.1 percent to 20,825.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  