-- Most Asian Stocks Advance on Higher Oil, Materials Prices
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-04-12T07:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/asian-stocks-swings-between-gain-losses-on-u-s-china.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
regional benchmark index climbing from its lowest level in more
than two months, as materials producers and traders increased on
higher commodity prices and Citigroup Inc. recommended buying
global industrial shares.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
added 0.9 percent in Sydney as copper and oil prices climbed.
Fanuc Corp., a maker of production automation systems, advanced
2.7 percent after Citigroup maintained a buy rating on the
Japanese company. Australian banks increased after the country’s
payrolls rose almost seven times as much as economists
estimated.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent to 123.81 as
of 4:26 p.m. in Tokyo after falling as much as 0.2 percent.
Almost two stocks rose for each that fell on the gauge, which
slid 3.4 percent in the six trading days through yesterday, its
longest such streak since August. With the exception of
benchmark indexes in Seoul and Karachi, every major gauge in the
region advanced today.  “Today we will see a little bit of rebound after five or
so days of negative market activity, but there are significant
headwinds on the horizon,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
 Melbourne . “It’s still very much the time to be cautious. Spain
and Italy continue to be problems in  Europe , and we’ve got an
imminent North Korean rocket launch, which over the next few
days people will be watching with interest.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge fell 4.6 percent through yesterday
from a peak for the year on Feb. 29 as China announced a lower
target for economic growth and U.S. Federal Reserve officials
warned against overconfidence in the recovery.  North Korea Rocket  The measure, which includes some companies from  emerging
markets , trades at 12.6 times  estimated earnings  compared with
13.1 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.6 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  South Korean shares dropped as  North Korea  prepared to test
a long-range rocket.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which supplies
touch screens to Nokia Oyj, fell 2.9 percent after the Finnish
company reported a software fault with its latest U.S. model.
The Kospi index fell 0.4 percent, paring losses of as much as
1.3 percent.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.7 percent after
falling as much as 0.1 percent. Volume on the gauge was about 12
percent below the 30-day average for the time of day.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.8 percent in
Sydney as BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto Group climbed amid higher
metal and oil prices and  unemployment  remained at 5.2 percent,
lower than the 5.3 percent median estimate of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  China Interest Rates  The  Hang Seng Index  rose 1 percent as Chinese banks
advanced after Nomura Holdings Inc.’s chief Asian equity
strategist Michael Kurtz wrote in a report dated yesterday that
the country may cut  interest rates  in the “immediate future.”  Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the world’s No.
1 lender by market value, increased 1.4 percent to HK$5.03.
China Construction Bank Corp., the second-largest, advanced 1.7
percent to HK$6.03. China Securities Journal said the two
biggest lenders and Bank of China Ltd., which rose 1.9 percent
in  Hong Kong , have accelerated the pace of home-loan approvals.  Oil rose for a second day in  New York  after a bigger-than-
expected decline in fuel stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s
biggest crude consumer. Crude for May delivery yesterday climbed
1.7 percent to $102.70 a barrel, the highest close since April
5.  BHP, Rio Rise  BHP, Australia’s biggest oil producer and the world’s
largest mining company, added 0.9 percent to A$33.90 and Rio
Tinto advanced 1.5 percent to A$64.46. Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s biggest producer of the metal, climbed 1.7 percent to
HK$18.28 in Hong Kong, while  Mitsui & Co. Ltd. (8031) , Japan’s No. 2
commodity trading company by market value, increased 3.2 percent
to 1,301 yen in Tokyo.  Copper gained for a second day as better-than-expected car
sales in China and expectations of monetary easing by the
largest user boosted the demand outlook. The metal for delivery
in three months advanced as much as 0.7 percent to $8,095 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, and traded at $8,076 by
9:57 a.m. Shanghai time.  Fanuc rose 2.7 percent to 14,600 yen. Komatsu Ltd., a maker
of excavators, climbed 2.3 percent to 2,346 yen.  THK Co. (6481) , which
makes linear motion systems for use in robots and machine tools,
added 1.8 percent to 1,603 yen after Citigroup reiterated a buy
recommendation on the stock.  Capital goods led outperformance in the first quarter,
while commercials and transportation stocks underperformed,
Citigroup wrote in a note to clients dated yesterday as it
upgraded global industrial companies to overweight. Balance
sheets remain strong, companies are holding record amounts of
cash and merger activity remains a possible catalyst for the
sector, the note said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  