-- Asmussen Says Irish Banks Must Reduce Reliance on ECB Funding
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-12T11:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/asmussen-says-irish-banks-must-reduce-reliance-on-ecb-funding.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said banks in Ireland need to
“substantially” reduce their reliance on central bank funds to
restore the financial system to health.  “The current amount of liquidity support extended by the
ECB and the Central Bank of Ireland needs to be substantially
reduced over time,” Asmussen said at an event in Dublin today.
“We expect that the Irish authorities and the banks are working
hard to achieve this.”  Irish banks are tapping about 125 billion euros ($164
billion) in loans from the ECB and the country’s central bank,
after the bursting of a property bubble led to the state
receiving an international bailout in 2010. Ireland has been
seeking help from its European partners since September to
refinance about 30 billion euros of so-called promissory notes
used to rescue former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society.  Asmussen said any proposal to replace the promissory notes
with a bond from  Europe ’s bailout fund would need to occur in
conjunction with a reduction in borrowing from the central bank.  “It should improve the chances of both the state and the
banks returning to market-based funding, and of the banks
reducing their extraordinary reliance on the Eurosystem,”
Asmussen said.  Any deviation from the original promissory notes agreement
“should be considered very carefully indeed,” he added.  Asmussen said even though the so-called fiscal compact
agreed by European leaders this year to improve budgetary
coordination and surveillance “won’t suffice” in the long
term, it is of the “utmost importance” that all euro members
adopt it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  