-- AstraZeneca’s Brennan Defends Strategy Amid Questions
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-12T23:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/astrazeneca-s-brennan-defends-strategy-amid-questions.html
David Brennan  said his leadership
as chief executive officer of London-based drugmaker  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN)  remains steady amid reports that some shareholders are
seeking a change.  “I’m plugged in, my role hasn’t changed a bit,” Brennan
said in an interview in  Boston , where he was attending the
annual meeting of the  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
of America . “I read and hear and see lots of things, but we’re
here trying to change policy, make good decisions and execute
our strategy.”  AstraZeneca is looking to replace  revenue  lost when patent
protection on its best-selling medicines, including the ulcer
treatment Nexium and antipsychotic medication Seroquel, expires
over the next four years. The drugs accounted for more than
$10.2 billion in sales last year. Analysts and investors have
questioned whether Brennan’s stated plan to pursue smaller deals
and avoid large mergers will be enough to turn around the
drugmaker, the U.K.’s second-largest.  Brennan, 58, who has been CEO since January 2006, said that
a merger wouldn’t be necessary to make major changes at the
company.  “If it’s about restructuring, we can do that without a big
deal,” he said during the interview yesterday. “Maybe somebody
sees something different, but spending more money does not have
a linear increase in the number of returns you get from a
research and development perspective.”  Seeking Deals  The company’s head of global research and development,
Martin Mackay, said on April 3 that a partnership the company
had formed with  Thousand Oaks , California-based  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the
world’s largest biotechnology company, on inflammatory disease
drugs was “not enough.”  “Building a pipeline is our No. 1 priority,” Mackay said.
“A big piece of that is doing deals.”  The competition for potential partners is “tough” and
AstraZeneca is continuing talks with a number of companies,
Mackay said then. “We’ve brought in new leaders and made cuts
we needed to make our organization ready for the competitive
period we’re coming into.”  AstraZeneca has announced eight acquisition or partnership
deals since January 2010, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  