-- Aurelius and MBIA Settle Lawsuit Over 2009 Reorganization
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-12T22:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/aurelius-capital-mbia-settle-lawsuit-over-reorganization-1-.html
Aurelius Capital Management LP and
 MBIA Inc. (MBI)  settled a lawsuit in which the hedge fund claimed the
2009 split of MBIA’s bond-insurance business hurt owners of
$240 billion of debt while benefiting stock investors.  Lawyers for Aurelius and MBIA, in a filing yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan, asked for the case to be dismissed
with each side bearing its own costs. Terms of the settlement
weren’t disclosed in the filing.  “The settlement of this case is another important step
toward resolving all of the litigation contesting our
transformation,”  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for Armonk,  New York- 
based MBIA, said in an e-mailed statement.”  Aurelius and Fir Tree Partners funds said in a complaint
filed in March of 2009 that the reorganization, in which MBIA
stripped $5.4 billion of assets and its U.S. municipal business
from a unit that went on to mainly insure structured-finance
bonds, represented “the height of insidious greed.”  The insurer split its insurance business in 2009 with
permission from  New York  state regulators in an effort to revive
the public-finance business. About two dozen banks and
investment firms including Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
Corp. sued the insurer and regulators after the split.  The new division holds the state and local bond guarantee
business the insurer seeks to maintain and left the old unit
holding soured mortgage-backed debt. Some lenders claimed the
restructuring was a “fraudulent conveyance” that rendered the
old insurer, MBIA Insurance Corp., insolvent.  David Ichel, a lawyer for Aurelius, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment on the settlement.  Separately,  UBS AG (UBSN)  is withdrawing from litigation in New
York state court against MBIA over the insurer’s restructuring,
according to a stipulation filed yesterday.  MBIA rose $1.21, or 13 percent, to $10.28 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading today.  The case is Aurelius Capital v. MBIA, 09-cv-02242, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  