-- U.S. Stocks Rise While Dollar, Yen Fall on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-04-12T20:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/aussie-climbs-on-jobs-report-as-japan-s-shares-advance.html
U.S. stocks rallied, sending
benchmark indexes to the biggest back-to-back gains of the year,
while the yen and dollar weakened as signs the  Federal Reserve 
and Bank of Japan will stimulate growth overshadowed an
unexpected jump in American jobless claims. Gold climbed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.4 percent to close
at 1,387.57 and rebounded 2.1 percent in two days following a
five-day tumble, its longest of 2012. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  surged 181 points. The  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities
increased 1.2 percent as nickel and silver jumped at least 2.6
percent and gold climbed 1 percent. Chinese stocks trading in
the U.S. surged before the nation reports economic growth
figures. The yen slid against all 16 most-traded peers and the
dollar fell versus all but the yen. Ten-year U.S. note yields
rose two basis points to 2.06 percent.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and  New York  Fed
President William C. Dudley endorsed the view that borrowing
costs will stay low through 2014, with Dudley noting it’s
“still too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods.” The
 Bank of Japan  will pursue “powerful easing” to overcome
deflation, central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today.  “We’ll continue to see similar language: the Fed is ready
to provide more accommodation if necessary,” said  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based global chief investment
strategist for the IShares unit of BlackRock Inc. His firm
oversees $3.51 trillion as the world’s largest asset manager.
“I wouldn’t expect a definitive sign in April that there’s
another round of quantitative easing coming. It’s just the idea
that the Fed has that in their back pocket.”  The Fed meets in two weeks to debate policy after Labor
Department reports showed an unexpected increase in jobless
claims to a two-month high of 380,000 last week, and growth in
payrolls weakening to the slowest in five months in March.  Google Earnings  Hewlett-Packard Co. surged 7.2 percent, the most in three
years, to lead gains in the Dow after research firm Gartner Inc.
said the global personal-computer industry unexpectedly grew in
the first quarter. Caterpillar Inc.,  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , Boeing Co. and
Bank of America Corp. also rose at least 2.4 percent to help
lead the Dow up 1.4 percent to 12,986.58.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest Internet search company,
advanced 2.4 percent before releasing first-quarter results
after exchanges closed. The stock added another 0.4 percent in
extended trading as Google reported better-than-estimated
adjusted earnings of $10.08 a share after demand for its newer
services helped fuel growth. Google also said it will introduce
a new class of nonvoting capital stock which will be distributed
through a dividend to existing shareholders.  AT&T Inc. (T)  rose 1.3 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised
buying the shares.  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  jumped 3.9 percent after
winning a drug supply  contract  valued at as much as $31.6
billion over as many as eight years.  Two-Day Rebound  The S&P 500 yesterday halted a five-day, 4.3 percent drop
after Alcoa reported an  unexpected  first-quarter profit,
bolstering optimism at the start of a reporting season in which
per-share earnings growth is projected to have slowed to 0.8
percent, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bloomberg China-U.S. Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. surged 2.5 percent, the most in three
months, with Renren Inc. and Tudou Holdings Ltd. leading gains
as investors awaited a report at 10 p.m. New York time that’s
forecast to show China’s economy expanded 8.4 percent last
quarter.  Treasury Auction  Treasuries pared losses after the U.S. sale of $13 billion
in 30-year bonds was met with stronger-than-average demand. The
securities drew a yield of 3.230 percent, compared with a
forecast of 3.233 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine of
the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which compares total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 2.76, compared with an average
of 2.65 for the past 10 sales. The two-year yield was little
changed at 0.29 percent and the rate on 30-year bonds was up 1.7
basis points to 3.21 percent.  Ten-year yields rose for a second day, after dipping below
2 percent for the first time in a month on April 10 as the
note’s price climbed for five straight days amid renewed concern
over Europe’s debt crisis. The rally in bonds ended yesterday
after the European Central Bank’s Benoit Coeure spurred
speculation the ECB would buy Spanish debt to suppress the
nation’s borrowing costs.  ‘A Little Too Aggressive’  “The recent run-up in prices was a little too aggressive
and now we are seeing some giveback of the rally in Treasuries,
especially with stocks doing better,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners.
“We’ve seen some large swings in the market over the last few
days which shows that there is a lot of indecisiveness in the
market regarding the economy and the need for more easing. No
one wants to miss the big trade.”  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities climbed 1.2 percent
today, adding to yesterday’s 0.8 percent advance. Copper rallied
2.2 percent to $3.7205 a pound.  Oil added 0.9 percent to $103.64 a barrel in New York.
Natural gas futures in New York fluctuated after dipping below
$2 per million British thermal units for the first time in a
decade yesterday amid concern that a supply glut in the U.S.
will worsen amid warm weather.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1.2 percent. Hays Plc
rallied 8.9 percent as the U.K. recruitment company forecast
full-year operating profit near the top end of analysts’
estimates. Banco Espirito Santo SA plunged 11 percent as
Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank by market value said it
plans to sell as much as 1.01 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in
stock.  Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  has rebounded 2.1 percent in two days
after slumping 6.4 percent in the previous four sessions as
Spanish 10-year yields topped 6 percent for the first time this
year, fueling concern Europe’s biggest economy will have to fund
another bailout.  Options traders increased bearish bets on the DAX to a more
than five-year high versus the rest of Europe, seeking to
protect gains after the German equity gauge rallied 17 percent
in the first quarter. Puts outnumbered calls by 1.41-to-1 for
the DAX yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
ratio exceeded the put-to-call measure for the Euro Stoxx 50
Index by 24 percent on March 29, the most since December 2006  Lagarde on Risk  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde   said the main risk to global growth is a return of
Europe’s debt crisis, even as data indicate an improvement in
economies including the U.S. A recent move by European
governments to increase their crisis defenses is only part of
the solution, Lagarde said, adding she is hopeful to see
progress on her pledge to increase IMF resources when member
countries meet in Washington next week.  “Risks may not be as large as estimated earlier this
year,” Lagarde said in a speech in Washington today. “But let
us make no mistake, the risks and the needs are still sizable
and it would be very imprudent to ignore that fact.”  The Italian two-year note yield dropped 18 basis points to
3.25 percent. The Treasury sold the three-year benchmark bonds
to yield 3.89 percent, the highest since January and up from
2.76 percent at the previous auction on March 14. The Rome-based
Treasury also sold 2 billion euros of bonds due in 2015, 2020
and 2023. The auction’s maximum target was 5 billion euros.  Aussie Rallies  The yen and dollar both lost more than 1 percent versus the
 New Zealand , Australian and South African currencies. The Aussie
rallied against 15 of 16 major peers after a report showed
Australian payrolls rose more than economists forecast in March,
capping the best quarter since 2010. Payrolls rose by 44,000, a
statistics bureau report showed in Sydney, almost seven times
the median estimate for a 6,500 increase in a Bloomberg survey.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.9 percent. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rallied 1.8 percent. The BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, added 0.8 percent amid expectation a
slowing factory output will prompt the central bank to reduce
lenders’ reserve ratio and  interest rates  next week. South
Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 0.4 percent as  North Korea  prepared to
send a satellite into orbit on top of a long-range rocket.  Emerging-market stocks have gained 12 percent this year,
beating the 9 percent advance in developed-country shares, and
trade for 10.5 times estimated earnings, lower than the 12.4-
times ratio for developed-nation equities on the MSCI World
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Tilles in London at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  