-- Australian Employers Added More Workers Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-12T05:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/australian-employers-added-more-workers-than-forecast.html
Australian payrolls rose more than
economists forecast in March, capping the best quarter since
2010, led by financial and manufacturing states Victoria and New
South Wales. The local currency reached a one-week high.  Payrolls rose by 44,000, a statistics bureau report showed
in Sydney today, almost seven times the median estimate for a
6,500 increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists. The
 jobless rate  stayed at 5.2 percent, compared with expectations
for a rise to 5.3 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled last week he
may end a three-month pause and resume lowering rates next month
if weaker-than-forecast growth slows inflation, even as a
pipeline of resource projects spurs hiring by companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to meet Chinese demand. Traders
priced in 88 basis points of rate reductions in the next year
after today’s data, down from 94 percent yesterday, a Credit
Suisse Group AG index showed.  “Numbers like today are a bit of a reality check” on
market expectations for the scale of rate cuts this year, said
Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and fixed-income
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “I don’t think it
changes the much bigger picture that the labor market is soft.”  The Australian dollar strengthened, buying $1.0384 at 3:33
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0307 before the data were released. It
touched $1.0386, the highest since April 3.  Rate Outlook  Traders are pricing in an 83 percent chance the RBA will
reduce borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 4
percent at the next policy meeting, down from a 93 percent
chance yesterday, a separate Credit Suisse index showed.  Stevens said last week the central bank is waiting to see
an April 24 report on consumer prices before deciding whether to
lower rates.  Today’s data showed a labor-market rebound last month after
15,400 job losses in February prompted increased bets on a rate
cut as a currency above parity with the  U.S. dollar  hurts non-
mining exporters.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer,
shuttered its export division in August.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  have cut jobs in  Australia  this year, citing
the currency’s strength.  In the first quarter, the number of employed people jumped
by 76,700, the biggest quarterly advance since the final three
months of 2010, the report showed.  Full-Time Work  The number of full-time jobs advanced by 15,800 in March,
and part-time employment rose by 28,200, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the working-age
population, increased to 65.4 percent in March from 65.2 percent
a month earlier, it showed.  Job gains were led by New South Wales, the nation’s most
populous state, with a 19,100 increase, and Victoria, the center
of the nation’s struggling manufacturing industry, with an
11,500 gain. The rise in NSW was the biggest in 10 months.  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  said last month it will buck the recent
trend of job losses and plans to hire 1,000 new employees across
Australia.  Chief Executive Officer Don Meij said in a March 12
statement there had been “a recent surge in demand for value
pizzas.” Australian consumers have boosted savings and reduced
spending in recent months as concerns mount about unemployment.  Domino’s Hiring  The new jobs include 350 in Queensland state, 300 in New
South Wales and 150 in Victoria, the company said in the
statement.  Australia’s economy is being driven by a resource bonanza
as China and  India , two countries that account for more than a
third of the world’s population, increase demand for minerals
and energy.  In mining states, Queensland added 7,800 jobs and  Western
Australia  added 4,900, the report showed.  More than 25,000 new workers will be needed to complete
mining, natural gas and transportation projects in Queensland by
late-2012, according to the industry-funded group Construction
Skills Queensland.  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and ConocoPhillips are moving
ahead with more than $50 billion of liquefied natural gas
projects on the central Queensland coast. Arrow Energy Ltd.,
owned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc and PetroChina Co., plans a
fourth LNG development on Queensland’s Curtis Island.  “We have an economy, the fundamentals of which are
strong,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told reporters in
Canberra today. “That’s been reaffirmed today by our
unemployment figures. We see unemployment figures where
unemployment has stayed low. The Australian economy in the last
month has created a third of the jobs created in the total  U.S.
economy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  