-- Banesto Quarterly Profit Falls 88% on Real Estate Charges
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-12T16:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/banesto-first-quarter-profit-falls-88-on-real-estate-provisions.html
Banco Espanol de Credito SA , a
Spanish consumer-banking  unit  of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , said first-
quarter profit plunged 88 percent as it stepped up government-
ordered provisions for real estate losses.  Net  income  fell to 20.2 million euros ($26.5 million) from
169.5 million euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based bank said
in a filing to regulators today. That beat the 6.43 million-euro
average  estimate  in a survey of four analysts.  Spanish banks face slumping demand for  credit  and a battle
to prevent more loans from defaulting as the country slides into
recession. Banesto, the first Spanish lender to report quarterly
earnings, said it took a charge of 475 million euros to cover
about half of the 1 billion euros in real estate provisions it
must take this year to comply with government requirements.  “They have been able to anticipate a good part of the real
estate provisions,” said Juan Pablo Lopez, an  analyst  at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Madrid, who has a buy rating
on the shares. “There is still plenty of work to do.”  Banesto  shares  rose 0.7 percent to close at 3.32 euros in
Madrid today, reversing an earlier loss of as much of 1.6
percent and paring this year’s decline to 11 percent.  Bad Loans  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending were stable at
4.93 percent from 4.94 percent in December as it sold off 220
million euros of loans, the bank said.  Without that, the bad loans ratio would have been 5.18
percent, Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Garcia Cantera
said in an interview. Underlying trends for bad loans are set to
worsen this year as the economy slides into recession, he said
in a webcast for analysts today.  Net newly defaulted loans, known as entries into default,
fell to 186 million euros from 316 million euros in the fourth
quarter of last year. “Entries are still high, but maybe there
is a ray of light on asset quality,” said Lopez.  Banesto sold more than 1,500 homes in March at an average
discount that was less than the provisioning rate of 45 percent
applied to the assets, said Garcia Cantera. “That demonstrates
that at a certain price there is significant demand for housing
in  Spain ,” he said.  Lending slumped at an annual rate of 8.3 percent and
customer deposits slid 10 percent, the bank said. Net interest
income fell 8.6 percent from a year ago to 347.8 million euros.  “The Spanish economy needs to deleverage and the
deleveraging needs to be seen in the Spanish banks’ balance
sheets,” Garcia Cantera said. “We think that is going to
continue for quite a while.”  The bank said it partly offset the charges by booking one-
time gains of 365 million euros from transactions including the
sale of stakes in companies and loans that had been fully
provisioned. Other provisions to cover asset impairments jumped
66 percent to 151.9 million euros, Banesto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  