-- Bank Overhaul Mess Is Noose Around EU’s Neck, EBF Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-04-13T11:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/bank-overhaul-mess-is-noose-around-eu-s-neck-ebf-says.html
Global financial regulators have
failed to create clear standards for banks, meaning lenders are
hoarding cash instead of providing loans needed to drive growth,
European Banking Federation President  Christian Clausen  said.  “This is the biggest change in the banking system ever
seen; all items in the balance sheet are in play,” Clausen said
in an interview in Stockholm yesterday. “The incentive for
banks, even though they have built up their capital, to actually
go out and support good initiatives is very limited.”  Since the 2008 global financial crisis routed markets, sent
unemployment soaring and some governments toppling, policy
makers have looked for ways to guard against a repeat of the
turmoil by requiring banks to build up bigger buffers. The  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  wants lenders to target core
capital of at least 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets,
compared with as little as 2 percent before the crisis. The
European Banking Authority has set a temporary 9 percent target
for some lenders.  Several of the new standards lenders need to adopt are
confusing, said Clausen, who is also the chief executive officer
of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender. That means banks
are erring on the side of caution as they navigate through a
shifting regulatory environment, he said.  Europe’s determination to impose strict regulatory
guidelines on its banks is the main reason its economy is
underperforming the U.S.’s, said Nick Davey, a London-based
analyst at UBS AG.  Basel ‘De-Emphasized’  “In the U.S., Basel III has been de-emphasized and the
banks are free to deploy capital to pursue growth,” Davey said.
“In Europe, the constant drive for more and more capital,
uncertainty over funding rules, and the prioritization at a
sovereign level to promote austerity, not growth, creates an
unhelpful foundation for the banking sector, and disincentives
to lend.”  The 17-member euro region -- where Greece, Portugal and
Ireland are relying on international bailouts to stay afloat --
will contract 0.3 percent this year, the European Commission
said Feb. 23. The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent in 2012,
the  World Bank  said Jan. 18.  In Sweden, where Nordea is based, the government wants its
four biggest lenders, including  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA) 
and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , to hold more capital than the EU’s minimum
requirement. The four need to target 10 percent buffers from
January and 12 percent from 2015, Sweden’s regulator said in
November. The government of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
argues the stricter rules will protect taxpayers from losses in
future financial crises.  Siding With Taxpayers  “There will always be tension between regulators and
bankers,” Peter Norman, Sweden’s financial markets minister,
said in an interview in Stockholm. “Bankers want absolute
minimum rules for everything and to be able to raise the bar to
where they think it should be. We must always side with the
taxpayers.”  Nordea had a core Tier 1 capital buffer -- a measure of
financial strength -- of 11.2 percent of its risk-weighted
assets at the end of last year. While Clausen says  Sweden ’s
capital requirements are too high, a bigger problem is the
confusion surrounding regulatory measures, he said.  “It was 7 percent, now it’s 9 percent or 10 percent on
capital. And the liquidity coverage ratio has been watered down
a little, but it’s still there,” Clausen said. “But there’s
still the net stable funding ratio, which is completely
uncertain.”  ‘No Way’  Basel III’s  net stable funding ratio  requires lenders to
cut their reliance on short-term money markets by boosting
holdings of debt with longer maturities. Equities can be used in
calculating that ratio, which is scheduled to become binding
from 2018.  The European Banking Authority estimates lenders in the
region had an average net stable funding ratio of about 90
percent relative to their liquid assets at the end of June last
year, according to a survey of 157 lenders.  “To fulfill the minimum standard of 100 percent on a total
basis, banks need stable funding of approximately 1.9 trillion
euros,” ($2.5 trillion) the EBA said in an April 4 report.  “There is no way you can add that to the system, at least
not right now,” Clausen said. “So, to take some of these
things off of the table now will calm down the anxiety in the
market and the bank sector and allow some refinancing of the
real economy.”  ‘More Manageable’  The largest global banks would have needed to find a
combined 1.76 trillion euros in easy-to-sell assets to meet a
minimum liquidity rule set by Basel had the standards been
enforced last June, the group said yesterday. The net stable
funding ratio shortfall was 2.78 trillion euros, it said.  It seems “regulators still need to find some other asset
class that can count as a liquid asset to make this ratio more
manageable for banks,” Prateek Datta, an analyst at Royal Bank
of Scotland PLC in  London , said in an e-mail.  The 43-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services
index fell 1.2 percent as of 1:32 p.m., after gaining 1.4
percent yesterday.  Europe’s banks face further stresses as the region’s debt
crisis, now in its third year, shows signs of flaring up anew.
The boost given to Spanish and Italian debt markets by European
Central Bank cash since December is wearing off and the nations’
10-year bond yields are again well above 5 percent. That’s
spurring debate on whether Europe has failed to implement
growth-friendly policies.  “There is one thing out there that is gaining traction in
discussions and that’s the risk that we won’t generate growth in
the economy,” Clausen said. “One of the big uncertainties that
politicians should really be aware of is the ever-growing level
of capital and funding regulation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 