-- Banks Must Improve Corporate Governance, G-30 Says in Report
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-12T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/banks-must-improve-corporate-governance-g-30-says-in-report.html
The largest global banks must
improve their corporate governance to assure stability in the
wake of the credit crisis, according to a report from the Group
of 30 forum of finance leaders.  Boards of directors that have eight to 12 members and
people with experience as chief executive officers or regulators
are preferable, according to today’s report, which also
encouraged banks to split the CEO and chairman roles.  Jean-Claude Trichet , the former European Central Bank
president who took over the G-30 in November, highlighted the
contribution of poor corporate governance to the crisis. The
report didn’t recommend specific changes and advised firms to
build a culture of governance rather than focus on processes and
rules.  “The paramount aim of our new report is to promote changes
in governance behavior, which demands changing the ways in which
people think so that they can successfully induce the specific,
tailored reforms that will enhance governance in their
institutions,” Trichet said in a statement accompanying the 92-
page report.  Boards, which should view success over a time frame of five
to 20 years, must challenge executives over strategic proposals
and take an active stance on risk management, according to the
report. It’s unacceptable to take risks that are too complicated
for a board to understand, the authors wrote.  “Since the crisis there has been an unprecedented process
of financial regulatory reform to remedy these serious
weaknesses that had become apparent,”  David Walker , a senior
adviser at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  who worked on the report, said in the
statement. “But better regulation by the public sector needs to
be matched by private-sector initiative in the form of better
boardroom performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  