-- Barnes & Noble Unveils Nook E-Reader That Glows in Dark
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-04-12T20:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/barnes-noble-unveils-nook-e-reader-that-glows-in-dark.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, introduced a Nook e-reader with a screen
that glows in the dark, challenging  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  at a time
when prices for digital books may start falling.  Both companies have touted page turn speeds, battery life
and weight to attract customers. Now Barnes & Noble has added an
adjustable light to the screen on its Nook Simple Touch. That’s
easier than connecting a light to Amazon’s Kindle Touch, which
can’t light up, and offers benefits such as helping a wife keep
reading in bed while her husband sleeps, said Chief Executive
Officer William Lynch.  “Having to clip on the light at night, there is the
consumer cost of the hassle factor,” Lynch said in an interview
today. The glow feature “is the biggest revolution in the
dedicated single-purpose e-reader market since the launch of the
Kindle in 2007.”  Barnes & Noble, based in  New York , has anchored its future
to the fast-growing digital book market by investing in the Nook
at the expense of profits as more readers adopt the technology.
Less than three years after introducing the Nook, the company
projects the business to generate $1.5 billion in annual
 revenue , or about 20 percent of total sales.  Lower E-Book Prices  In the quarter that ended Jan. 28, revenue from the Nook
unit rose 38 percent to $542 million, while total sales rose 2
percent at its 690 retail stores. Barnes & Noble has about 30
percent of the U.S. e-book market, compared with Amazon’s 60
percent.  Changes to the e-book pricing model may make it harder for
Barnes & Noble to hold onto its market share. In 2010,
publishers agreed to set the so-called agency model with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , Amazon and Barnes & Noble, that didn’t allow retailers to
discount e-books.  Before that, Amazon was selling some new e-books at a loss
to gain market share. After the agency model was instituted, the
playing field was leveled and helped Barnes & Noble, Apple and
others boost sales, according to  Michael Souers , a retail
analyst for  Standard & Poor’s  in New York.  The U.S. government sued Apple and two publishers yesterday
for conspiring to fix e-book prices.  CBS Corp.’s (CBS)  Simon &
Schuster,  News Corp.’s (NWSA)  HarperCollins and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
Hachette Book Group settled and agreed to end the agency model
agreements. Apple and publishers Macmillan, a unit of
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, and  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s
Penguin didn’t settle.  ‘Big Negative’  Allowing retailers to set prices will help Amazon bolster
its leading market share because it can subsidize lower prices,
even selling e-books at a loss, and relying on profits from its
wide assortment of products, Souers said. Barnes & Noble faces
greater challenges now because the retailer has been losing
money as it spends on developing and marketing the Nook.  “It’s a pretty big negative for them because it gives
Amazon the flexibility to undercut them on prices,” said
Souers, who recommends selling Barnes & Noble shares. “Barnes &
Noble would have to follow suit and margins will be impacted, or
they don’t follow suit and risk losing market share.”  Lynch declined to comment on the cases, saying he would
only answer questions about the new Nook. Amazon plans to lower
e-book prices as soon as possible, according to Drew Herdener,
an Amazon spokesman.  Touch for $139  “Things look bleak now that the  Justice Department  is
unshackling Amazon,” said Paul Aiken, executive director of the
Authors Guild in New York. “What’s bad for Barnes & Noble is
even worse for traditional bookstores, which may well find
Amazon giving away e-book versions of bestselling hardcover
titles as a means of selling more Kindles.”  Barnes & Noble began taking orders for the new Nook Simple
Touch today at $139. The first Touch model, introduced about a
year ago, is priced at $99. Amazon sells the Kindle Touch, which
doesn’t have a light feature, for $139 and a version with on-
screen advertising for $99.  While Barnes & Noble trailed Amazon in entering the digital
reading market with the first Nook debuting two years after the
Kindle in 2009, it’s been faster to innovate.  The original e-readers of both companies used e-ink, which
looks like an Etch A Sketch, and didn’t have a touchscreen.
Barnes & Noble then offered a version with a color liquid-
crystal-display touchscreen, called Nook Color, in October 2010.
Priced at $249 and run by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, the
device gained traction as an inexpensive alternative to Apple’s
iPad.  Barnes & Noble upgraded its e-ink e-reader with a
touchscreen and made it lighter with the release of the Nook
Simple Touch in May. Amazon introduced its color-screened Fire
and Touch in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  