-- Berlin Startups With Punk Attitude Bring Venture Capital Bonanza
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   W i n t e r
-- 2012-04-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/berlin-startups-with-punk-attitude-bring-venture-capital-bonanza.html
On a rainy day in March 2011,
Ciaran O’Leary and two colleagues crammed into a Berlin taxi and
raced for the station to catch a train back to Hamburg. While
snaking through the city streets, it hit him: Leaving Berlin was
a bad idea.  “We looked at each other and knew in that moment that we’d
be crazy not to move here,” said O’Leary, a partner at the
German venture capital firm Earlybird. “There was just so much
happening -- founders everywhere, in every bar, cafe, every
corner.”  Two weeks later, Earlybird rented  office space  in a former
dance studio in central Berlin and opened shop, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its April 16 edition. By late March of
this year, the firm had raised $100 million of what will become
a $200 million fund for investing in European Internet startups,
primarily in German-speaking regions.  The new fund signals that at least some of  Germany ’s
traditionally risk-averse financiers realize their capital city
has become a global tech hub, one which foreign money discovered
years ago. According to data from Thomson Reuters, 103 Internet
startups received global venture capital funding in Germany in
2011, more than in any country except China and the U.S.  Clone Offerings  While the numbers are not broken down by city, Berlin is
where most German startups congregate. “It’s one of my next
stops, and I’m not the only one going,” said Yoni Cheifetz of
 Menlo Park , California-based Lightspeed Venture Partners.
“Berlin is not overcrowded like the Valley, but it will be
pretty competitive.”  Alex Ljung, co-founder of Berlin audio-sharing startup
SoundCloud, put it this way: “If I were a VC, I’d be terrified
not to be in Berlin.”  The city experienced a short startup boom in the late 1990s
and early 2000s along with the rest of the world, but that
quickly faded as German investors lost money on ill-conceived
companies.  Among the Berlin Internet startups to survive were clone
versions of American companies, many of them started by the
Samwer brothers -- Marc, Oliver, and Alexander -- who’ve made
more than $1 billion over the past decade by copying  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,
Zappos.com Inc.,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , Pinterest and now  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   ‘Fighting Windmills’  “Five or six years ago, you felt like you were kind of
alone, fighting windmills,” said Christophe Maire, a Swiss
entrepreneur and one of the city’s major angel investors.  Things began changing as several Berlin startups scored
funding from international sources. In 2010, SoundCloud Ltd.,
among the scene’s biggest success stories so far, received
funding that included a $10 million infusion from New York’s
Union Square Ventures and  Switzerland ’s Index Ventures. The
service now boasts more than 12 million members.  Other hits include Wooga GmbH,  Europe ’s largest developer
of online social games, which last May announced a $24 million
investment led by a Massachusetts  venture capital  firm. In
November, Atomico, the London-based venture capital firm of
Skype co-founder Niklas Zennstroem, invested $4.2 million in
6Wunderkinder, a maker of productivity applications.  Encouraged by all the interest, and the money, many
Berliners have gotten startup fever. The  Berlin Chamber of
Commerce  reports that 1,300 Internet startups have been founded
in the city since 2008, 500 of them last year.  Hacker Groups  Germany’s capital is home to the Chaos Computer Club, one
of the world’s biggest hacker groups. In recent years, hackers,
along with tech-savvy expats and engineers from Berlin’s
universities and clone companies, have combined their know-how
with the softer skills of designers, artists and musicians who
have long flocked to Berlin.  “Berlin’s attitude is very punk, and that’s really
important for startups, because they’re basically saying, ‘OK,
I’m going to do things my own way,’” said Ljung, who was a
sound designer before founding SoundCloud, and is still an
active electronic musician.  O’Leary said: “All Berlin knows is change and disruption,
and there’s nobody defining what the city should be or what an
entrepreneur should be.”  It also helps that Berlin has started to move past its
focus on challenging, esoteric art and design. Ljung said that
when he arrived from  Sweden  in 2007, the websites and apps from
Berlin were “very aggressive and difficult,” featuring tiny
fonts and black backgrounds. While the aesthetic is still edgy,
“now there’s more focus on being global and on the user
experience,” he said.  Independent Platforms  O’Leary encourages entrepreneurs to build their apps on
independent platforms, as opposed to  Facebook (FB) , because people
are increasingly unwilling to cut through the clutter on the
sprawling social network, he said.  O’Leary also pushes startups to make products with a narrow
focus. He cited Amen, a service hyped by actor  Ashton Kutcher 
which encourages people to rate opinions and products, and
Readmill, which lets people take and share notes on e-books to
create a communal reading experience.  Many Berlin startups focus on products for urbanites.
Examples include Gidsy, an online marketplace for real-life
experiences such as street-art tours led by local graffiti
artists. Others specialize in business-to-business products.
6Wunderkinder, for instance, creates apps such as Wunderlist,
which lets employees share to-do lists.  ‘Huge Opportunity’  Berlin’s innovative frenzy is a significant shift for
Germans, who tend to be risk-averse, said O’Leary.  “Obviously after the Second World War,” Germans “didn’t
have a great risk appetite -- they wanted to focus on rebuilding
and being safe,” he said. “I think just now a generation is
surfacing that isn’t bothered by the post-World War II mind-set
and is instead focused on changing the world.”  Still, Germany’s own interest in Berlin’s tech scene lags
behind that of foreigners. Roughly 80 percent of Earlybird’s
$100 million fund comes from international sources, an imbalance
that O’Leary said is a result of the country’s distrust of
venture capital, which in German has the discouraging name
Risikokapital, following the dot-com bust a decade ago. Since
then the number of German venture capital firms dwindled from
hundreds to just a few.  “International investors have been quicker to realize, OK,
if there are only a handful of VCs left for such a big economy,
this is a huge opportunity,” O’Leary said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Winter in  New York  at 
 cwinter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  