-- Best Buy Said to Probe Dunn Relationship With Employee
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-04-12T20:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/best-buy-said-to-probe-dunn-relationship-with-employee.html
Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  board investigation
of former Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn ’s personal conduct
centers on an inappropriate relationship with a female employee,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  People close to Best Buy were concerned that Dunn’s
behavior was threatening the company, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the matter is private. The Star Tribune
in  Minneapolis  reported on the nature of the investigation
earlier, citing a person familiar with the situation.  Best Buy announced Dunn’s resignation earlier this week,
saying that the change was part of a “mutual agreement” that
new leadership was needed. The company later said that a board
committee was probing Dunn’s “personal conduct, unrelated to
the company’s operations or financial control.”  The investigation is continuing and Best Buy has no
additional comment, Ron Hutcheson, a Best Buy spokesman who
works for Hill & Knowlton Strategies in  Washington , said today
in an e-mailed statement.  “The board’s findings will be made public and appropriate
action will be taken if warranted,” Hutcheson said.  Dunn didn’t immediately reply to a message left for him
today at Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy’s executive
offices.  Best Buy rose 1.3 percent to $22.24 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have fallen 4.8 percent this year.  CEO Search  The retailer said today in a statement it plans to take six
months to nine months on a search of internal and external CEO
candidates, including Mike Mikan, the director who was named
interim CEO this week after Dunn’s departure.  Director Kathy J. Higgins Victor will oversee the board’s
global CEO search, the company said.  Dunn’s resignation has hurt employee morale and makes the
company’s turnaround more difficult, former Best Buy CEO Brad Anderson said.  “When that happens at the top, it shakes the whole
organization,” Anderson, 62, said today in a telephone
interview. “To really do great work, people have to believe in
what they are doing and be inspired. You’ve got to establish and
sustain a trust with the people who are touching your customers.
This is pretty devastating to that.”  Best Buy probably will look outside of the organization for
its new CEO after the loss of sales to Amazon.com Inc. and Apple
Inc. requires Best Buy to figure out how to survive, Anderson
said.  Online Sales  U.S. online sales reached $202 billion last year and may
climb 62 percent to $327 billion in 2016, according to  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . At that level, online
commerce would account for 9 percent of total retail sales, up
from 7 percent in 2011.  “You adapt to where the customer is going,” Anderson
said. “They’ve got to find a CEO with the enthusiasm for that
kind of change and vision.”  Anderson said he groomed Dunn to succeed him when he
retired in 2009, making his departure a “sad story.”  “It’s incredibly painful thing for Brian and his family,”
Anderson said. “This is not to diminish Brian’s ownership or
the consequence or the other consequences to people in the
organization, but just on a personal level this is really hard
to see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in  New York  at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  