-- Big Banks Needed 485.6 Billion Euros for Basel Capital Rule
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-12T16:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/big-banks-had-485-6-billion-euro-capital-shortfall-at-june-2011.html
The largest  global banks  would have
needed an extra 485.6 billion euros ($639.5 billion) in their
core reserves to meet Basel capital rules had the standards been
enforced last June.  The 212 lenders surveyed would have needed to find a
combined 1.76 trillion euros in easy-to-sell assets to meet a
minimum liquidity rule set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , the group said today in a statement on its website.
The measures are scheduled to be phased in by 2019.  Global regulators have clashed with lenders over the
severity of the capital and liquidity rules, which were set out
in 2010 as part of an overhaul of banking regulation in the wake
of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH)  The measures, known as Basel III, will
more than triple the core capital that lenders must hold to at
least 7 percent of their assets, weighted for risk.  “The new Basel rules mean banks will have to make tough
decisions about which businesses they are in, as the capital
build needed is massive,” Huw van Steenis, a banking analyst at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , said in an e-mail.  The Basel Committee’s survey covered 103 larger banks with
international businesses and reserves in excess of 3 billion
euros, and 109 smaller lenders.  Capital Shortfall  The 485.6 billion-euro capital shortfall for larger lenders
takes into account the reserves that lenders would need to raise
to meet the 7 percent rule, as well as capital surcharges that
the committee said last year would be imposed on lenders whose
failure would roil the global economy.  The smaller banks’ capital shortfall was 32.4 billion
euros, the Basel group said.  “Not only will dividends be limited for many banks as they
build capital, but more and more business will shift from banks
to the markets,” van Steenis said.  The results don’t factor in changes lenders might make to
their business strategies to reduce the amount of capital they
have to raise, the Basel group said. This means that the
findings are “not comparable to industry estimates.”  This “somewhat undermines the usefulness of the results,”
 Richard Reid , research director for the International Centre for
Financial Regulation, said in an e-mail. “They key to all these
regulations is their practical implementation.”  Liquidity Rule  The Basel liquidity rule would require banks to hold enough
easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The
larger banks were, on average, 90 percent of the way toward
meeting the rule, while smaller banks were 83 percent of the way
there, the group said. The 1.76 trillion-euro shortfall covers
both larger and smaller lenders.  The Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , which
represents international banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  and UBS AG, has said that the measure, known as a
liquidity coverage ratio or LCR, may make it harder for lenders
to spread risks, leaving them more vulnerable in a crisis and
forcing them to curb some lending.  The Basel committee has set itself a June deadline to amend
parts of the LCR to address unintended consequences, according
to two people familiar with discussions the group had last
month. The rule is scheduled to become effective in 2015.  While the liquid assets rule is “under investigation” by
regulators, its “underlying approach” won’t change, the group
said in today’s statement.  Regulators are also reviewing another rule agreed on by the
committee as part of Basel III. This requirement, known as a net
stable funding ratio, or NSFR, would force lenders to fund long-
term loans from sources that are unlikely to dry up in a crisis
-- such as term deposits.  Lenders had a 2.78 trillion-euro shortfall in the funds
needed to meet the NSFR, which isn’t scheduled to enter into
force until 2018, the committee said.  The shortfalls for the two liquidity rules can’t be
combined, the Basel group said, as action to address one may
also address the other.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 