-- Bill Clinton Says U.S. Should Reauthorize U.S. Ex-Im Bank
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-12T19:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/bill-clinton-says-congress-should-reauthorize-u-s-ex-im-bank.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  said
the U.S. Congress should renew the charter of the nation’s
Export-Import Bank, which expires May 31 and has been opposed by
some Republican members of Congress.  “Whether you are Republicans, Democrats or Independents, I
urge you to ask the Congress to reauthorize” the Ex-Im bank,
Clinton said today at the bank’s annual conference in
Washington. The agency provides loan guarantees, insurance and
direct lending to foreign buyers who want to purchase U.S. goods
and services.  Reauthorization will help to “create a stronger American
economy,” Clinton said.  The 78-year-old bank is using the conference to press for a
renewal of its charter, which has drawn opposition. In addition
to Clinton, scheduled speakers are Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel
and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis.  Critics of the bank, including Senator Jim DeMint, a South
Carolina Republican, and the Club for Growth, which supports
smaller government, say the lender meddles in private
enterprise. Supporters of reauthorization include the National
Association of Manufacturers and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
both Washington-based industry groups.  “Support for the Ex-Im bank used to be a bipartisan deal,
and I hope it will be again,” Clinton said. He said he could
not recall a debate over reauthorization ever occurring in
Congress during his presidency, which lasted from 1993-2001.  ‘Unilateral Disarmament’  The bank’s opponents want to “unilaterally disarm American
companies” while other countries including  China  are increasing
their presence in the global market place,  Fred Hochberg , the
Ex-Im bank’s chairman and president, said today.  “Unilateral disarmament is not a very good recipe for
success,” Clinton said.  Congress should renew the bank’s charter for four years and
increase its lending authority to $140 billion from $100 billion
to keep U.S. exporters competitive, according to Hochberg.  “Other countries will happily step in if we can’t or won’t
finance a deal,” Hochberg said. The bank may reach its lending
cap before the end of May.  U.S. goods and services exports increased 0.1 percent to a
record $181.2 billion in February from the previous month, the
Commerce Department announced today. President  Barack Obama  has
set a goal of doubling U.S. exports by the end of 2014, a target
the government is “on pace” to achieve, U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  told reporters on a conference call this
month.  ‘Level Playing Field’  “We give American companies a shot to compete on a level
playing field,” Hochberg said. “Whether they win or not is up
to them.”  The Export-Import Bank in 2011 provided a record $33
billion in export finance, with almost 90 percent of the
transactions benefiting U.S. small businesses, according to
Hochberg. The agency’s financing has generated $1.9 billion in
revenue for the  U.S. Treasury  within the last five years, he
said. The bank says it finances about 2 percent of all U.S.
exports, with the remainder paid for by the private sector.  Last year it supported lending to finance about $11 billion
in commercial sales for Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s
largest aerospace company, according to an Ex-Im bank fact
sheet.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  of Atlanta and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
of Tempe,  Arizona , in November were part of a lawsuit filed
against the Ex-Im Bank, alleging that the lender’s practices put
U.S. carriers at a competitive disadvantage, allowing foreign
airlines to borrow at cheaper rates. The bank has disputed the
claim, and the case is pending in U.S. District Court for the
 District of Columbia .  The bank should be more transparent in its decision-making
process, according to the lawsuit, filed by the Air Transport
Association of America Inc., a Washington-based industry group
now called Airlines for America. It cited a lack of public
comment before the Ex-Im bank on Sept. 30 announced $1.3 billion
in loan guarantees to help Air India buy wide-body jets from
Boeing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  