-- BlackRock Plans Bond-Trading System, Bypassing Banks: WSJ
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-04-12T06:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/blackrock-plans-bond-trading-system-bypassing-banks-wsj.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, is planning to set up a bond-trading system that
will allow it to make transactions directly with other investors
and bypass dealers, the  Wall Street  Journal reported.  The electronic trading platform slated to start this year
may cut revenue at securities companies that have acted as
middlemen in the credit markets, according to the article. The
system is being developed to reduce costs and make up for Wall
Street’s diminished ability to provide liquidity, not to compete
with investment banks, the newspaper reported, citing Richard Prager, a BlackRock managing director.  “It’s not going to cannibalize Wall Street,” Prager, also
head of global trading, said in an interview with the Journal.
“If there’s a savings available to clients, we want to give it
to them.”  Fiona Tyndall, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for BlackRock,
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comments.
Katherine Cheung, a Hong Kong-based managing director for
BlackRock, didn’t answer two calls to her office phone.  The trading platform would be run by New York-based
BlackRock Solutions and offer clients the ability to deal in
corporate bonds, mortgage securities and other assets, the
Journal said. Customers would include sovereign-wealth funds,
insurance companies and other money managers, according to the
article.  Bloomberg LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, competes with
Reuters in providing news, information and trading systems to
the financial community.  Bloomberg Tradebook  competes with
Instinet Group Inc. in matching stock trade orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  