-- BlackRock Plans to Start Bond-Trading System to Bypass Banks
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-04-12T23:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/blackrock-starts-bond-trading-system-to-bypass-investment-banks.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, plans to start a bond-trading system that will
allow investors to bypass investment banks.  The firm, based in  New York , will match clients’ orders
using its own system, rather than relying on Wall Street firms
or other electronic networks to trade bonds. The platform could
shut off a source of revenue for investment banks, which have
seen fees from trading bonds for money managers decline amid
 interest rates  near record lows and concern about a sovereign
default in  Europe .  “This is an extension of BlackRock’s broader efforts to
streamline trading and access liquidity across various means,”
BlackRock said in an e-mailed statement today, declining to give
further details.  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, who made
BlackRock the world’s largest fixed-income manager with the 2009
acquisition of  Barclays Global Investors , is seeking ways to
lower costs for clients by leveraging his firm’s $3.51 trillion
in assets. BlackRock began a separate program in 2010 that
enabled clients to acquire chunks of debt directly from issuers
through a capital-markets unit.  Corporate and sovereign-bond deals around the world
generated a total of $13.6 billion in fees for bankers, down
from $14.9 billion in 2010, according to data compiled for
Bloomberg Markets’ ranking of the best-paid investment banks.  Lowering Costs  “BlackRock will always explore options to lower costs of
trading to their customers,” Macrae Sykes, an analyst with
Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York, said in a telephone interview
today. “This is one avenue for doing that, but it’s important
to maintain the relationship with the Street as well, because
they’re part of the marketplace.”  The service is open to clients who use BlackRock Solutions’
Aladdin investment-management system. BlackRock Solutions, the
unit that advises financial institutions and governments on
hard-to-value-assets, was selected by the U.S. in 2008 to
oversee tainted holdings at the peak of the financial crisis.  Investors are seeking to cut transaction costs on fixed-
income trades as yields on  10-year Treasuries (USGG10YR)  touched record
lows last year and those of investment-grade corporate bonds
fell to their lowest levels ever last month. The  Federal Reserve 
has kept borrowing costs near zero since December 2008, and said
in January that economic conditions may warrant “exceptionally
low” interest rates through 2014.  Competitive Position  Two of the Fed’s top policy makers,  Janet Yellen  and
William C. Dudley, endorsed the view yesterday that rates are
likely to stay low through late 2014 as the Fed misses its goal
for full employment and inflation remains in check.  “Given that trading costs can significantly reduce
investment returns, this move could ultimately improve net
returns for the clients and thereby strengthen BlackRock’s
competitive position,” Andrey Golubov, who teaches at Cass
Business School at City University London, said today in an
interview.  BlackRock had about $1.2 trillion in bond assets as of Dec.
31, according to company filings. Pacific Investment Management
Co. has about $1 trillion in bond assets, according to the
 Newport Beach , California-based firm.  BlackRock’s new platform would allow 46 clients to trade
corporate bonds, mortgage securities and other assets, according
to the Wall Street Journal, which reported the plan earlier
today. Customers would include sovereign-wealth funds, insurance
companies and other money managers, the newspaper said.  Access Fee  Clients who use Aladdin will have to pay a fee to get
access to BlackRock’s trading network. The firm is awaiting
approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission for its
trading platform.  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) ’s electronic trading system for
U.S. and European investment-grade, emerging markets and other
types of bonds said earlier this month that it had a record
$58.7 billion of transactions during March. Other electronic
trading systems for fixed income include Tradeweb Markets LLC
and Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, which
also provides news and information to the financial community.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  