-- Bloomfield Cooks for Charity, Unveils Lamb’s Head Recipe
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/bloomfield-cooks-for-charity-unveils-lamb-s-head-recipe-in-book.html
April Bloomfield really wanted to
be a cop in Birmingham,  England .  Fortunately for food, she missed the deadline for applying
and wound up cooking instead. Her gastropub, New York’s Spotted
Pig, earned her a coveted Michelin star in 2005, a year after it
opened.  She also has foodies queuing up for her one-dish wonders at
charity fundraisers. Bloomfield has used her cooking to help
raise money for  Share , a nonprofit that supports women with
breast or ovarian cancer. She also donates time to  Alex’s
Lemonade Stand Foundation for Childhood Cancer . Based in
Wynnewood,  Pennsylvania , it helps fund childhood-cancer research
projects.  “As a cook, it’s ingrained in you that you’re born with
this talent, and that you like to share food,” said Bloomfield,
37, by phone.  Monday night, she’ll cook for one of her favorites,  Groove
With Me , at its 8th annual “Tap & Tapas” fundraiser at Studio
450 in  Manhattan . The New York-based charity, which seeks to
raise about $200,000 of its $400,000 budget at the one-night
tasting, provides free dance classes for at-risk and
underprivileged girls.  Colicchio, Cardoz  Bloomfield will join other star chefs such as the Bravo
network’s “Top Chef” judge and restaurateur  Tom Colicchio ;
North End Grill’s Floyd Cardoz; pastry chef Shelly Acuna of the
Michelin-starred Aldea in New York; and Missy Robbins of A Voce.
Groove With Me board member Lori Silverbush (who is also
Colicchio’s wife) introduced Bloomfield to the charity.  “April Bloomfield is a big name among chefs, and when you
say she’s cooking, people will come to the event because they
love her food,” Abby McCreath, Groove With Me’s executive
director, said by phone.  Bloomfield has become a presence in the  New York  culinary
scene with her growing restaurant empire, which also includes
the one-Michelin-starred Breslin Bar & Dining Room in New York’s
Ace Hotel and her seafood temple, the John Dory Oyster Bar.  Crab Trifle  She became an author this month with the publication of her
first cookbook, “ A Girl and Her Pig: Recipes and Stories ”
(Ecco, $29.99).  The 333-page book mixes stories about her culinary
experiences with her exquisite and edgy recipes such as baked
lamb’s head (with eyes, brains and tongue intact), beef and
 Bayley Hazen  cheese pie, and crab trifle. A roasted veal shanks
recipe was inspired by one of her idols, Italian cuisine master
 Marcella Hazan .  “I wanted to incorporate stories about people in my family
and things that inspired me and made me the person I am,” she
said. “I wanted the book to be slightly more personal than just
a restaurant book.”  At “Tap & Tapas,” Bloomfield will serve green pea and ham
soup, a recipe from her book. To elevate its flavor, her
rendition includes creme fraiche, white wine and a pinch of mint
leaves.  Bloomfield said she’s also looking forward to watching
Groove With Me’s young dancers perform with Emmy Award-winning
choreographer  Jason Samuels Smith .  “When you see the girls dancing, and they’re all excited,
you absorb that,” Bloomfield said. “You realize that it means
just as much to you as it does to them.”  (Groove With Me’s “Tap & Tapas” fundraiser is Monday at
Studio 450, 450 W. 31st St. in Manhattan from 6:30 to 9. Tickets
begin at $175. Information:
 http://taptapas2012.charityhappenings.org )  Today’s Muse highlights include an interview with author
 Aifric Campbell  and  Lewis Lapham ’s  interview  with the author of
“The Mormon People.”  To contact the writer on this story: Patrick Cole in New York at
   pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 