-- Bo Rumor Free-for-All Shows China’s Internet Struggle
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/bo-rumor-free-for-all-shows-china-struggling-to-control-internet.html
Bo Xilai’s downfall shows the
Internet as both a menace and a prop for the ruling Communist
Party, which has swung between closing down sites and letting
rumors go unchecked.  On April 10, the official Xinhua  News Agency  announced the
suspension of Bo, 62, from the Politburo, saying he was
“suspected of being involved in serious discipline
violations.” His wife, Gu Kailai, 53, was “highly suspected”
in the homicide of a British businessman, the news agency said.  Officials may have allowed online criticism and speculation
as part of a campaign against the Chongqing chief, who revived
songs and slogans from the Maoist past. At the same time,
reports last month of an attempted coup in Beijing showed the
risk of destabilizing rumors in a nation that has 485 million
 Internet users  and 300 million microbloggers according to
government data.  “At times it was a free-for-all,”  Bill Bishop , a Beijing-
based independent media consultant says in the April 16 edition
of Bloomberg Businessweek. “It seems the decision was made to
let people blacken Bo’s name -- that the Net was being used as a
political tool.”  The actions of Wang Lijun, Bo’s demoted police chief, who
spent a night in the U.S. consulate in Chengdu, Sichuan in
February, initially triggered online speculation. Bo was
dismissed as Chongqing’s boss in mid-March and it later emerged
that Britain’s embassy had asked China to probe a British
citizen’s death in Chongqing.  In March, a Sina microblog said, “The one responsible for
Chongqing’s ‘singing red’ must step down.”  Closed Down  On April 6, censors shut down the nationalist website
Utopia, which had supported Bo and the Chongqing economic model,
named after the southwestern city that he ran as a showcase of
state planning.  The site was earlier shuttered temporarily at the time of
Bo’s dismissal as Chongqing party secretary. Other websites have
been closed and  Sina Corp. (SINA)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s Twitter-
like microblogging sites had their commentary sections disabled
for three days from March 31 to April 3.  Three Internet and public security bureaus had informed
Utopia it was being punished for publishing “articles that
violated the constitution, maliciously attacked state leaders,
and speculated wildly about the 18th Party Congress,” a notice
on the site said after the latest closure. The congress meets
this fall to ratify the transition to a new national leadership.  ‘We Had No Choice’  Utopia must undergo “a self-inspection beginning from noon
on April 6, 2012, to be brought back online after an examination
was passed.” Huang Jihuan, previously listed on the site as a
contact person says, “We had no choice but to shut down.”  The central government struggles with its own ambivalence
about the Internet and the Twitter-like microblogging service
Weibo.  “On the one hand, by allowing people to use Weibo, a lot
of anger can get blown off, and you can do real-time monitoring
of the problems facing  China ,” says Bishop. “On the other
hand, if people start spending a lot of time on Weibo, it makes
them feel much more negative about what is going on in this
country.”  The party has attempted to foster a common line on Bo’s
suspension among its 80 million members, ordering them to
support the decision in a front-page commentary in the People’s
Daily, the party’s official organ. Party papers across the
country, from Guangdong in the south to Shanxi in the north,
reprinted the directive.  “It has become a Sisyphean task to monitor the Internet,”
says Jeremy Goldkorn, founding director of Beijing-based Danwei,
a China Internet and media research firm. He points out how
difficult it is for censors and software to keep up with evasive
tactics, such as the regular use of puns, homonyms, and
homographs, the term for words that are written the same but
have different meanings.  To get around Web censorship, Chinese bloggers use the
characters for bu hou, which means “not thick,” when referring
to Bo Xilai. The Chinese character for Bo can mean “thin” when
pronounced differently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  