-- BOJ Easing Would Trump Intervention in Weakening Yen, Okubo Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-04-12T00:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/boj-easing-would-trump-intervention-in-weakening-yen-okubo-says.html
Further stimulus by the  Bank of
Japan  would be more effective in weakening the yen than currency
intervention, a ruling party lawmaker said, a sign politicians
will continue to press the BOJ to do more.  “It’s obvious that the central bank’s policies have more
influence over the currency than intervention,”  Tsutomu Okubo ,
a  Democratic Party  of  Japan  lawmaker, said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday, citing the yen’s depreciation of more than 4
percent against the dollar since the BOJ added stimulus Feb. 14.  The BOJ refrained from easing policy at a meeting on April
10, spurring calls from DPJ lawmakers including Takeshi Miyazaki
for them to undertake “bold and large-scale” action when they
gather on April 27. The BOJ’s February decision to increase its
asset-purchase fund helped weaken the yen close to an 11-month
low against the dollar on March 15.  “Interventions are effective in correcting extraordinary
and speculative currency moves, but they aren’t very good at
addressing structural and long-term problems,” said Okubo,
who’s the deputy head of the DPJ’s policy research council and a
former managing director at Morgan Stanley. “It’s obvious what
kind of actions the  Bank of Japan (8301)  should be taking.”  Japan spent 16.4 trillion yen ($203 billion) in
intervention in 2010-2011, according to the  Finance Ministry .
The currency climbed to a postwar high of 75.35 per dollar in
October and traded at 80.92 as of 9:17 a.m. in Tokyo.  Okubo said he will pay close attention to the BOJ’s policy
decision on April 27, when the bank will release its inflation
outlook forecasts through 2013. He said he “wasn’t
disappointed” with the BOJ’s decision this week to keep policy
unchanged because its policies shouldn’t be assessed over the
short term.  Inflation Target  The central bank set a 1 percent price goal in February and
pledged to pursue “strong” monetary easing to meet the target.
Some DPJ and opposition party members are urging the bank to
double the goal to 2 percent, the same level as the U.S. Federal
Reserve and the European Central Bank aim for.  Okubo said it’s appropriate for the BOJ to seek a 1 percent
price increase for the time being. Abruptly spurring inflation
to 2 percent from the state of deflation would drive up bond
yields, incurring losses on government debt “causing enormous
side-effects” he said.  “The BOJ probably takes such factors under consideration
when it set the price goal,” he said.  A 2 percentage point increase in yields on  government bonds 
with a maturity of five or more years would result in losses of
62 trillion yen, according to Finance Ministry forecasts. That
would exceed the 54 trillion yen of capital the Financial
Services Agency estimates is held by the nation’s lenders.  Beating Deflation  The BOJ’s efforts to beat deflation are also crucial in
enabling Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to raise the nation’s 5
percent sales tax, Okubo said, because the ruling party has
pledged to seek beating deflation and spurring growth in tandem
with tax increases.  The ruling party yesterday asked the BOJ’s four board
members to meet with them this month. At the gathering, DPJ
lawmakers want to explain their opinions directly to the BOJ
members while also listening to board members’ opinions, Okubo
said.  “It’s weird that we haven’t had such meetings up until
now,” Okubo said. “The BOJ’s independence is important and we
respect it, but it’s better to share concrete policy goals,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  