-- Bourke in New-Trial Bid Says U.S. Offered False Testimony
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-12T14:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/bourke-in-new-trial-bid-says-u-s-offered-false-testimony.html
Frederic Bourke, the co-founder of
handbag maker Dooney & Bourke who was convicted of joining in a
bribery conspiracy, told an appeals court that he wants a new
trial because prosecutors presented false testimony.  Bourke was convicted in 2009 of conspiring to violate U.S.
anti-corruption laws by joining in a bribery scheme in a 1998
oil deal in  Azerbaijan . He was sentenced to one year in prison.
A federal appeals court upheld his conviction in December.  Separately, Bourke asked the trial judge for a new trial or
to reopen his case so his lawyers could question a prosecutor on
whether he permitted a witness to give false testimony. The
judge denied the request. Bourke filed his appeal April 10 in
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan.  “The government maintains that the prosecutor may sponsor
testimony he knows or should know is false, as long as evidence
demonstrating the falsity is presented to the jury eventually,”
Bourke’s lawyers wrote in court papers. “Bourke contends that a
federal prosecutor may never present testimony he knows or
should know is false.”  Prosecutors deny that they knowingly presented false
testimony. In her December ruling, U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  said Bourke had leapt to the conclusion
that the government had done so.  Bourke was accused of joining in a bribery scheme led by
Czech-born businessman  Viktor Kozeny  to buy Azerbaijan’s state
oil company.  Lawyer’s Testimony  At issue is testimony from Hans Bodmer, a Swiss lawyer who
pleaded guilty and cooperated with prosecutors. Bodmer said he
told Bourke about the bribery scheme in a morning conversation
on Feb. 6, 1998, while Bourke presented proof at the trial that
he wasn’t then in Azerbaijan.  Defense lawyers now say prosecutors may have known Bodmer
would give false testimony, which prosecutors deny.  Kozeny, who has also been accused in the bribery case, has
successfully fought extradition from the Bahamas, where he
lives.  The Bourke case is U.S. v. Bourke, 05-cr-00518, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 