-- Brazil Real Rises as U.S. Stimulus Outlook Fuels Risk Appetite
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-04-12T18:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/brazil-real-rises-as-u-s-stimulus-outlook-fuels-risk-appetite.html
Brazil ’s real gained as the U.S.
and  Japan  signaled further stimulus measures that could fuel
demand for the Latin American country’s higher-yielding assets
and overwhelm government measures to stem currency gains.  The real strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.8276 per  U.S. dollar 
at 3:04 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The yield on the Brazilian interest-
rate futures contract due in January 2014 fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 9.13 percent.  The real gained, rebounding from two days of losses, along
with most major and emerging-market currencies after Federal
Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  signaled U.S. borrowing costs
will remain low through 2014 and Japanese officials said they
will pursue “powerful easing” to overcome deflation. Brazil
will adopt measures to protect manufacturers from the “monetary
tsunami” created by developed nations that is driving up the
real, President  Dilma Rousseff  said last month.  “The sentiment abroad is one of monetary easing,” Italo Lombardi, Latin America economist at Standard Chartered Bank,
said by phone from  New York . “This weakens the dollar, but
there’s a limit. The market knows the central bank can intervene
if the dollar gets close to 1.80.”  Brazil’s central bank said it bought dollars in the  spot
market  for a second consecutive day today for 1.8263 reais per
dollar. The bank has intervened in the spot market 15 times
since the beginning of March.  Brazil’s currency has traded weaker than the 1.80 level
since mid-March, when the government expanded financial taxes to
discourage capital inflows and protect exporters.  Currency Forecasts  The currency will end the year at 1.76 per dollar,
according to the median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. They forecast in September it would strengthen to
1.55 by year-end. The real has weakened 1.6 percent in the past
month, the second-most in  Latin America .  Yields on rate-futures contracts maturing before 2015 fell
after Sao Paulo-based newspaper Valor Economico said the central
bank may resume cutting borrowing costs after pausing at 9
percent to assess inflation.  “The market is increasing bets the central bank will go
back to cutting rates a little further ahead, depending on the
external environment,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at
Banco West LB in Sao Paulo.  In the minutes of its March 6-7 minutes, the central bank
said it saw a “high probability” of the rate falling to
“levels slightly above the historical lows and stabilizing”
there. The comment led traders on March 15 to unwind bets the
rate, known as Selic, would fall below 9 percent.  Rate Outlook  Traders are anticipating central bank President Alexandre
Tombini will reduce the Selic rate by 75 basis points at next
week’s monetary policy meeting, according to futures yields. The
market is split on whether Tombini will cut another 25 basis
points in May.  Yields also fell on data showing more Americans than
forecast filed claims for jobless benefits last week, a sign the
pace of improvement in the U.S. labor market is slowing,
Rostagno said.  “It was a bad number. For rate futures, this gives more
ammunition for a move downward,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  