-- HCA Leads Hospital Higher on Medicare Deal Payments
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-04-12T20:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/hca-holdings-says-profit-rose-on-higher-medicare-reimbursement.html
HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  and  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC)  led hospital stocks higher after the companies
said a settlement of a 13-year-old lawsuit over Medicare
payments would boost revenue and HCA reported higher admissions.  HCA, the biggest for-profit hospital chain, climbed 3.1
percent to $27.57 at the close of trading in  New York , while
Tenet, No. 3 in the industry, rose 5.3 percent to $5.35, after
today’s announcements.  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , the No. 2
hospital chain, gained 4.7 percent to $22.39, for its biggest
one-day advance in seven weeks.  HCA and Tenet will benefit from an industrywide settlement
over what the chains said were underpayments from Medicare, the
U.S.-backed insurance program for the elderly and disabled, the
companies said in separate statements. HCA, based in Nashville,
 Tennessee , also said same-facility admissions rose 3.2 percent
in the first quarter, suggesting the economic recovery in the
U.S. may finally help hospitals.  “Since the beginning of the year, there’s been
speculation: Is utilization coming back or not?” said  Arthur Henderson , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in Nashville, in a
telephone interview. “What HCA has done is basically given
investors some comfort, and that’s sparked strength in all of
these companies.”  Settlement Proceeds  HCA said the lawsuit settlement signed April 5 will lead to
a net revenue gain of $188 million while Tenet said it expects
net cash proceeds of $84 million. While gains were reduced by a
separate change in reimbursements announced by Medicare last
month, the proceeds beat projections the companies had made
before reaching the pact, they said.  “Thousands of hospitals across the U.S. will benefit”
from the settlement, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT Capital Markets
analyst, in a note to clients. “As one of the largest, HCA
reaps the biggest benefit.”  HCA said preliminary adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization were about $1.8 billion to
$1.85 billion in the first-quarter. The results compare with
$1.59 billion a year earlier, the company said in its statement.
HCA said it would release final results about May 3.  Revenue was $8.38 billion to $8.43 billion, compared with
$7.41 billion a year earlier. That trailed the $8.58 billion
average of 19 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Tenet said $77 million of its settlement portion relates to
current facilities and the rest to those it no longer operates.
The Dallas-based company anticipated $25 million to $50 million
in higher proceeds when it raised its earnings  guidance  in
February, Tenet said in its statement. The company said it
intends to update its 2012 forecast for adjusted profit as part
of an earnings statement on May 8.  Community Health , based in Franklin, Tennessee, will
discuss the settlement’s impact when it announces quarterly
earnings on April 26, Lizbeth Schuler, the company’s vice-
president for  investor relations , said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  