-- California Employers Must Give Workers Breaks, Court Rules
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-13T00:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/california-employers-must-give-workers-breaks-court-rules-2-.html
Brinker International Inc. (EAT)  and
other California employers must relieve workers of their duties
so they can take meal breaks, although they don’t have to ensure
employees aren’t working, the California Supreme Court said.  The San Francisco-based court said that workers should be
freed “of all duty, with the employee thereafter at liberty to
use the meal period for whatever purposes he or she desires.”  Employers aren’t obligated to ensure that employees do no
work during their breaks, the court said.  “The court’s approach seeks to provide balance in the
workplace, allowing employees to take their breaks, while also
accounting for scheduling flexibility based on the wishes of the
employee and the inherent demands of their job duties,” said
Sarah Goldstein, an employment law attorney in  Los Angeles .  “From the employer’s perspective, the ruling removes the
burden of the meal period penalty payment when an employee
voluntarily misses a meal period,” Goldstein said in an e-mail.  California laws require employers to provide hourly workers
meal and rest break or give them extra pay.  Roger Thomson, general counsel at Brinker, operator of the
Chili’s Grill & Bar and Romano’s Macaroni Grill chains, said the
ruling means the company must provide meal breaks and isn’t
penalized if servers and cooks choose to work rather than eat.  “Brinker is very pleased with the California Supreme
Court’s ruling,” he said in an e-mail.  ‘Muddies the Waters’  Art Pulaski, executive secretary for the California Labor
Federation, said the court “sided with corporations over the
rights of waitresses, health care workers, construction workers,
retail workers and others.”  “The decision unnecessarily muddies the waters on
businesses’ responsibility to provide meal breaks, which opens
the door for worker exploitation,” Pulaski said in an e-mail.  Today’s decision addresses different rulings by lower
California courts over how to interpret the state’s meal-break
law.  Dozens of companies, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , have been sued in class-action,
or group, lawsuits over violations of the statutes. Wal-Mart
agreed to pay $75 million in 2010 to settle a class-action
lawsuit over meal and rest breaks.  San Diego Court  A San Diego appeals court, ruling in a case brought by
workers at Brinker, said employers only have to make breaks
available, and not ensure that they’re taken.  In a separate case brought by truck drivers against a
warehousing company, a Sacramento-based court said companies
must ensure that workers are actually relieved of duty.  Worker rights groups, seeking to discourage employers from
understaffing operations, argued that companies must ensure that
their employees take breaks, according to court filings.  Company lawyers said employers violate the law only when
they require staff to skip breaks and can’t be held liable if
workers choose to skip rest periods, according to filings.  The California Supreme Court said the lower court in the
Brinker case erred in certifying a class of employees who
alleged that they were required to work off the clock because
there was no evidence that Brinker had such a policy.  The case is Brinker Restaurant Corp. v. Superior Court,
S166350, California Supreme Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 