-- California Gets Orders for 31% of $1.3 Billion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-04-12T21:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/california-takes-orders-for-tk-of-1-3-billion-bond-sale.html
California (STOCA1) , poised for its first
credit upgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  since 2006, got orders for
almost 31 percent of $1.35 billion of bonds being sold with its
relative borrowing cost at the lowest point in more than three
years.  California yesterday ended two days of marketing to
individuals of securities including bonds maturing in 10 years
with a preliminary yield of 2.82 percent, said  Tom Dresslar , a
spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer.  The yield, unchanged from the previous day, was 68 basis
points more than a Bloomberg Fair Value  index  of top-rated
bonds. The  spread , or difference compared with AAA debt, hasn’t
been that small since December 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The spreads between  California  general obligations and
triple A show a good acceptance of California paper,” said
Joseph Rosenblum, municipal-credit research director at
AllianceBernstein LP in  New York . The firm manages $5 billion in
municipal debt issued in the state, including about 12 percent
in California GO bonds.  S&P puts California’s credit at A-, its fourth-lowest
investment grade and the worst ranking for any state’s general-
obligation debt. The rating company in February changed its
outlook to positive after Governor  Jerry Brown , 74, and
lawmakers took steps to ease a projected cash shortfall and cut
a $20 billion annual  structural deficit  by three quarters.  Fiscal Progress  “They have made some progress in terms of their financial
situation,” Rosenblum said.  “The narrower spreads speak to the budget actions taken
over the past couple of years by the governor and the
Legislature,” Dresslar said yesterday by telephone.  The most-populous state will wrap up the offering today,
taking orders from institutional investors such as mutual funds
and setting final prices. Individuals ordered $418.9 million of
the securities, Dresslar said yesterday by e-mail.  In California’s most recent general-obligation bond sale,
of $2 billion from Feb. 28 to March 1, individuals bought almost
47 percent of the debt, according to Dresslar. Orders from
individuals accounted for almost 24 percent of a $2 billion
general-obligation offering Oct. 17-19.  This week, Lockyer is selling $890 million of general-
obligation bonds for public works and $464 million to refund
debt. He offered 30-year maturities at 4.45 percent for a second
day,  79 basis points  higher than the AAA Fair Value index.  Two-Year Low  California has reduced the amount of general-obligation
debt it sells to the smallest two-year total since 2006 as
lawmakers work to erase deficits. The latest issue will probably
be the last until around October, Dresslar said.  Combined with a proposal by Brown for a temporary tax
increase, the lack of new offerings has stoked demand after
municipal-bond yields reached four-decade lows earlier this
year. The rate on general-obligation debt rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and maturing in 20 years fell  to 3.6 percent 
in the week ended Jan. 19, the lowest since April 1967, a Bond
Buyer index shows. The index climbed to 4.08 percent last week.  “A lot of issuers have been coming to market,”
AllianceBernstein’s Rosenblum said. “Supply is up so the market
is opening up.”  The narrowing difference between California bonds compared
with top-rated debt has cooled interest among some investors.  Spread Too Small  “We did see the deal and perceived it as narrow and so we
declined it,” said Josh Gonze, co-manager of the $297 million
Thornburg California Limited-Term Municipal Fund in  Santa Fe ,
 New Mexico . “We want to see more spread for this credit.”  “But other investors will approve of it and say yes,”
Gonze said earlier this week. “So they will get the deal
sold.”  Brown, a Democrat, has proposed erasing a $9 billion  budget
deficit  partly by asking voters in November to raise income and
sales taxes for several years. If the increase is rejected, his
plan calls for $5 billion of automatic cuts midway through the
fiscal year that begins July 1. Most would come from schools.  The state’s financial condition remains precarious. March
revenue trailed budget projections by 4.2 percent, missing the
forecast by $233.5 million, according to Controller John Chiang.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  