-- California Raises Yields on Final Day of Bond Offering
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s ,   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/california-raises-yields-on-final-day-of-bond-sale.html
California (STOCA1)  sold $1.35 billion of
general-obligation debt, increasing yields to institutional
investors after receiving orders for almost 31 percent from
individuals, the lowest level of participation this year.  The yield on a bond maturing in 10 years was raised to 2.87
percent yesterday, when institutional investors placed orders,
from a preliminary 2.82 percent April 11, when marketing to
individuals ended, according to the state treasurer’s office.  “Given the supply that they’ve put into the market in a
relatively short period of time, I thought the deal was well-
received,” Mark DeMitry, a senior portfolio manager at
OppenheimerFunds Inc. in Rochester,  New York , said yesterday by
telephone. He helps manage $32 billion in municipal debt.  Individuals ordered 31 percent, or $418.9 million, of the
bonds, according to  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer. The sale will save California taxpayers $56.9 million
on long-term borrowing costs, Dresslar said, citing $464 million
in refinanced debt as part of the offering.  “The refunded bonds produce the borrowing-cost savings for
taxpayers, because the new  interest rates  on those bonds are
lower,” Dresslar said yesterday by e-mail.  Three-Year Low  The final 10-year yield was 73 basis points higher than a
Bloomberg Fair Value  index  of top-rated municipal debt. The
 spread , or difference compared with AAA securities, hasn’t been
that small since December 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bonds with a 5 percent coupon  and due in 30 years
yielded 4.39 percent, or 74 basis points  higher  than the index.  “The spreads between  California  general obligations and
triple A show a good acceptance of California paper,” said
Joseph Rosenblum, municipal-credit research director at
AllianceBernstein LP in New York. The firm manages $5 billion in
municipal debt issued in the state, including about 12 percent
in California GO bonds.  The most-populous U.S. state sold $2 billion of general-
obligation debt from Feb. 28 to March 1 with the 10-year portion
yielding 2.78 percent, or 80 basis points above the top-grade
index. Individuals bought about 47 percent of that offering, up
from almost 24 percent in a similar Oct. 17-19 sale.  Standard & Poor’s  puts California’s credit at A-, its
fourth-lowest investment grade and its worst ranking for any
state’s general-obligation debt. The rating company in February
changed its outlook to positive after Governor  Jerry Brown , 74,
and lawmakers took steps to ease a projected cash shortfall and
cut a $20 billion annual  structural deficit  by three quarters.  Fiscal Progress  “They have made some progress in terms of their financial
situation,” AllianceBernstein’s Rosenblum said.  The latest sale wrapped up yesterday as institutional
investors such as mutual funds placed orders and final prices
were set. Lockyer sold $890 million to pay for public works
along with the refinancing.  California has reduced the amount of general-obligation
debt it sells to the smallest two-year total since 2006 as
lawmakers work to erase deficits. The latest issue will probably
be the last until around October, Dresslar said.  Combined with a proposal by Brown for a temporary tax
increase, the lack of new offerings has stoked demand after
municipal-bond yields reached four-decade lows earlier this
year. The rate on general-obligation debt rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and maturing in 20 years fell  to 3.6 percent 
in the week ended Jan. 19, the lowest since April 1967, a Bond
Buyer index shows. The index stood at 3.97 percent yesterday.  Market Loosening  “A lot of issuers have been coming to market,”
AllianceBernstein’s Rosenblum said. “Supply is up so the market
is opening up.”  Brown, a Democrat, has proposed erasing a $9 billion  budget
deficit  partly by asking voters in November to raise income and
sales taxes for several years. If the increase is rejected, his
plan calls for $5 billion of automatic cuts midway through the
fiscal year that begins July 1. Most would come from schools.  Some investors are waiting until after November before
buying California debt, Bud Byrnes, president and chief
executive officer of RH Investment Corp. in Encino, a part of
 Los Angeles , said yesterday by telephone.  “There is a huge pent-up demand, but the waters are still
murky,” Byrnes said. “So far, only the hardier souls and
professionals have waded in.”  Byrnes called it a “decent” sale. “Traditionally the
week before taxes are due is not a good time to bring a bond
sale,” he said.  The state’s financial condition remains precarious. March
revenue trailed budget projections by 4.2 percent, missing the
forecast by $233.5 million, according to Controller John Chiang.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  