-- Cambodia May Lure Up to 10 IPOs a Year, Korea Bourse Says
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-04-13T04:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/cambodia-may-lure-up-to-10-ipos-a-year-korea-bourse-says.html
Cambodia ’s stock market, which is
set to open next week after several delays, may be able to lure
five-to-10 initial public offerings a year, according to  Korea
Exchange  Inc., the Cambodian government’s partner in the bourse.  State-owned  Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA)  will start
trading on April 18, while  Telecom Cambodia  and Sihanoukville
Autonomous Port are preparing to go public, Kim Bong Soo, Korea
Exchange’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in an
April 9 interview at his Seoul office. Telecom Cambodia may list
as early as October, according to Tong Yang Securities
(Cambodia) Plc, which is managing the share sale.  “Cambodia is going to be a very attractive market as
investors benefit from the nation’s economic development,” Kim
said. “Many inquiries are being placed for possible listings.”  Cambodia is developing a  capital market  to lessen its
reliance on aid that is equal to a 10th of the nation’s $11
billion economy. Growth may be around 6.5 percent this year,
according to the  Asian Development Bank , compared with an
average of 8 percent between 2001 to 2010. The nation has said
it’s seeking to spur economic development by privatizing its
state-owned companies and encouraging private enterprises to
expand with new funding.  Cambodia’s financial system was fractured in 1975 when the
 Khmer Rouge  captured Phnom Penh during the final stages of the
 Vietnam War . Its Communist guerrillas blew up the central bank,
declared its currency worthless and outlawed private property
and trading. During leader Pol Pot’s reign, Cambodia’s fertile
countryside became the killing fields where 1.7 million people,
or 20 percent of the population, perished.  Phnom Penh Water  Plans for a bourse in Cambodia have been delayed several
times since 2009, derailed by the global financial crisis,
technical issues and lack of readiness among the nation’s
companies.  Phnom Penh Water (PPWSA)  raised about $21 million in Cambodia’s
first initial public offering after pricing the shares near the
high end of a marketed range, Han Kyung Tae, managing director
of sale arranger Tong Yang Securities (Cambodia), said by phone
on April 9. The firm is a unit of a Seoul-based Tong Yang
Securities Inc.  Phnom Penh  Water’s IPO was priced at 6,300 riel
($1.58) a share.  “I believe dozens of companies will list their shares
within five years,” Korea Exchange’s Kim said. “Listings of
five-to-10 companies are possible a year.”  The Cambodian government, which offered the site and
building for the bourse, holds a 55 percent stake in Cambodia
Securities Exchange Co., while the Korean bourse operator, which
provided information-technology systems, owns the rest. Korea
Exchange holds 49 percent stake in  Lao Securities Exchange ,
while the Laotian government owns 51 percent.  Myanmar Exchange  Korea Exchange , which oversees the world’s 13th-largest
stock market, is helping Asian countries set up exchanges in
return for stakes in the bourses and is seeking cross-trading
partnerships in a bid to respond to mergers among global
bourses. The Seoul bourse operator helped  Laos  open its stock
market last year and is hoping to do the same for Myanmar.  Myanmar President Thein Sein has sought to reconcile with
political foes and open the economy since taking power after
2010 elections that ended five decades of military rule. This
month, the government floated its currency and held by-elections
that included dissident Aung San Suu Kyi, prompting the U.S. and
European Union to reconsider sanctions.  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. and Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. had negotiated a “memorandum of understanding” to
establish a stock exchange and develop the country’s capital
markets, the companies said in an April 11 statement.  Cross Trading  Korea Exchange said in an e-mail yesterday that it will do
its best to win the Myanmar government’s confidence until the
Southeast Asian nation makes a final decision and enters into a
binding agreement for the establishment of its exchange.  Last year, the South Korean bourse and  Tokyo ’s exchange
began listing prices of each other’s equities and agreed to
develop the technology to allow for cross trading, aiming to
promote mutual-listing of exchange-traded funds and derivatives.
Korea Exchange has proposed cross-trading partnerships with
 Turkey ,  Greece  and  Brazil , Kim said.  “Those countries are highly interested in our offer,” he
said. “Securing many cross-trading deals is a necessity for our
survival amid growing global competition among exchanges,” he
said.  The Korean bourse is also contacting companies in Turkey,
Greece, Brazil,  Uzbekistan  and  Kazakhstan  about listing their
shares in  South Korea , according to Kim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  