-- Canadian Dollar Rallies Most This Year on Fed Support
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-12T21:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/canadian-dollar-advances-as-fed-official-spurs-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar rose the most this
year versus its U.S. counterpart, tracking equities and
commodities, as Federal Reserve officials indicated interest
rates will remain low to support the economic recovery.  The currency, also known as the loonie, advanced from its
lowest level since January as a rally in  Australia ’s dollar
following a stronger-than-forecast employment report led other
commodity-related tenders higher. Canada’s currency pared gains
for about an hour in trading and then resumed its advance after
a report showed Canada’s trade surplus narrowed.  “The market is comfortable in selling the U.S. dollar
today, buying equities and commodities,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada
in Toronto, in a telephone interview. “The Canadian dollar,
despite the poor showing at the 8:30 number, has been an
outperformer.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 1 percent to 99.43 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the biggest gain on a closing
basis since Nov. 30, when it advanced 1.4 percent. It dropped
yesterday to C$1.0053, the weakest level since Jan. 31. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0058.  South Africa ’s rand gained 1.7 percent to 7.8722 per U.S.
dollar, while the Australian dollar appreciated 1.3 percent to
$1.0438, New Zealand’s currency gained 1.2 percent to 82.78 U.S.
cents and Norway’s krone rose 0.8 percent to 5.7658 per dollar.  ‘Pulled Higher’  “The Canadian dollar is being pulled higher by the
commodity currencies generally, with the Aussie leading the
way,” said  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy
in  London  at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, in
a telephone interview.  The Canadian currency is up 3.3 percent during the past six
months for the second-best performance among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, trailing the  New Zealand  dollar, which was up 5.1
percent higher.  The loonie pared gains earlier today after  Statistics
Canada  reported the nation’s merchandise trade  surplus  narrowed
to C$292 million ($292 million) in February from a revised
C$1.95 billion because of a decline in car and energy-products
exports. The median forecast of 19 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a C$2.2 billion surplus.  Government bonds  dropped for a second straight day, with
benchmark 10-year yields increasing three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.05 percent. The yields fell on April 10
to below 2 percent for the first time since March 13.  Bank of Canada  Bank of Canada  policy makers meet next week to determine
 interest rates . The central bank has held its target overnight
rate at 1 percent since September 2010, even as annual inflation
has exceeded the 2 percent target for more than a year.  “The main thing that prevents the Bank of Canada from
tightening, of course, is that there’s probably a limit to which
it will diverge from U.S. policy,” said RBC’s Cole, who
predicts the Canadian dollar will weaken to C$1.02 by the end of
June because of the “generally slightly negative backdrop for
risk in the second quarter.”  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said in response
to an audience question after a speech in Syracuse, New York,
that he agrees with the central bank’s March 13 statement
backing low rates through at least late 2014. Fed Vice Chairman
Janet Yellen endorsed the central bank’s “highly
accommodative” policy yesterday, saying the Fed probably won’t
meet its goal of full employment for years while inflation
remains in check.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  increased 1.4 percent. The
S&P/TSX Composite Index advanced 1.6 percent. Crude oil for May
delivery rose 1.1 percent to $103.67 a barrel in New York.  The Canadian currency will rally to 98 cents per U.S.
dollar by year-end, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  