-- Car Brake Overrides Proposed in U.S. After Toyota Recalls
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-04-12T16:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/car-brake-overrides-proposed-in-u-s-after-toyota-recalls.html
Auto-safety regulators proposed
requiring cars and light trucks sold in the U.S. to have so-
called brake override features to stop a vehicle when drivers
press both the brake and accelerator.  Today’s  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
proposal follows record recalls in 2009 and 2010 by  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  for defects that may cause unintended acceleration.  “America’s drivers should feel confident that any time
they get behind the wheel they can easily maintain control of
their vehicles -- especially in the event of an emergency,”
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a statement.
“By updating our safety standards, we’re helping give drivers
peace of mind that their brakes will work even if the gas pedal
is stuck down while the driver is trying to brake.”  The rule, which would update an existing auto-safety
regulation, would cost “close to zero” because most carmakers
already meet the requirement, according to the agency.  “We’re glad they’re doing it and we’re glad it’s uniform
so all vehicles will be required to have an override,” Henry Jasny, vice president and general counsel for Advocates for
Highway and Auto Safety, based in  Washington , said in an
interview. “The population of vehicles without it has grown
smaller since the Toyota sudden acceleration issue came out
several years ago. But there are no performance standards for
it.”  Runaway Lexus  The agency developed the proposed rule and a recommendation
issued in December to standardize keyless ignitions to let
drivers turn off cars faster after a driver and family members
died in a 2009 crash of a runaway Lexus ES-350 that didn’t have
a brake-override feature.  NHTSA, in the proposal, said it’s received “thousands” of
complaints about unintended acceleration since 2000, with some
involving stuck accelerator pedals that brake override
technology used in vehicles with electronic throttle controls
would be designed to counter.  The systems are designed to cut power to the engine when
the throttle and brake are pressed simultaneously, which can
occur with a jammed accelerator or a driver accidentally
slamming on the wrong pedal.  Reduced Sales  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , said in November 2009
it would install a brake-override system on some of its vehicles
after drivers reported unintended acceleration and its sales
fell 26 percent in the first 10 months of that year.  By February 2010, before U.S. congressional hearings into
Toyota recalls, the company had said it would put brake override
systems on all new models beginning in 2011 and would retrofit
seven existing models with software fixes.  “We are currently reviewing the NHTSA notice of proposed
rulemaking in detail but are proud that with the 2011 model
year, Toyota was the first full-line automaker to make brake
override systems standard across all model lines,”  Brian Lyons ,
a U.S.-based Toyota spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  