-- Carrefour Cites ‘Difficult’ Retail Environment as Sales Rise
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-04-12T08:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/carrefour-cites-difficult-retail-environment-as-sales-rise-2-.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, reported a 1.5 percent increase in first-
quarter sales as Latin American demand and new stores in  Asia 
more than made up for declines in southern  Europe .  Revenue rose to 22.5 billion euros ($29.6 billion), the
Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company said today in a
statement. The  median  of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was 22.6 billion euros. Sales at stores open a year or
more fell 0.1 percent, excluding currency moves and gasoline.  Carrefour is scaling down European investment, including
halting a revamp of its largest stores, adding more “drive”
pick-up points and cutting prices as consumers shop locally and
online for groceries and at specialists for non-food items.
Georges Plassat joined this month as chief operating officer. He
will become chairman and chief executive officer after the
annual shareholder meeting June 18, replacing Lars Olofsson.  “The trends we observed this quarter and the persistently
difficult trading environment confirm our determination to
pursue the execution of our Reset plan in  France , focus on cash
and cost efficiency, further extend our Carrefour-branded
product offer and continue expanding in emerging markets,”
Olofsson said in the statement.  The  shares  rose as much as 3.1 percent to 16.58 euros and
traded at 16.38 euros as of 10:06 a.m. in Paris, giving the
company a market value of 11.1 billion euros.  Price Perception  Carrefour’s price perception with its clients is improving,
Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said today on a
call to analysts.  “Group sales growth was lackluster,”  James Grzinic , an
analyst at Jefferies in  London , wrote today in a note to
clients. While Carrefour’s performance in Brazil was strong, it
was mixed in France and  emerging markets  and southern Europe is
getting worse, said the analyst who recommends holding the
stock.  In France, like-for-like sales fell 0.3 percent, excluding
gasoline and currency moves, as shoppers abandoned Carrefour’s
largest stores, or hypermarkets, particularly for non-food
items. The decline partly reflects the anticipated short-term
effects of a new commercial mix and more Carrefour branded
products on shelves, the grocer said.  French Drop  French hypermarket sales decreased 3.1 percent on the same
basis, while supermarket sales rose 1.8 percent and other
formats, which include convenience stores, surged 9.8 percent.  In the rest of Europe, like-for-like sales declined 3.8
percent, excluding gasoline and currency moves, led by Greece
and Spain, even as sales climbed in Belgium and Poland.  Spain  is
a two-tier country in terms of consumer spending power and the
gap between the north and south of the country is widening in
this respect, Sivignon said.  In  Latin America , like-for-like sales surged 8.6 percent,
excluding gasoline and currency moves. In Asia, sales climbed
6.1 percent on a reported basis as Carrefour opened two
hypermarkets, adding 5,000 square meters of selling space. On a
like-for-like basis Asian sales declined 4.3 percent, hurt by
non-food sales in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  