-- Chile’s Peso Gains on Copper Price, Rate-Increase Speculation
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-12T18:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/chile-s-peso-gains-on-copper-price-rate-increase-speculation.html
Chile ’s peso gained the most in
almost two weeks as higher copper prices, bets on continued
stimulus in the U.S. and speculation local interest rates will
increase spurred appetite for the South American currency.  The peso added 1 percent to 481.89 per  U.S. dollar  at the
close in Santiago, the most since April 2. The peso led gains
among six major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Local traders must be weighing the possibility of an
interest-rate increase by the central bank after the positive
local economic data,” Sergio Tricio, an analyst at ForexChile,
said in a phone interview from Santiago. “Copper is also up.”  Copper, Chile’s largest export, rose as much as 2.5 percent
in  New York  on speculation that  China , the world’s largest
consumer of the metal, may ease monetary policy to stimulate
growth. U.S. stocks rose a second day, while the dollar
weakened, as signs the  Federal Reserve  will keep interest rates
low boosted the outlook for expansion.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the view that
borrowing costs are likely to be maintained through 2014 while
Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said it’s
“still too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods.”  The euro strengthened as much as 0.8 percent versus the
dollar and the Standard & Poor’s 500 rose as much as 1.3
percent.  Chilean traders and investors expect policy makers to raise
the benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter-point to 5.25 percent
within six months, after forecasting no change two weeks ago,
according to a central bank poll released yesterday.  Chile’s central bank last week increased its 2012 inflation
forecast to 3.5 percent from 2.7 percent after economic growth
exceeded estimates in December and January.  “Two days ago traders thought it was the end of the world,
and today everything rose,” Raul Lopez, head currency trader at
Banco Penta, said in a phone interview. “If we have another
positive day tomorrow, with optimism from China and copper
prices rising, I have no doubt that the peso may try to break
the 480 per dollar resistance level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  