-- China Money Rate Increases as Corporate Tax Payments Fall Due
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-12T09:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/china-money-rate-increases-as-corporate-tax-payments-fall-due.html
China ’s money-market rate rose to
this week’s high on speculation cash supplies will tighten as
companies make annual tax payments.  The People’s Bank of China issued 27 billion yuan ($4.3
billion) of 91-day repurchase  contracts  today to drain
liquidity, according to a statement on its website. Chinese
companies are expected to make tax payments totaling some 600
billion yuan this month and next and those funds will be placed
with the central bank, according to Sheng Hongqing, chief
economic analyst in the financial markets department of China
Everbright Bank Co.  “The market is concerned the tax payments will take a lot
of money out of the financial system,” Sheng said in Beijing.
“It’s necessary for the central bank to cut reserve ratios in
the second quarter.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose two basis points to 3.80 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It reached 7
percent on Feb. 23, the day before lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios were lowered for the second time in three months.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, increased six basis
points to 3.26 percent, the biggest gain since March 20,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are very likely to go through a tax payment-related
liquidity squeeze in April,” said Pin Ru tan, a rates
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “If they don’t
cut the reserve ratio, the seven-day repo may go above 4 percent
from next week onward.”  The central bank  injected  a net 112 billion yuan of capital
into the financial system this week, up from 25 billion yuan
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bond due June 2016
climbed four basis points to 3.13 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 