-- Chinese Agent Asks U.S. Court to Overturn Convictions
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/chinese-agent-asks-u-s-court-to-overturn-convictions.html
When agents arrested Chi Mak in
 California  on charges that he tried to slip U.S. naval
technology to  China , the government’s list of material
restricted for export didn’t specifically name the items he was
caught trying to send abroad.  After his arrest, prosecutors asked the State Department
whether the information was indeed restricted and were told it
was. The U.S. Munitions List, which contains categories of items
requiring a license to export, covered the material without
actually naming it, prosecutors argued. The list says technical
data related to defense are subject to restriction, whether the
precise subject matter is listed or not.  A jury convicted him of arms-export law violations, and a
judge sentenced him to 24 years in prison. Lawyers for Mak, 71,
are to appear today before a federal appeals court in  Pasadena ,
California, and claim the export regulation is unconstitutional.  The engineer was prosecuted for conduct that wasn’t a crime
when he did it, he argues. That would make his an ``ex post 
facto'' prosecution, which is forbidden under the U.S. 
Constitution.  Mak, a naturalized American citizen, was a senior engineer
at Power Paragon, a defense contractor and unit of  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)   Agents found the material in 2005 encrypted on a computer
disk behind other, innocuous files in a jacket of learn-English
disks in family luggage. Relatives were trying to board a flight
from Los Angeles to China.  Quiet Submarines  One of the encrypted documents was about making submarines
quieter, according to the prosecution. The other had to do with
handling power disruptions aboard ship. The defense claimed the
data were either obsolete or widely available, and that Mak
didn’t knowingly break the law.  A search of his home turned up more defense-related papers,
along with “tasking lists” written in Chinese and asking for
information on war planes and other military equipment, a
government brief stated.  In addition to finding him guilty of the export counts, the
jury convicted Mak of acting as an unregistered foreign agent
and for lying to federal investigators. He isn’t appealing those
convictions, which account for all but 10 of his 24 year-
sentence. His conviction led to guilty pleas by four relatives.  The government disputes the claim that the conviction was
unconstitutional by saying the State Department’s post-arrest
determination merely confirmed that the items were already
covered by general terms on the  U.S. Munitions List .  Government Argument  “There was no ex post facto violation because the State
Department certifications meant the charged documents were
covered by the USML at the time defendant attempted to export
them,” prosecutors said in court papers, referring to the
munitions list.  Mak also argued the law violates the First Amendment by
restraining free expression without procedural safeguards and
gives “unbridled discretion” to officials to say which data
can be freely exported. Those arguments have been previously
rejected by the appeals court hearing today’s arguments, the
prosecution responded.  Mak isn’t the only export defendant raising constitutional
issues under the law. In federal courts from  New Jersey  to 
Hawaii, lawyers for others have argued that enforcement of the 
arms-export statute ignores the constitution’s promise of due 
process and its protection against prosecution for acts that 
were legal when done. Results have been mixed.  Boston Case  Two defendants won a partial dismissal of charges in Boston
last year. In the U.S. appeals court circuit where Mak’s case is 
being argued, past decisions have favored the prosecution.  He is one of at least 30 people prosecuted in the past five
years for moving, or trying to move, restricted material to
China without a license in violation of the Arms Export Control
Act. Another dozen have been charged with breaking other export
laws for dealings with China.  Among them is an engineer for Northrop Grumman Corp., Noshir
Gowadia, convicted in  Hawaii  of exporting classified information
to China on the B-2 bomber, among other charges. He was
sentenced to 32 years and has filed an appeal.  “We are very focused in the national security division on
the national security threat posed by efforts to steal our
research, our classified information, or our sensitive
technology, whether from private contractors or from the
military,”  Lisa Monaco , assistant attorney general for national
security, said in an interview. “That’s a priority for us.”  Arms Regulations  To implement the law, the State Department wrote the
International Traffic in Arms Regulations, called ITAR. The
munitions list is part of the rules and occupies 25 fine-print
pages in the Code of Federal Regulations.  Some items are quite specific, such as particular explosive
chemicals. Otherwise, categories such as “Missile Technology”
contain some specifications for forbidden materials but don’t
list everything the category covers, in part because technology
changes quickly.  Companies honestly trying to comply are sometimes baffled
by what’s allowed and what isn’t, said  Steven Brotherton , a  San
Francisco  lawyer who manages the export-controls practice for
Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy, LLP.  “If I drill a hole in a box, is that subject to ITAR
because I did that for a military customer,” he said. In some
cases the State Department has said yes, and in similar cases it
has said no, said Brotherton. “They do not explain the basis
for their ruling.”  Mysterious Process  “The real challenge with us practitioners is we don’t have
any insight as to how they’re making decisions,” Brotherton
said. “This aluminum box isn’t subject to ITAR and other one
is, and we don’t know what distinction they’re making.”  Asked about seemingly contradictory determinations, the
State Department said that previous decisions are “integral”
in deciding whether an item is restricted.  The munitions list has been under review since 2009 as part
of a White House effort to eliminate “catch-all language in
favor of identifying controlled items based on clear, objective
data,” according to the State Department.  In  Boston , Zhen Zhou “Alex” Wu and Yufeng “Annie” Wei,
a former married couple, were convicted in 2010 on four counts
each of violating the arms-export law and other crimes. Before
and after the trial, they argued that they didn’t have enough
notice of what conduct was illegal.  Wu owned Chitron Electronics, based in Shenzhen, China,
with an office in Waltham,  Massachusetts , which Wei managed.  Exports to China  The company bought parts in the U.S. and exported them to
 Hong Kong , advertising that it dealt in “military and
industrial” goods. Some went to the Chinese military, the
prosecution said.  U.S. District Judge Patti B. Saris set aside two
convictions apiece over the export of power amplifiers. At the
time of the export, the State and Commerce departments disagreed
on whether the items were covered by the list, Saris wrote.  The judge called it “fundamentally unfair” to convict the
exporters when the status of the amplifiers was unsettled within
the government. The items themselves weren’t obviously defense
related, she wrote.  Saris let stand guilty verdicts on the export of
microchips, which were clearly declared as export-controlled by
the distributor. She also left in place convictions on other
export and cover-up charges that left Wu with 16 convictions and
an eight-year sentence and Wei with 12 convictions and three
years.  Specifics Lacking  Alan Dershowitz , a Harvard University law professor who
represents Wu before the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Boston, wrote
with a co-counsel in February that the U.S. Munitions List
“covered such a broad category of items and was so lacking in
specific technical parameters” that it didn’t inform the
accused brokers that exporting the microchips required a
license.  The government’s answer is due next month.  The cases are U.S. v. Mak, 08-50148, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco); U.S. v. Wu, 1:08-cr-
10386, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston);
and 11-01115 and 11-01114, U.S. Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta
at   awoolner@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 