-- China’s New Yuan Loans Surge Ahead of Today’s GDP Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/china-march-new-yuan-loans-top-estimates-at-1-01-trillion-yuan.html
China’s new yuan loans were the
most in a year and  money-supply  growth unexpectedly accelerated
after Premier  Wen Jiabao  moved to bolster the economy by cutting
banks’ required reserves and helping small companies get funding.  Local-currency-denominated  loans  were 1.01 trillion yuan
($160.1 billion) in March, the People’s Bank of China said
yesterday, the biggest surprise above forecasts in more than a
year. M2, the broadest measure of money supply, grew 13.4
percent from a year earlier. China’s  foreign-exchange reserves ,
the world’s largest, rose to a record $3.31 trillion as of March
31 after dropping for the first time in more than a decade in
the fourth quarter.  The report may reassure investors that the nation will
avoid a deeper slowdown in economic growth. Government data due
today are set to show gross domestic product probably expanded
8.4 percent in the three months ended March 31, the least in 11
quarters.  “Policy makers have taken preemptive measures to ensure
the growth slowdown doesn’t become excessive,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.
“The message for the rest of the world is  China  will not have a
hard landing and will generate demand for your exports.”  The government will keep easing liquidity via a reduction
of 50 basis points this month in the portion of deposits banks
must put aside as reserves, Kowalczyk said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks extended gains
following the report, rising 0.7 percent yesterday. China’s
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed up 1.8 percent before
the data were released at about 4 p.m. local time.  Easing Restrictions  China is easing restrictions on lending capacity at three
of the nation’s four biggest banks, officials at the
institutions with knowledge of the matter said last month, after
new local-currency-denominated credit fell to the lowest level
for a January-February period since 2008. The central bank has
also cut  reserve requirements  for more branches of the nation’s
third-biggest lender to boost rural credit.  March’s new yuan lending was 21 percent above the median
estimate of 797.5 billion yuan from 28 economists in a Bloomberg
survey and compares with 710.7 billion yuan in February. That’s
the widest deviation from forecasts since December 2010.  Loans were the highest since January 2011. Money supply was
forecast to grow 13 percent. Foreign-exchange reserves rose from
$3.18 trillion at the end of December and compared with the
median economist estimate of $3.20 trillion.  The increase in foreign-currency holdings shows a
“reversal of capital flight,” Lu Ting, head of Greater China
economics at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong , said in a note.
The “unexplained inflow” after accounting for items including
currency fluctuations and trade is about $30 billion out of the
$124 billion quarterly increase, Lu said.  Deposits Rise  New local-currency loans for the first quarter were 2.46
trillion yuan, up 9.7 percent from a year earlier. New yuan
deposits were 2.95 trillion yuan in March, up 10 percent from
last year.  The “strong” data for loans and money supply “reinforce
our view that the economy has bottomed” in the first quarter,
said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Hong Kong. The lending figures suggest the pressure to cut
 interest rates  “may have eased somewhat,” Zhang said.  Not all parts of yesterday’s report showed growth.
Aggregate financing, a measure of funding that includes bank
lending, bond and stock sales, was 3.88 trillion yuan in the
first quarter, down 8 percent from the same period last year.  Unexpected Surplus  China this week reported an unexpected  trade surplus  for
March as import growth trailed estimates while inflation rose a
more-than-forecast 3.6 percent last month as gains in food
prices quickened.  Industrial companies had their first January-February
profit decline since 2009, a report last month showed, while the
nation’s largest copper producer,  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , and Air
China Ltd., the No. 1 airline, announced earnings that trailed
analysts’ estimates.  Wen pledged during a visit to Fujian and Guangxi provinces
to boost funding for investment projects already under
construction, start major state projects and ensure lending to
smaller businesses, the official Xinhua news agency and China
National Radio reported April 3.  “The March lending reflects the policy easing and support
that have been in the works since the beginning of this year,”
said  Wang Tao , chief China economist with UBS AG in Hong Kong,
whose forecast for 900 billion yuan in loans was among the top
three estimates. “Markets were looking for more policy easing,
but prior easing was already working.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  