-- Hong Kong Exchange Board Will Decide Chairmanship, Chow Says
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2012-04-13T01:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/chow-says-hong-kong-exchanges-board-will-decide-on-chairmanship.html
Chow Chung-Kong, the former chief
executive officer of subway operator  MTR Corp. (66)  who was named to
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s board this week, said his
fellow directors will decide if he is the next chairman.  Chow, 61, declined to comment in a phone interview
yesterday on whether he has been approached or had discussions
about assuming the position, which will be vacated this month
when Ronald Arculli steps down after six years. Chow is the
front-runner and has the support of the city’s government, which
appoints six of the board’s 12 non-executive members, according
to the South  China  Morning Post.  “I will leave it to the board’s vote,” Chow said. “I
have been a CEO of major listed companies for 15 years. I
understand how a listed company works and how it acquires
capital from investors in the market. I understand the real
economic function of an exchange.”  Chow, a knight of the British Empire who has also been CEO
of Anglo-Australian pallet provider  Brambles Ltd. (BXB)  and non-
executive director for Standard Chartered Plc, was appointed on
April 10 as a director of the exchange. Timothy Freshwater, a
former vice chairman for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Asian unit,
was also named to the board. Arculli was reappointed as a
director for one year, the government said in its April 10
announcement. The appointments take effect at the company’s
annual general meeting on April 23.  April Meeting  Board members will make the decision on April 24, according
to Arculli, who declined to comment on who the next chairman
will be. The board includes CEO Charles Li, a former China
chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and one-time editor at the
state-controlled China Daily newspaper.  “The  Hong Kong  exchange needs to differentiate itself from
Asian exchanges and to try and go and play with the big boys,”
Arculli said from  London  yesterday, where he is attending a
meeting of the trustees of the International Financial Reporting
Standards Foundation. “And to some extent that probably also
reflects the government thinking in the latest appointments.”  Hong Kong is seeking listings from more overseas companies
as the pipeline of large IPOs from China slows. Companies from
the mainland accounted for  58 percent  of Hong Kong’s market
capitalization at the end of March, according to the exchange.  Competition for stock offerings among operators of equity
markets has increased globally amid declining profits on trading
and competition from alternative venues. Hong Kong Exchanges
lost its ranking as the world’s largest bourse operator by
market value last month,  overtaken  by Chicago-based  CME Group
Inc. (CME)   Exchange Appointments  Hong Kong’s government chooses half of the exchange’s 12
directors while shareholders elect the other six. That means the
government is likely to get the chairman it wants, said David Webb, a former director of the exchange and operator of Webb-
Site.com.  “They’re paving the way for CK Chow to be chairman,” said
Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings Ltd. and
chairman of the Hong Kong Institute of Financial Analysts. “The
government wants someone who will toe the government line and
not rock the boat. He’s more of an administrator, a technocrat.
I don’t think he will do much running of the company. They’re
more figureheads.”  The Chinese city has accounted for 5.7 percent of global
initial offerings this year compared with 13 percent last year
and 18 percent in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In recent years the exchange has attracted companies from
 Russia ,  Brazil ,  Switzerland ,  Italy  and  France .  International Outlook  Chow spent a total of 24 years abroad, studying and then
working in the U.S. before working in  Europe , the U.K., China
and Australia with BOC Group Plc,  GKN Plc (GKN)  and Brambles.  “Mr. Chow has an international outlook,” Eddy Fong,
chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission, told
reporters in Hong Kong today. “He has lots of experience in
financial management. He has worked in the U.K. and run some
other large corporations. If the HKEx expands its business
overseas, Chow’s experience will help.”  Shares of Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing have risen 4
percent this year compared with a 12 percent gain by the
 Bloomberg World Exchanges Index. (BNWEXCH)  The shares trade at 25.9 times
estimated 2012 earnings, compared with the exchanges index’s 15
times.  “Given the government appoints six directors, moves in
that population are less likely to cause drama than changes in
the executive suite or day-to-day market news flow,” said  Sam Hilton , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Asia
whose coverage includes Asian exchange companies. Hilton has a
market perform rating on Hong Kong Exchanges shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  