-- Christie’s Names Hong Kong Affiliate in Costliest Home Market
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-04-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/christie-s-names-hong-kong-affiliate-in-costliest-home-market.html
Christie’s International (CHRS)  has set up
a real-estate franchise in  Hong Kong , its first in  Asia , as it
seeks to tap property buyers in the world’s most expensive place
to own a home.  The London-based auction house has appointed Landscope
Realty Ltd., a local broker focusing on luxury homes, as an
affiliate, Mitch Lewis, managing director for the Asia-Pacific
region at Christie’s real estate division, said in an interview.
Christie’s, which has real-estate affiliates in 41 countries,
will look to add franchises in Taipei,  Tokyo , Singapore and
Kuala Lumpur over the next 12 months, Lewis said.  The move will allow Christie’s to tap its network of some
of the world’s richest property buyers to invest in the Chinese
city, where  home prices  have risen more than 70 percent since
early 2009 on record-low  mortgage rates , a lack of new supply
and an influx of buyers from other parts of the country. It will
also lure blossoming wealthy and middle classes in Greater China
and Asia who are finding investment properties and second homes
in cities such as  London  and  New York .  The Hong Kong franchise “is an absolute launchpad,” Lewis
said. “We want to set up our flagship here and will start
building around it. If you look at all of Asia-Pacific, we could
be looking at potentially about 40 locations.”  In the broader Asia-Pacific region, Christie’s also has
partnerships in  Australia  and New Zealand.  The number of people in Southeast Asia,  China  and  Japan 
with at least $100 million in disposable assets reached 18,000,
overtaking North America’s tally for the first time, according
to a report by Citigroup Inc.’s private bank on March 28.  China, India  International developers such as Atlanta-based Portman
Holdings Ltd. are betting housing demand fueled by an expanding
middle class in China and India, the world’s two-fastest growing
major economies, will underpin their property markets.  Having Christie’s name could also help Landscope, founded
in Hong Kong by Chairman Koh Keng-shing in 1995, to compete with
international brokers including Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. and  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG)  for a bigger piece of the cross-border property
investment market.  Following the agreement,  Landscope’s  operation will be
renamed Landscope Christie’s, Lewis said. Koh said he expects
the company’s share of the city’s luxury home market, defined as
homes with a value exceeding HK$10 million ($1.3 million), to
double from 2 percent.  “This will make our foray into the international playing
field much easier,” Koh said. “Whenever we’re representing
Hong Kong investors in outbound investments in other parts of
the world, we encounter quite a lot of difficulties.”  Expensive Homes  Both Lewis and Koh declined to say how the companies will
split the revenue.  Savills Plc (SVS)  said Hong Kong is the world’s costliest place
to buy an apartment, with prices about 55 percent higher than
London, where the property broker is based. Moscow is 7.4
percent more expensive than London while New York is 15 percent
cheaper, Savills said.  Fear that housing may become unaffordable for the general
public has prompted the Hong Kong government to impose curbs
such as higher minimum mortgage down payments and additional
transaction taxes. At least a third of Hong Kong’s luxury home
buyers in 2011 were from mainland China, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor.  “Hong Kong, more like London, is kind of a haven,” Koh
said. “People in  developing countries , when they make money,
they don’t feel safe putting their assets in their own countries.
So they would always invest elsewhere where there’s market
transparency and good governance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 