-- Christie Airborne for WrestleMania as Helicopter Flights Triple
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/christie-airborne-for-wrestlemania-as-helicopter-flights-triple.html
On Feb. 16, Governor  Chris Christie 
swooped down near MetLife Stadium in a $12.5 million state
police helicopter to celebrate the announcement that
WrestleMania,  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE) ’s biggest
annual event, would come to New Jersey next year.  The 36-minute chopper trip from Ewing to  East Rutherford ,
which saved Christie about an hour of travel time, cost about
$1,500, based on the hourly charge. It was his sixth flight in
less than two weeks, following trips for events that included a
Manhattan speech to a pro-Israel group, a Super Bowl
championship rally for the  New York Giants  and a public meeting
in Caldwell, where he urged towns to cut costs.  Christie, 49, a first-term Republican who has slashed
lawmakers’ spending requests and criticized officials who abuse
taxpayer-funded perks, has more than tripled his use of state
helicopters since June, when Democrats chided him for using the
aircraft to get to political and personal events.  “I am not going to be, with four children, driving around
this state at 90 miles an hour trying to make stuff, and put my
life at risk and put the life of other people at risk,”
Christie told reporters yesterday in Bridgewater. “When it’s
appropriate to use the helicopter, I will.”  The governor, whose approval rating reached a high of 59 
percent this month, took 64 helicopter rides over the nine 
months through February, averaging a trip every four days, 
according to flight logs released under an Open Public Records
Act request. During his first 16 months as governor, he took 33
flights, averaging once every two weeks.  The trips over the fifth-smallest U.S. state included
Jersey Shore tourism stops, hurricane damage tours and a news
conference to kick off National Health Center Week.  Stops Home  Christie’s flights in the nine months included five stops
at his house in Mendham or at a vacation home the state owns for
governors’ use at Island Beach State Park. Each is about 50
miles (80 kilometers) from the statehouse in Trenton.  In all, Christie’s helicopter trips have cost at least
$217,700 since he took office in January 2010, according to the
flight logs. Of that, $1,741 was reimbursed by the  New Jersey 
and Pennsylvania Republican state committees for two political
trips, and an undetermined amount for a third flight was paid
for by Republican presidential front-runner Mitt Romney’s
campaign.  Christie’s travel increased as his national profile rose,
first as a possible presidential contender and then as a Romney
endorser and fundraiser.  ‘Shared Sacrifice’  Christie, whose state ranked 40th in economic health in the
fourth quarter in the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States
index, has gained a reputation as a cost cutter. He has asked
public workers to cede benefits as part of “shared sacrifice”
in trimming the size of government. When he signed a $29.7
billion budget in June, he vetoed $1 billion added by Democrats
for schools, police and tax credits for the working poor.  The governor drew criticism from Democrats who control the
Legislature after he flew by state helicopter to his son
Andrew’s May 31 high school baseball game in Montvale. Christie
then rode via chopper to Princeton for a meeting with Iowa
Republican Party donors who wanted him to run for president.  In a Bloomberg New Jersey poll conducted less than a month
after the incident referred to as “Choppergate” by  CNN ’s Piers Morgan, 70 percent of residents disagreed with Christie using a
helicopter to attend the ballgame. He and Republicans in June
reimbursed the state about $3,400 for that and another ballgame
flight.  “Chris Christie completely misses the point; this isn’t
about reimbursement, it’s that even he doesn’t buy in to his own
rhetoric about shared sacrifice,” State Democratic Party
Chairman John Wisniewski said in a statement at the time.  Routine Flights  Taxpayers bear no additional expense for transporting
governors because the crew flies routinely for training or
security missions, State Police Lieutenant  Stephen Jones  said in
a March 26 telephone interview. The choppers cost $2,500 an hour
to operate, according to Jones.  Republican Tom Corbett, Christie’s counterpart in
 Pennsylvania , which is six times the size of New Jersey, has
used a state police helicopter six times since taking office in
January 2011, said a spokeswoman, Kelli Roberts. Half of those
flights were to inspect flood damage.  ‘Jersey Comeback’  Half of Christie’s flights since June involved bill
signings, policy announcements, swearing-in ceremonies, speeches
and town-hall meetings where he touts “the Jersey Comeback,”
an economic-recovery plan fueled by a 10 percent across-the-
board income-tax cut.  Christie took three trips related to damage from  Hurricane
Irene  in August and September, the flight logs show. Nine times
the aircraft picked up or dropped off Christie in  New York City 
for interviews, receptions and meetings.  “He balances the needs of his job, which never stop, with
the reasonable needs of his family,”  Michael Drewniak , a
spokesman for Christie, said in an interview. “It’s been a very
busy policy year for us. He’s always going to take the car if 
it fits into his schedule.”  In October, as the family of a soldier killed in
 Afghanistan  grieved at Dover Air Force Base in  Delaware ,
Christie flew there to be by their side. A week later, he met
them again in  Newark , New Jersey, for the staff sergeant’s
funeral.  Crossed Out Names  The state Department of Law and Public Safety, which
released the flight logs, blacked out the names of passengers
other than Christie and Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno.
Drewniak gave additional information about each trip’s purpose.  The New Jersey Republican State Committee reimbursed the
state $994.97 for Christie’s Dec. 20 trip to  New York  City,
according to Douglass Mayer, a spokesman. The Pennsylvania
Republican State Committee paid $746.23 for Christie’s Dec. 9
flight to New York, Valerie Caras, a spokeswoman, said by
telephone March 30.  Romney’s campaign reimbursed the state for a Dec. 12
Christie flight to Parsippany, New Jersey, according to
information supplied by Drewniak. That evening, Christie hosted
Romney’s $500-a-ticket New Jersey campaign kickoff reception at
the Parsippany Hilton, according to the Bergen Record.  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney, didn’t reply to two
e-mail requests for comment on the Dec. 12 flight, and her
voicemail was full.  Floods, Funerals  Guadagno, 52, used the chopper eight times since June,
including three Irene flood tours and funerals for a Marine
captain and a police officer. During the first 16 months of the
administration, she flew once, for a dinner with Irish Republic
President Mary McAleese in New York City.  Christie rides in the helicopter far less than did former
Democratic Governor James McGreevey, Drewniak said. McGreevey
used the helicopters 277 times in his first year in office,
while former Governors Thomas H. Kean, a Republican, and Jim Florio, a Democrat, flew hundreds of times a year, the New York
Times  reported .  Republican Christine Todd Whitman, during her successful
campaign to unseat Democratic Governor Jim Florio in 1993, cited
his use of the aircraft as an example of government waste. In
2002, McGreevey publicly apologized for using the choppers for
14 non-business flights, and his party reimbursed the state
$18,200.  Past Governors  Christie’s predecessor, multimillionaire Democrat  Jon Corzine , personally paid for his own  air travel . In April 2007,
then-Governor Corzine almost died in the accident of a state
trooper-driven car traveling 91 miles per hour on the Garden
State Parkway. A panel that reviewed the crash suggested that
state helicopters be used more often to cut the security and
safety risk for a motorcade that traveled about 100,000 miles
each year through the country’s most densely populated state.  “We’re a small state, but it’s hard to get everywhere,”
Ben Dworkin, director of the David Rebovich Institute for New
Jersey Politics at  Rider University (78105MF) , said by telephone April 4.
“We see these stories in every administration. Political
opponents of whoever the sitting governor is will criticize the
use, and then they’ll be on the other side when their guy
becomes governor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  