-- Citigroup Countersued by Rajaraman Over Gold Losses
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-04-12T23:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/citigroup-countersued-by-rajaraman-over-gold-losses.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Singapore unit was
countersued by Raghavendran Rajaraman, who claimed the bank
breached an agreement by prematurely selling his gold assets
held as collateral and closing his trading account.  Citigroup induced and instigated Rajaraman to apply for the
maximum $50 million credit facility and then violated an
agreement by not giving him ample time to “regularize” his
account when  gold prices  fell in September, he claimed in papers
filed at Singapore’s High Court. A closed hearing is scheduled
for today.  Rajaraman is seeking damages including bullion valued at
$1.75 million he used as collateral and that the bank sold when
it liquidated his account. He’s also seeking unspecified lost
profits, according to the filing.  Citigroup had sued Rajaraman, a former currency options
trader with the bank until 2007, in a bid to recoup trading
losses the bank says he incurred after gold fell from a record
high in September. Rajaraman had gold valued at $19.2 million,
in addition to the bullion used as collateral, leaving a $1.03
million shortfall, according to Citigroup’s complaint.  The loss suffered was “entirely caused” by Citigroup
improperly closing out his trading positions, Rajaraman said in
court papers. He denied giving the bank instructions or
consenting to close his positions or sell the gold, according to
the countersuit.  Adam Abdur Rahman, a Singapore-based Citigroup spokesman,
declined to comment. Rajaraman’s lawyer Kelvin Chia didn’t
respond to an e-mail or return a call seeking comment.  Hedge Fund  Rajaraman denied the bank’s claim that he was a hedge  fund
manager  at 3 Degrees Asset Management. He didn’t provide his
current employment details, in the court filing.  Citigroup, in response to the countersuit, said Rajaraman
applied to increase his  credit line  out of his “own volition
and on his own judgment.” Rajaraman’s credit facility was
raised to $20 million instead of the $50 million sought,
according to the court papers.  A disclosure form signed by Rajaraman didn’t constitute an
agreement or have any contractual rights, the bank said, denying
that it had breached any agreement with him.  Rajaraman had also consented to the bank selling his gold
assets, according to Citigroup’s filing.  Gold plunged 11 percent in September, the most since
October 2008, after futures reached a record $1,923.70 an ounce
on Sept. 6. Spot gold was at $1675.18 an ounce at 6:30 a.m.
 Singapore  time.  The case is Citibank Singapore Ltd. v Raghavendran
Rajaraman S826/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  