-- Clinton Says ‘Still Time’ for a Nuclear Deal With Iran
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-04-12T12:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/clinton-says-still-time-for-a-nuclear-deal-with-iran.html
World powers negotiating with  Iran 
in Istanbul may discuss postponing a planned European oil
embargo against the Persian Gulf nation in exchange for Iranian
promises to stop refining uranium, a former diplomat said.  The five permanent members of the  United Nations Security
Council  -- Britain,  China ,  France ,  Russia  and the U.S. -- plus
 Germany , the so-called P5+1, will hold their first talks with
Iran in 15 months when they convene in  Turkey  on April 14. The
previous round of negotiations ended without agreement in
January 2011.  Iran’s growing stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium,
which could be purified into atomic-bomb material in a matter of
months, is a leading concern of the P5+1 group. The impending
July 1 European Union oil embargo against Iran, along with four
sets of UN Security Council sanctions, may give negotiators
leverage to win concessions, say former diplomats.  “Iran may well insist on one or more of these impositions
being lifted in return for capping 20 percent enrichment,” said
Peter Jenkins, who hosted Iran negotiations as the former U.K.
ambassador to the  International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna.  “They may point to the recent EU restrictions on the
purchase of Iranian oil,” Jenkins, now a partner at London-
based  ADRg Ambassadors LLP , a corporate and government advisory
company, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Lifting these
would bring benefits to consumers everywhere, as they have
pushed up global  oil prices  by 10 percent or more. Expect a
haggle.”  Enriched Uranium  Iran tripled production of enriched uranium to 31 pounds
(14 kilograms) per month, the IAEA reported in November. That
puts them on track to produce more than 551 pounds of 20
percent-enriched material by the end of 2012, according to Olli Heinonen, the IAEA’s former top inspector who visited Iranian
nuclear facilities on more than 20 trips. Iran could produce
bomb-grade uranium “in a couple months time,” he said.  “The suspension of the production of 20 percent enriched
uranium is important for confidence building,” Heinonen wrote
today in response to questions. “I see the Istanbul meeting as
the start of a process. We should not expect that we will have
immediate big achievements.”  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, plans to offer “new
initiatives” at the Istanbul talks, the secretary of Iran’s
Supreme National Security Council,  Saeed Jalili , said yesterday.  “We hope that the P5+1 countries will also enter talks
with constructive approaches,” Jalili was quoted as saying
today in Tehran by the official IRNA news agency.  Oil Production  Iran’s oil production may decline by as much as 950,000
barrels a day by the middle of this year as EU and U.S.
embargoes take effect, the  International Energy Agency  said
today in its monthly Oil Market Report. Prices have gained this
year on concern that Iran tensions will disrupt global supplies.  In addition to curtailing  uranium enrichment , President
 Barack Obama  may demand that Iran shutter and dismantle its
Fordo underground enrichment facility, the New York Times
reported April 9. Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  also
called on Fordo to be closed in an April 9 interview on CNN.  Giving the Iranians an ultimatum over Fordo “would be
disastrous,” said Greg Thielmann, a former Deputy Director at
the State Department who now works with the Washington-based
Arms Control Association.  ‘Sabotaging Whole Thing’  “Talks now over Fordo aren’t necessary and risk sabotaging
the whole thing by putting that issue up front,” said
Thielmann, who added the U.S. should focus on winning a deal
that would curtail uranium production.  All the former diplomats stressed that the Istanbul
meetings should be seen as the first step of a long-term
process. The U.S. hasn’t maintained normal diplomatic contact
with Iran since the 1979 Islamic revolution, when 52 U.S.
diplomats were held hostage in Tehran for 444 days.  “Too often the West has walked away from discussions at
the first occurrence of a set-back,” Jenkins said. “Their
primary goal in Istanbul may be to agree on a process.”  The amount of time given to diplomats seeking a peaceful
resolution to the Iranian nuclear dispute may be a source of
friction between the U.S. and its negotiating partners.  President Obama, after a March 25 meeting with Turkish
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , warned Iran that “there is
a window of time to resolve this question diplomatically, but
that window is closing.”  Military Strikes  Israel  isn’t ruling out military strikes against Iranian
nuclear facilities unless alleged nuclear-weapons work is
halted. Iran insists its atomic activities are peaceful and in
line with its Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty rights.  Iran’s talks with six world powers over its nuclear program
this week aren’t a “last-ditch attempt” to reach a peaceful
settlement, a senior Russian lawmaker said in an interview in
Moscow yesterday.  “That’s the position of the Obama administration, and I
don’t think our position is the same,” said Alexei Pushkov,
head of the lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs
committee. “We believe that talks must continue until you reach
the desired result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Seoul at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  