-- Clinton Warns North Korea of Consequences of Missile Launch
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-12T20:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/clinton-warns-north-korea-of-consequences-of-missile-launch.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged  North Korea  to “refrain from provocation” and
warned of consequences if it doesn’t, as the first day of North
Korea’s timetable to fire a long-range rocket passed.  “We urge the North Korean leadership to honor its
agreements and refrain from pursuing a cycle of provocation,”
Clinton said yesterday after a meeting in Washington of foreign
ministers from the Group of Eight -- Russia, Italy, the U.K.,
France, Canada,  Japan , Germany and the U.S.  Saying North Korea may take action in the “next hours or
days,” Clinton told reporters, “All the members of the G-8 are
in agreement that we will have to be prepared to take additional
steps if the North Koreans go ahead.”  North Korean state media made no announcements about
sending a satellite into orbit during the scheduled hours of 7
a.m. to 12 p.m. local time yesterday. Bad weather made a liftoff
unlikely on the first of a five-day window,  Kyodo News  reported
from Pyongyang, citing an unidentified North Korean government
official.  The U.S., South Korea and Japan have repeatedly said the
launch threatens regional security and jeopardizes a February
agreement to halt missile and nuclear tests in exchange for
American food assistance. Countries in the region were on alert
to guard against rocket debris that my fall into their
territory.  “We are continuing efforts to strongly urge North Korea
not to go through with the launch,” Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  told parliament in  Tokyo  yesterday. “We are
watching developments closely and are prepared to respond as
necessary.”  UN Resolutions  North Korea disputes the contention that the launch planned
for April 12 to April 16 violates UN resolutions. The government
says it is putting a weather satellite into orbit as part of
celebrations of the April 15 centennial of leader Kim Jong Un’s
grandfather, state founder  Kim Il Sung , and not conducting a
long-range missile test.  Clinton challenged the North Korean position, quoting from
a UN Resolution yesterday.  “The  Security Council , and I quote, ‘demands that the DPRK
not conduct any further nuclear tests or any launch using
ballistic missile technology,’” she said.  Clinton added, “There is no doubt that this satellite
would be launched using ballistic missile technology.”  If North Korea launches a missile, “we will all be back in
the Security Council to take further action,” Clinton said.  Clouds Interfere  So far, weather has interfered with North Korea’s stated
plans. Clouds over Tongchang-ri in the country’s northwest,
where the coastal Sohae Satellite Launching Station is located,
were expected to persist today and clear up by tomorrow,  South
Korea ’s Meteorological Agency official Chang Im Tae said
yesterday.  Japan has dispatched troops to its southern island of
Okinawa, deployed interceptor missiles and sent Aegis destroyers
to the Japan Sea and  East China Sea  in case the rocket strays
into Japanese territory.  The  Philippines , near where the projectile’s debris is
expected to fall, ordered an emergency alert for 50,000
soldiers, Civil Defense Administrator Benito Ramos said.  South Korean and U.S. forces are “closely monitoring” the
planned launch by operating a joint intelligence surveillance
system, the South’s Joint Chiefs of Staff spokesman Lee Bung Woo
said on April 9.  No Food Aid  Clinton affirmed U.S. statements that a rocket launch would
scuttle a February deal to provide 240,000 tons of food aid in
exchange for a moratorium on long-range missile and nuclear
weapons testing. A South Korean intelligence report this week
said Kim’s regime may detonate an atomic device after the
launch.  “It’s regrettable because, as you know, we had worked
through an agreement that would have benefitted the North Korean
people with the provision of food aid,” Clinton said yesterday.
“But in the current atmosphere, we would not be able to go
forward with that, and other actions that other countries had
been considering would also be on hold.”  UN sanctions first adopted in 2006 and strengthened in 2009
following North Korea’s first two nuclear tests have failed to
persuade the country to abandon its atomic development program.
 China , North Korea’s only ally and largest trading partner, has
resisted calls to push for change from Kim’s regime.  “The current policy of North Korea serves the ruling elite
extremely well,” said  Andrei Lankov , an associate professor at
Kookmin University in  Seoul . “There is no need for them to
change this policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net 
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  