-- Colombian Peso Gains for Second Day on Oil, Appetite for Yield
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-12T18:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/colombian-peso-gains-for-second-day-on-oil-appetite-for-yield.html
Colombia ’s peso rose for a second
day amid gains in oil, the nation’s biggest export, and as signs
that the  Federal Reserve  and Bank of  Japan  will stimulate growth
buoyed demand for higher-yielding assets.  The peso advanced 0.6 percent to 1,777.21 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its gain this year to 9.1 percent, the best
performance among the six most traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “Oil has been rebounding, which implies greater flows into
Colombia,” said Omar Escorcia, an analyst at Asesores en
Valores SA brokerage in Bogota. “Greater appetite for risk is
reflected in gains in Latin American currencies, including the
Colombian peso, and also in shares that are viewed as riskier.”  Global stocks rose and oil advanced after Fed Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  and Fed Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley endorsed the central bank’s view that borrowing costs are
likely to stay low through 2014. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will pursue
“powerful easing” to overcome deflation, central bank Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said today. Oil accounts for about 40 percent
of Colombia’s sales abroad.  Colombian Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry has said
the peso has reached a “worrying” level and that the central
bank should consider boosting dollar purchases and study
possible “surprise” moves to halt the currency’s advance.  In comments to lawmakers this week, Echeverry said both the
government and the central bank want to avoid job losses
stemming from the peso’s rally and that Colombia needs to
consider “all the alternatives.”  Banco de la Republica has said it will purchase a minimum
of $20 million daily in the  spot market  until at least Aug. 4 in
a bid to stem gains in the local currency.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 7.13 percent, according to the central bank. The price
fell 0.282 centavo to 122.906 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  