-- Commodities Will ‘Drift Lower’ as Stimulus Ends, UBS Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-04-12T09:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/commodities-will-drift-lower-as-stimulus-ends-ubs-says-1-.html
Commodities will decline this
quarter as central banks in the U.S. and  Europe  refrain from
adding further stimulus, removing the driver that helped to lift
prices in the first three months, according to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “In the absence of further injections in the second
quarter, we expect prices to drift lower,” analysts led by Hong
Kong-based Peter Hickson said in an e-mailed report today. Crude
oil, copper, nickel and cotton may decline, the report said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its three-month outlook on
commodities to neutral from overweight on March 28, saying that
most raw materials reached targets after gaining and economic
growth may soften in the second quarter. Commodity-exporting
nations face the risk of lower prices in the coming months, the
 International Monetary Fund  said on April 10.  Statements from the  Federal Reserve ’s Open Market Committee
“suggest the likelihood of further quantitative easing is
minimal,” the UBS analysts wrote. “A more durable global
economic recovery has heightened concerns about rising interest
rates and a stronger  U.S. dollar .”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials has
lost 1.2 percent since the end of March, eroding the 6.8 percent
rally in the first quarter.  Brent crude  for May was little
changed at $120.22 a barrel at 5:14 p.m. in  Singapore , with the
most-active contract 2.2 percent lower this quarter. Brent may
lose $10 on higher Saudi oil output, UBS said.  Supply Cuts  Minutes from the Fed’s March policy meeting, which were
released on April 3, showed policy makers will probably hold off
on increasing monetary accommodation unless the U.S. economic
expansion falters. The U.S. central bank has set rates at a
record low since 2008, and bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two
rounds of quantitative easing to boost growth and employment.  “The ending of European and U.S. liquidity stimulus is a
key concern,” the UBS analysts wrote. There may be “further
liquidation of speculative and exchange-traded fund positions
built up to historically high levels,” they said.  The  U.S. economy  grew in all 12 of its regions from mid-
February through to late March as hiring, manufacturing and
retail sales showed signs of strength in the face of higher fuel
prices, the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey yesterday.  The economy in China, the largest base-metals user,
probably grew at the  slowest pace  in almost three years in the
first quarter, expanding 8.4 percent from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of 41 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The data is due for release tomorrow.  ‘Mixed Bag’  “A mixed bag of economic numbers presents a dilemma to
central bankers around the world, whether or not to loosen,”
said Sun Yonggang, an analyst at Everbright Futures Co., a unit
of  China ’s largest state-owned investment group.  Zurich, Switzerland-based UBS recommended soybeans, corn
and platinum group metals, according to the report. Aluminum and
zinc may get support from supply cuts, the analysts wrote.
Soybeans in  Chicago , which traded at $13.67 a bushel, have
rallied 13 percent this year as drought cut supplies.  Higher soybean oil prices would help to support  palm oil  in
the second quarter, the analysts wrote. Palm oil, which traded
at 3,569 ringgit ($1,163) a metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, has rallied 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  