-- Comolli Leaves Liverpool as $160 Million in Spending Goes Awry
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-12T12:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/comolli-leaves-liverpool-as-160-million-in-spending-goes-awry.html
Damien Comolli, brought to
Liverpool to buy and spot talent, is leaving less than 18 months
after being hired by the English Premier League club’s U.S.
owners.  Comolli was named Liverpool’s first director of football by
principal owner John W. Henry and chairman  Tom Werner  following
their takeover of the Reds in October 2010. He leaves by
“mutual consent” with the team in its worst run in the league
in 53 years and a player overhaul that saw more than 100 million
pounds ($160 million) spent.  Liverpool won’t meet the owners’ minimum target of a
fourth-place finish and qualification for the elite  Champions
League  after dropping to eighth with five games to go in the
season. The move comes two days before the Reds meet city rival
Everton in the F.A. Cup semifinals.  “The club needs to move forward and we now have a huge
game on Saturday,” Werner said in a statement on the club’s
website.  Billionaire Henry and television executive Werner, whose
Fenway Sports Group also owns baseball’s  Boston Red Sox , are in
the U.K. to meet with club officials including  Kenny Dalglish ,
the manager who won Liverpool’s last league title in 1990.
Dalglish had been out of management for a decade before
returning to the club last year.  “It is important that everyone joins us in supporting the
manager and gets behind Kenny and the team and focuses on a
strong finish to the season,” Werner said.  Critical Fans  Liverpool two days ago snapped a four-game winless streak
when Andy Carroll, the team’s record 35 million-pound striker,
scored just his fourth league goal of the season in the last minute 
for a 3-2 win at Blackburn.  As well as signing Carroll in January 2011, Comolli and
Dalgish brought in forward  Luis Suarez , and midfielders  Jordan
Henderson ,  Charlie Adam  and Stewart Downing. Fans and media have
been critical of the acquisitions, saying their form has failed
to match the fees paid for them.  Comolli, who speaks four languages, said he’s returning to
his native  France . He quit French club St. Etienne to join
Liverpool and was director of football at Tottenham before that.  “I am grateful to have been given the opportunity to work
at Liverpool and am happy to move on from the club and back to
France for family reasons,” the 39-year-old said.  Shared Responsibility  Dalglish, who guided Liverpool to its first trophy in six
years when the Reds beat second-tier Cardiff in February’s
Carling Cup final, had never shared responsibility over player
acquisitions in his previous managerial roles. He coached
Liverpool to three league titles in his first spell, took
Blackburn to the 1995 Premier League championship and had a
less successful spell at Newcastle.  “For me we had a great relationship,” he said during a
press conference after Comolli’s departure had been announced.
“It’s disappointing, but I suppose there’s not very much in
football that leaves you surprised.”  Liverpool was in crisis when FSG took ownership after a
U.K. lawsuit wrestled control from former owners George Gillett
and  Tom Hicks , the American who were in default to lenders Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Wachovia Corp.  Henry told reporters after the 300-million-pound
acquisition was completed he knew very little about soccer and
needed time to learn about the sport. U.K. newspapers said
Comolli was recommended to him by Oakland A’s general manager
Billy Beane, who Henry tried to recruit to the  Red Sox  in 2002.  “We are grateful for all of Damien’s efforts on behalf of
Liverpool and wish him all the best for the future,” Henry
said.  Liverpool was the dominant English team in the 1970s and
1980s but has since been surpassed by  Manchester United , which
won its record 19th title last season. Liverpool will miss out on
 Europe ’s elite Champions League for the third straight year.  The Red Sox won the  World Series  in 2004, ending an 86-year
title drought, and took the championship again in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  