-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Held Last Week Near Four-Year High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-12T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-held-last-week-near-four-year-high.html
Consumer confidence  held last week
near a four-year high as more Americans said their finances were
in better shape.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index  was  minus 32.8 in the
period ended April 8, second only to the prior week’s minus 31.4
as the highest since March 2008. Households were the most
optimistic about their financial resources since April 2008.  Employment gains and rising incomes may be making it
possible for households to pay down debt and at the same time
maintain spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. Signs that gasoline prices are stabilizing, albeit at
the highest level in almost a year, may also be stoking optimism
that the worst of the jump in fuel prices is over.  “A weaker-than-expected March jobs report, a string of
declines in global equity markets and the gathering of dark
economic clouds again over Europe likely blunted the recent
improvement in consumer sentiment,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. At the same time,
he said, “consumer sentiment appears likely to avoid the mid-
year swoon that characterized the past two years, save an
exogenous shock to the economy.”  Another report from the Labor Department showed initial
jobless  claims  rose by 13,000 to 380,000 in the week ended April
7, the highest since Jan. 28 and a sign the pace of improvement
in the labor market may be slowing. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for 355,000 claims.  Stocks rose for a second day as signs that the  Federal
Reserve  and Bank of  Japan  will stimulate growth overshadowed the
jump in claims. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2
percent to 1,371.29 at 9:35 a.m. in  New York .  Views on Economy  While the personal finances gauge rose, the index of
whether consumers consider it a good time to buy fell to minus
37.3 from minus 33.9, today’s report showed. The third component
of the index -- the state of the economy -- fell to minus 66
from minus 63.6.  Other gauges of consumers’ outlooks have exhibited
strength. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final
index of consumer sentiment rose last month to the highest level
since February 2011.  Payrolls grew by 120,000 in March, half the gain in the
previous month and the smallest since October, Labor Department
data showed last week. The  unemployment rate  fell to a three-
year low of 8.2 percent as more people left the  labor force .  Registered Democrats were the most confident since August
2007, as their optimism index rose to minus 22.4. That of
Republicans fell to minus 39.4, the lowest in two months,
pushing the gap between the two major political parties to the
highest since record-keeping began in 1990. Sentiment among
independents decreased to minus 31.2 from a four-year high of
minus 29.1 the previous week.  Election Year  “With partisanship in full force, Democrats may be
filtering their assessments through the prism of supporting the
incumbent president, Republicans the opposite,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. He said
similar patterns emerged when incumbents were running, with
Republicans gaining at the expense of Democrats in 2004 as
 George W. Bush  was seeking re-election and vice versa in 1996
with  Bill Clinton .  The  average  price of regular gasoline at the pump has
retreated recently from a 10-month high of $3.94 a gallon,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring club. The cost
eased to $3.91 yesterday.  “You can see consumer confidence is rising,”  Mark Fields ,
president of the Americas at  Ford Motor Co. (F) , said on an April 4
conference call with analysts. “The labor market is gaining
momentum.”  Survey Details  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  