-- Corn, Wheat Advance as Freezing Weather Threatens Crops
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-04-12T13:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/corn-wheat-advance-as-freezing-weather-threaten-u-s-crops.html
Corn climbed for the first time
this week and wheat gained as freezing weather threatened crops
in the U.S., the world’s largest shipper of both grains.
Soybeans also rose.  Temperatures dropped as low as 26 degrees Fahrenheit (minus
3.3 degrees Celsius) in eastern parts of the Midwest overnight,
Telvent DTN said. About 17 percent of the corn crop in  Illinois ,
the largest U.S. grower after Iowa, had been planted as of April
8, ahead of the previous five-year average of 1 percent,
Department of Agriculture data show.  “Freezing temperatures across the U.S. Midwest may have
damaged emerging corn crops, according to U.S. weather
forecasters,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in a report e-mailed today.
“Supporting values were concerns that cold temperatures may
have damaged U.S. wheat crops.”  July-delivery corn advanced 0.3 percent to $6.2875 a bushel
on the  Chicago  Board of Trade by 1:14 p.m. London time, after
dropping 4.7 percent in the previous three days. Wheat futures
for July delivery gained 0.6 percent to $6.3725 a bushel. The
benchmark Chicago wheat contract primarily reflects the soft,
red winter-wheat grown in the Midwest.  In Paris, November-delivery milling wheat gained 0.4
percent to 202.50 euros ($266.35) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe,
after dropping 1.5 percent the previous two days.  Wheat-growing areas in most of  Europe  had “much needed
rain” last week, the Kenilworth, England-based Home-Grown
Cereals Authority said in a  report  yesterday. Rains may persist
across areas of  France , Spain, Germany and the U.K. in the next
five days, according to AccuWeather Inc.  “There are rains in France, and this could push prices
lower,” Arnaud Saulais, a broker at Starsupply Commodity
Brokers, said by phone from Nyon,  Switzerland .  Soybeans for delivery in November gained 0.7 percent to
$13.68 a bushel in Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  