-- Crisis Gets Personal After U.K. Spread-Better Fails
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-04-18T19:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/crisis-gets-personal-after-u-k-traders-spread-better-fails.html
(Corrects to remove reference to City of  London  Police in
fourth paragraph of story published April 13.)  For Britons who play the markets
for a living, the collapse of spread-betting firm  WorldSpreads
Group Plc (WSPR)  was the moment the financial crisis got personal.  About 15,000 clients, some of whom work for banks and
stockbrokers, face losing cash in their personal WorldSpreads
accounts after they were frozen last month. The London-based
company was put into administration, a form of U.K. bankruptcy
protection, on March 18.  “It’s a woeful situation,” said Richard Jennings, 38, a
former  fund manager  at West Yorkshire Pension Fund in Leeds,
 England , which oversees assets for the region’s government
employees. He had more than 100,000 pounds ($159,400) in his
WorldSpreads account when it collapsed. “We want some answers
from the administrators.”  WorldSpreads is being probed by regulators who are poised
to seek a police investigation, according to a person with
knowledge of the case, as accountants wind down the company and
uncover a 13 million-pound shortfall in client funds. Spread
betting, which resembles futures and options trading, is a
popular way to speculate on stocks in the U.K. It’s regulated as
gambling, not investing, meaning firms’ clients don’t pay tax
unless it’s their primary source of income.  WorldSpreads’s collapse renews concern that financial
companies may not be segregating clients’ money. The  Financial
Services Authority  has said it plans to increase scrutiny of
spread-betting companies and other firms that hold client funds
after the demise of WorldSpreads, which followed the collapse of
brokers MF Global Holdings Ltd. in October and Pritchard
Stockbrokers Ltd. in March.  ‘No Faith’  “Since MF Global happened, I’ve got no faith in the
auditors, no faith in the regulatory system,” said Nirav Shah,
who had 250,000 pounds frozen across his five accounts at
WorldSpreads. “It’s all been abused. It’s going to happen time
and time and time again. Who’s next?”  Jennings has formed the  WorldSpreads Action Group , which
represents 18 clients who each stand to lose more than 100,000
pounds if the company can’t meet their claims. At least three of
these people have day jobs working for financial firms in
London, said Jennings, who now runs  Spread Bet Magazine , an
online publication.  His group plans to navigate the compensation process and
examine whether it has a legal recourse against the company’s
executives. Former Chief Executive Officer Conor Foley stepped
down on March 14, two days before WorldSpreads had its shares
suspended and said it identified a hole in its accounts. Former
Finance Director Niall O’Kelly resigned in February.  100,000 Spread-Betters  Firms such as  IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG)  and CMC Markets Plc let
clients take positions on markets without buying or selling
actual securities, currencies or futures. IG Group says British
spread betting has grown 10-fold in 12 years as the internet has
made wagers easier. Almost 100,000 Britons regularly made spread
bets last year, compared with 91,000 in 2010, according to
Sydney-based research firm  Investment Trends .  The companies profit through the initial spread, or the
difference between the price offered to clients on opposite
sides of the same trade. They also charge interest on funds
loaned to clients to boost the size of their trades.  IG Group, CMC, City Index and Gekko Global Markets aren’t
involved in WorldSpreads’ failure and are not the subject of any
regulatory actions. Wanting to distance themselves from
WorldSpreads, the firms have written to clients in the last four
weeks to assure them their funds are held in separate bank
accounts to the firms’ own working capital.  “Small, badly managed firms occasionally fail,” said Tim Howkins, CEO of IG Group, whose 41 percent market share makes it
Britain’s biggest spread-betting firm. “It’s not something
that’s unique to our industry.”  FSA Probe  WorldSpreads, which first sold shares to the public in
2007, lost 1.3 million euros ($1.7 million) in the 12 months to
March 31, 2011 as it spent more on technology and risk controls.
The previous year it made a profit of 4.7 million euros.  The FSA is being wound down following criticism of its
handling of the run-up to the financial crisis, which left four
banks requiring government bailouts. The organization will be
replaced next year by separate regulators for banks and markets.  One FSA line of inquiry is whether WorldSpreads directors
encouraged clients to buy the firm’s stock in the weeks before
its collapse, according to a person with knowledge of the
investigation. That may breach rules preventing execution-only
brokers from providing financial advice and giving investors
misleading information, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the allegations are unproven.  Paul McSharry, a spokesman for Foley, declined to add to
the former CEO’s statement, issued last month. That statement
said his resignation was unrelated to WorldSpreads’s problems,
which he first learned of in the March 16 press release.  Compensation Prospects  WorldSpreads customers want to “try to understand whether
or not there was any wrongdoing,” said Jennings.  The  City of London Police  said it doesn’t comment “on
whether individuals or organizations are subject to ongoing
investigation,” according to an e-mailed statement.  Most clients should be covered by the  Financial Services
Compensation Scheme , a government-backed, industry-funded
program that pays out when companies go bust, according to  KPMG
LLP , which is winding down WorldSpreads. The FSCS protects
consumers’ deposits up to a limit of 50,000 pounds.  The prospect of a refund doesn’t reassure Christian
Vasseur, a 43-year-old Frenchman who says he can’t access 10,000
euros he deposited in his WorldSpreads account on March 16, the
day the company disclosed the accounting irregularities.  Lost Confidence  “I have lost my confidence in this industry,” Vasseur
said. “I will be a while without trading. I can’t give any more
credit to the warranties provided by a broker.”  KPMG says it has written to customers to confirm what they
are owed and will hold a meeting for creditors around the end of
next month. It hasn’t published a full list of creditors.  “It’s a wake-up call to the whole industry to make sure
they have strong corporate governance,” said Akshay Kapoor, a
director of  Gekko Global Markets , which has 12,000 spread-
betting clients, who said he was “absolutely appalled” by
WorldSpreads’s collapse. “The safety of client money must be
paramount.”  The FSA requires all client funds to be kept in segregated
accounts. In July 2010, the regulator said it was concerned that
some spread-betters were using clients’ money to fund business
operations.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the FSA, declined to
comment on WorldSpreads given the investigation.  No ‘Infinite Faith’  Other spread-betters say they haven’t been hurt by the
demise of WorldSpreads, whose 14 million pounds of revenue in
2010 was dwarfed by IG’s 320 million pounds. CMC Markets, the
U.K.’s second-biggest spread-betting firm, said it has gained
WorldSpreads customers in the last few weeks. City Index, the
third-largest, had a 15 percent increase in new accounts in the
seven days after WorldSpreads’s closure.  “We all are vying for their business,” said  Angus Campbell , head of market analysis at Capital Spreads, the U.K.’s
fourth-largest spread betting firm and a unit of  London Capital
Group Holdings Plc. (LCG)  “On average, their client size is
relatively small.”  Sam Austen, an independent trader in London who says he had
less than 5,000 pounds in his WorldSpreads account when the firm
collapsed, said he will continue to speculate, especially on the
smallest stocks in  emerging markets . He said he moves his cash
among different spread-betting companies.  “I don’t have infinite faith in anything, particularly the
financial world,” said Austen. “It felt like a theft. It was a
good reminder of the precariousness of the financial system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  