-- DAX Puts Hit Five-Year High on European Crisis Concern
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-04-12T01:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/dax-puts-hit-five-year-high-on-european-crisis-concern.html
Options traders have increased
bearish bets on the DAX Index to a more than five-year high
versus the rest of  Europe , seeking to protect gains after the
German equity gauge rallied 17 percent in the first quarter.  Puts outnumbered calls by 1.41-to-1 for the DAX yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio exceeded the
put-to-call measure for the Euro Stoxx 50 Index by 24 percent on
March 29, the most since December 2006.  Investors are buying protection on the DAX, which posted
the biggest first-quarter advance among European developed
markets, amid concern that attempts to contain the debt crisis
are unraveling as yields on Spanish and Italian government debt
rise. Spain is in “extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said last week as he raised the possibility of needing
Europe’s fourth national bailout.  Germany  is Europe’s biggest
provider of rescue funds.  “There’s been a tendency to overweight the DAX this
year,” Henrik Drusebjerg, who helps oversee $230 billion as
senior equity strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “If you don’t believe that we
are on the brink of a new dramatic downfall in equities, it
makes sense to protect the returns you got already this year on
the DAX. Puts may be an interesting proposition.”  The DAXK Index, a version of the DAX that excludes gains
from dividends,  jumped  17 percent in the first three months of
the year, posting its best first quarter since 1998. It has
dropped 7.1 percent since its seven-month high on March 16 on
renewed concern about the European debt crisis. The gauge
rebounded 1 percent yesterday as European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure triggered speculation that the bank
will revive its bond-purchase program to lower  Spain ’s borrowing
costs.  Spain’s Bond Yields  Before Coeure’s remarks, Spanish 10-year bond yields
touched 6 percent yesterday for the first time in 2012, fueling
concern the nation would follow Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in
seeking a European bailout. The government is trying to
implement the deepest austerity steps in at least three decades
even as the economy suffers its second  recession  since 2009.  “The market has its doubts about the DAX’s recent
outperformance,” Lara Koch, founder of Macrocatalysts, a
research firm in  New York , said in a phone interview yesterday.
“There is an underlying sensitivity to the European issue, as
we witnessed this past week. I don’t think the debt crisis ever
stopped deteriorating. It was all buying time.”  The German economy appears to be overcoming a “phase of
weakness,” the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mailed preview of
its monthly report on April 10.  DAX Options  Ownership of bearish DAX options  rose  18 percent since
March 19 to 2.94 million on April 11, while call open interest
gained 9.6 percent to 2.08 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Traders pushed the cost of protecting the DAX
higher.  Implied volatility , the key gauge of options prices, for
one-month contracts closest to the index level climbed to 27.76
on April 10, the highest relative to two-month options since
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If investors have a particularly bearish view, and they
think they are going to experience higher volatility and they
want to hedge their positions, then buying one/two-month
volatility could be a possibility now,” Eugenio Montersino, a
London-based volatility analyst at Lombard Street Research Ltd.,
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Unemployment at a two-decade low, accelerating wages and
falling borrowing costs are spurring consumers in Europe’s
linchpin economy to spend more. The nation’s economy will expand
0.7 percent this year, while gross domestic product in the euro
area will shrink 0.4 percent, according to the median economist
estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  ‘Very Undemanding Valuations’  “The fundamentals of the economy are clearly very strong,
but more importantly we find there are a lot of companies that
are world-class exporters on very undemanding valuations,”
 James Buckley , who helps oversee $50 billion at Baring Asset
Management Ltd. in  London , said in a phone interview yesterday.
“It is a market where we continue to find opportunities.”  DAX companies are  valued  at 10.37 times profit for the next
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 13 percent
below the average projected price-to-earnings ratio of 11.92 for
the past five years.  Investors may also want to hold on to German shares from
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  to  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Munich Re  that give a right to dividends
in the next month, according to Andreas Bernhard, a sales trader
at Donner & Reuschel in Munich. Almost 85 percent of  dividend 
points in the DAX for the year starting April 2012 will be
granted this month and in May, Bloomberg estimates show.  VDAX, VStoxx  The VDAX Index, a measure of options prices on the DAX,
lost 2.6 percent to 24.11 yesterday. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which
measures the cost of Euro Stoxx 50 Index options, slid 3.9
percent to 29.49. In the U.S., the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, known as the VIX, declined 1.8
percent to 20.02.  Since March 19, nine of the 10 DAX options with the biggest
increases in ownership were bearish, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. May 6,000  puts (DAX) , 10 percent below yesterday’s
close, added the most, rising to 20,424 contracts from 1,716.
December 6,000 puts had the biggest open interest among all DAX
contracts, the data show.  “The main reason why people are choosing to protect the
DAX first is because of the relatively better performance of
that index to the Euro Stoxx 50,” Donner & Reuschel’s Bernhard
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “People thought the
downwards potential is higher in the DAX.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  