-- Democrats Stay Silent as Republicans Run Obama Attack Ads
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-04-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/democrats-stay-silent-as-republicans-run-obama-attack-ads.html
Republican-aligned groups are
hitting President  Barack Obama  with almost $2 million in attack
ads and the response so far has been silence.  The reason: Democratic groups formed to counter those
charges don’t have the money to do it.  “To most donors, threat of attacks on the president has
been only theoretical,” said  Bill Burton , a co-founder and
spokesman for Priorities USA Action, a so-called super political
action committee created to defend the president’s re-election
campaign. “This last week it became very real.”  The inaction is unsettling Democratic activists who saw
their party’s 2004 nominee,  John Kerry , hobbled by a March ad
campaign aired by former President  George W. Bush ’s re-election
team the moment it became clear the Massachusetts senator would
become his general election challenger.  “The campaign is entering a different phase,” said  Steve Elmendorf , Kerry’s former deputy campaign manager. “What we
learned is ‘define your opponent before he has a chance to
define himself.’”  It’s a missed opportunity for Democrats to define Romney --
and protect Obama -- as the contest becomes a two-man race.
Romney’s strongest primary challenger, former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum , ended his campaign on April 10. On the
same day, the Republican-founded Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit
group created with the guidance of  Karl Rove , Bush’s former top
political strategist, began a $1.7 million ad campaign
criticizing the president’s  energy policies .  ‘Race is On’  “You start when they start,” said Joe Trippi, who served
as campaign manager to former Vermont Governor Howard Dean’s
2004 Democratic primary bid. “The race is on and it’s hopefully
equal resources,” said Trippi. “You want to have a spending
advantage or at least parity.”  The president holds a financial advantage over Romney,
ending the month of February with 12 times the cash on hand as
Romney, $85 million to Romney’s $7.3 million, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based group that
tracks election spending.  Yet the hardest-hitting television ads will be crafted by
outside groups run by advisers closely aligned with the
campaigns. In this sphere, Obama and his allies are behind.  Crossroads, which has two arms, plans to spend $250 million
to influence the presidential and congressional races, it
announced last year. One entity, American Crossroads, has raised
$27 million, according to Federal Election Commission disclosure
reports. The other, Crossroads GPS, takes unlimited donations
and doesn’t reveal its contributors.  Super-PAC Donations  Romney has another friendly super-PAC, Restore Our Future,
which was founded by his former aides. It raised nearly $43
million by the end of February, and spent $40 million on ads, 91
percent of which were attacks on Santorum and former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  during the primary contests.  In contrast, Priorities USA set a goal of raising $100
million to defend the president during the general election.
According to FEC reports, Priorities USA Action has raised just
$6.5 million. When combined with Priorities USA, a partner group
that doesn’t disclose donors, the total contributed to the
effort was about $10 million by the end of February, according
to Burton.  Despite concerns among some Democrats, the Obama campaign
isn’t expediting its timeline for a full-fledged ad war in
response to Romney allies pushing up their previously planned
May start, said  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman for the campaign.  Expected Attack  “We had always prepared for special interests to spend a
half billion dollars in an attempt to defeat the president,” he
said. “We’re asking our supporters to invest now to allow us to
build the largest grassroots campaign in history.”  On April 2, the Obama campaign released its first round of
ads targeting Romney, tying the former Bain Capital LLC private
equity executive to  oil companies  and painting him as hostile to
the president’s efforts to produce more renewable energy and
raise auto mileage standards.  The buy in such swing states as Colorado and  Ohio  was a
response to a $3.6 million ad campaign funded by the U.S. oil
industry -- and is valued at about $400,000 less than what
Crossroads is spending on its first strike against Obama.
Democrats also released a two-minute Internet video calling
Romney a “severely conservative nominee.”  Obama has benefited from a Republican primary process that
has featured multimillion-dollar ad campaigns aimed at
tarnishing Romney’s image. “When your opponents are beating
each other up, don’t get in the way,” said Trippi.  Santorum Attacks Ads  The Santorum-aligned Red, White and Blue Fund, a super-PAC
formed by his supporters, ran 9,374 negative ads on Romney
during the campaign, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, which tracks advertising. As of April 11, it had spent
$687,307 in spots targeting Romney, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  The president now is in a position similar to that of Bush
in 2004. He’s an incumbent whose approval ratings are split,
with 48 percent approving of his job performance and 47 percent
disapproving of it, making him vulnerable to a challenger who
will use the next few weeks to introduce himself to the broader
American electorate.  “In a lot of elections, the campaign advertising doesn’t
matter,” said  Ken Goldstein , president of CMAG. “When you’re
in field goal distance, it matters.”  It was during this period that the Bush campaign unloaded a
“very aggressive” advertising effort, said  Mark McKinnon , one
of Bush’s longtime ad consultants. “The Obama campaign is at a
disadvantage by letting Romney and the  Republican Party  gather
strength,” said Terry Nelson, political director of the Bush
2004 campaign.  In 2008, Republican presidential candidate  John McCain , the
Arizona senator, stepped back for a couple of months after his
primary essentially ended to raise money and regroup before
engaging Obama in the general election, Nelson said. “That’s
not going to be the case this time,” he added.  -- Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  