-- Deutsche Bank, Barclays Said to Prepare Maiden Lane Bids
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-12T20:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/deutsche-bank-barclays-said-to-prepare-maiden-lane-bids.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Barclays Plc and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are preparing bids for a $7.49 billion
mass of real estate debt assumed by the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York in 2008, according to people familiar with the
potential sale.  It will probably take several weeks to select the winning
bid, said the people, who declined to be identified because the
process isn’t public.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has also
approached investors about preparing a bid, other people said.  The New York Fed said last week that it’s considering
selling assets in its Maiden Lane III LLC portfolio. The
holdings, taken on in the 2008 bailout of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , include two collateralized debt obligations, or
CDOs, with a face amount of $7.49 billion that are tied to
commercial property loans issued by Deutsche Bank in 2007 and
2008.  Investors in the $600 billion commercial-mortgage  bond
market  are waiting to see if two transactions in Maiden Lane
III, which bundle securities culled from 103 deals, will be sold
intact or broken down into pieces, according to a March 9 report
from Jefferies Group Inc. The potential deluge of bonds has
weighed on the market, exacerbating a slide in values as
 Europe ’s debt crisis flares and U.S. jobs numbers miss
forecasts.  Six-Week High  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, Brandon
Ashcraft of Barclays, Steven Vames of Credit Suisse and  Michael
DuVally  of Goldman Sachs, all in New York, declined to comment.
Andrea Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, also declined
to comment.  Relative yields on top-ranked  securities  tied to shopping
malls, skyscrapers and hotels climbed to 204 basis points
yesterday after reaching 206 basis points April 10, a six-week
high, according to a  Barclays Plc (BARC)  index. It is up from a more
than four-year low on March 27, the data show.  The New York Fed halted regular and more public auctions of
mortgage securities held by Maiden Lane II LLC, a separate
portfolio, last year after traders blamed the sales for damaging
prices in credit markets. The district bank ultimately completed
selling the entire portfolio this year after opting to hold
auctions with a more limited number of dealers in response to
unsolicited bids for assets.  Taxpayer Profit  After selling the last group of bonds in the Maiden Lane II
pool in February, the New York Fed said that taxpayers earned
$2.8 billion on their $19.5 billion loan to that vehicle. Credit
Suisse and Goldman Sachs won those auctions, comprised of
securities backed by residential mortgages.  Maiden Lane III, with a face value of $47.7 billion, was
estimated to be worth $17.8 billion as of December last year,
according to the Fed’s  website . In addition to commercial-
mortgage CDOs valued at $4.8 billion, the holdings include $12.7
billion in asset-backed CDOs.  The vehicle unwound credit-default swaps AIG wrote to
protect counterparties against losses on mortgage-backed
securities. The facility bought the underlying assets that AIG
insured for banks, sparing the Wall Street firms from any
losses. Lawmakers criticized the payments as a “backdoor
bailout” of the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  