-- Dimon Vows Fight Moynihan Lost Over Claims From Mortgages
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-04-12T12:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/dimon-vows-fight-moynihan-lost-over-claims-from-mortgages.html
Jamie Dimon , who’s already spent
$18.5 billion cleaning up mortgages at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , is
warning a growing list of claimants that they’re in for a fight.  Investors demanding that the biggest U.S. lender buy back
 soured loans  or compensate them for losses on mortgage
securities “face a long and difficult road,” Dimon said last
week in a shareholder  letter . Those lining up include holders of
$95 billion of bonds represented by Gibbs & Bruns LLP, the  law
firm  that won $8.5 billion last year from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “We are going to fight repurchase claims that pretend the
steep decline in  home prices  and unprecedented market conditions
had no impact on loan performance,” Dimon, chief executive
officer of the New York-based lender, wrote in the April 4
letter. He’ll also oppose “securities claims brought by
sophisticated investors who understood and accepted the risks.”  Dimon, who updates investors on his firm’s mortgage losses
tomorrow, is seeking to contain expenses from faulty loans that
have cost the industry more than $72 billion. Similar combative
language didn’t work for Bank of America CEOBrian T. Moynihan,
who said in 2010 the firm will engage in “hand-to-hand combat”
to fend off demands before agreeing to a string of settlements.  “They were in the same businesses as everyone else,”  Mark Williams , a former Federal Reserve bank examiner who teaches
finance at  Boston University , said of JPMorgan. “If everyone
around them is basically settling, it’s hard for me to think
that there’s not something there that will make them settle.”  Repurchase Costs  JPMorgan had a $3.6 billion liability for repurchases at
the end of last year, the firm said in January. Losses of as
much as $2 billion beyond that are “reasonably possible,” and
the firm expects repurchase costs of $350 million per quarter,
according to a January presentation. Lenders can be forced to
repurchase a loan, called a putback, if data backing it
including borrower income or home values proves incorrect.  The bank may have as much as $9.7 billion in further
liability for loan buybacks, with about half tied to the
acquisition of assets of Washington Mutual Inc. after it failed
in 2008, said Pri de Silva, a senior analyst at New York-based
CreditSights Inc. The Washington Mutual costs may ultimately be
borne by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., he said.  JPMorgan has braced investors for the possibility of
greater losses, saying that legal costs could exceed reserves by
as much as $5.1 billion.  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for
JPMorgan, declined to comment beyond Dimon’s remarks.  Rick Simon 
of Bank of America also declined to comment.  Dimon, 56, acknowledged in the letter that the firm made
“too many mistakes” in mortgages, including by originating
loans with poorer underwriting standards and being unprepared
for a surge in  foreclosures . The industry’s $25 billion
settlement in February ends claims tied to servicing, he said.  ‘Top Lawyers’  The firm has hired “top lawyers” to help defend itself
against rising claims, Dimon said in December. The company was a
target in suits tied to $54 billion in private label securities
at the time, which involve firms other than U.S.-owned  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , a figure Dimon said would rise.  “Jamie probably doesn’t want to provide incentive for
mortgage investors to come after the bank for more money,” said
de Silva. “There’s also an advantage in paying tomorrow as
opposed to today regarding when they have to take the reserve.”  JPMorgan may be in a better position than Bank of America
was to resist settlement demands. Dimon’s bank earned a record
$19 billion in profit in 2011, compared with $1.4 billion at
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America . Plagued by
concern that mortgage losses would force it to raise capital,
Bank of America’s  shares  sunk 58 percent last year, compared
with the 22 percent decline of JPMorgan.  Limit Payouts  Moynihan even briefly weighed limiting payouts with a
bankruptcy filing for Countrywide Financial Corp., the unit
acquired in 2008 and the firm’s biggest source of losses. Most
of JPMorgan’s loan problems were inherited from the Bear Stearns
& Co. and Washington Mutual takeovers, Dimon has said.  In December, Houston-based Gibbs & Bruns said it had asked
trustees of $95 billion in bonds to investigate whether JPMorgan
included ineligible loans in the securities.  Kathy Patrick , a
Gibbs & Bruns partner, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  Other firms that bought or insured mortgage securities have
since filed lawsuits against the lender. Asset Management Fund,
based in  Chicago , sued in February over claims the bank gave
faulty information involving $515.6 million in bonds. In March,
DZ Bank AG,  Germany ’s largest cooperative lender, claimed it had
about $400 million in damages over similar allegations.  That month, Ambac Assurance Corp. sued JPMorgan, accusing
the company’s EMC Mortgage and Bear Stearns units of fraud and
breach of contract over the sale of mortgage securities. The
bond insurer said that it had to pay more than $200 million in
claims because of the failed investments.  BofA Buybacks Ebbing  Dimon’s comments come as some analysts say that Moynihan’s
woes from mortgage buybacks may be ebbing.  Recent favorable court decisions increase the likelihood of
approval of the lender’s $8.5 billion settlement, CreditSights
analysts de Silva and  David Hendler  wrote last week in a note.
That would resolve about 60 percent of private label loans
created by Countrywide from 2004 to 2008.  Remaining costs should be manageable, the analysts wrote in
the April 3 note. The biggest expense left is about $8 billion a
year from servicing troubled mortgages, according to
CreditSights. Bank of America had a $15.9 billion liability for
repurchase claims as of Dec. 31 and legal losses could reach
$3.6 billion beyond reserves, the firm said. Bank of America
shares have surged more than 50 percent this year amid signs the
U.S. economic recovery is strengthening.  Waging ‘Combat’  Moynihan, 52, has spent his first two years as CEO atoning
for his predecessor’s purchase of Countrywide, once the biggest
mortgage company and one that was blamed by lawmakers for
irresponsible lending that fueled the crisis.  Less than two months after saying in November 2010 that the
bank is waging “hand-to-hand combat” over repurchase demands,
Moynihan agreed to a $3 billion deal settling some claims with
government-owned firms Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. That accord
was followed in April 2011 by one valued at $1.6 billion with
bond insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)   In June 2011, Moynihan agreed to the $8.5 billion deal
resolving claims from investors including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
Pacific Investment Management Co. If approved by a court, the
pact resolves claims tied to $424 billion of bonds. That month,
the firm also set aside $5.5 billion for other demands.  The CEO said at the time that settling with investors was
preferable because it avoids the “possible outcome being much
more adverse to the company if we kept fighting.”  Moynihan’s truce with mortgage buyers didn’t last. Fannie
Mae, seeking to limit the cost of its U.S. taxpayer bailout,
stepped up demands last year, saying that the lender must
repurchase loans if an insurer drops coverage. Bank of America
refused, and in January Fannie cut the company off as a partner
for the funding of new loans.  -- Editors: Pierre Paulden,  Rick Green   To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 