-- Euro Drops Amid Wagers ECB Won’t Restart Bond Purchases
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-13T21:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/dollar-set-for-weekly-loss-versus-peers-before-inflation-report.html
The euro dropped against most of
its major counterparts amid bets the  European Central Bank  won’t
restart its government bond-purchase program even as Spanish
credit-default swaps rose to a record.  Europe’s shared currency fell for a second week against the
yen and dollar after Klaas Knot, a member of the ECB governing
council, said he didn’t see justification to buy Spanish
securities. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose as U.S. consumer confidence
cooled, damping risk appetite. Australia’s dollar slid after a
report showed  China’s economy  expanded less than analysts
forecast, adding to bets global growth is slowing.  “The market is back to this realization that fiscal
consolidation is very challenging when you don’t have economic
growth, and looking at Spain and Italy, that is the concern,”
said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo &
Co . in New York. “The consumer-confidence miss added to dollar
strength overall.”  The euro weakened 0.8 percent to $1.3078 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after gaining 0.8 percent in the previous two days. It
fell 0.1 percent on the week. The single currency dropped 0.8
percent to 105.83 yen, losing 1 percent on the week. The dollar
was 0.1 percent higher at 80.93 yen.  Futures traders  increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the dollar to the highest level in five weeks.
Net-euro shorts rose to 101,364 in the five days ended April 10,
from 79,480 in the previous period, figures from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  Spanish Risk  The cost of insuring against a Spanish government default
rose to a record 503 basis points, according to CMA prices. A
basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros
($13.1 million) of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  Spain’s 10-year (GSPG10YR)   government bonds  fell today, pushing their
yields up as much as 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point,
to 6 percent. They have jumped more than 60 basis points this
month as investors sought safer assets.  “I don’t see a good reason” for buying government bonds,
Knot of the ECB said today at an event in Amsterdam. “I think
there has been an overreaction to the unfortunate communication
surrounding  Spain .”  Resumption Predicted  Seventeen of 22 economists surveyed this week by Bloomberg
predicted the ECB will be forced to resume the Securities
Markets Program to contain bond yields. Only one projected it
will offer another round of the unlimited three-year loans,
while nine said it may consider shorter-maturity loans.  Investors should sell the euro against the dollar,
targeting $1.2625, Anders Soederberg, an analyst at
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken wrote to clients today, citing
technical patterns. The trade should be ended if the shared
currency rises above $1.3386, Soederberg wrote.  The  Dollar Index  gained 0.7 percent, the most since March
9, to 79.878 after the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment for April unexpectedly
fell to 75.7. A Bloomberg News survey had forecast it would hold
at last month’s 76.2.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s gauge, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, was little changed on the week.  China GDP  Australia’s dollar weakened against 10 of its 16 major
counterparts including the greenback and yen after  China  said
its  gross domestic product  grew 8.1 percent year-on-year in the
first quarter, the slowest expansion in almost three years.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner.  “The market’s skew was definitely looking for a stronger
number,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-biggest
lender, said of China’s GDP figure. “The knee-jerk reaction has
been to sell risk currencies,” including the Aussie dollar.  The Aussie fell 0.7 percent to $1.0370 after rising earlier
to $1.0453, the highest level since April 3.  Australia’s currency gained 2.9 percent over the past six
months among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The  U.S.
dollar  rose 1.4 percent, while the yen tumbled 5.8 percent and
the euro lost 4 percent.  Mexico’s peso was the biggest loser today among the U.S.
currency’s most-traded counterparts. The peso depreciated 1.1
percent to 13.1775 to the greenback. The South African rand lost
1 percent to 7.9491 per dollar.  The pound stayed lower against the dollar even after the
U.K.’s AAA rating was affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s . The British
currency fell 0.7 percent to $1.5847. It gained 0.1 percent to
82.52 pence per euro.  The ratings company maintained its stable outlook,
according to a statement released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  