-- Dubai’s DME to Open Asia Office in Push for Oman Crude Benchmark
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-04-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/dubai-s-dme-to-open-asia-office-in-push-for-oman-crude-benchmark.html
The Dubai Mercantile Exchange plans
to open an office in  Singapore , its first outside the emirate,
and is hiring executives in its effort to make the Oman crude
futures contract a price benchmark for Arab producers.  The Dubai-based exchange expects to add  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL)  of  India  as a trading member, the bourse’s chief executive
officer, Thomas Leaver, said in an April 9 interview. Reliance
would join Glencore International Plc, Vitol Group and other
energy traders as members.  Trading in Oman futures, which started in 2007, rose 57
percent in the first three months of this year to an average
daily volume of 4,832 contracts in the period. Bigger trading
volumes and wider acceptance of the contract should encourage
producers and buyers of Middle Eastern oil to adopt it as a
benchmark for long-term crude sales to Asia, Leaver said.  Dubai, the second-biggest sheikhdom in the  United Arab
Emirates , began using the contract as a benchmark for its oil in
2009. The more popular standard for Middle Eastern crude is the
Dubai price assessment published by Platts, an energy-
information division of McGraw-Hill Cos.  “We always believed that when we added enough volume,
adoption of the DME would be an obvious solution,” he said,
without specifying a trading threshold above which producing
countries would see a need to adopt Oman as a benchmark. “We
could do more in reaching out to our customers.”  Leaver Steps Down  Leaver resigned from his post last month and is staying on
until the DME finds a successor. He started as CEO in 2008.  Rod Banus, a former head of futures for  Asia  Pacific at
Barclays Plc who later joined Singapore Exchange Ltd. as a
senior adviser for commodities, took over as the DME’s director
for customer relations last month, Leaver said. The exchange
also hired Rami Abu-Rmaileh as a business development executive,
to begin later this month, Leaver said.  Banus will be responsible for hiring someone to open the
bourse’s planned Singapore office and will work with Chicago-
based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the exchange’s majority shareholder, to
try to boost trading in Oman crude futures, the CEO said.
Singapore is Asia’s main trading hub for oil and refined
products.  The DME plans to ask officials in Abu Dhabi, holder of most
of the U.A.E.’s oil, to adopt the Oman contract as a price
benchmark for the crude they expect to ship from Fujairah,
another of the nation’s seven sheikhdoms, Leaver said.
Government-owned  Abu Dhabi  National Oil Co. is completing a
pipeline to the port of Fujairah, and U.A.E. officials have said
they expect the link to begin transporting crude for export in
the first half of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  