-- Dubai Shares Gain as Arabtec Nominates Aabar Directors to
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-12T10:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/dubai-shares-gain-as-arabtec-nominates-aabar-directors-to-board.html
Dubai shares rose to the highest in
a week after  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  nominated to its board four
executives of the  Abu Dhabi  company that raised its stake in the
Dubai builder.  Arabtec, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest construction
company, rose for the third time in four days.  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC (DIB) , the U.A.E. biggest bank complying with Shariah rules,
advanced 1.5 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 0.4 percent
to 1,678.74, the highest since April 5, at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai, trimming the drop this week to 0.5 percent. The  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 0.2 percent.  Dubai-based Arabtec, a builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, nominated  Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR) ’s Chairman Khadem Alqubaisi and Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Husseiny to its
board. Abu Dhabi state-owned Aabar, which holds stakes in
 Daimler AG (DAI)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , raised its stake in Arabtec to
10.45 percent this year.  “The profile of who is taking over is most important,”
said  Yazan Abdeen , who helps oversee about $250 million as ING
Investment Management’s Middle East and North Africa fund
manager in Dubai. “Aabar has the liquidity to cushion Arabtec
for contract bidding, it can open doors for Arabtec to get more
contracts, and can help Arabtec get receivables.”  Arabtec shareholders will consider the board
recommendations, which also include Aabar board members Mohamed Al Fahim and Mohamed Al Mehairi, at a meeting on April 28, the
company said.  Infrastructure Spending  Arabtec has surged 117 percent this year on speculation
investors are accumulating the stock amid bets it will benefit
from regional infrastructure spending. That compares with a 24
percent gain for Dubai’s benchmark index.  Abu Dhabi, home to about 7 percent of the world’s proven
oil reserves, is trying to diversify its oil-based economy. The
U.A.E. capital said this year it plans to resume stalled
projects including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim
museums.  In 2010, Aabar canceled a plan to buy most of Arabtec for
an estimated $1.74 billion. It had offered to buy 70 percent of
Arabtec through the purchase of bonds that would be exchanged
for shares at 2.3 dirhams. Arabtec shares rose 0.9 percent to
3.45 dirhams. Dubai Islamic climbed the most since March 15 to
2.03 dirhams.  The  Kuwaiti (KWSEIDX)  gauge rose 0.4 percent and Bahrain’s  BB All
Share Index (BHSEASI)  increased 0.2 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  gained 0.3
percent. Oman’s  MSM 30 Index (MSM30)  rose 1.3 percent, while Abu Dhabi’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.4 percent.  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) ’s market was
closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  