-- Fed’s Dudley Says Jobs Report Damps Upbeat Economic Data
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-12T16:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/dudley-says-upbeat-economic-data-damped-by-march-jobs-report.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the economy may be gaining
strength even as the weakest job growth in five months
highlights risks to growth.  “The incoming data on the  U.S. economy  has been a bit more
upbeat of late, suggesting that the recovery may be getting
better established,” Dudley said, speaking to business leaders
at the Syracuse Technology Garden in Syracuse, New York and
repeated in an identical speech at Syracuse University later
this morning. Yet “it is still too soon to conclude that we are
out of the woods, as underlined by the March labor-market
release,” he said, adding he still supports holding the Fed’s
main interest rate close to zero through late 2014.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to meet April 24-25
to debate policy for an economy described as growing at a
“modest to moderate” pace in the Fed’s Beige Book survey
released yesterday. Fed officials, mandated by Congress to
achieve maximum employment, confront an 8.2 percent jobless rate
that Dudley, FOMC vice chairman, said is “unacceptably high.”  Dudley said in response to an audience question that he
agrees with the Fed’s March 13 statement backing low rates
through at least late 2014. “I haven’t seen any set of
information that would suggest to me we should change that
view,” he said.  QE ‘Not Free’  He said it’s “not free to do another round of quantitative
easing,” noting that bond purchases would expand the Fed’s
balance sheet and “create more anxiety on the part of some that
it would lead to future inflation.”  While asset purchases by the Fed shouldn’t be considered
inflationary, some people may hold such a view, he said.  In a separate question and answer session at  Syracuse
University , Dudley said the Fed might “reconsider” additional
stimulus measures if the economy got worse.  He described the conditions that would prompt this: “If we
get back into a situation where the U.S. economy is faltering
and we’re not having the kind of economic growth putting the
 unemployment rate  on a clearly downward trajectory. If inflation
is well behaved or if inflation expectations are starting to
falter.”  Employers added 120,000 workers to payrolls last month, the
least since October and below every forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 80 economists. Estimates ranged from gains of 175,000
to 250,000 jobs.  Mild Weather  The employment report may indicate that mild weather early
in 2012 spurred hiring in January and February, muting  job
creation  in March, Dudley said.  “We thus will need to see more data to determine the
extent to which the March data represent a transitory weather-
related setback,” he said.  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central bank’s
“highly accommodative” policy yesterday, saying the Fed
probably won’t meet its goal of full employment for years while
inflation remains in check.  “Over the next several years, I anticipate that we will
fall far short in achieving our maximum employment objective,
and I expect inflation to remain at or below” the Fed’s 2
percent target, Yellen said in a speech in New York. She said
housing and the European debt crisis are among “significant
headwinds” that may restrain growth.  While further easing “could be warranted if the recovery
proceeds at a slower-than-expected pace,” Yellen said “a
significant acceleration in the pace of recovery could call for
an earlier beginning to the process of policy firming than the
FOMC currently anticipates.”  Permanent Vote  As president of the New York Fed since January 2009,
Dudley, 59, holds a permanent vote on the central bank’s
monetary policy committee.  He spoke today as part of a two-day tour of upstate New
York. Following his speeches in Syracuse, he will visit Welch
Allyn, a manufacturer of medical devices in Skaneateles Falls,
New York. Tomorrow, Dudley will speak in Buffalo, New York.  The  central bank  compiles an anecdotal account of economic
conditions across the country known as the  Beige Book . The
report, released yesterday, said that “hiring was steady or
showed a modest increase across many districts.”  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
higher for a second day, amid policymakers’ indications that
interest rates will remain low. The  S&P 500  added 1 percent to
1,382.83 at 12:19 p.m. New York time. The benchmark gauge
yesterday snapped the longest losing streak since November.  Dudley said the expansion “has yet to be strong enough on
a sustained basis to make a big dent in the overall amount of
slack in the U.S. economy.”  It faces headwinds and downside risks, including rising gas
prices, weaknesses in housing and government cutbacks at the
federal, state and local levels, Dudley said. Economic growth
outside the U.S. may also flag, and disruptions to the supply of
oil could push up prices, he said.  Policy makers in  Europe  have “not resolved, but subdued”
the “adverse feedback loops” that existed between their banks
and the fiscal problems of their governments, Dudley said.  In response to audience questions, Dudley said U.S.
deficits would be even worse when  interest rates  begin to rise.  Rise ‘Significantly’  “Once we normalize interest rates the debt service cost to
the U.S. will go up significantly,” Dudley said. “We’re not
going to keep interest rates low to solve fiscal problems.”  Dudley said the Fed will “do what it has to do” on
interest rates to achieve its dual mandate for full employment
and stable prices and “if this causes more fiscal issues, too
bad.”  Dudley cited a slowing of inflation measured by the annual
change in the personal consumption expenditures index. The gauge
slowed to a 2.3 percent gain in February from 2.9 percent in
September, above the Fed’s goal of 2 percent inflation.  “Even though the recent rise of gasoline prices mentioned
above could interrupt this pattern, we expect this moderation of
overall inflation to resume later this year,” Dudley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Syracuse, New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  