-- Fracking Tied to Unusual Rise in Earthquakes in U.S.
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-12T19:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/earthquake-outbreak-in-central-u-s-tied-to-drilling-wastewater.html
A spate of earthquakes across the
middle of the U.S. is “almost certainly” man-made, and may be
caused by wastewater from oil or gas drilling injected into the
ground, U.S. government scientists said in a study.  Researchers  from the  U.S. Geological Survey  said that for
the three decades until 2000, seismic events in the nation’s
midsection averaged 21 a year. They jumped to 50 in 2009, 87 in
2010 and 134 in 2011.  Those statistics, included in the abstract of a research
paper to be discussed at the Seismological Society of America
conference next week in  San Diego , will add pressure on an
 energy industry  already confronting more regulation of the
process of hydraulic fracturing.  “Our scientists cite a series of examples for which an
uptick in seismic activity is observed in areas where the
disposal of wastewater through deep-well injection increased
significantly,”  David Hayes , the deputy secretary of the U.S.
Department of Interior, said in a  blog  post yesterday,
describing research by scientists at the  U.S. Geological Survey .  ‘Fairly Small’ Quakes  The earthquakes were “fairly small,” and rarely caused
damage, Hayes said.  He said not all wastewater disposal wells induce
earthquakes, and there is no way of knowing if a disposal well
will cause a temblor.  Last month, Ohio officials concluded that earthquakes there
last year probably were caused by wastewater from hydraulic
fracturing for natural gas injected into a disposal well.  In hydraulic fracturing -- or fracking -- water, sand and
chemicals are injected into deep shale formations to break apart
underground rock and free natural gas trapped deep underground.
Much of that water comes back up to the surface and must then be
disposed of.  There’s “a difference between disposal injection wells and
hydraulically fractured wells,” Daniel Whitten, a spokesman for
the America’s Natural Gas Alliance, which represents companies
such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG) , said
in an e-mail. “There are over 140,000 disposal wells in
America, with only a handful potentially linked to seismic
activity.”  ‘Committed to Monitoring’  “We are committed to monitoring the issue and working with
authorities where there are concerns, but it should be noted
that currently there is no scientific data associating hydraulic
fracturing with earthquakes that would cause damage,” he said.  An abstract of the federal study, which was led by William
Ellsworth, Earthquake Science Center staff director for the U.S.
Geological Survey in  Menlo Park ,  California , was published
online earlier this month. A full version of the study wasn’t
immediately available.  The area studied included a swath of the country running
from  Ohio  to Colorado and  Oklahoma , the study said.  “A naturally-occurring rate change of this magnitude is
unprecedented outside of volcanic settings or in the absence of
a main shock, of which there were neither in this region,”
Ellsworth and his colleagues wrote.  The Environmental Protection Agency is preparing to release
rules on air pollution from gas wells and on the treatment of
wastewater. Other state and federal rules could force more
disclosure of the chemicals used by the drilling companies.  The Interior Department is considering rules to update
well-design standards and require disclosure of the chemicals
in fracking on public lands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  