-- ECB Says It’s Prepared to Fight Inflation in Firm, Timely Manner
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ecb-says-it-s-prepared-to-fight-inflation-in-firm-timely-manner.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
is prepared to act if needed to curb inflation pressures even as
downside risks to the economic outlook prevail.  “All the necessary tools are available to address upside
risks to medium-term  price stability  in a firm and timely
manner,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its monthly
bulletin today, echoing President Mario Draghi’s April 4 policy
statement. While “a moderate recovery in activity is expected
in the course of the year,” the “outlook remains subject to
downside risks,” it said.  The ECB is trying to balance the threat of inflation in
 Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, with recessions in half the
region’s member countries and a resurging debt crisis. While
 Spain ’s borrowing costs have jumped amid investor concern about
the country’s ability to repay its debts, workers in Germany are
winning some of the biggest pay increases in 20 years.  “The Governing Council will pay particular attention to
any signs of pass-through from higher energy prices to wages,
profits and general price-setting,” the ECB said. “However,
looking ahead, in an environment of modest growth in the euro
area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain limited.”  All non-standard policy measures are “temporary in
nature,” the ECB said. Still, Draghi said last week that any
talk of an exit from the measures is premature. The ECB kept its
 benchmark rate  at a record low of 1 percent on April 4.  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure yesterday
suggested the bank could revive its bond-purchase program to
reduce Spain’s borrowing costs.  The ECB hasn’t purchased any  government bonds  for four
weeks after its injection of more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of three-year loans helped unlock credit markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  