-- ECB Seen Favoring Bond Buying Over Bank Loans
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-13T14:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ecb-seen-favoring-bond-buying-over-bank-loans-as-crisis-deepens.html
The  European Central Bank  will
restart its controversial government bond purchases rather than
offer banks another round of unlimited three-year loans as the
sovereign debt crisis worsens, a survey of economists shows.  Of 22 economists polled this week, 17 predicted the ECB
will be forced to resume the  Securities Markets Program (ECBCSMP) , while
only one forecast it will offer another batch of three-year
cash. Nine said the central bank may consider shorter maturity
loans of one or two years.  “Market stresses will eventually force the ECB to restart
the bond program, but it’s not imminent,” said  Ken Wattret ,
chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas in London, who
participated in the survey conducted April 11-12. “Trying to
get consensus on the council for it will be difficult.”  The bond purchases have split the ECB’s Governing Council,
with German policy makers in particular arguing they blur the
line between monetary and fiscal policy. The program was
mothballed a month ago after the ECB’s 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of three-year loans reversed a sell-off in Italian and
Spanish bonds that threatened to splinter the 17-nation euro
region.  With tensions returning and driving up borrowing costs
again in Spain and Italy, some economists say the so-called
Longer Term Refinancing Operations aren’t the game-changer they
were hailed to be.  ‘Toxic’ Loans  “There is mounting evidence that the LTRO is pretty toxic
for banks and isn’t working,” said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at  Societe Generale  in London and a former ECB
official. “I don’t think there will be another one.”  Spain’s 10-year yield jumped to 5.99 percent earlier this
week, nearing levels that prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal 
to seek bailouts. Italian three-year borrowing costs rose more
than 1 percentage point at an auction yesterday.  Debt markets rallied after the ECB’s three-year tenders in
December and February as banks used some of the cheap cash to
buy  government bonds . Investment in government debt by Spanish
banks climbed to a record 246 billion euros in February, an
increase of 20 percent from December, ECB figures show.  The effect on bond markets is waning now and banks are left
with assets that investors are increasingly wary of, said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in London.  ‘Something is Wrong’  “Something is wrong when you load up on assets that were
considered risky in November and deemed un-risky in January,”
he said. “Now we’re seeing the worst you could have hoped for.
As soon as the situation of the sovereign worsens, banks will
come under additional market pressure. That’s extremely
negative.”  Shares of  Bankinter SA (BKT) , a Madrid-based mortgage lender that
used three-year funds from the ECB to acquire short-duration
government bonds, have plunged 26 percent this year.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , which snapped up 36 billion euros in
three-year cash and partially used the money to buy Italian
debt, has dropped 7.3 percent. By contrast, the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index of 43 companies has gained 7
percent this year.  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure suggested on April
11 that the bank could resume its bond purchases, prompting
 Spain ’s 10-year yield to retreat more than 10 basis points.  ‘Testing the Waters’  “The crisis will force the ECB to intervene again and I
suspect Coeure’s comments were testing the waters a bit,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“The reaction showed that even verbal intervention helps at
this stage.”  Spanish “market conditions are not justified,” Coeure
said at an event in Paris. “Will the ECB intervene? We have an
instrument, the securities markets program, which hasn’t been
used recently but it still exists.”  ECB board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo told reporters
late yesterday in  Madrid  that “the program of asset purchases
remains in place.”  Still, ECB council member Klaas Knot said today that policy
makers are “very far” from reactivating the SMP. “The
instrument hasn’t been used for some time” and “I hope we
never have to use it again,” he said in Amsterdam.  ‘Not a Fan’  Since the bond program began in May 2010, the ECB has spent
214 billion euros on debt from Greece, Ireland, Portugal,  Italy 
and Spain. The purchases prompted the resignation of ECB chief
economist  Juergen Stark  at the end of last year.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in December that
he’s “not a fan of the SMP” and that other ECB policy makers
were “becoming increasingly skeptical” about its efficacy. The
buying dwindled after that and only 27 million euros of
purchases have been settled in the past two months.  “There is no evidence that the SMP is the tool that brings
about a sustained decline in yields,” said Cailloux. Spain’s
10-year bond yield surged to more than 6.6 percent in November
after the ECB began to intervene in Spanish markets in August.  The ECB may be inclined to wait as long as possible on
further measures given its previous activism reduced pressure on
governments to push through reforms, Wattret said.  “If the crisis has shown us one thing, it’s that market
pressure will move governments to act,” he said. “So the ECB
has good reason to wait.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  