-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for April (Text)
-- B y   H a r u m i   I c h i k u r a
-- 2012-04-12T08:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-april-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s April monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 4 April 2012 to
keep the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. The information that
has become available since the beginning of March broadly
confirms the Governing Council’s previous assessment.
Inflation rates are likely to stay above 2% in 2012, with upside
risks prevailing. Over the policy-relevant horizon, the
Governing Council expects price developments to remain in line
with price stability. Consistent with this picture, the
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains subdued. Survey
indicators for economic growth have broadly stabilised at low
levels in the early months of 2012, and a moderate recovery
in activity is expected in the course of the year. The economic
outlook remains subject to downside risks.  Medium-term inflation expectations for the euro area economy
must continue to be firmly anchored in line with the Governing
Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close
to, 2% over the medium term. Over the last few months the
Eurosystem has implemented both standard and non-standard
monetary policy measures. This combination of measures has
contributed to a stabilisation in the financial environment
and an improvement in the transmission of monetary policy.
Further developments need to be carefully monitored. It is also
important to keep in mind that all the non-standard monetary
policy measures are temporary in nature and that all the
necessary tools are available to address upside risks to
medium-term  price stability  in a firm and timely manner.  With regard to the economic analysis, real GDP contracted by
0.3% in the euro area in the fourth quarter of 2011. Survey
data confirm a stabilisation in economic activity at a low level
in early 2012. The Governing Council continues to expect the
euro area economy to recover gradually in the course of the
year. The outlook for economic activity should be supported
by foreign demand, the very low shortterm interest rates in
the euro area, and all the measures taken to foster the proper
functioning of the euro area economy. However, the remaining
tensions in euro area sovereign debt markets and their impact
on credit conditions, as well as the process of balance sheet
adjustment in the financial and non-financial sectors and high
unemployment in parts of the euro area, are expected to continue
to dampen the underlying growth momentum.  Downside risks to the economic outlook prevail. They relate
in particular to a renewed intensification of tensions in euro
area debt markets and their potential spillover to the euro
area real economy. Downside risks also relate to further
increases in commodity prices.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.6% in March 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, after 2.7% in the
previous three months. Inflation is likely to stay above 2%
in 2012, mainly owing to recent increases in energy prices,
as well as recently announced rises in indirect taxes. On the
basis of current futures prices for commodities, annual
inflation rates should fall below 2% again in early 2013. In
this context, the Governing Council will pay particular
attention to any signs of pass-through from higher energy
prices to wages, profits and general price-setting. However,
looking ahead, in an environment of modest growth in the euro
area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain limited.  Risks to the outlook for HICP inflation rates in the coming
years are still seen to be broadly balanced, with upside risks
in the near term mainly stemming from higher than expected oil
prices and indirect tax increases. Downside risks continue to
exist owing to weaker than expected developments in economic
activity.  The monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion has remained subdued. The annual growth
rate of M3 was 2.8% in February 2012, compared with 2.5% in
January. In both January and February a strengthening in the
deposit base of banks was observed. Annual loan growth to the
private sector has remained subdued, with the rate (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) moderating in February to
1.1% year on year, from 1.5% in January.  The annual growth rates of loans to non-financial corporations
and loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) stood at 0.6% and 1.8% respectively in
February. The volume of MFI loans to non-financial
corporations and households remained practically unchanged
compared with the previous month.  Money and credit data up to February confirm a broad
stabilisation of financial conditions and thereby the
avoidance of an abrupt and disorderly adjustment in the balance
sheets of  credit institutions , as intended by the Eurosystem’s
measures. Funding conditions for banks have generally improved,
and there has been increased issuance activity and a re-opening
of some segments of funding markets. The demand for credit
remains weak in the light of still subdued economic activity
and the ongoing process of balance sheet adjustment in
non-financial sectors. The full supportive impact of the
Eurosystem’s non-standard measures will need time to unfold
and to have a positive effect on the growth of loans when demand
recovers. In this context, it should be noted that the second
three-year longer-term refinancing operation was only settled
on 1 March 2012.  Following the stabilisation in the financial environment, it
is essential for banks to strengthen their resilience further,
including by retaining earnings. The soundness of banks’
balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating both an
appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalisation of all funding channels.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over
the medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the
monetary analysis confirms this picture.  In order to support confidence, sustainable growth and
employment, the Governing Council calls upon governments to
restore sound fiscal positions and implement strong structural
reforms. Commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact need
to be fully honoured and weaknesses in competitiveness
forcefully addressed. National policy-makers need to fully
meet their responsibilities to ensure fiscal sustainability,
to increase the adjustment capacity of product and labour
markets, to enhance productivity and competitiveness, and to
ensure the soundness of their financial system. In particular,
countries which have suffered losses in cost competitiveness
need to ensure sufficient wage adjustment and foster
productivity growth.  It should be recalled that the single monetary policy naturally
focuses on maintaining medium-term price stability for the
euro area as a whole. It is up to national policy-makers to
foster domestic developments which support the
competitiveness of their economies. Both prudent fiscal
policies and competitive and flexible product and labour
markets are of crucial importance for the functioning of the
euro area economy. This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains
three articles. The first article presents an analysis of
government debt sustainability issues in the euro area. The
second article reviews the developments in prices and costs
during the 2008-09 recession, while the third describes the
Eurosystem’s regime and main principles for financial
reporting and accounting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harumi Ichikura in London at 
 hichikura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  