-- ECB’s Orphanides Criticizes Coeure for Bond-Program Comments
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-12T13:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ecb-s-orphanides-criticizes-coeure-for-bond-program-comments.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Athanasios Orphanides criticized Executive Board
member Benoit Coeure for suggesting the ECB could restart its
bond-purchase program.  “It is not right to front-run decisions of the ECB
Governing Council,” Orphanides, who heads the central bank of
Cyprus, told reporters in Nicosia today when asked about
Coeure’s comments. “The bond-purchase program is a tool that is
there and the Governing Council of the ECB can decide when it
will be used.”  Coeure yesterday triggered speculation that the ECB will
restart bond purchases to help lower  Spain ’s borrowing costs as
the debt crisis threatens to boil over again. The ECB hasn’t
purchased any  government bonds  for four weeks after its
injection of more than $1 trillion ($1.3 trillion) of three-year
loans into the banking system helped debt markets rally. Some
policy makers oppose the bond program, arguing it blurs the line
between fiscal and monetary policy.  Spanish “market conditions are not justified,” Coeure
said at an event in Paris. “Will the ECB intervene? We have an
instrument, the securities markets program, which hasn’t been
used recently but it still exists.”  Spanish bond yields have surged since Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said on March 2 he wouldn’t meet a 2012 deficit
goal set by the European Union.  The government, which is implementing the deepest austerity
measures in three decades, is struggling to convince investors
it can crack down on overspending by regional administrations as
unemployment approaches 24 percent and the economy is mired in
recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  