-- Egypt Lawmakers Back Election Ban on Mubarak Officials
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-12T21:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/egypt-mps-back-election-ban-on-officials-from-mubarak-regime.html
Egypt ’s parliament voted in favor
of a measure that would curtail the political rights of
officials who served under former President  Hosni Mubarak , the
official Middle East News Agency reported today.  The measure would stop officials who held top posts in
Mubarak’s regime during the 10 years before his ouster last
February from running for the presidency or holding the post of
vice president, prime minister or other senior positions, for
another decade, the Cairo-based agency reported.  The draft law was sent to the country’s ruling military
council, headed by Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, for
review, al-Jazeera reported.  The law was submitted to parliament days after Mubarak’s
longtime intelligence chief  Omar Suleiman , who served as vice
president in the waning days of the regime, filed his bid to run
in the May 23 presidential race. Suleiman’s candidacy challenged
the Muslim Brotherhood and its Freedom and Justice Party, which
holds almost 50 percent of the seats in the parliament’s lower
house.  The parliamentary vote reflects the antipathy toward
Mubarak and his top cadre among Egyptians and suspicions that
Suleiman’s nomination was backed by the military amid a brewing
showdown between the generals and the Islamists that dominate
parliament.  The Muslim Brotherhood planned to hold a mass rally
tomorrow, under the banner of “Protecting the Revolution,” as
a stand against Suleiman’s candidacy.  ‘Insidious Attempts’  The march is “a response to insidious attempts that
evidently aim to restore the corrupt former regime to power,”
the Freedom and Justice Party said in a statement on its website
today. “Those attempts are being made by certain parties whose
aims and objectives are clearly obvious to all, and whose artful
and treacherous games are willful, brutal and malicious.”  The law comes two weeks before Egypt’s election committee
is to issue the final list of presidential nominees on April 26.
Suleiman already is facing a court challenge to his nomination.  Suleiman has denied that he seeks to reinvent the old
regime, describing himself in a recent interview as a soldier
answering a call to duty after being moved by the encouragement
of his supporters.  Suleiman has cast himself as a law-and-order candidate,
running on a platform of working quickly to restore security in
a country that has seen a surge in crime since the uprising that
ended Mubarak’s rule last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew J.
Barden in Dubai at   barden@bloomberg.net  