-- Egypt Interior Ministry to Comply With Abu Ismail Ruling
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-04-12T19:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/egypt-court-sets-el-shater-hearing-as-election-deadline-looms.html
Egypt ’s Interior Ministry will
comply with a court ruling requiring it to provide documentation
about the citizenship of Salafi presidential hopeful Hazem Abu
Ismail’s mother, the official Middle East News Agency reported.  The ministry isn’t a “real party to this case,” but will
comply with the ruling, MENA cited an unidentified ministry
official as saying in a statement. Abu Ismail’s bid to be
included on a final list of presidential nominees had been in
jeopardy amid reports his mother held U.S. citizenship before
her death. He has repeatedly denied the claims. Current
electoral law bars anyone whose parents hold or held another
nationality from running for the country’s top post.  A Cairo administrative court sided with Abu Ismail in
requiring the  Interior Ministry  to provide documentation about
his mother’s Egyptian citizenship.  The Salafi candidate, who mustered thousands of supporters
in a mass rally last weekend, said he received official copies
of the ruling and was seeking to ensure ministries and other
authorities comply with the order, MENA reported. Abu Ismail
said the ruling also affected Egypt’s election commission.  The commission had said it received a letter from the
passport authority stating that Abu Ismail’s mother had a U.S
passport and used the document several times to travel to and
from Egypt. It also said Egypt’s Foreign Ministry had said she
received her U.S. citizenship on Oct. 25, 2006, according to an
April 7 statement by the commission.  Egypt’s election commission will announce the final list of
presidential candidates on April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo
   teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew J.
Barden in Dubai at   barden@bloomberg.net  