-- Lehman U.K. Unit to Make First Payment to Creditors by Year End
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/lehman-u-k-unit-to-make-first-payment-to-creditors-by-year-end.html
The administrator of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s London unit said it will start
returning money to creditors before the end of 2012, more than
three-and-a-half years after the bank’s collapse sparked a
global financial crisis.  The interim distribution was announced by Lehman Brothers
International Europe’s administrator PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in a report on its progress today. The firm didn’t say how much
would be paid out.  “There does now seem to be sufficient clarity that we can
plan to make a first interim distribution to unsecured creditors
by the end of this year,” said Tony Lomas, a partner at PwC.  The move follows a ruling by the U.K. Supreme Court in
February on when bankrupt financial firms’ clients get priority
in an administration proceeding.  Confusion over the status of Lehman clients, and the bank’s
practice of mixing customer money with its own, led to delays in
the return of funds and assets held by the London unit.  In its report on the administration, PwC said it expected
to recover as much as 13.4 billion pounds ($21.4 billion) from
the unit, after estimated costs. Total claims against the estate
from unsecured creditors will be in the range of 14.7 billion to
47.9 billion pounds.  Assets valued at about 13.2 billion pounds that were held
by the U.K. unit have been returned to clients since its parent
company collapsed and filed the largest ever financial
bankruptcy in September 2008.  The London unit is involved in legal disputes with other
Lehman affiliates and clients over the ownership of assets.  A claim by Curacao-based Lehman Brothers Securities NV
against the unit for 6.7 billion pounds has been withdrawn, PwC
said. Settlements have also been reached with two U.S. and one
Hong Kong affiliate in the last six months.  PwC said its fees for the administration reached
495 million pounds in March, up from 403 million pounds in
September 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  