-- Elektra Drops Most Since ’97 as IPC Cuts Illiquid Stocks
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-04-12T21:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/elektra-drops-as-rule-purges-illiquid-stocks-from-ipc.html
Grupo Elektra SA, the retail and
banking firm controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , fell the
most in 14 years after stock-market rule changes threatened its
position on Mexico’s benchmark  IPC index .  The stock plunged 18 percent to 1,035.92 pesos at the close
of trading, the biggest decline since Oct. 27, 1997, when the
Asian financial crisis sparked capital outflows from emerging-
market countries. The slide wiped out 53.7 billion pesos ($4.1
billion) from Elektra’s market value, leaving it at 251 billion
pesos. The IPC rose 0.5 percent today.  Elektra more than doubled last year, in part because a
derivative instrument owned by the company made its shares
scarce. The stock exchange’s new rules, announced last night,
prevent shares that are tied up in a company’s derivative
transactions from being included when calculating whether the
public float reaches the minimum level of 12 percent of equity.  “It’s a positive move by the index to put this rule into
play,”  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $33 billion including
Mexican shares at Van Eck Associates in  New York , said by phone.
“Elektra had pretty low free float and its weight in the index
probably wasn’t representative of its true impact. Investors
have a tough time getting exposure to this name just through the
free float.”  The rules take effect in September. While Elektra’s float
is 29 percent according to the current rules, the derivative has
made only about 6 percent available for trading, Julio Zamora, a
Citigroup Mexico strategist, said in a Jan. 4 report.  Equity Swap  “If everything is as it appears at the moment, it’s very
probable that it will leave the index,” said Luis Rodriguez,
director of research at Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB in
Guadalajara,  Mexico . “All the funds that replicate the index
are going to cut their positions.”  Elektra’s derivative instrument is an equity swap, which
allows the company to bet on its stock price as if it held the
shares itself. In such transactions, the other party normally
buys up shares as a hedge, a process that would have made
Elektra shares scarce.  The goal of the swaps is to get an “attractive potential
return” from underlying assets the company estimates are
undervalued, Elektra said in a statement filed with the exchange
today.  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for Elektra, declined to comment
further.  Share Shortage  A shortage of shares for an IPC stock drives up the price,
as funds indexed to the benchmark generate disproportionate
demand, said Aldo Miranda, a trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa
SA, who recommends selling Elektra shares.  “It’s a very good thing for the market,” Miranda said in
a phone interview from Mexico City. “They’re trying to make
sure that what happened last year doesn’t happen again,” he
said, referring to the surge in Elektra’s stock.  The Bolsa said in a statement that it wants to identify
“shares of companies that, by virtue of an action or legal
contract they participate in, have the effect of restricting
their availability for trading in the market.”  Shares of  Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB , which operates the
exchange, climbed 2.1 percent today, extending their gain this
year to 20 percent.  The adjustments “respond to a constant analysis and
improvement of the indexes we produce,”  Luis Tellez , chief
executive officer of the exchange, told reporters today in
Mexico City.  2012 Decline  With today’s drop, Elektra shares have fallen 27 percent
from their peak of 1,425.82 on Jan. 4. The stock rallied 173
percent rally between Dec. 31, 2010 and Jan. 4 of this year.  Mexico City-based Elektra’s shares  closed  at 1,258.08 pesos
yesterday, trading at a price to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio of 37, making it the
most expensive stock on the Mexican exchange. After trading
today, the ratio fell to 34, the second highest level after
 Minera Frisco SAB (MFRISCOA) , a mining company controlled by billionaire
 Carlos Slim . The IPC index trades at a ratio of 6.4 times
Ebitda, as the profit measure is known.  “The index is doing a good job of trying to address some
of the issues that both local and international investors have
had with the methodology,” said Kuczma of Van Eck. “Having a
proactive approach is probably the best thing for them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  