-- Eli Lilly CEO Says Cost Cutting Won’t Solve Drug Sales Loss
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-12T20:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/eli-lilly-ceo-says-cost-cutting-won-t-solve-drug-revenue-losses.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , facing generic
competition to two of its top drugs, needs to rely on new
medicines rather than cost-cutting to overcome the revenue loss,
Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  said.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker wrestling with
sales losses after its cholesterol pill Lipitor began facing
generic versions, has pledged to trim $1 billion from operations
in 2012. A similar focus on costs won’t be enough for Lilly,
Lechleiter said. Medicines accounting for about half the
Indianapolis-based drugmaker’s  2011 revenue  will face copycats
by June 2013.  “I don’t think we can save our way out of the enormous
challenge we face,” Lechleiter said today during an interview
in Boston at the annual meeting of the  Pharmaceutical Research
and Manufacturers of America.  “The best course is to maintain
our focus on advancing our pipeline,” he said.  Lilly’s leading experimental product is solanezumab, a
treatment for Alzheimer’s disease that is in the last of three
rounds of testing usually needed to gain regulatory approval.
Clearance for the drug could be a “lottery ticket” worth as
much as $9 billion in 2020,  Tim Anderson , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in December.  “Lilly’s future does not depend on solanezumab,”
Lechleiter said. “While we hope the molecules that we take into
Phase 3 will be successful, we’ve said all along this is a high-
risk program,” he said.  5 Million Americans  As many as 5 million Americans have  Alzheimer’s disease ,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
in Atlanta. Alzheimer’s is a degenerative neurological condition
with no approved treatment to slow brain cell death.  Nor would a failure for solanezumab end the company’s
efforts to fight the disease. “We have other approaches and
other molecules in our pipeline that we will continue to move
forward,” Lechleiter said.  Lilly’s antipsychotic Zyprexa lost patent protection last
year, while exclusivity for the depression treatment Cymbalta
will end in 2013.  Lilly’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $39.58 at the
close in New York. The company has gained 10 percent in the past
12 months.  Lechleiter reiterated that company will maintain its
 dividend  of 49 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  