-- Tenaga Returns to Profit After $652 Million Compensation
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-04-13T02:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/tenaga-posts-first-profit-in-year-on-652-million-compensation.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , Malaysia’s
biggest power producer, returned to profit after three straight
quarters of losses as it booked 2 billion ringgit ($652 million)
in government compensation for disruptions in its gas supply.  Net income  jumped more than fourfold to 2.82 billion
ringgit, or 51.6 sen per share, for its fiscal second quarter
ended Feb. 29, from a restated 641.1 million ringgit or 11.6 sen
per share a year earlier, Tenaga said in a statement late
yesterday. Revenue climbed 17 percent to 8.6 billion ringgit on
higher electricity sales, it said.  “For financial year 2012, the group is expected to record
a better performance than last year,” Chief Executive Officer
Che Khalib Mohamad Noh said in the statement.  The Kuala Lumpur-based utility received compensation from
 Malaysia ’s government and state-owned energy group  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. (PET)  for disruptions in gas supply last year which
forced Tenaga to buy costlier alternative fuels for its power
plants. The utility’s cumulative losses over the past three
consecutive quarters amounted to 1.1 billion ringgit as costs
escalated with increased usage of oil and distillates.  The stock was upgraded to “buy” from “hold” at Hong
Leong Investment Bank Bhd. and TA Securities Bhd. today on
improved earnings expectations, according to separate reports
from the Kuala Lumpur-based brokerages.  ‘Above Expectations’  The results were “above expectations,” Hong Leong analyst
Daniel Wong wrote in the report, raising his so-called fair
value to 7.16 ringgit from 6.54 ringgit.  Tenaga rose as much as 1.5 percent to 6.61 ringgit in  Kuala
Lumpur  trading today, before paring gains to 0.8 percent at
10:17 a.m. The stock has risen 11.2 percent this year,
outperforming a 4.7 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  While subsidized natural gas supply has improved since
January, it will probably remain in limited supply until
Petroliam Nasional’s new liquefied natural gas plant in Malacca
is operational in September, Che Khalib told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday.  Petronas and the government will continue paying
compensation, with Tenaga likely to incur another 1 billion
ringgit in additional extraordinary fuel costs by then, he said.  Improved Dividend  “From November until September, the government has decided
that for whatever additional amount Tenaga has to incur as a
result of insufficient gas, we will continue with the
arrangement that was made before,” the CEO said.  Tenaga plans to reward shareholders with an improved
interim dividend of 5.09 sen per share, compared with 4.5 sen a
year earlier, according to its exchange filing.  Earnings were also boosted by currency gains on a stronger
ringgit, it said. It spent on average $109.30 a metric ton on
coal for the first half of fiscal year 2012, compared with $100
a ton in the same period a year earlier, according to the
statement.  Che Khalib  plans to retire when his contract expires this
year after heading the national utility for eight years. A
successor will be named by end-June, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  