-- Environmental Groups Appeal Arctic Drilling Suit Dismissal
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-12T21:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/environmental-groups-appeal-arctic-drilling-suit-dismissal-1-.html
More than a dozen environmental and
Native American groups are appealing a U.S. judge’s February
decision to uphold a 2008 drilling lease sale that opened for
exploration the Chukchi Sea northwest of  Alaska .  U.S. District Judge Ralph Beistline in Alaska’s capital
city, Juneau, upheld the sale in a Feb. 13 ruling, saying he
deferred to the expertise of the federal Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, which had said the sale was in the nation’s best
interest.  The groups filed their notice of appeal at the Alaska court
today. Their challenge would be heard by the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  San Francisco .  “The  Bush administration  was wrong to open these fragile
Arctic waters up to drilling without first having sufficient
information about how those operations could impact the Arctic
Ocean and the life it supports,” said Sierra Weaver, a lawyer
with Defenders of Wildlife, one of the groups participating in
the case, referring to President  George W. Bush  in a press
statement today.  In their complaint filed in January 2008, the groups said
the federal government’s decision to open 29.4 million acres on
the continental shelf under the Chukchi Sea to oil and gas
exploration violated the U.S. National Environmental Policy Act.  Oil producers  ConocoPhillips Co. (8375930Q)  and  Royal Dutch Shell
PLC (RDSA) ’s Shell Gulf of Mexico unit joined the case on the side of
the federal government.  Each side last year asked Beistline for judgment in its
favor.  Greenhouse Gases  The U.S., saying that the Ocean Energy Management bureau
already had analyzed the environmental impact at the court’s
behest, said that supplemental environmental impact statements
had adequately addressed the impact of drilling on whales and
other species as well as the generation of  greenhouse gases .  “It is the court’s conclusion that BOEM has adequately
considered and disclosed the environmental impact of development
of Lease Sale 193,” Beistline said in his Feb. 13. ruling.  “America’s desire for oil and gas, if not satisfied from
American sources, will be satisfied from elsewhere,” the judge
said. “Hence the court agrees with BOEM’s conclusion that there
would be no net effect (positive or negative) on  climate change 
because of oil and gas development on Lease Sale 193.”  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the groups’
appellate filing.  “Today’s appeal asks the court to require the Obama
administration to comply with the law -- and common sense -- and
look before it leaps into potentially catastrophic oil drilling
in the  Chukchi Sea ,” said Erik Grafe, a lawyer for
Earthjustice, the San Francisco-based organization representing
the groups that sued.  The case is Native Village of Point Hope v. Salazar,
08-cv-0004, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Juneau).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  