-- Merck’s Baldness Drug Linked to Sex Concerns After Use
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-12T20:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/merck-s-baldness-drug-linked-to-sex-concerns-after-use.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s baldness drug
Propecia and enlarged prostate therapy Proscar will carry labels
linking them to sexual dysfunction after the treatments are no
longer used, U.S. regulators said.  Propecia’s packaging will include warnings about libido,
orgasm and ejaculation disorders that occur after patients stop
using the medicines, the  Food and Drug Administration  said
yesterday in a  statement . Proscar’s similar warning is limited
to decreased libido, and both drugs will include on their labels
reports of infertility and poor semen quality that normalized
when people stopped using the drugs, the agency said.  “Despite the fact that clear causal links between
finasteride (Propecia and Proscar) and sexual adverse events
have not been established, the cases suggest a broader range of
adverse effects than previously reported in patients taking
these drugs,” the FDA said in its statement.  The FDA reviewed 421 reports of sexual dysfunction from
1998 to 2011 related to Propecia. Of these, 59 cases reported
the condition lasted longer than three months after drug
discontinuation. The agency reviewed 131 cases of erectile
dysfunction and 68 cases of decreased libido with Proscar from
1992 to 2010.  “Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a
population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to
reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal
relationship to drug exposure,” Pamela Eisele, a spokeswoman
for Merck, said in a statement. “Merck believes that Propecia
and Proscar are generally well tolerated and effective for their
respective indicated use when used in accordance with their
approved labeling.”  Merck declined less than 1 percent to $38.27 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The shares of the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-
based company have gained 14 percent in the last 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  