-- Tesla Motors Cuts Factory Cost to Try to Generate Profit
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/tesla-motors-cuts-factory-cost-to-try-to-generate-profit.html
Gilbert Passin surveys the 50-year-
old factory where  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  plans to make electric cars,
and he sees a manufacturing bargain.  The former engineer for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Volvo AB’s Mack
truck unit and Renault SA designed the second-hand Fremont,
 California , plant. He equipped it with Ikea furniture and
refurbished machinery to build battery-powered cars to take on
the likes of BMW’s 5 Series, starting in about two months.  “The cost to set this up was very, very low compared to
any new plant,” said Passin, vice president of manufacturing
for  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla. “Everything we are doing
has a very good value return.”  Holding down plant costs is crucial to the success of
Tesla, led by Silicon Valley entrepreneur Elon Musk and which
has yet to record its first profit, because regardless of how
many consumers may want environmentally friendly cars, no
rechargeable vehicle will be economically viable unless it can
compete on price with conventional models.  With the going price to build a North American auto plant
averaging $1 billion, Tesla may have spent less than a third
that much to buy, renovate and equip its factory. It paid $42
million for the plant in 2010, spent $17 million for some of its
presses and machinery, and got other used equipment at a
“fraction” of the original cost from parts suppliers including
Tower Automotive Inc., said Passin, 51.  Time Capsule  Tesla on Feb. 15, when it released results for 2011, said
based on its current business plans, “we have liquidity to
reach profitability in 2013.”  The factory in California’s Bay Area is also something of a
window into a half-century of U.S. auto manufacturing. Opening
in 1962, it made Oldsmobiles, Buicks, Pontiacs and Chevrolets
for the former General Motors Corp. It closed in 1982, then
reopened two years later as New United Motor Manufacturing Inc.,
or Nummi, a joint-venture shared by GM and Toyota.  GM’s 2009 bankruptcy closed the factory again, until Musk
announced plans to make it his production base in 2010.  Toyota and  Daimler AG (DAI) , maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and
trucks, are  investors  in Tesla, which has risen 16 percent
through April 11, matching the Nasdaq Composite Index’s 16
percent gain.  The factory currently employs about 600 people, including
some former Nummi staff, and will have between 1,200 and 1,500
by year end, Passin said.  The activity in preparation for the start of production of
Tesla’s Model S presents a contrast to competitor Fisker
Automotive Inc., which has halted work on the Delaware factory
it bought from General Motors Co.’s predecessor after losing
access to U.S. loans. At Tesla, the start of Model S assembly is
building confidence the company will survive and repay the $465
million made available by the Energy Department.  U.S. Loans  Tesla said it still had $189 million remaining on the
federal loan in February. That same month, Fisker said access to
its $529 million loan was suspended last year after it failed to
meet the timetable for bringing its Karma sedan to market. The
Anaheim, California-based company has said it’s in talks with
the Energy Department to regain access to the funds and restart
work on its plant.  Tesla’s timing was fortunate, said  Michael Robinet ,
managing director for industry consultant IHS Automotive, in
Northville, Michigan.  “Nummi had a relatively new paint shop, and that alone is
a huge amount of cost for any factory,” Robinet said.  Tesla’s decision to design an assembly floor that can be
quickly reconfigured as production patterns change is smart for
the company’s relatively low production volume, Robinet said.  ‘Flexible Space’  “They really got the benefit of not having a pre-
determined build process,” he said. “It makes a lot of sense
to have a very flexible space in their case. There are things
you can do in a factory that’s only going to build 20,000
vehicles a year that aren’t possible in a 200,000-unit line.”  Tesla is using only about 20 percent of the factory that
once built as many as 500,000 cars and pickups annually for
Toyota and  GM. (GM)  That vast unused portion, walled off from the
Model S assembly line, is referred to as the “Dark Side” by
Passin’s team, because it’s illuminated only when someone walks
under motion-activated lighting.  Fire-engine red assembly robots made by Kuka AG ring the
factory’s assembly floor, coated with a bright white epoxy that
gives the old facility a modern look. Large windows and
skylights have been added to brighten the assembly space.  Bamboo Flooring  Instead of investing in a fixed conveyor-line system to
carry vehicles to different production stations, the Tesla
factory uses automated carriers that follow a magnetic tape
strip guiding them through the production process.  At the end of the assembly line, finished cars roll onto an
elevated platform with bamboo flooring for final inspection. The
material was chosen because “it looks cool,” Passin said.
Unlike conventional auto plants, Tesla also has a short indoor
test track, something not possible with gasoline cars, and a
rain-testing booth.  Model S prices start at $57,400 for a base version with 160
miles (257 kilometers) of range and rise to $105,400 for a
“Signature” edition with a 300-mile range, before a $7,500
federal tax credit. The first 1,000 units produced will be the
top-end models. Tesla says the sedan will compete for buyers
with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s 5 Series line and Porsche
AG’s Panamera.  Also, unlike large-volume auto plants that receive plastic
and stamped parts from outside suppliers, the Tesla factory is
set up to be self-contained, with on-site metal stamping,
plastic injection molding and paint shop. Instrument panels,
center consoles and seats are assembled in-house, with battery
packs, motors and other electronics also made at the factory.  ‘Ideal Job’  “Everything they are doing makes sense for a company of
this scale,” said Jeffrey Liker, an engineering professor at
the University of  Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . “This kind of very
flexible, self-contained approach is exactly what Toyota did in
the early days of the Toyota Production System.”  Designing Tesla’s assembly system is an “ideal job,” said
Passin, who began his automotive career in 1986 after receiving
his engineering degree from the Ecole Centrale Paris in 1984.  Musk “asked me to build a team from the ground up, find a
factory, make it happen, and two years later have a car on the
road,” he said.  Tesla is on schedule to build about 5,000 cars this year in
Fremont and 20,000 in 2013, Passin said. Output may grow to
about 40,000 vehicles annually after that with the addition of
the Model X electric sport-utility vehicle and other projects,
he said, without elaborating.  Comparisons With Solyndra  The company’s success in staying on schedule with the plant
is a contrast with Fisker as well as with its former neighbor in
Fremont, solar-panel maker Solyndra Inc.  Solyndra’s collapse in 2011 stoked criticism and scrutiny
of its $535 million loan guarantee from the Energy Department,
as well as the loans the Obama Administration awarded to Fisker
and Tesla. While Tesla is using an aging factory and second-hand
equipment, Solyndra opened its $733 million Fab 2 factory with a
state-of-the-art robotic production system in September 2009 to
make its cylindrical solar panels.  The plant closed in August 2011 and the company filed for
bankruptcy soon after. While an investigation of Solyndra
continues, Tesla hired some former employees and purchased
equipment from the factory, Passin said.  “They had some really good engineers,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  