-- Banks Fail to Align Bonuses With Risk Taking, Watchdog Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-04-12T16:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/eu-banks-fail-to-align-bonuses-with-risk-taking-watchdog-says.html
European banks are failing to align
the calculation of employee bonuses with the risks they take,
according to a study by the region’s top banking supervisor.  Lenders use “underdeveloped techniques” to link pay with
risk-taking and lack consistent tools for selecting which
workers should be subject to bonus regulations, the  European
Banking Authority  said in a report on its website laying out the
results of a survey it conducted.  The agency called on EU lawmakers to grant it powers to set
criteria for identifying the risk-takers whose behavior the
rules should target. The EBA said it noted “very high” ratios
of variable pay to fixed pay. When bonuses dominate bankers’
compensation, “this could incentivize staff to take too much
risk in order to assure a certain minimum pay level,” the
agency said.  The EBA’s predecessor, the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors, set bonus rules in 2010 that limited upfront cash
payouts to about one quarter of the total bonus to ensure
incentives were linked to the long-term performance of the firm.  Differences in how European Union member countries identify
which risk-taking staff should comply “hinders the creation of
a level playing field,” the London-based EBA said. “There is a
clear tendency of institutions to select very low numbers.”  Lawmakers in the European Parliament may seek a ban on
banker bonuses that exceed fixed pay as part of a draft law
implementing the most recent Basel capital rules.  One-to-One  “We are looking at a set limit” on the size of bonuses
compared to fixed salary,  Othmar Karas , the lawmaker leading
work on the rules, said at a meeting of the body’s economic and
monetary affairs committee. This limit should be set at “100
percent, so one-to-one,” he said today.  Karas said he’s seeking a deal between the legislature’s
different political groups as part of a compromise on the draft
law. He had previously suggested finance workers’ bonuses be
capped at twice their base pay.  Some bankers were receiving bonuses about 10 times larger
than their base salary, according to the EBA survey. The median
of the average ratios across all  member states  was 139 percent.  The ratios banks use to calculate variable pay versus fixed
salary “tend to be high,” the EBA said in the report. “The
criteria by which institutions decide on the ratios in practice
are not always clear.”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
he is considering proposing extra rules on bonuses in response
to payouts that go against “all reason, common sense and
morality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  