-- EU Carbon-Permit Set-Aside Requires Change of Law, Poland Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-12T15:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/eu-carbon-permit-set-aside-requires-change-of-law-poland-says.html
European Union law  doesn’t allow
withholding carbon allowances from the market and would need to
be changed to enable temporary curbs of supply, according to a
senior Polish government official.  An option floated by the European Commission to delay
auctions of permits in a simplified procedure, often referred to
as a set-aside, would violate the law, said the official, who
declined to be identified, citing policy.  The EU is considering tools to tackle the oversupply of
emission allowances, which drove carbon prices to a record low
earlier this month.  Poland , which last month blocked an EU
political declaration on climate policies, said earlier this
year that a potential set-aside would destroy market features of
the European emissions trading system, the world’s largest.  Any decision to temporarily limit the amount of allowances
to be sold would contradict the EU law, which requires auctions
to be “predictable,” in particular regarding the timing,
sequencing and volumes of permits to be made available, the
official said.  The commission, the EU institution which has the right to
propose regulation, declined to comment. Isaac Valero-Ladron,
climate spokesman for the body in Brussels, said earlier this
week that the commission was considering different options to
address “some problems” in the region’s carbon market.  The Polish position highlights the political difficulty the
EU is facing to recalibrate its emissions trading system, known
as the ETS, after a recession and debt crisis cut industrial
output and reduced demand for carbon permits.  ‘Addressing Oversupply’  A set-aside of carbon allowances is “the only possible
shorter-term solution to addressing oversupply,” the Geneva-
based International Emissions Trading Association said in a
briefing note yesterday.  It would be created by amending the EU regulation on
carbon-permit auctions in a process known as comitology, where
an implementing measure needs qualified majority support from
representatives of  member states  to pass and then is subject to
scrutiny by national governments and the European Parliament.  A revision of the emissions law, which includes the
predictability principle that Poland is referring to, could take
more than two years in a politically contentious step also
involving the European Parliament.  EU carbon permits for December rose 1.9 percent to 7.17
euros ($9.45) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London  today. The contract has declined 59 percent in the past
year on concern that the ETS will be oversupplied through most
of the next trading phase from 2013 to 2020.  Debt Crisis  The emission caps that the EU program imposes on more than
12,000 facilities were set before the debt crisis and economic
slump. The ETS will be oversupplied by permits covering around
1.1 billion tons of CO2 by 2012, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. This surplus may be transferred into the next
trading period.  The Parliament’s industry committee earlier this year voted
to enshrine the commission’s right to propose a set-aside of
permits in a law on  energy efficiency  legislation. Member states
object to the amendment, opposing a link to emission trading
rules to energy efficiency, according to a March 29 document
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The two sides started yesterday a series of meetings to
iron out differences on the law. Even if the carbon-permits set-
aside option is left out in the energy law, the commission still
has the right to propose a measure on withholding allowances at
any time at its own initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  