-- Bank Bonus That Tops Salary May Be Banned by EU Lawmakers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-12T15:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/eu-lawmakers-may-seek-ban-on-bank-bonuses-that-top-salary.html
Lawmakers in the European
Parliament may seek a ban on banker bonuses that exceed fixed
pay as part of a draft law on Basel capital rules.  “We are looking at a set limit” on the size of bonuses
compared with fixed salary,  Othmar Karas , the lawmaker leading
work on the rules, said at a meeting of the body’s economic and
monetary affairs committee. This limit should be set at “100
percent, so one-to-one,” he said today.  Karas said he’s seeking a deal between the legislature’s
different political groups as part of a compromise on the draft
law. He had previously suggested finance workers’ bonuses be
capped at twice their base pay.  Some bankers are receiving bonuses about 10 times larger
than their base salary, according to a  European Banking
Authority  survey released today. The ratios of variable to fixed
pay that lenders use “tend to be high” and “the criteria by
which institutions decide on the ratios in practice are not
always clear,” the EBA said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
he is considering proposing extra rules on bonuses in response
to payouts that go against “all reason, common sense and
morality.”  Karas’s proposal would have the EU move to reduce payouts
faster by including the measures in the draft Basel bank-capital
law, which is scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1.  Bonuses Trimmed  Labor leaders and politicians have criticized bank-bonus
awards as out of touch with economic reality.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  this
year waived his 963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus after the
U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party  said it would ask the national
Parliament to vote on the award at the bailed-out lender.  When bonuses dominate bankers’ compensation, it “could
incentivize staff to take too much risk in order to assure a
certain minimum pay level,” the London-based EBA said.  The agency’s predecessor, the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors, set bonus rules in 2010 that limited upfront cash
payouts to about one quarter of the total bonus to ensure
incentives were linked to the long-term performance of the firm.
The EBA has called on lawmakers to grant it the power to better
identify risk-takers whose behavior bonus rules should target.  Capital, Liquidity  Global regulators on the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  agreed in 2010 to toughen capital and liquidity
rules for lenders in response to the financial crisis that
followed the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The
plans, known as Basel III, would more than triple the core
reserves lenders must hold to absorb losses.  “The financial crisis has changed the debate on banking
pay to being ever more emotional and political,” said Peter Hahn, a professor of finance at London’s Cass Business School
and a former managing director at Citigroup Inc.  “Underneath the EU suggestions is a fundamentally
different view of banking as less capitalism and more utility,”
Hahn said in an e-mail. The proposal makes the strong suggestion
that if you get paid more than a certain amount, “you are
probably doing something or taking more risk than the EU wants
in a bank.”  Karas’s proposal to cap bonuses must be approved by
parliament and national governments before it can become law.
The committee is scheduled to vote on it April 25.  ‘Conflict’ Coming  “There is going to be a conflict” with governments over
the pay curbs, said Udo Bullmann, who is following the law for
the parliament’s Socialist group. Both Bullmann and  Philippe
Lamberts , who negotiating for the parliament’s Green group on
the legislation, are backing the proposal.  Financial firms  worldwide have been giving in to pressure
to limit bankers’ compensation in response to the credit crunch.  Bank of America Corp. cut Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s compensation for 2011, granting him no cash bonus and
freezing his salary, a person briefed on the matter said in
February. Deutsche Bank AG told employees it will impose a
200,000-euro ($263,000) cap on bonuses this year, three people
with knowledge of the discussions have said.  Lawmakers are also seeking a compromise on how much freedom
national regulators should have to force their banks to hold
more capital than required by the EU.  A possible compromise, Karas said, would be that individual
nations could impose capital surcharges on so-called
systemically important banks that would roil markets if they
failed.  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China . Its rules must be
written into national laws before becoming enforceable. The EBA
was set up by the European Commission last year to harmonize
bank rules across the region’s 27 member states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  