-- EU to Join EFTA Watchdog in Suing Iceland Over Icesave Claim
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-04-12T15:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/eu-to-join-efta-watchdog-in-suing-iceland-over-icesave-claim-1-.html
The European Union has requested
that it be allowed to join a case the European Free Trade
Association’s Surveillance Authority has filed against the
island for failing to honor depositors’ guarantees.  “The commission supports the need for clarity regarding
Iceland’s obligations in the area of financial services,” the
 European Commission  said in an e-mailed statement. “Such
clarity is important in order to maintain confidence in the EU
rules on deposit guarantee schemes, the internal market and
ultimately European financial stability.”  ESA announced in December that it would sue the north
Atlantic island for failing to compensate the U.K. and Dutch
governments for depositor losses following the collapse of
lender  Landsbanki Islands hf  in October 2008. The depositors
were compensated by their governments after the failure left
their savings in limbo. Iceland said in September that proceeds
from the estate of Landsbanki will reach about $11 billion,
enough to cover all depositors, and about twice the amount owed
under the guarantee directive.  Never Lodged  “The fact that the EU has never before lodged an
intervention in a case before the EFTA Court indicates that ESA
pressured the commission into participating in the case, after
having considered Iceland’s arguments,” Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson said in a telephone interview today. Iceland
won’t object to EU’s demand to intervene and the bloc’s
participation might “advance Iceland’s arguments,” he said.  Landsbanki’s winding-up committee said Dec. 7 it made a
first payment of 432 billion kronur ($3.4 billion) toward
reducing its obligations.  The EU’s decision to join in this case won’t upset the
island’s bid for EU membership, the minister said. Iceland
started EU-entry talks in July 2010 and will seek to vote on
joining the bloc in 2013.  “It has always been the clear position of both the
government of Iceland and the opposition parties, that the EU
membership application and the Icesave case were two separate
issues,” said Skarphedinsson. “Any change in Iceland’s
position in that regard will only weaken Iceland’s arguments in
this case and project a sense of disbelief in our cause.”  The EU also considers Iceland’s membership bid and the
depositors’ guarantees dispute as separate issues, although the
country’s failure to abide by EU rules will come into question
during the accession negotiations.  “The actual case in front of the EFTA court has no direct
link to Iceland’s EU application, but concerns a separate legal
process,” the commission said. “However, more generally,
Iceland’s capacity to apply the financial services acquis,
including the Deposit Guarantee Directive, will be carefully
assessed during the EU accession negotiations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 