-- Europe’s Capital Flight Betrays Currency’s Fragility
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/europe-s-capital-flight-betrays-currency-s-fragility.html
The euro area’s financial troubles
appear to be flaring up again, as this week’s gyrations in the
Spanish bond market show. In reality, they never went away. And
judging from the flood of money moving across borders in the
region, Europeans are increasingly losing faith that the
currency union will hold together at all.  In recent months, even as markets seemed calm,
sophisticated investors and regular depositors alike have been
pulling euros out of struggling countries and depositing them in
the banks of countries deemed relatively safe. Such moves
indicate increasing concern that a financially strapped country
might dump the euro and leave depositors holding devalued
drachma, lira or pesetas.  The flows are tough to quantify, but they can be estimated
by parsing the balance sheets of euro-area central banks. When
money moves from one country to another, the central bank of the
receiving sovereign must lend an offsetting amount to its
counterpart in the source country -- a  mechanism  that keeps the
currency union’s accounts in balance. The  Bank of Spain , for
example, ends up owing the  Bundesbank  when Spanish depositors
move their euros to German banks. By looking at the changes in
such cross-border claims, we can figure out how much money is
leaving which euro nation and where it’s going.  Capital Flight  This analysis suggests that capital flight is happening on
a scale unprecedented in the euro era -- mainly from  Spain  and
 Italy  to  Germany , the  Netherlands  and  Luxembourg  (see chart). In
March alone, about 65 billion euros left Spain for other euro-
zone countries. In the seven months through February, the
relevant debts of the central banks of Spain and Italy increased
by 155 billion euros and 180 billion euros, respectively. Over
the same period, the central banks of Germany, the Netherlands
and Luxembourg saw their corresponding credits to other euro-
area central banks grow by about 360 billion euros.  The seven-month increase is about double the previous 17-
month rise, and brings the three safe-haven countries’ combined
loans to other central banks to 789 billion euros, their highest
point on record. In essence, the central banks of the three
countries -- and, by proxy, their taxpayers -- have agreed to
make good on about 789 billion euros that were once the
responsibility of  Italy , Spain, Greece and others.  The worries about Italy and Spain reflect the inadequacy of
Europe’s efforts to stem what has become a combined banking,
sovereign debt and economic crisis. The  European Central Bank ’s
efforts to prop up bond markets with more than 1 trillion euros
in emergency  bank loans  have only encouraged Italian and Spanish
banks to buy more of their governments’ bonds, tying their fates
to those of the afflicted sovereigns. The harsh austerity
measures required by Europe’s new fiscal compact are making
things worse by stunting the economic growth needed to help the
countries reduce their debt burdens. Should markets balk at
lending to Italy and Spain,  Europe ’s bailout fund -- with only
about 600 billion euros in spare capacity -- remains far too
small to cover the two countries’ financing needs, which amount
to more than 1 trillion euros over the next five years.  If Europe’s leaders want to stop the rot, they’ll have to
change their approach. The least bad solution, as Bloomberg View
has argued, is a combination of overwhelming force and deeper
integration. Together with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund , the ECB would provide large enough
guarantees -- more than 3 trillion euros, by our  estimate  -- to
erase any doubt that solvent governments such as Italy and Spain
can cover their financing needs and banks can raise capital. If
the amount pledged were big enough to tame markets, it wouldn’t
have to be spent.  Fiscal Union  Aside from adopting tougher fiscal rules to get government
debts under control, the euro area should also forge a closer
fiscal union to provide some support for struggling countries,
much as federal transfers in the U.S. cushion downturns in
individual states. This could help  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,
Spain and Italy extract themselves from the downward spiral of
budget cuts and weakening economies.  The idea that Europe’s current incremental approach has the
advantage of saving money is an illusion, and not just because
the disintegration of the currency union could trigger a global
financial meltdown. As the capital flight figures demonstrate,
the stricken nations of the euro area are bleeding private money
and becoming increasingly dependent on taxpayers. In all, the
debts of struggling banks and sovereigns to official creditors
such as the EU, the ECB and national central banks now exceed 2
trillion euros, much of which would be lost if the debtor
nations dropped out of the currency union.  Hopefully, Europe’s leaders will recognize that it would be
a lot cheaper to put up the money needed to restore confidence
in the common currency. If they wait too long, the cost of the
crisis could prove to be more than their taxpayers can bear.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  gender inequality  at the
Masters;  Jonathan Alter  on why  Paul Ryan ’s  budget proposal  would
irk the founders of the  Republican Party ;  Jonathan Weil  on
JPMorgan  derivatives trader  Bruno Iksil’s nicknames;  Michael
Kinsley  on  class warfare  and the presidential campaign; Stephen
Carter on  Mitt Romney  and his  father’s portrayal  on the program
“Mad Men”; Gary Shilling on  misplaced optimism  in the stock
market; and Rohit Aggarwala on why  user fees  are preferable to
an infrastructure bank.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 