-- European Stocks Gain as Fed Signals Low Interest Rates
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-04-12T15:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/european-stock-futures-gain-on-fed-economic-assessment.html
European stocks  climbed the most in
more than a week, led by a rally in mining companies, after the
 Federal Reserve  signaled U.S. interest rates will remain low to
support economic growth.  Rio Tinto  Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  climbed with copper
amid speculation  China  may release a stronger-than-forecast
gross domestic product figure tomorrow.  Hays Plc (HAS)  surged 8.9
percent after the recruitment company forecast profit will be
near the top end of analysts’ estimates.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) 
lost 11 percent after saying it will sell shares.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rallied 1.2 percent to 257.36 at
the close of trading, the biggest gain since April 2. The gauge
has retreated for three straight weeks amid mounting concern
about the region’s debt crisis and as a U.S. report showed
employers added fewer jobs in March than forecast.  “What we saw last week was just a correction,” said
Morten Kongshaug, chief equity strategist at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, who has an overweight rating on European equities.
“The debt crisis remains my biggest worry, but first-quarter
earnings have a lot of potential to calm investors, especially
if they show European lenders are doing alright.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rallied 1.3 percent, while
Germany’s DAX and France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  increased 1 percent. Spain’s
IBEX 35 slipped 0.8 percent.  Yellen Endorsement  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central bank’s
view that borrowing costs are likely to stay low through 2014 as
the central bank misses its goal for full employment and
inflation remains in check.  “I consider a highly accommodative policy stance to be
appropriate in present circumstances,” Yellen said yesterday in
a speech in  New York . She also said that allowing the Fed’s
program to extend the maturity of the assets on its balance
sheet to expire in June wouldn’t amount to a policy tightening.  Separately, the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey
published late yesterday that the  U.S. economy  maintained its
expansion in all 12 regions as manufacturing, hiring and retail
sales showed signs of strength last month.  Elsewhere, Bank of  Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged
to continue to add monetary stimulus in the world’s third-
largest economy amid growing calls from politicians for the
central bank to do more to end deflation.  A gauge of European mining companies jumped 3 percent for
the biggest gain among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as
copper surged in  London .  Rio, BHP Billiton  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
climbed 4.5 percent to 3,487 pence. BHP, the biggest, gained 2.8
percent to 1,906.5 pence and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  increased 2.5 percent
to 1,105.5 pence.  “Rumors of a stronger Chinese GDP number certainly put a
rocket under the FTSE 100 today,” said Chris Beauchamp, a
market analyst at IG Index in London. “But this of course runs
the risk of disappointment tomorrow.”  China, the world’s largest consumer of copper, will publish
its  first-quarter GDP  data tomorrow. The report is forecast to
show the economy expanded 8.4 percent from a year earlier,
slowing from the fourth quarter’s 8.9 percent increase,
according to a survey of economists.  Hays rallied 8.9 percent to 88.5 pence after the U.K.
recruitment company forecast full-year operating profit will
“be towards the top of the current range of market estimates.”  Gerresheimer Gains  Gerresheimer AG (GXI)  climbed 10 percent to 35.35 euros, the
largest gain in three years, as the German maker of glass and
plastic products for the health-care industry raised its
forecast for the year.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  jumped 5.8 percent to 7.54 euros.
The stock was raised to buy from hold at Deutsche Bank AG, which
said recent losses created an opportunity.  Banco Espirito Santo plunged 11 percent to 1.04 euros after
Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank by market value
announced plans to sell as much as 1.01 billion euros in stock
to increase its capital ratios and buy out its partner in an
insurance unit.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  retreated 1.1 percent to 25.74 euros
in Amsterdam as it investigated the source of a “light sheen”
of oil in the Gulf of Mexico.  The stock rebounded from a drop of as much as 5.4 percent,
the biggest intraday tumble in more than three years, after
 Europe ’s largest oil producer said it has a “high degree of
confidence” that its operations aren’t the source of the sheen,
the size of which was estimated at fewer than six barrels of
crude.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  dropped 7.2 percent to 3.04 euros, extending
yesterday’s 14 percent selloff, as brokers reduced their
recommendations on the shares. Societe Generale SA downgraded
the biggest maker of mobile handsets by volume to hold from buy,
while Morgan Stanley trimmed its price estimate by 32 percent to
2.60 euros after the company cut its profit forecasts yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  