-- Ex-Fannie Chief Girds for Battle With SEC Over Disclosure
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-04-12T14:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ex-fannie-chief-girds-for-battle-with-sec-over-disclosure.html
After the U.S. government snatched
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  from the brink of collapse in 2008 and forced out its
chief executive officer, Daniel H. Mudd, he headed for the
river.  The 6-foot-4 former Marine, a onetime U.S. Olympic rowing
prospect, buzzed his receding gray hair into military style and
took a boat out on the Potomac -- gathering strength to rebuild
his career, according to his friends. Within months, he put his
$9.5 million Washington mansion up for sale and took the helm at
a New York-based hedge fund,  Fortress Investment Group. (FIG)   Mudd didn’t really leave Fannie Mae behind. U.S. regulators
sued him in December for allegedly misleading the mortgage
company’s investors about its stake in subprime loans. Now Mudd
has lost another CEO post and again he’s preparing for battle.  Fortress directors offered to let Mudd stay on if he
settled the matter quickly with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
board’s thinking. Instead, he left to work full-time on a case
that legal analysts say is far from a slam-dunk for the SEC.  His stint at  Fannie Mae  “cost me two jobs,” Mudd, 53,
said in an interview. “I’ve told my legal team, ‘If you use the
word ‘settle,’ I will fire you.’”  Last month he asked a federal judge to dismiss the
complaint on the grounds that during his tenure Fannie Mae filed
detailed data on risky loans the company held. His lawyers also
argued that the SEC failed to show that Mudd had a motive,
financial or otherwise, for deceiving shareholders.  Symbolic Case  The stakes are high for Mudd and the agency. Losing the
case could cost Mudd some of the millions he earned during his
four years as Fannie Mae’s CEO and make him a symbol of the
excesses that blew up the housing market. For the SEC, a failed
lawsuit would heighten criticism from lawmakers and others that
the agency hasn’t held enough top executives accountable for
taking risks that led to the worst recession since the 1930s.  “They’ve got to show some scalps,” said  Adam Pritchard , a
University of Michigan law professor who previously served in
the SEC’s Office of the General Counsel. “Anybody can file a
case. It’s another thing to win it.”  While the SEC reports on its website that it has brought
claims related to the credit crisis against 55 senior U.S.
corporate officers, few have been well-known names from big
institutions. SEC lawyers have been publicly lectured by two
federal judges about the scope of their efforts.  “When you bring this long complaint and make it sound like
there have been all these misdeeds, who’s responsible?”  U.S.
District Court (1071L)   Ellen Huvelle , who reviewed a proposed $75
million settlement with Citigroup, said during a 2010 hearing in
 Washington . “These things don’t happen without individuals.”  Six Executives  Mudd is the most prominent of six former executives of
Fannie Mae and its smaller cousin, Freddie Mac, who are accused
in the SEC’s Dec. 16 lawsuit of defrauding investors about their
subprime portfolios before souring mortgages sent the companies
to the verge of bankruptcy and led to their federal takeover.
Shareholders were wiped out and, so far, U.S. taxpayers have
spent about $190 billion keeping the companies afloat.  “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives told the world that
their subprime exposure was substantially smaller than it really
was,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s Enforcement
Division, said when the suit was filed, calling the disclosures
“material misstatements.”  Still, the lawsuit, which also names  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  chief
executive Richard F. Syron, highlights how hard it’s been for
the SEC to find direct evidence that top corporate executives
ordered or were complicit in deception.  ‘Battle of Experts’  The SEC’s court filings suggest the outcome will hinge on
the technicalities of the language in the companies’ public
disclosures. Veterans of some similar cases say that while
Mudd’s management at Fannie Mae is open to criticism, regulators
may face a challenge convincing a jury that the financial
statements were misleading because there’s no universal
agreement on the definition of subprime loans.  “It’s going to be a battle of the experts,” said Charles M. Carberry, a partner at the law firm of Jones, Day in  New
York , who isn’t representing any of the parties. Of the SEC, he
said, “You wonder what their ultimate theory is.”  The SEC didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Mudd said his reputation and future is on the line in what
he considers a witch hunt by an agency responding improperly to
outside pressures.  “I worked honestly and honorably and I’m not going to roll
over in the face of a baseless, politically motivated work of
fiction,” he said.  Joining Fannie  Mudd arrived at Fannie Mae as chief operating officer in
2000 after a career at  GE Capital (GELK) , where he had been president
of the company’s Asia-Pacific operations in the late 1990s.  The son of television news anchor Roger Mudd, he grew up in
Washington and attended Sidwell Friends, a Quaker school where
presidents and other members of the capital’s elite have sent
their children. Mudd graduated from the University of Virginia
and earned a degree in public administration from Harvard’s
Kennedy School of Government.  By the time Mudd joined Fannie Mae, then-CEO  Franklin Raines  and his predecessors had built the company into a
dominant force in the market for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages.
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  operated like private businesses
while also benefiting from a congressional charter and implied
government backing. They provided liquidity to the home-loan
market by buying mortgages from originators and packaging them
into securities on which they guarantee the  interest rate . They
also bought some mortgages to hold on their books.  Earnings Manipulation  Fannie Mae’s troubles began before Mudd became Raines’
chief operating officer. The company’s accounting practices
manipulated earnings statements so executives could maximize
their bonuses, its regulator later reported. The regulator, the
Office of Federal Enterprise Housing Oversight, also found that
Mudd had failed to act on a subordinate’s report when accounting
irregularities were brought to his attention in 2003.  Mudd told the Senate Banking Committee that he had been
“as shocked as anyone” to learn of the manipulation when it
surfaced publicly in 2004. Most of the public blame fell on
Raines, who was ousted and forced by Fannie Mae’s overseer to
pay back $25 million of the $90 million he had earned as CEO
since 1998. The SEC didn’t file claims against any individual,
nor did the Justice Department file criminal charges.  Fannie Mae’s board installed Mudd as chief executive in
Raines’ place in 2005. Colleagues nicknamed him “Harry
Houdini,” according to one former staff member, since he got
promoted rather than sanctioned.  ‘Unconscionable’  Outsiders also were surprised.  “Mudd should never have been permitted to be Raines’
successor,” William K. Black, a professor of economics and law
at the University of Missouri-Kansas City and a former bank
regulator. “Mudd was part of the Raines regime. It was just an
unconscionable mistake.”  Mudd said in the interview that he saw the move as a call
to duty.  “I took the job at the request of the board with the
approval of the government in the middle of an accounting
scandal where in the middle of the night, the CEO, the CFO, the
accountant, the internal auditor, the outside auditor and the
lawyer had all been fired,” he said.  From 2006 to 2008, the time at issue in the lawsuit, Mudd
earned almost $24 million in taxable compensation, according to
the SEC.  Footsteps of Democrats  Mudd, a Republican, represented a political shift from his
predecessors. Raines was a Democrat who worked in the
administrations of presidents  Bill Clinton  and  Jimmy Carter . He
left Fannie Mae with a $19 million severance package and a $1
million annual pension. Raines’ predecessor, Jim Johnson, an
adviser to Democrat Walter Mondale’s 1984 presidential campaign
who earned a total of $100 million at Fannie Mae, receives an
annual pension of $900,000.  While at Fannie Mae, Mudd donated to members of both
parties, federal election records show. He also gave $5,000 to
the Susan B. Anthony List, a political action committee that
funds anti-abortion candidates and where his wife, Maura, is a
board member. Maura Mudd donated $5,000 in 2010 to a PAC run by
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who made a bid for
the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.  At Fannie Mae, Mudd also tried to mend fences with
lawmakers who had been at odds with Raines. He apologized to
Congress for the company’s accounting scandal.  Fannie Mae had begun purchasing riskier mortgages under
Raines in the 1990s, as Congress required the government-
sponsored companies to help lower-income families buy homes.
That expanded under Mudd.  Defining the Terms  At the core of the SEC’s suit is the question of how to
define subprime loans and reduced-documentation loans known as
Alt-A. The agency alleges that Mudd and his co-defendants failed
to disclose the full amount of such mortgages held or guaranteed
by Fannie Mae. Mudd and his co-defendants say there was no
universal definition. Instead, Mudd said in his motion to
dismiss the lawsuit, Fannie Mae “explicitly defined” subprime
and Alt-A loans in its public filings and then “accurately
disclosed the amounts” that were in the company’s portfolio.  In its court filings, the SEC said Mudd signed disclosures
saying the company had about $8 billion in subprime loans and
$300 billion in Alt-A reduced-documentation loans. In reality,
the SEC said, the company’s subprime holdings exceeded $100
billion and its Alt-A holdings exceeded $600 billion.  In April 2007, Mudd said in testimony before lawmakers that
the firm’s exposure to subprime loans “remains minimal, less
than 2.5 percent of our book.” Fannie Mae’s book of business
for single-family mortgages was $2.65 trillion in 2007.  Expanded Approval  The SEC’s suit alleges that Mudd didn’t disclose the full
scope of its Alt-A loans, counting only mortgages in which the
borrowers requested reduced documentation, not those loans
issued when lenders themselves decided to skip the paperwork.
Mudd also improperly excluded about $43 billion in loans in the
company’s “Expanded Approval” program, which went to borrowers
with weaker credit history, the SEC claims.  Some of Mudd’s critics see merit in his argument about
Fannie Mae’s filings. “The SEC has this really difficult
complaint about disclosures of the numbers,” Black said.  The SEC may cite other evidence to support its theory,
including an e-mail that was uncovered and publicized by the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in 2010. In the message,
which was sent two months after Mudd’s testimony before Congress
in 2007, Fannie Mae Chief Risk Officer Enrico Dallavecchia
warned Mudd that the company wasn’t adequately managing risk.  ‘Not Even Close’  “We are not even close to having proper control processes
for credit, market, and operational risk,” wrote Dallavecchia,
now one of Mudd’s co-defendants in the SEC suit.  Through his attorney, Kelly Kramer, Dallavecchia declined
to comment.  Dallavecchia’s e-mail proved prophetic. In the year that
followed, losses on risky loans pushed Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac toward insolvency.  On the afternoon of Sept. 5, 2008, Mudd was summoned to a
meeting at the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the agency that
now oversaw Fannie Mae. He found Treasury Secretary  Hank Paulson , Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and FHFA
director James Lockhart in the room. Fannie Mae was being taken
over by the government, he was told. He was out of a job.  While the FHFA blocked his $8 million severance, he took
with him pension and 401(k) benefits totaling $5.6 million. For
now, most of Mudd’s legal fees are being covered by Fannie Mae’s
insurance company, which has paid out nearly $100 million to
defend Raines and other former executives in other cases.  Building Fortress  In 2009, Mudd took over at Fortress, a publicly traded
hedge fund and private-equity firm that manages about $43.7
billion, including two independently run companies that
specialize in real estate. Mudd had gotten to know Fortress’s
co-chairman, Peter Briger Jr., while the two worked in finance
in  Asia  during the 1990s, and Mudd had served on the company’s
board during his time at Fannie Mae.  In the fall of that year, Mudd, his wife and four children
moved into a 15,000-square-foot home in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
that they bought for $6.5 million.  During Mudd’s tenure, a Fortress unit benefited from doing
business with Fannie Mae, though Mudd said in an interview that
he had nothing to do with the transaction.  The hedge fund had purchased the subprime mortgage arm of
homebuilder Centex in 2006, renamed it Nationstar, and
transformed it into a servicer of troubled loans. Its annual
revenues more than quintupled from 2009 to 2011, from $62
million to $334 million, largely due to its contracts with
Fannie Mae and to a lesser degree Freddie Mac, according to
disclosures filed with the SEC.  ‘No Involvement’  About half of the more than $100 billion in loans that
Nationstar now services are either Fannie Mae loans on which the
company has purchased the servicing rights, or loans that
Nationstar services under contract to Fannie Mae.  Nationstar went public March 7, rising to $14.14 yesterday
after pricing 16.7 million shares at $14 in the initial public
offering. Fortress retains a 77 percent stake.  “During his time as CEO of Fortress, Dan Mudd had
absolutely no involvement in investment decisions, client
relationships or negotiations for our servicing businesses,
including Nationstar,” Fortress spokesman Gordon Runté said.  A month after Mudd resigned from Fortress, Nationstar hired
two of his former Fannie Mae lieutenants -- Harold Lewis as
president and COO and David Hisey as chief financial officer.  VIP Loan  Fannie Mae intruded on Mudd’s time at Fortress in another
way. In 2010, Representative Darryl Issa, a California
Republican who is chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, announced that Mudd was one of dozens of
Fannie Mae executives who between 1996 and 2008 received so-
called “VIP loans” from  Countrywide Financial (CFC) , the troubled
subprime lender later purchased by  Bank of America  Corp.  Mudd had refinanced his Washington home with Countrywide
for $3 million in 2001. Countrywide executives said in e-mails
that the firm was “taking a loss,” on Mudd’s loan, according
to documents released by Issa.  In response to Issa’s allegation, Mudd said that he hadn’t
received a special rate.  Part of the SEC’s legal theory against Mudd and the other
executives already failed once before U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty, who will be hearing the matter in New York.  Last year Crotty threw out shareholder claims, based on
financial disclosures, that Mudd and other Fannie Mae executives
didn’t warn investors about the company’s exposure to subprime
mortgages. The judge found that Fannie Mae’s public filings
explicitly warned investors about the risks of investing in
subprime and Alt-A loans.  Others Named  Crotty did allow the shareholder suit to move forward with
claims based on internal company e-mails -- messages that also
are part of the SEC suit. They allegedly show that Mudd and
other executives knew the company’s risk management was flawed.  Besides Mudd, Syron and Dallavecchia, the SEC’s December
lawsuit names former Freddie Mac Executive Vice President
Patricia Cook; Donald Bisenius, ex-senior vice president at
Freddie Mac; and Thomas Lund, Fannie Mae’s former executive vice
president.  The regulator is seeking financial penalties and an order
barring the six from serving as officers or directors of other
public companies. The SEC signed non-prosecution agreements with
the companies themselves.  “This will be a very complicated and long case,” Carberry
said. “It seems the theory has been discredited.”  Some longtime critics of Fannie Mae’s management say they
see Mudd as the person left holding the bag, rather than the
architect of practices that drove the company to ruin.  ‘Guy at the Helm’  “He happened to be the guy at the helm when the ship
sank,” said Bert Ely, a bank consultant based in Alexandria,
Virginia. “I don’t feel he can be uniquely blamed for what
happened.”  Mark Calabria, director of regulation studies at the
Washington-based Cato Institute, which favors free markets, said
Mudd inherited a lot of Fannie Mae’s problems.  “He clearly didn’t save the company,” Calabria said.
“Whether he simply continued them on the path they were on is
another question.”  Ironically, Mudd’s efforts to improve Fannie Mae’s SEC
filings may have given regulators a better paper trail to use in
building a case against him than they had for his predecessors,
Calabria said.  “I suspect part of the reason he has gotten far more
attention is that the SEC has more tools against him,” Calabria
said.  Now that he has his legal team set up, Mudd said he’s begun
to think about his next steps. He said he would be up for the
challenge of managing or restructuring a private company.  “At some level,” Mudd said, “I’m not really afraid of
messy situations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  