-- Ex-iSoft CEO, Directors Lied to Market to Boost Bonus, FSA Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-04-12T17:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ex-isoft-ceo-directors-lied-to-market-to-boost-bonus-fsa-says.html
The former chief executive officer
and two former directors of  iSoft Group Plc  lied to the market
about revenue in order to win contracts and boost their pay, the
U.K. finance regulator said.  Timothy Whiston, 44, the former CEO,  Stephen Graham , 48,
the company’s ex-commercial director, and John Whelan, 45, its
former finance director, made misleading statements, said
 Richard Latham , a lawyer for the Financial Services Authority,
which is prosecuting the case.  The men misstated iSoft interim reports and year-end
financial statements from October 2003 until July 2006,
according to the FSA. They also lied to external auditors,
saying iSoft had won a contract to supply software to an Irish
hospital system when it hadn’t yet, according to the indictment.  There was “a massive discrepancy between the reality of
that company’s position and what was in its public accounts,”
Latham said on the first day of trial in London today.  The defendants made the statements to win a contract from
the U.K.’s  National Health Service  and encourage 2003 merger
talks with another company, Latham said.  The men had “major remuneration packages of which a
significant portion related to the financial performance of the
company,” Latham said. It was “spectacularly” in their
interest that iSoft report a profit, he said.  Australia’s iSoft Group Ltd., which develops and markets
health information computer software, acquired U.K.-based iSoft
Group Plc in October 2007 after the events that were the subject
of the investigation. ISoft was later bought by  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)   The men were charged in January 2010, along with Patrick Cryne, the former chairman of the company. Cryne “became
unwell” and is unable to stand trial with the other three,
Latham told the jury.  Lawyers for Whiston, Graham and Whelan will present
arguments to the jury later in the trial. The case is scheduled
to run until mid-August, with a two-week break for the Olympics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  