-- Ex-Im Bank Critics Favor a Surrender on Trade, Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-12T13:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ex-im-bank-critics-favor-a-surrender-on-trade-chief-says.html
Critics of the U.S. Export-Import
Bank “want to unilaterally disarm” American companies from
competing in the global marketplace while countries including
 China  support their industries, the lender’s chairman said.  Congress should renew the bank’s charter for four years and
increase its lending authority to $140 billion from $100 billion
to keep U.S. exporters competitive,  Fred Hochberg , the Ex-Im
bank’s chairman and president, said at a conference today in
Washington.  “Other countries will happily step in if we can’t or won’t
finance a deal,” he said.  The 78-year-old bank is using the conference to press for a
renewal of its charter, which is set to expire May 31 and has
drawn opposition. Among those scheduled to speak at the event
are former President Bill Clinton, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel
and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis.  Critics of the bank, including the Club for Growth, which
supports smaller government, say the lender meddles in private
enterprise. Supporters of reauthorization include the  National
Association of Manufacturers  and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Senate Republicans defeated a bipartisan measure on March
20 to reauthorize the bank for four years and increase its
lending limit to $140 billion as part of a bill rolling back
Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  Delta Lawsuit  Some U.S. airlines including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  of
Atlanta and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  of Tempe, Arizona, in November
sued the bank through a trade association, alleging that the
lender “routinely fails to evaluate the negative impact that
its commitments have on domestic industries and domestic
employment.” The case is pending in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Columbia.  The bank performs an economic-impact review of each of its
transactions, which include loan guarantees, insurance and
direct lending, Hochberg said in an interview April 4.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s biggest aerospace company, is one
of the bank’s main beneficiaries and a leading advocate for its
reauthorization. Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina Republican
and founder of the Senate Tea Party caucus, has said the bank
gives foreign airlines an edge over American carriers, such as
Delta, in buying new aircraft.  Unless Congress acts, “all new activity will grind to a
halt,” Hochberg said. American companies “will find themselves
at a huge disadvantage” while China and other governments use
export finance to create jobs in their countries, he said.  Congress intends to take up the issue again when it returns
from a two-week recess April 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  