-- Ex-Millennium Traders to Start Asian Equity Hedge Funds
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-04-12T07:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ex-millennium-traders-to-start-hedge-funds-trading-asian-stocks.html
Former traders at  Millennium
Management LLC  plan to start new hedge funds that will mainly
invest in Japanese equities to capture demand as the nation’s
equities rebound from the worst year since 2008.  The Japan-focused Terra Grove Japan Fund and the Terra
Grove Pan Asian fund, which will invest in Japan,  Hong Kong ,
 Australia , South Korea and  Taiwan , will start in May with total
capital of about $25 million, said Tetsuo Ochi, chief executive
officer of Hong Kong-based MCP Asset Management Co., the
investment manager. Both funds aim to raise about $150 million
each in about a year, after which they will stop taking money
from clients until they enhance the trading models, Ochi said.  Japanese stocks posted the best  quarterly  start to the year
since 1988 after dropping 17 percent in 2011. Masakatsu Hayashi
and three others joined MCP in March after leaving the  Singapore 
office of Millennium, the $15 billion hedge fund founded by
Israel Englander.  “Many overseas investors are underweight  Japan , and many
bigger funds are already closed to new investors, so we’re
seeing some interest from those who want to have a Japan
exposure,” Ochi, whose firm oversees about $6 billion in
assets, said in a telephone interview.  Frequent Trading  The funds will employ a so-called equity long-short
strategy, which seeks to profit from rising and falling prices,
Ochi said. The managers will focus on trading the positions
frequently, with average turnover of about 10 percent a day and
using their own statistical arbitrage models, he said. The Japan
fund will target annual returns of about 15 percent and the pan-
Asian fund will aim for 20 percent, Ochi said.  Asian  hedge funds  struggled last year amid an increase in
volatility in markets as concerns over the European sovereign
debt crisis and  China ’s growth prospects weighed on investors.  Asia-focused funds tracked by Eurekahedge Pte oversaw
$124.1 billion at the end of last year, 29 percent less than the
peak in 2007. They lost an average  8.4 percent  in 2011,
underperforming the 4.1 percent loss for hedge funds globally,
according to Eurekahedge indexes.  The new funds start as the industry recovers from news that
AIJ Investment Advisors Co., which offered hedge-fund
strategies, allegedly lost more than $1 billion of clients’
money, which were mostly smaller Japanese pensions.  ‘Isolated Case’  “We’re still hearing that the AIJ incident is more of an
isolated case, though  money flow  may stall for a bit,” Ochi
said. “Millennium is a well-established firm, so there are
expectations that these guys will do well.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG will be prime
brokers of the funds, according to Ochi. Prime brokers provide
services such as stock and cash lending, and trade clearing for
hedge funds.  Hayashi, who worked as a  fund manager  at Millennium in
Singapore, previously worked as the head of statistical
arbitrage in  Asia  at Societe Generale SA in  Tokyo . He’s joined
by Akira Suzuki, Atsushi Kiyono and Kohei Hayashi, all from
Millennium Capital Management (Singapore) Pte, Ochi said.  Englander, who worked as a floor broker on the American
Stock Exchange, founded New York-based Millennium in 1989 with
$35 million. It employs about 1,000 people, including more than
120 investment managers, according to the firm’s website.  Separately, MCP Asset said it has signed a memorandum of
understanding on a strategic alliance with  South Korea ’s  Woori
Asset Management  (WOAMCZ) as part of its effort to expand. Under the
agreement, MCP and Woori will jointly develop alternative
investment products including hedge funds for Woori’s clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 