-- Ex-Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack Joins LendingClub Board
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ex-morgan-stanley-ceo-john-mack-joins-lendingclub-board.html
Former Morgan Stanley Chief
Executive Officer  John Mack  has joined the board of startup
LendingClub Corp., marking at least the third advisory role he’s
taken in the past six months.  Mack becomes the fifth director at  LendingClub , a closely
held firm based in  San Francisco  that lends consumers $1,000 to
$35,000 to pay off credit cards, consolidate debt and take
vacations, according to a statement. The loans are then sold on
its website to investors. Through April 10, the company had
funded more than $588 million in loans since starting in 2007.
It also runs two funds with more than $100 million in assets.  “LendingClub has created an innovative platform that
provides investors with low-cost access to high-quality consumer
credit assets, and at the same time makes credit more affordable
to consumers,” Mack said in the statement. He’ll be paid with
 stock options  that vest over the next four years rather than
cash, according to Chief Executive Officer Renaud Laplanche.  Mack, 67, stepped down as chairman of Morgan Stanley at the
end of 2011, two years after leaving the CEO role he held at the
Wall Street securities firm from 2005 until the end of 2009.
Mack boosted businesses including trading, private equity and
mortgages, a strategy that backfired when the bank posted its
first quarterly loss in 2007 on the eve of the financial crisis.  He’ll join Laplanche, 41, on the LendingClub board,
alongside  Norwest Venture Partners ’ Jeff Crowe, Daniel Ciporin
of  Canaan Partners  and Rebecca Lynn of Morgenthaler Ventures,
according to the statement. The three firms own stakes in
LendingClub.  Mack has focused his public efforts since leaving  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  on advising financial firms. Last month, private-equity
fund KKR & Co. named Mack a senior adviser for financial-
services investments. In November, payment-services firm Rev
Worldwide said Mack became an investor and board member. Mack is
also a member of the international advisory council at China
Investment Corp., according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  