-- Ex-Nvidia Analyst Gets Probation for Passing Inside Tip
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-12T21:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ex-nvidia-analyst-sentenced-to-probation-in-trading-case.html
Son Ngoc “Sonny” Nguyen, a former
senior financial analyst for  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , was sentenced to one
year of probation for passing an inside tip about the company’s
earnings in a case that is part of the U.S. government’s
crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds .  Nguyen pleaded guilty in May to conspiracy to commit
securities and wire fraud, admitting that he gave the
information to Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert
networking firm Primary Global Research LLC who is serving a
four-year sentence for selling tips on technology companies to
hedge funds.  Nguyen, who cooperated with the government, testified at
Jiau’s trial that he gave her confidential data about the
chipmaker’s quarterly earnings in August 2008, before they were
made public. He was sentenced in  Manhattan  today by U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff, who ordered him to forfeit $6,464.  “If you Google Mr. Nguyen, you will get all the articles
written about his involvement in this case,” his lawyer,
Douglas Schneider, told Rakoff. “He has a scarlet letter --
especially in this age of the Internet -- that he is not going
to be able to get rid of.”  Nguyen had asked for a non-prison sentence, arguing that he
played a minimal role in Jiau’s insider-trading ring, that he
stopped passing tips long before he was arrested and that he
helped the government convict Jiau.  Investment Club  Nvidia, based in  Santa Clara , California, is a maker of
graphics chips. Nguyen quit his job as a senior financial
analyst at Nvidia after pleading guilty. He now works as a
consultant, according to papers he filed with the court seeking
leniency.  Nguyen said he met Jiau, who was working as a temporary
employee in Nvidia’s finance department, in 2007. Nguyen became
a member of Jiau’s “investment club,” which prosecutors said
she started to trade on inside information.  Nguyen traded on two tips from the club, making about
$3,200 on  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  and losing $7,000 on
 SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) , Schneider said. The forfeiture imposed by Rakoff
is two times Nguyen’s Marvell profit.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 