-- Mexico’s Capital, Pacific Coast Shaken by 6.5-Magnitude Quake
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-04-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/mexico-city-buildings-shaken-by-magnitude-7-earthquake-2-.html
A magnitude 6.5 earthquake shook
 Mexico ’s capital and western coast yesterday without causing any
major damage.  The temblor hit 42 miles (69 kilometers) northwest of
 Lazaro Cardenas , in Michoacan state, at 5:55 p.m. local time,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  said in a statement on its  website .
The magnitude was revised from a preliminary reading of 7.0. At
least one aftershock followed the initial quake.  Mexico City Mayor Marcelo Ebrard said on his Twitter
account that the city’s main services, including subways and
hospitals, were working after the quake and no major damage had
been detected. Some buildings were evacuated in central Mexico
City.  “The city is functioning normally,” Ebrard wrote on
Twitter.  Around 36,000 people were left without power because of the
quake, Mexico City daily El Universal reported on its  website ,
citing the Federal Electricity Commission.  No damage was reported in Michoacan immediately after the
quake, Jose Fernando Barron, head of the state government’s
press department, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The temblor followed an 8.6 magnitude quake yesterday that
struck off  Indonesia ’s western Aceh province, which prompted
coastal residents to flee to higher ground until tsunami
warnings were lifted. No damage or casualties were reported.  Mexico has experienced a series of quakes in recent weeks.
The strongest was a 7.4-magnitude on March 20 that hit near the
coastal resort city of  Acapulco . The state government of Oaxaca
said thousands of homes were damaged because of that quake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  