-- Mexico Peso Jumps on Outlook for Extended U.S. Economic Stimulus
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-04-12T21:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/mexico-peso-jumps-on-outlook-for-extended-u-s-economic-stimulus.html
Mexico ’s peso jumped the most in a
month after Federal Reserve officials signaled policy makers in
the U.S., which buys about 80 percent of the Latin American
country’s exports, will continue stimulus measures.  The peso rose 1 percent to 13.0309 per dollar at 4 p.m. in
Mexico City. It has advanced 6.9 percent this year.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in a speech last
night endorsed the Fed’s view that U.S. borrowing costs are
likely to stay low through 2014. While the economic recovery in
the U.S. has helped make the peso the best-performing major
currency in 2012, it tumbled 1.4 percent on April 10 amid
concern the pace of the expansion in the world’s biggest economy
is slowing.  The peso’s depreciation earlier this week represented “an
overshoot,” Roberto Galvan, a currency trader at Intercam Casa
de Bolsa SA, said by phone from Mexico City. “Markets are
calmer after the statements” from Yellen, he said.  William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  said today that he agrees with the Fed’s March 13
statement backing low rates through at least late 2014. “I
haven’t seen any set of information that would suggest to me we
should change that view,” he said.  Mexico’s gross domestic product may rise closer to 4
percent this year, rather than the 3.5 percent the government
has forecast, should the  U.S. economy  keep improving, central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in February in Mexico City.  The peso also rallied today after the nation’s Automobile
Industry Association said Mexican production of cars and light
trucks rose 9.4 percent in March from the year-earlier period,
according to  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Banco Santander
SA.  The yield on Mexico’s peso-denominated debt due in 2024
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.33 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.14
centavo to 131.92 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  