-- MF Global Creditors Say Brokerage Trustee Isn’t Helping
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-12T18:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/mf-global-creditors-say-brokerage-trustee-isn-t-helping.html
A trustee for MF Global Inc., the
failed brokerage, may sue individuals over breach of fiduciary
duty and other issues related to the loss of customer funds, the
trustee said today in a statement.  “There are possible civil liabilities faced by officers,
directors and other employees,”  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for
the trustee, James Giddens, said in a phone interview. He
declined to single out any individuals.  “Violations of the segregation requirements of the
Commodity Exchange Act” may also result in claims against
“certain individuals,” Giddens said in his written statement.  Jon Corzine , a former New Jersey governor and once a co-
chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., who ran MF Global before
its Oct. 31 collapse, has already been named in several lawsuits
by customers, and may face liability if investigations show that
he knew customer money might be used when transfers were ordered
to cover an overdraft with the company’s biggest lender,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Corzine testified before Congress that he asked for
overdrafts with JPMorgan to be corrected, and that he never gave
any instruction to misuse customer funds. He also said he didn’t
believe anything he said could reasonably have been interpreted
as an instruction to misuse customer funds.  Giddens’ statement elaborated on an announcement in
 Manhattan  bankruptcy court earlier today, where he said that
he’s still in discussions with JPMorgan Chase & Co. about the
bank’s activities in connection with MF Global, and sees claims
against it and other parties to recover funds for customers.  Ruling Deferred  Giddens sees “more than colorable claims against some
parties,” Kobak told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn, adding
that aside from JPMorgan Chase, which the trustee has been
holding talks with, the trustee “believes he may have claims
against other parties.”  Separately in court today, creditors of  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ)  are questioning a $1.6 billion estimate of how much more is
required to repay customers of the failed brokerage.  Glenn said more information should be made available on June
4, when a six-month report on progress of probes into missing
funds is due. Creditors had filed a status update on their own
investigations last week, identifying assets they believed could
be part of the bankruptcy estate, and saying a trustee for the
company’s brokerage unit isn’t helping with a global analysis of
books and records.  Unwinding in Bankruptcy  While MF Global Holdings is unwinding in bankruptcy to
repay creditors, its former operating unit, brokerage MF Global
Inc., is liquidating under the Securities Investor Protection
Act to repay customers who are estimated to be out $1.6 billion.
The holding company and brokerage each have their own trustee,
and the two have disputed whether certain assets belong to
customers or creditors.  “We think the SIPA trustee is saying he doesn’t have them,
not necessarily that people don’t know where they are,” the
creditors’ lawyer,  Martin Bienenstock , told Glenn today, adding
that the issue needs clarification if creditors are to know
whether they may get some recovery from assets of the brokerage.  Estimate Unchanged  James Kobak, a lawyer for SIPA trustee James Giddens, told
Glenn today that his estimate hasn’t changed, and is based on
the total of claims filed, and the property that the trustee has
on hand.  “The different between those numbers, at present, is still
$1.6 billion,” Kobak said, noting that in some instances, such
as $700 million held in the U.K., the trustee does know where
the money is, but is unsure of whether he can get access.
Giddens had also disputed creditors’ status report last week,
and called its representations “incorrect.”  Glenn urged the two trustees to work together, and
cooperate on the information to be reported June 4.  Louis Freeh 
is the trustee for the holding company.  Glenn deferred ruling today on whether MF Global can
distribute $685 million to customers of the failed brokerage,
bringing them from 72 percent to about 80 percent of what
they’re owed. He said he will rule later in court papers.  Under the proposed distribution, commodity customers who
traded futures on foreign exchanges will get their first
payments of about $50 million, while about $600 million will go
to customers who traded on U.S. exchanges. Holders of physical
assets such as precious metals are in line to get about $35
million.  Some customers had objected, questioning releases that they
would be required to make to receive the money. A group calling
itself the “Commodities Customers” also objected, saying the
conditions could force them to give up claims against third
parties.  ‘Equitable Distribution’  By requiring a release, Giddens would “coerce futures
account customers of MFGI to assign to him their claims against
third parties as a condition to receive disbursements of their
own money,” lawyers for the group wrote.  Glenn said that if customers hand over their rights to sue
parties to Giddens, it will result in “the most equitable
distribution” of proceeds from lawsuits to all customers. He
questioned whether Giddens has the authority to demand those
releases, however.  Glenn also rejected a request from customer Sapere CTA Fund
to force Giddens to repay customers $120 million out of the
proceeds of insurance policies for professional liability. Glenn
had ruled earlier this week that Corzine and other executives
can use insurance proceeds to pay for their defense.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  