-- Farrell Spurns England Rugby Chance to Stay as Saracens Coach
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-12T11:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/farrell-spurns-england-rugby-chance-to-stay-as-saracens-coach.html
Andy Farrell will remain as
Saracens coach after turning down a chance to join the  England 
national team staff, the Premiership rugby club said on its
website.  Farrell, 36, was a member of the England staff under
interim coach  Stuart Lancaster  during the Six Nations
championship. After leading England to a second-place finish,
Lancaster was given the job full-time last month and wanted to
hire Farrell on a permanent basis.  “It has been a special privilege for me to be involved in
the Saracens coaching staff for the past 2 1/2 seasons,”
Farrell said. “We have made decent progress during this period
but, in truth, as a club, we have barely scratched the surface
of our potential. The job isn’t anywhere near half done, and I
have decided I want to help finish the job.”  Saracens said in a  statement  on their website that Farrell
will remain with the London-based club for the “foreseeable
future, and will not be accepting any other position in rugby
union.”  “While Andy was clearly an important part of the coaching
team during the course of the Six Nations, we fully respect his
wishes to continue as a coach at Saracens,”  Ian Ritchie , chief
executive officer of the Rugby Football Union, said in a
statement. “We will continue to work hard with Stuart Lancaster
to build a world class coaching team as well as look forward
toward the  Rugby World Cup  in 2015.”  Farrell, a member of England’s squad at the 2007 World Cup,
spent 18 years as a player in both rugby league and rugby union.
He retired in 2009 to take a coaching job with Saracens and last
year led the team to the Premiership title in his first season
as head coach.  Saracens are second in the Premiership this season and
reached the quarterfinals of the Heineken Cup before losing to
Clermont Auvergne 22-3 last weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 