-- Fight Masters Equality Battle in Market, Not on Fairways
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-12T23:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/fight-masters-equality-battle-in-market-not-on-fairways.html
By now, almost a week after Bubba Watson smashed his way to a Masters victory, things should be
pretty much back to normal at the Augusta National Golf Club.
The TV trucks are gone. The trampled greens and broken magnolias
have been repaired by wizard groundskeepers. And all those
activists, journalists and regular folks who were after the club
to admit women have fallen silent, doubtless from exhaustion.
The club has moved off the fairway of American attention.  This is not a bad thing.  You see, Augusta National, that Georgia haven of polished
silver, oiled wood and green jackets tailored solely for men,
was a lousy target for a big battle about equality.  Why? Well, it’s a private organization. It breaks no
federal laws against discrimination in employment or public
accommodations. It’s entitled to make its rules about admission
and exclusion, whether or not we find those rules reprehensible.
 Billy Payne , the club’s chairman, doesn’t have to listen to
anyone. Given the scope of the issue, it’s a puny target -- one
that quickly recedes behind those white dogwoods on 11 once the
circus leaves town. For most people, Augusta National is in our
lives for five days a year.  This is not the case with the corporations that sponsor the
tournament. If there is a discussion to be had about gender
equality -- and there is -- then the tournament’s main corporate
sponsors are the ones to which all parties interested in the
Augusta Question should take their case.  Unlike Payne, AT&T Inc., Exxon Mobil Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp. have to listen, or would
be foolish not to listen, to outsiders (i.e., shareholders and
consumers). And unlike Augusta, which has always been perfectly
straight about where it stands, these corporations appear to
want to have it both ways -- to be proud hosts of Take Our
Daughters to Work days even as they support a  golf tournament  at
a club to which daughters (not to mention mothers and sisters)
cannot belong.  So here’s a novel thought: Leave Augusta National alone.
Instead, if you have an issue, use your AT&T phone, or your old
IBM laptop, to contact Exxon Mobil and make your thoughts known.
If you care, then direct your comments to the sponsors. There’s
no point arguing with a pimento cheese sandwich.  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  capital flight  in the
 euro zone ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  Paul Ryan ’s  budget proposal 
would irk the founders of the  Republican Party ;  Jonathan Weil  on
JPMorgan  derivatives trader  Bruno Iksil’s nicknames;  Michael
Kinsley  on  class warfare  and the presidential campaign; Stephen
Carter on  Mitt Romney  and his  father’s portrayal  on the program
“Mad Men”; and Gary Shilling on  misplaced optimism  in the stock
market; and Rohit Aggarwala on why  user fees  are preferable to
an infrastructure bank.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 