-- Fiscal Games Can’t Hide True Cost of U.S. Roads
-- B y   R o h i t   T .   A g g a r w a l a
-- 2012-04-12T23:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/fiscal-games-can-t-hide-true-cost-of-u-s-roads.html
Last month, Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  inaugurated an innovative approach to paying for public
works: the Chicago Infrastructure Trust, which will help arrange
private-investor financing of city projects, seeded with small
amounts of government capital.  The concept is not new -- several  states , many foreign
nations and the European Union have infrastructure banks, and a
National Infrastructure Bank has been under  discussion  in
 Washington  for years. But Chicago’s would be the first to
operate on a municipal level, and it indicates the scale of
Emanuel’s ambitions for his city.  Among other things, it’s a gutsy thumb of the nose at
Washington and state capitals that haven’t figured out how to
pay for the improved roads, buildings, sewage systems and such
that America desperately needs. Congress is tied up in unending
partisan bickering over how to allocate the dwindling Highway
Trust Fund. State and local governments are broke because
existing taxes won’t cover expenses and citizens are unwilling
to pay more. Earmarks and their equivalents at the federal,
state and local levels mean that projects often get prioritized
according to politics.  An infrastructure bank offers a way around these problems.
Private investors’ money multiplies limited public funds; those
investors’ bankers help ensure that politicians don’t prioritize
the wrong projects; and the projects themselves remain public --
thus avoiding the downsides of true privatization.  All in all, it looks like a great free lunch. Then again,
as we all know, there’s no such thing.  Problem of Timing  A bank, any bank, is a solution to only one piece of the
challenge facing public works. By definition, a financing
problem is one of timing: a project built today creates value
tomorrow, but the builder doesn’t have the cash today to get
started. So an investor lends, the borrower builds and the two
share the value created tomorrow. That’s finance.  Chicago’s approach will probably bear some fruit because
local governments face many problems of timing. A city
government doesn’t have the cash to make building retrofits that
will lower its energy bills, but future savings can pay back the
loan and then some. A water utility whose rates are set to break
even has expensive leaks, but no general-revenue bonding
authority to fix them. A highway department wants to extend a
toll road, but its  capital budget  is constrained. These are all
problems that finance can solve because investment can unlock
future revenue that can be shared with a lender.  Unfortunately, America’s most dire infrastructure problems
are not like this. Most of them are like  Pennsylvania ’s 6,000
structurally  deficient bridges . Replacing these won’t create new
value, serve new traffic or generate new economic development,
so financing has to come from existing income. And that’s a
problem not of timing, but of wealth. Even if a replacement
bridge can be financed through an infrastructure bank, the debt
service on the loan has to be paid back with existing wealth.  Worse, most of America’s bridges are untolled, so even if
their replacements were to carry more traffic, they wouldn’t
yield new direct revenue. At best, through gasoline and other
taxes, they would bring money into the federal  Highway Trust
Fund  and into state and local governments. So what’s necessary
to unlock financing is funding from increased future allocations
from the Highway Trust Fund, or from state and local taxes.  But that is the very problem an infrastructure bank tries
to avoid.  Two Fantasies  At the root of this difficulty are two fantasies about
infrastructure that the U.S. can’t seem to shake.  The first is that once a bridge or a road or a water main
is built, it’s there forever. As any accountant knows, the day
you start using a capital asset is the day you start using up
its value. A community with a crumbling bridge isn’t as rich as
it thinks it is. As a nation, we need to start taking seriously
the annual depreciation of our infrastructure, and budget future
capital expenses to offset it.  The second fantasy is that we can find a way other than
taxes (on gasoline and property) or user fees (tolls and the
like) to pay for infrastructure. If Americans are unwilling to
raise taxes to pay for crumbling roads and bridges, then we need
to be more open to making them pay for themselves.  If we embrace user fees, opportunities abound. If we turn
the  Interstate Highway System  into a toll network, we can
eliminate the federal gas tax. If we accept congestion pricing
in city centers, we can subsidize mass transit without resorting
to raising local sales taxes. Alternatively, if we force transit
agencies to charge customers more so that they operate at break-
even levels, they will carry fewer riders, but those riders will
get better service.  User fees allow us to convert funding problems into
financing ones. All the kinds of projects an infrastructure bank
can finance -- water systems,  energy efficiency , airports -- are
funded by strict user fees. We accept that if you don’t pay your
electricity bill, your lights go off. We accept that planes
should pay to land at an airport. If we accepted that driving
across a bridge means paying a charge, too, we could use an
infrastructure bank to fix those bridges in Pennsylvania. (It’s
no coincidence that tolled bridges -- from the  George Washington 
to the  Golden Gate  -- are almost always in good condition.)  Infrastructure banks have great potential to solve
financing problems. But no one should think for a moment that
financial innovation can address funding problems. We still need
to face the fact that there’s no free lunch.  (Rohit T. Aggarwala leads the environmental program at
Bloomberg Philanthropies and is a visiting scholar at  Stanford
University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  capital flight  in the
 euro zone  and some final words on  gender inequality  at the
Masters;  Jonathan Alter  on why  Paul Ryan ’s  budget proposal  would
irk the founders of the  Republican Party ;  Jonathan Weil  on
JPMorgan  derivatives trader  Bruno Iksil’s nicknames;  Michael
Kinsley  on  class warfare  and the presidential campaign; Stephen
Carter on  Mitt Romney  and his  father’s portrayal  on the program
“Mad Men”; and Gary Shilling on  misplaced optimism  in the stock
market.  To contact the writer of this article:
Rohit T. Aggarwala at  rit@c40.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  