-- Flyers Defeat Penguins as Predators, Kings Win in NHL Playoffs
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-12T05:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/flyers-rally-to-down-penguins-predators-win-in-nhl-playoffs.html
The  Philadelphia Flyers  rallied
from an early three-goal deficit to win 4-3 in overtime against
the Stanley Cup favorite Pittsburgh Penguins in the opening game
of the National Hockey League postseason.  The Nashville Predators won 3-2 against the record 11-time
champion  Detroit Red Wings  in the first game of their Western
Conference playoff series. Also last night, the  Los Angeles
Kings  beat the Vancouver Canucks 4-2.  The fourth-seeded Penguins emerged as the favorite to win
the Stanley Cup when Sidney Crosby, the league’s Most Valuable
Player in 2007, returned last month after missing 59 games
during the past two seasons because of concussions. The Penguins
were the last No. 4 seed to win the title, in 2009.  A $2 billion contract between the NHL and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC, signed last year, will allow every postseason game to be
televised nationally for the first time, Commissioner Gary Bettman said this week.  Crosby, Tyler Kennedy and Pascal Dupuis scored to make it
3-0 for the Penguins after the first period at Consol Energy
Center in Pittsburgh last night.  The Flyers, whose only successes in the Stanley Cup Finals
came in 1974 and 1975, cut the deficit in the second period
through Danny Briere, who then made it a one-goal game midway
through the third period. Brayden Schenn tied it three minutes
later and Jakub Voracek scored the winner 2:23 into overtime.  The teams return to the same arena for Game 2 tomorrow
before heading to Philadelphia for two games in the best-of-
seven first-round series.  Predators Win  Paul Gaustad opened the scoring for the Predators after
seven minutes at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville,  Tennessee .
Henrik Zetterberg tied the game with a power-play goal 2:29 into
the second period before Gabriel Bourque restored the home
team’s lead 10 minutes later. Bourque made it 3-1 with 8:25 to
play and  Detroit ’s Tomas Holmstrom completed the scoring with
2:07 remaining.  At Rogers Arena in Vancouver, Alex Burrows opened the
scoring for the Canucks after 4:17 and Mike Richards made it 1-1
just over nine minutes later.  The second period ended with the teams tied at 2-2 after
Willie Mitchell scored on a power play for the Kings and
Alexander Edler replied with eight seconds to play.  Dustin Penner scored for the Kings with 3:14 left in the
third period before Dustin Brown added an empty net goal in the
final minute.  The Canucks, the top seed in the Western Conference, are
trying to win the title for the first time after losing in their
previous trips to the series in 1982, 1994 and last year, when
they lost to the Boston Bruins. No Canadian team has won the
 Stanley Cup  since the  Montreal Canadiens  in 1993.  Rangers Host Senators  Tonight, the  New York Rangers , the top seed in the Eastern
Conference, get their bid for a first Stanley Cup title since
1993-94 under way at home against the  Ottawa Senators , who have
reached the postseason for the first time in three years.  New
York , the second favorite to win the title, lost three of its
four regular-season games against the Senators.  In other first-round series tonight, Western Conference No.
2 seed the St. Louis Blues face the San Jose Sharks, the Chicago
Blackhawks visit the Phoenix Coyotes and the Bruins host the
Washington Capitals.  Eight different teams have won the past eight Stanley Cup
titles and the last team to successfully defend the championship
was the  Red Wings  in 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  