-- France Telecom Takes $2 Billion Egyptian Deal to Regulators
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-04-12T13:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/france-telecom-takes-2-billion-egyptian-takeover-to-regulators.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  will seek
approval from Egyptian regulators to buy out the remaining
publicly traded shares in its local wireless venture with
billionaire Naguib Sawiris in a 1.5-billion-euro ($2 billion)
transaction.  France’s biggest phone company agreed on the final terms of
the deal with Egyptian partner  Orascom Telecom Media &
Technology Holding SAE (OTMT) , including a 202.5 Egyptian pound-a-share
($33.56) offer to acquire Cairo-listed  Egyptian Company for
Mobile Services , the companies said today. They reached a
preliminary agreement in February on Mobinil, as the operator is
known.  Mobinil rose 1.7 percent to 179.97 Egyptian pounds at the
2:30 p.m close in Cairo after surging 9.6 percent yesterday.
Orascom jumped 6.7 percent to 1.43 pounds. Mobinil has risen 130
percent so far this year.  France Telecom  dropped as much as 2.9
percent to 10.23 euros in Paris today.  France Telecom is refocusing its business on fast-growing
 emerging markets  as mobile revenue in Europe stalls. Egypt, the
Arab world’s most populous with more than 80 million
inhabitants, is among the largest developing economies in which
France Telecom has a presence, and represents a key part of its
Middle Eastern strategy, which includes operations in  Jordan ,
 Tunisia , and Bahrain.  French Options  “To further enhance ECMS’s integration in the Egyptian
economy, France Telecom intends to ensure that, if the
conditions allow it, up to 15 percent of ECMS’s shares are held
by Egyptian shareholders, whether these are private or public
companies, or individual shareholders,”  France  Telecom Chief
Executive Officer Stephane Richard said in the statement.  Depending on the results of the tender offer, France
Telecom’s ownership of Mobinil will be in a range of 66 percent
to 95 percent. Orascom Telecom will own 5 percent, though it
will indirectly hold voting rights of about 30 percent.  France Telecom has three options to keep 15 percent of the
company in Egyptian hands, said Amr Elalfy, director and co-head
of research at Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital, who
predicts the deal will go through.  “They can buy all the shares and sell them back at the
market, which is unlikely because they can lose money, or raise
capital without subscribing to it,” he said. “The third option
is to agree with an Egyptian partner to take this stake.”  A France Telecom spokesman said it was too early to say
which options the company would pursue.  The deal may provide support for  Egypt ’s foreign-currency
reserves, which tumbled more than 50 percent since last year’s
uprising to $15.1 billion in March. Egypt’s economic growth
slowed to 0.4 percent in the final quarter of 2011 from 5.6
percent a year earlier and the  budget deficit  is likely to be
near 10 percent for a second year, according to government
forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  