-- French Socialist Contender Hollande Plans No Nationalizations
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-12T09:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/french-socialist-contender-hollande-plans-no-nationalizations.html
Socialist Francois Hollande, the
frontrunner in the French elections, won’t nationalize companies
or sell state stakes in businesses if he’s elected, unlike
previous party leaders  Francois Mitterrand  and Lionel Jospin.  “No nationalization, no privatization, certainly in the
beginning,” Michel Destot, an adviser to Hollande on business
and industry, said in an interview on April 9. “The government
will find other means to balance the budget and fund public
policies.”  France  is under pressure from the European Union to cap its
debt, which stands at more than 85 percent of its gross domestic
product. At the end of 2011, the government held stakes in
companies including  Aeroports de Paris , carmaker Renault SA, Air
France-KLM Group, France Telecom SA, defense electronics company
Thales SA, nuclear reactor builder Areva SA and utilities
 Electricite de France  and GDF Suez SA.  French voters will cast a first-round ballot on April 22 to
choose the two finalists for the decisive May 6 vote. President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  has trailed rival Hollande in the polls for the
final round for more than a year.  In December 2007, about seven months after being sworn in,
Sarkozy sold 2.5 percent of Electricite de France,  Europe ’s
largest power producer, raising 3.7 billion euros ($4.9 billion)
to improve the country’s universities. The transaction followed
other stake reductions in companies, including the June sale of
a 5 percent holding in  France Telecom , Europe’s third-largest
telephone company, to raise 2.65 billion euros.  Hollande Plan  As European markets slid with the economic crisis, Sarkozy
halted stake sells. The benchmark CAC 40 index has almost halved
during his term, falling more than 46 percent to 3245.20 points
today from 6017.91 on May 16, 2007, the day he took power.  Hollande, 57, has pledged to balance the budget in 2017,
while his rival Sarkozy promised to reach the target a year
earlier. French public deficit stood at 5.2 percent in 2011.
Hollande said he would increase spending by 20 billion euros
over the five-year mandate, financing it by repealing 29 billion
euros of tax breaks.  Hollande, a career politician, hasn’t made any public
comments on possible sales of stakes in companies. He unveiled
his platform earlier this year. If elected, he would be France’s
first Socialist president since Mitterrand, who ended his
mandate in 1995.  After his first victory in 1981, Mitterrand nationalized
dozens of banks and companies, including banks Rothschild,
Paribas and Worms.  Socialist Actions  In 1986, when he formed a government with the opposition
party after losing legislative elections, the state privatized
companies including  Saint-Gobain (SGO) , the bank Paribas and the
industrial group Suez. In 1988 after his re-election, Mitterrand
sought to reassure the business and financial sectors and sold
shares in Renault to investors.  Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, who held office
between 1997 and 2002 and was the last Socialist in power, sold
stakes in 10 companies including  Eramet (ERA) , France Telecom,  Air
France (AF)  and the bank Credit Lyonnais. Jospin was defeated in the
April 2002 first round of the presidential elections.  Hollande has said he would gear his business and investment
policies toward small- and-medium-sized companies in France. He
has pledged to boost state funding to expand the nation’s
industrial sector. Hollande hasn’t said how he would use the
Fonds Strategique d’Investissement, or FSI, the state sovereign
fund created by Sarkozy in 2008.  “We must establish a long-term strategy to rebuild a solid
and competitive industrial sector,” Destot said. “If we look
at successful neighbors, like the U.S. and  Germany , we see that
they work with bottom-up projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
AF FP <Equity> CN
RNO FP <Equity> CN
FTE FP <Equity> CN
BNP FP <Equity> CN
EDF FP <Equity> CN
GSZ FP <Equity> CN
ADF FP <Equity>CN
HO FP <Equity> CN
AREVA FP <Equity> CN 