-- Fried Frank, O’Melveny & Myers, Mayer Brown: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-12T12:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/fried-frank-o-melveny-myers-paul-hastings-business-of-law.html
Audrey Strauss, a partner in the
 New York  office of  Fried, Frank, Shriver, Harrison & Jacobson
LLP (1177L) , has been named the new chief legal officer of  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,
the largest U.S. aluminum producer.  Strauss will work in New York, where Alcoa has corporate
offices.  Additionally, Alcoa announced that Max Laun will be
promoted to general counsel. Laun had been the assistant general
counsel for mergers and acquisitions. He is based in Pittsburgh
and will report to Strauss, according to Libby Archell, a
spokeswoman for the firm.  At Fried Frank, Strauss represented corporations and
individuals in a wide range of matters and led the firm’s white
collar defense practice, according to a statement. Strauss
didn’t return a call seeking comment on the move.  The firm has named partner William F. Johnson to assume
that role. Johnson served as chief of the Securities and
Commodities Fraud Task Force in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for
the Southern District of New York before joining  Fried Frank  in
2009, according to the statement.  “For more than two decades Audrey has excelled at serving
our clients with regard to their most critical and highly
sensitive legal matters,” Valerie Ford Jacob, Fried Frank’s
chairwoman, said in a statement.  Moves  O’Melveny Expands Its Health-Care and Life Sciences Practice  Ross Galin has joined the New York office of  O’Melveny &
Myers LLP (1227L)  as counsel. Galin, who previously was counsel at  Davis
Polk & Wardwell LLP (1149L) , will become part of O’Melveny’s health-care
and life sciences practice as well as its white collar group.  Galin said in a telephone interview that defense work for
pharmaceutical and device makers continues to grow.  “It’s a challenging time for people in this industry,” he
said. “Over the last few years, for example, we’ve seen some
large settlements by pharmaceutical companies.”  David Deaton, co-chairman of the firm’s health-care and
life sciences practice, said “there are multiple pipelines” of
work, citing false-claims cases, government investigations and
class-action suits. “It’s a very vibrant” area, he said.  Paul Hastings Adds Two Health-Care Lawyers in Its Atlanta Office  Paul Hastings  LLP announced that it is bolstering its
health-care and life sciences practices in the firm’s Atlanta
office by hiring Phillip Street and Craig Smith. Both previously
worked in the Atlanta office of Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton
LLP.  Street was a partner there and is now a partner at Paul
Hastings.  He said in a telephone interview that he made the move
because “Paul Hastings has a national and international
platform that dovetails well into our practice group. We’re out
west as much as we’re out east.” He said that since joining the
firm April 2, he has been “in  Arizona  and abroad, but only in
my new Atlanta office one day.”  Smith will be of counsel at Paul Hastings and will continue
to focus on private and nonprofit clients in health systems,
hospitals, medical groups, physician groups and long-term care
facilities.  Dewey Loses Another Transactional Attorney to Mayer Brown  Mayer Brown LLP (1120L)  said yesterday that Richard Spitzer has
joined the firm’s New York office as a partner in the Insurance
Finance Group as well as the banking and finance practice. He
had been a partner in the corporate finance group at  Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP (1151L) .  According to a statement, Spitzer joins two other former
Dewey attorneys, Stephen Rooney and James Woods, who moved to
Mayer Brown last week. The three work in insurance-related
transactions.  News  Two Lawyers, Part of Patriotic Millionaires, Head to Washington  When President  Barack Obama  pressed his case yesterday for
the so-called Buffett rule to set a minimum tax on those earning
at least $1 million annually, two lawyers were in attendance. As
part of the group known as the Patriotic Millionaires, Daniel Berger of Philadelphia’s  Berger & Montague PC (1437L)  and Edward Krugman, a partner at New York’s  Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP (1271L) ,
traveled to  Washington  to be present at the conference.  Berger said he joined the group because “in light of the
supposed fiscal emergency we’re in, those who make $1 million or
more should pay more. We’re advocating a return to the rates in
effect before the Bush tax cuts in the 1990s.”  Krugman said “I got the e-mail only a couple of days ago”
about the trip, “but this one caught my eye. I have an interest
in  tax policy  and a deep feeling that we have lost our way on
progressiveness.”  The group met Obama and had “briefings with staff at the
White House including  Valerie Jarrett , one of Obama’s senior
advisers,” Krugman said.  According to a White House report released yesterday,
22,000 households made more than $1 million in 2009 and paid
less than 15 percent in income taxes.  Both lawyers said their effective tax rates were already
roughly 30 percent.  Berger said that his rate is “close to the statutory
marginal rate because most of my income is from earned rather
than investment income. If adopted, the Buffett rule wouldn’t
raise, but wouldn’t lower my taxes either,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 