-- Gehry Luxury Tower Boasts Hong Kong’s Priciest View
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/gehry-luxury-tower-boasts-hong-kong-s-priciest-view-interview.html
For someone who describes himself
as “a lefty do-gooder” who has avoided “doing rich guys’
houses” all his life,  Frank Gehry  sure has changed his spots.  He has lent his name to  Opus Hong Kong , the most expensive
piece of residential real estate ever built in the city. That’s
saying something in a town where residential rents trump  Tokyo ,
 New York  and  London , according to expatriate location advisers
 ECA International .  Sitting in the living room of the ninth-floor apartment at
the 12-story Opus overlooking the city’s skyline and harbor,
 Pritzker  Architecture Prize-winner Gehry displays no qualms
about having designed such an extravagant edifice.  “This is somehow different,” he says. “There is a
different culture here. Chinese families live in high-rise
buildings. Trying to make a house in the sky is interesting.
Hong Kong lends itself to it.”  Conspicuous consumption always has been a defining
characteristic of Hong Kong, where people pay as much as $1
million to buy a vanity license plate for their Maybachs and
Maseratis, and think nothing of betting tens of thousands of
dollars on a horse at the Happy Valley Race Course, or quaffing
$13,000 bottles of Chateau Lafite.  High Rise  Built for  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972) , the structure cost
HK$27,000 ($3,477) per square foot to construct, including land
premium. A standard high-rise apartment in the city can cost as
little as $HK4,000 per square foot to build, according to Swire
Properties Chief Executive Officer Martin Cubbon.  “Of course, it’s going to be enormously expensive by any
standards,” says Cubbon. “In rental values and capital values,
it’s going to command the highest numbers that Hong Kong has
ever seen.”  Set apart on a steep windswept hill on 53 Stubbs Road,
surrounded by lush greenery, the Opus has just 12 apartments,
one per floor except for the bottom two stories, which house two
duplexes complete with gardens and private pools.  Each unit averages about 6,000 square feet. Cubbon declined
to provide figures until marketing begins by the end of this
month. He expects most flats to be rented, though “if someone
writes us a big enough check,” he says, Swire will sell too.  While fans of the 83-year-old architect will recognize the
Gehry DNA, Opus is a far cry from the titanium-clad  Guggenheim
Museum Bilbao  or the Walt Disney Concert Hall in  Los Angeles .  Spanish Stone  The building rests on huge blocks of Spanish limestone (the
same kind used at Bilbao) stacked randomly to make it look like
the space was quarried out of the landscape.  Its facade is defined by exterior columns sheathed in glass
that climb the building “like reeds swaying in the wind,” says
Gehry. Placing the supporting columns outside enables maximum
flexibility for the interior space floor and the wraparound
glass windows and balconies he likens to a ship’s deck.  Opus is Gehry’s first residential project in  Asia , and
unlike  Herzog & de Meuron ,  Zaha Hadid  and Rem Koolhaas’s Office
for Metropolitan Architecture, he has yet to crack mainland
 China .  His Los Angeles-based firm has submitted a design for a
competition to build the prestigious National Art Museum of
China in Beijing, but so far the process has been frustrating.  “There’s a political interpretation,” Gehry says. “Every
time you do something, they say ‘Well, in China, that means
something else.’ Almost everything I’ve done that I’ve thought
was good they say, ‘No, you can’t do that.’ I feel very much
like a blind man. It’s a difficult climate in which to make
really good architecture.”  Architectural DNA  Gehry declines to give details on his proposed Chinese
design, describing it as a “fairly simple box” that doesn’t
look like the Bilbao museum, yet still bears his stamp.
“Whatever I do, you can’t escape your signature, your DNA.”  His longevity is genetic too, and Canadian-born Gehry has
no intention of slowing down. Though he hung up his ice-hockey
skates a few years ago, he still works out with a personal
trainer most mornings and spends six days in the office.  “I don’t know what old means,” Gehry says.
“Chronologically when I think of my age, I think well, I’m old,
so I use it as an excuse sometimes to complain about things.
It’s great cover and sometimes it’s true, I really run out of
gas. But they don’t believe me.”  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter at large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 