-- Gensler to Remain as CFTC Chairman Past Expiration Date Tomorrow
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/gensler-to-remain-as-cftc-chairman-past-expiration-date-tomorrow.html
Gary Gensler ’s term as chairman of
the U.S. agency writing regulations required by the Dodd-Frank
Act for the global swaps market ends tomorrow. All the same, his
ability to craft rules for companies including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  could extend at least until
next year.  Federal rules permit Gensler, a Democrat, to remain as
chairman of the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  until
the end of 2013. If President  Barack Obama  loses re-election in
November, his successor could nominate a replacement as chairman
earlier. White House spokeswoman  Amy Brundage  declined to
comment on whether the president will re-nominate Gensler.  “It’s a fight not worth having because he’s in place for
another year,” said Mark Calabria, an economist and the
director of financial studies at the  Cato Institute  and a former
senior aide for Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee.
Calabria said he would be surprised if the administration
formally submits Gensler for re-nomination this year.  “There is certainly at least one Republican if not dozens
that would object to him,” Calabria said in a telephone
interview.  The CFTC is in the process of completing scores of
regulations required by the 2010 financial-regulation law that
are designed to reduce risk and boost oversight of derivatives
and swaps, whose notional value is estimated at $708 trillion.
Dodd-Frank was enacted after largely unregulated swaps helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis and contributed to the bailout of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)   ‘I Anticipate Serving’  “I anticipate serving in this post well past April 13,”
Gensler told reporters after a speech last month at the  Futures
Industry Association  conference in  Boca Raton , Fla. “There is a
lot of work we have to do together in this administration to get
these rules finalized.”  The CFTC is trying to complete the rules by the end of the
year after missing the law’s July 2011 deadline. The agency has
voted to give the industry “temporary relief” from Dodd-Frank
rules that had been scheduled to take effect. The delays were
approved to give the agency more time to implement rules.  The regulations are intended to have most swaps guaranteed
by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  Gensler could face a difficult path to confirmation with 60
votes necessary in the  U.S. Senate . A single senator can also
block confirmation by holding up a final vote. Democrats have
criticized Gensler for failing to quickly adopt regulations
limiting speculation in oil and natural gas.  Democratic Opposition  “If CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler doesn’t act soon to
implement rules that will cut down on speculation in the oil
futures markets, then you should consider not reappointing
him,” Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, said in an April
3 letter to Obama. The speculation rules, approved by the CFTC
in October as part of Dodd-Frank, haven’t taken effect in the
market.  Republicans have argued Gensler has overstepped the
agency’s authority under Dodd-Frank and has erred in his
response to the investigation of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the
New York-broker that filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Oct. 31.
The CFTC,  Securities and Exchange Commission ,  Justice Department 
and bankruptcy trustee are investigating the collapse. The
bankruptcy trustee has estimated a $1.6-billion gap between
customer claims and assets available.  Gensler decided against participating in the CFTC’s
investigation because he said he didn’t want his prior
relationship with Jon S. Corzine,  MF Global (MF) ’s former chairman
and chief executive officer, to be a “distraction” from the
agency’s work. Gensler and Corzine were colleagues at Goldman
Sachs.  “We want a person to come before us and answer the hard
questions. That’s what your job is about,” Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican, told Gensler at a December
congressional hearing. “And it just feels to me like you’re not
discharging the responsibilities of that job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  