-- German Power’s Slump Squeezes EON, RWE: Energy Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-04-12T08:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/german-power-s-longest-slump-squeezes-eon-rwe-energy-markets.html
German power prices are extending
their longest streak of quarterly declines as record wind and
solar output squeezes profits at coal-fed stations run by  RWE AG (RWE) 
and EON AG to less than a third of their U.K. counterparts.  Baseload electricity for 2013, the European benchmark
contract, fell 1.1 percent this month after four consecutive
quarterly drops. Utilities in the U.K., including  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,
are earning more than three times as much as German generators
based on next-month clean-dark spreads, a profit measure that
includes coal, power and emissions prices.  Germany is building solar, wind and coal capacity to
replace the 17 reactors that supplied about a fifth of its
electricity, following last year’s disaster in Fukushima,  Japan .
Europe’s biggest economy gives green energy priority access to
the grid and has a greater share of renewables than the U.K.
Solar and wind generation units cost less to operate than fossil
plants, pushing down electricity prices and profits.  “Prices will decline in the second and third quarters,”
said Paolo Coghe, a senior analyst for European power at Societe
Generale SA in Paris, who has covered energy markets for 15
years. “This is due to the additional downward pressure exerted
on prices by renewable generation and a realization that there
will be lower demand.”  German power for 2013 traded at 51.35 euros ($67.34) a
megawatt-hour, down 5 cents, at 9:50 a.m. Berlin time, according
to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg. The contract has lost
3.3 percent this year, following a 12 percent decline in the
last three quarters of 2011.  Shrinking Profit Spread  The clean-dark spread for next month in  Germany  was at 4.57
euros a megawatt-hour, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s down from 16.94 euros in October. U.K. generators were
earning 15.31 pounds a megawatt-hour (18.59 euros), the data
show. The spread reflects the price of power produced, minus
costs of fuel and emission permits.  Germany generates about 20 percent of its electricity from
renewables, compared with 9.5 percent in the U.K., according to
government data.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to exit nuclear
energy by 2022 and raise the nation’s share of renewable sources
to at least 35 percent of the power mix by the end of this
decade. The  Environment Ministry  said earlier this month Germany
will probably overshoot the target and reach a share of about 40
percent by 2020. Hard coal supplied about 19 percent of the
nation’s power in 2011, according to data from Bundesverband
Solarwirtshaft, a Berlin-based lobby group known as BSW.  Renewables Subsidies  The German government gives financial support to utilities
to build solar and wind farms, through feed-in-tariffs, to speed
up progress towards its 2020 targets.  Electricity production from  solar photovoltaic  panels in
Germany rose by 62 percent to 19 terawatt-hours last year, BSW
data show. In 2011, new solar power capacity amounted to 7,500
megawatts, more than double the 3,000 megawatts the government
had forecast. A megawatt is enough to supply about 2,000
European homes.  To curb growth, Germany’s parliament approved subsidy cuts
of as much as 29 percent from April 1, depending on the size of
the solar plant, to reduce the annual pace of installations by
half in the world’s biggest market for the industry.  Wind production  increased by 23 percent in 2011 from a year
earlier to a record 46.5 terawatt-hours, BSW data show. The
government plans to subsidize an increase in installed capacity
of offshore  wind turbines  from 0.2 gigawatts at the end of 2011
to 10 gigawatts, the equivalent of about nine atomic plants, by
2020, according to the wind industry’s lobby group BWE.  “Renewables bring down the weighted average cost of
meeting demand because they have zero fuel costs once they are
installed,” Coghe said. Low-cost generation is meeting peak
demand and this has a price-damping impact, he said.  Downside Risks  Industrial demand will probably not pick up. Europe’s
economy faces “downside risks” amid rising Spanish and Italian
borrowing costs, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said on April 4. Electricity consumption in Germany fell 0.5
percent last year and is poised to drop a further 0.5 percent
this year, Deutsche Bank AG said in a March 28 research note.  “I am a little surprised, given that nuclear capacity was
removed in Germany, that power prices haven’t held up more but
it shows that the market was more oversupplied to begin with
than anyone realized,” said  Mark Lewis , a commodities analyst
at Deutsche Bank in Paris, said April 4 in a phone interview.
Renewables have made a significant contribution to the
oversupply, he said.  U.K. Plants  Utilities operating in Britain have announced more plant
closures than in Germany because of sliding profit margins at
coal and gas-fired power stations.  “Operators in Germany seem reluctant to close plants
because of the risk that they would make life easier for their
competitors and lose market share in the long run,” Lewis said.  Power-plant operators, stung by declining clean-dark
spreads, have found some relief as prices for European Union
emissions contracts hit record lows, reducing generation costs.  Carbon futures for December delivery dropped to a record
5.99 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in
London on April 4.  They have dropped 60 percent in the past year, which means
utilities are “enjoying reasonable spreads even in an
environment of low power prices,” Coghe said.  At EON, Germany’s largest utility, profit slumped 50
percent last year because of nuclear reactor closures and lower
earnings from its power generation and wholesale gas business,
the Dusseldorf-based company said March 14. Its  share price  has
dropped 24 percent in the past year.  RWE’s full-year profit fell 34 percent in 2011, it said on
March 6. Its  market value  slid by 27 percent in the past 12
months. RWE is the country’s second-largest utility.  “The new German  energy policy  has left its mark,” RWE
Chief Executive Officer Juergen Grossman said on a conference
call that day after announcing full-year results. “The power
generation business will suffer from declining generation
spreads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  