-- Gilead Bets on Hepatitis C Data to Back Pharmasset Deal
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/gilead-bets-on-hepatitis-c-data-to-back-pharmasset-deal.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , after paying
$10.8 billion for the developer of an experimental hepatitis C
drug, will soon give investors a better sense of whether its
largest-deal ever is going to pay off.  Beginning next week, Gilead will release data from dozens
of patients who have tried the medicine, providing the most
complete evidence yet about its prospects for treating 170
million people who are infected with the  virus  globally. Trial
results reported in 10 people in February spurred wild swings in
the company’s stock price.  Gilead, the world’s largest maker of HIV drugs, has fallen
10 percent in the past four years, and is facing the loss of
half of its revenue from patent expirations on AIDS medicines
beginning in 2018. Despite that, 26  analysts  advise buying the
shares, and seven suggest holding them.  “They will be there as one of the key players to treat a
very large unmet medical need in hepatitis C, and one of the
first players,” said  Joshua Schimmer , a  Leerink Swann  & Co.
analyst. “You can make a very strong case that Gilead shares
are worth owning through the volatility.”  The purchase of Pharmasset Inc., announced Nov. 21, was
designed to add a heavyweight product to diversify Gilead in an
area -- infectious disease -- where the  Foster City , California-
based biotechnology company has expertise and an established
sale force.  The company became a leader in AIDS treatments by finding
the right combinations of drugs to help change the disease from
a quick killer into one that’s manageable. Researchers say
hepatitis C also may be attacked with drug cocktails. It’s a
matter of finding “the right recipe,” said Mani Subramanian, a
Gilead vice president of clinical research.  Liver Meeting  Investors are looking to results to be reported beginning
at next week’s European Association for the Study of Liver
meeting in Barcelona to define what role Gilead’s hepatitis C
drug, known as 7977, will play in a developing market for new
medicines that is expected to reach $20 billion.  In data reported on Feb. 2, four weeks of Gilead’s medicine
seemed to eradicate the virus in 10 patients who hadn’t
responded to prior rounds of therapy, boosting the company’s
 stock market value . On Feb. 17, when some patients relapsed,
Gilead shares fell the most in 11 years.  “You have to be kind of astounded by it,” Leerink Swann’s
Schimmer said in a telephone interview.  One key study weighs the performance of Gilead’s 7977 in
tandem with an experimental product from  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  when used by all types of patients. Others will report on
7977’s effectiveness in those who have never been treated.  Bristol-Myers Compound  Bristol-Myers’s compound, BMS-790052, hinders a protein
called NS5A that creates a scaffolding around the virus,
securing it so it can replicate, Gilead’s Subramanian said. His
company’s drug integrates itself into the virus’s replicating
process, preventing it from churning out copies.  The new hepatitis C drugs also promise to work more quickly
and be safer than the current standard of care that combines an
antiviral called ribavirin with interferon, an injectable
immune-boosting protein, studies have shown.  “We’re very excited about this Bristol-Myers study,”
Subramanian said in an interview at the company’s headquarters.
“We’ll know whether you even need ribavirin if you have a NS5A
in the mix.”  Proving the worth of Bristol-Myers’s product in combination
with 7977 could also help Gilead down the line when GS-5885, its
own NS5A inhibitor, is put before the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for approval. The product is now in the second of
three phases of trials generally required for clearance.  Ribavirin Combination  Gilead is expected to report at the Barcelona conference
how 7977 works in combination with ribavirin after 12 weeks of
therapy in those who haven’t had other treatments before, so-
called naïve patients. This will help establish which patients
can be cured, or not, without interferon.  If Gilead’s hepatitis C drug is approved, at the end of
2013 at the earliest, it may add $3 billion to $4 billion in
revenue by 2018, said  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets  in  San Francisco . That would help replace sales from
Atripla, the most widely used HIV medicine, and Truvada, a
component of Atripla, he said. The medicines generated $6.1
billion in 2011 sales, or 73 percent of Gilead’s revenue.  “The company did have very steady revenue and earnings
growth, but they’re looking to accelerate that,” Yee said.
“The growth potential of the company has significantly changed,
with higher risk and higher reward.”  No Death Knell  The finding last month that some patients have relapsed
shouldn’t be looked at as a death knell for the developing
product, Gilead’s Subramanian said.  The data “means one of two things,” he said in an
interview. “Do you need longer duration, or more drugs?”  Geoff Porges, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
 New York  with a market perform rating on Gilead, isn’t so sure.  The failure of 7977 to cure people who had previously been
treated “shocked the world,” and means Gilead won’t dominate
the field as some had expected, he wrote in a note to clients.
“It changes the treatment landscape,” he wrote, and
“highlights the vulnerability of Gilead’s stock to any
stumbles.”  Subramanian remains philosophical about the hepatitis c
therapies: “It’s like cooking,” he said. “At some point we’ll
figure out the right recipe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  