-- Goldman Sachs to Pay $22 Million Over Analyst Huddle Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-04-12T18:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/goldman-sachs-to-pay-22-million-to-settle-analyst-huddle-claims.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will pay
$22 million to resolve U.S. regulators’ claims that the firm
failed to implement policies to keep its stock analysts from
tipping select clients about upcoming research changes.  Goldman Sachs held weekly huddles from 2006 to 2011 in
which analysts discussed short-term trading ideas and traders
shared their views of the markets, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a statement today. The meetings created “a
serious risk” that employees and clients could trade on the
non-public information, the SEC said.  “Higher-risk trading and business strategies require
higher-order controls,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami 
said in the agency’s statement. “Despite being on notice from
the SEC about the importance of such controls, Goldman failed to
implement policies and procedures that adequately controlled the
risk that research analysts could preview upcoming ratings
changes with select traders and clients.”  Goldman Sachs paid a $10 million fine last year to resolve
similar claims from state regulators in  Massachusetts  and was
among 10 securities firms that paid disgorgement and civil
penalties totaling $1.4 billion to settle claims related to a
probe of analysts’ conflicts of interest in 2003.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,” Goldman
Sachs spokesman  Michael DuVally  said today in an e-mail.  Under the settlement, Goldman Sachs will pay about $11
million to the SEC and the same amount to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the Washington-based brokerage industry
regulator.  New Legislation  Analyst conflicts of interest garnered attention this month
after President  Barack Obama  signed legislation that critics
said will undo some rules emanating from the 2003 settlement.
Under the law, regulators are no longer able to write or
maintain rules that restrict investment bankers from arranging
communications between analysts and investors when dealing with
firms with less than $1 billion in gross annual revenue.  In 2007, Goldman Sachs launched the Asymmetric Service
Initiative, a program in which research analysts called a select
group of about 180 hedge-fund and investment-management clients
to share information and trading ideas from the huddles, the SEC
said. The huddles and the program were an “extensive
undertaking” to improve the performance of the firm’s traders
and boost commissions from clients, according to the agency.  Research analysts’ contributions to the huddles were
considered in their performance evaluations and could impact
their compensation, the SEC said.  Generate Profits  In an administrative order filed today, the SEC cited an e-
mail from a Goldman Sachs manager that said employees had a
responsibility to generate trading ideas for huddles “based on
your view of the stocks that will move short term” and generate
profits for the trading desk.  Goldman Sachs traders who participated in the huddles were
primarily those who dealt directly with customers, including
market-making and client-facilitation traders from its
securities division, the SEC said. Until 2009, members of
Goldman Sachs’s Franchise Risk Management Group, who were
authorized to establish large, long-term positions on behalf of
the firm, also attended the huddles, according to the order.  The huddle program created a “serious and substantial
risk” that analysts would share material, non-public
information about their research with clients, many of whom were
frequent, high-volume traders, the SEC said. Goldman Sachs
failed to establish and enforce policies and procedures to
prevent misuse of the information, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  