-- Google Investors Seek Apple-Like Dividend as Cash Piles Up: Tech
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/google-investors-seek-apple-like-dividend-as-cash-piles-up-tech.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  shareholders are urging
the Web-search giant to take a page from Apple Inc. and return
part of its $44.6 billion in cash to investors.  Google has more cash as a percentage of market value than
five of its largest peers, including Apple, which reinstated a
dividend and unveiled a $10 billion stock buyback last month.
Google’s cash has almost doubled since 2009, and it is the only
U.S. technology company with a market value of more than $125
billion that doesn’t offer a regular shareholder payout.  A dividend would be a boon to Google investors who have
endured a 1.5 percent stock decline this year. Though Google’s
purchase of  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  for $12.5 billion
will eat into its cash pile, the company is adding about $2
billion to $3 billion in cash a quarter. Even after the deal is
approved, Google will still have more cash than International
Business Machines Corp. and  Intel Corp . combined.  “There’s a pattern here that makes sense, and I’m sure
Google will figure out the right thing to do,” said  Michael Holland , chairman of Holland & Co., a New York investment firm
that oversees more than $4 billion in assets, including Google
shares. “It’s a little bit of a victory dance, if you will, to
be able to have the sort of cash surplus that a company like
 Apple (AAPL)  does and Google does. To share some of it is sharing the
victory dance.”  Holding On  Google could make an argument for holding on to its cash,
by saying it needs the money for deals or investing in new
businesses. Still, a dividend or buyback could assuage investor
concerns that Google might instead make an unneeded, large
acquisition, said  Tim Ghriskey , who as co-founder of Solaris
Group helps oversee about $2 billion in assets, including Google
shares.  “Certainly, Google can afford it,” Ghriskey said.  The company’s cash could get a further boost from rising
sales and earnings.  Mountain View , California-based Google may
report later today that first-quarter profit before certain
costs increased to $9.64 a share from $8.08 a year earlier, as
the company benefits from spending on search-based Web
advertising, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner sites,
is projected to climb 24 percent to $8.14 billion.  Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , when asked last
week about what the company might do after his competitor’s
dividend announcement, said, “I think Apple has more cash than
we do,” according to an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek.
He said the company had nothing to announce.  Board Discussions  Google’s board has discussed what to do with the cash,
including buybacks, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Pichette has
said on past calls with analysts. Today’s earnings call will
provide analysts their first opportunity to revisit the question
since Apple announced its dividend.  Apple, whose market capitalization is almost three times
the size of Google’s, in March announced a quarterly  dividend  of
$2.65 a share, along with the stock buyback. The maker of the
iPhone and iPad tablet -- rivals to products based on Google’s
own Android mobile software -- had amassed $97.6 billion in cash
as it rolled out best-selling products under co-founder  Steve Jobs .  IBM, the world’s largest computer-services provider, had
$11.9 billion in cash and equivalents at the end of 2011, while
chipmaker Intel said it had $14.8 billion.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the
biggest software maker, had $51.7 billion in cash and
equivalents at year’s end, and Oracle Corp. had about $30
billion as of its most recent quarter. All of these companies
already pay a dividend.  Competing With Apple  “Google wants to hold the cash,” said Lee Pinkowitz, an
associate professor at  Georgetown University . “They haven’t
paid a dividend, and they don’t really seem all that excited
to.”  Indeed, Google isn’t amassing cash at the same rate as
Apple, as it devotes a bigger slice of sales to  capital
spending , including data centers that power Web services, said
Tony Ursillo, an analyst at Loomis, Sayles & Co., which has
about $162.2 billion under management. Google may need cash to
continue competing with Apple in mobile computing, he said.  “Google is not as cash-rich as Apple is,” Ursillo said.
“Google probably sees a number of other necessary outlets for
its cash that take a higher priority than paying a dividend.”  Overseas Holdings  In addition, Google has much of its cash tied up overseas,
letting it avoid tax penalties for returning the holdings to the
U.S., while domestic cash is where the dividend will be paid
from, Ursillo said. At the end of last year, $21.2 billion of
Google’s $44.6 billion of cash, including equivalents and
marketable securities, was held by its foreign subsidiaries,
according to a company  filing . That will dwindle after the
Motorola Mobility purchase.  Google has been “pretty successful” with acquisitions,
said  Jason Helfstein , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. For
example, the company has emerged as a dominant force in mobile
software thanks to its purchase of Android in 2005. It’s also
benefitted in display advertising and user growth from its
acquisition of video-sharing site YouTube in 2006.  Before the Motorola Mobility purchase, which is still
awaiting final regulatory approval, cash holdings may rise to
about $55 billion by the end of the year, according to
Helfstein. The company should continue to put its cash to use,
including through potential acquisitions, Helfstein said. Still,
a small dividend -- perhaps distributing about $1 billion a year
to shareholders -- would help draw new investors, he said, as
some funds only buy stocks with dividends.  “It wouldn’t cost them much and it would probably help the
valuation of the stock,” he said.  Whatever Google decides in the immediate future, Apple’s
payout means the Internet search leader and other young
technology companies may have to rethink how they handle their
cash.  “Decades ago, we used to be worried about companies taking
on too much debt,” said  Ryan Jacob , manager of the $45 million
Jacob Internet Fund, which includes Google shares. “Now, we’re
worried about companies taking on too much cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  