-- Google Doesn’t Mind Messing With Texas in Patent Lawsuits
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/google-doesn-t-mind-messing-with-texas-in-patent-lawsuits.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  won two patent-infringement trials this year in a
courthouse where that’s not supposed to happen.  The courts in the Eastern District of Texas, which includes
the Tyler courthouse where Google and United defended
themselves, have delivered half the largest U.S. patent verdicts
against corporations in history. A quarter of defendants in U.S.
patent cases filed in 2011 were sued there.  The recent defense victories, along with changes in U.S.
patent law from courts and Congress, have chipped away at the
district’s title of top location for patent suits. Since
September, more infringement suits have been filed in
Wilmington,  Delaware , than in eastern Texas, according to an
analysis co-authored by  James Pistorino , a lawyer with Perkins
Coie LLP in  Palo Alto ,  California .  “It’s more problematic to file a case here than it was
three years ago,” said Sam Baxter, a patent lawyer with McKool
Smith PC in Marshall, Texas, who represented Versata Software Inc.
in a $345 million verdict it won last year against  SAP AG (SAP) , the
10th-largest patent verdict in U.S. history.  Delaware had more patent suits filed in 2011 while more
companies were sued in eastern Texas. There were 484 suits
involving 2,458 defendants in Delaware and 418 suits with 3,163
defendants in Texas, according to Pistorino’s study.  United, Amazon  Patent owners still have the advantage in east Texas cases
that come to trial. They’ve won about two-thirds of the trials
in 2011 and so far this year, according to LegalMetric Inc., a
St. Louis-based company that compiles data on litigation. Of the
22 trials since Jan. 1, 2011, patent owners won 15, said  Greg
Upchurch , director of research.  This year, though, airlines including United won a March
verdict in Tyler, Texas, that invalidated patents for a way to
reserve seats online. A month earlier, another Tyler jury
invalidated a patent challenged by companies including Google
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  over a way to make the Internet more
interactive.  Google has won three of its four trials in east Texas,
Catherine Lacavera, director of litigation for the  Mountain
View , California-based company, said. In the fourth, the jury
awarded $5 million and the companies settled. All have been in
the past two years.  “I heard about the statistical reputation that plaintiffs
are far more successful, but we’ve had a very good experience
there,” Lacavera said.  Google’s Wins  The interactivity case involved a company called Eolas
Technologies Inc. that had won a $521 million verdict in  Chicago 
against Microsoft Corp. in 2003 that was later overturned on
appeal. Eolas claimed to own a patent that covers features
including music clips, search features, maps, advertisements and
embedded applications.  Microsoft and Eolas settled before a second trial could be
held to challenge the validity of the patent, and Eolas chose
Tyler for a new complaint against companies that do business on
the Internet.  Tim Berners-Lee, the British computer scientist credited
with inventing the World Wide Web, testified on behalf of
Google, Amazon.com,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and J.C. Penney Co.  “What we did by invalidating that patent -- and I hope it
stands up on appeal -- is we cleared the way for a lot of people
who were being sued or coming behind us,”  Lacavera said.  Court Changes  The biggest change affecting the  Texas  courts was the
patent-law overhaul signed in September, Pistorino said. It
included a provision that bars filing a single suit against
dozens of unrelated companies. That makes it more expensive to
sue a large number of companies in hopes of getting quick
settlements.  The September law followed years of court rulings that
narrowed the power of patents and chipped away at the appeal of
the courts in Marshall and Tyler. The  Supreme Court , in a series
of rulings since 2006, made it easier to challenge a patent and
harder to block an infringer from using the invention, which led
to more trials.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
handles patent appeals, made it easier to  transfer  cases and
limited the amount of money that can be collected when the
invention covers just a small feature of a product such as a
computer. It’s also not as fast to reach trial, with some now
taking upwards of three years.  Like Land, Oil  The Federal Circuit threw out the largest U.S. infringement
verdict, a $1.67 billion decision won by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
against  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  in Marshall over technology used to
create the arthritis drug Humira.  The Versata-SAP case is on appeal, as are a $482 million
verdict won by a New Jersey doctor against Johnson & Johnson
over heart devices and a $625.5 million verdict against  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  over how documents are displayed on a computer screen. The
trial judge in the Apple case reversed the verdict against the
iPhone maker, and the Federal Circuit heard the case March 8.  When cases come to trial, Texans on juries have tended to
see patent ownership as analagous to oil and gas rights or
fences around property, Baxter said.  “People here believe if you own something, you own it and
certain rights come with that,” Baxter said. “If you didn’t
want someone coming to your pastureland and building a house,
you can tell them ‘no.’ ”  Defense lawyers have learned how to turn that argument
around, which has helped companies increase their chances of
winning, said Hilda Galvan, a lawyer with  Jones Day  in  Dallas .  “Property rights are like a fence on the land, but you’ve
got to own the property you fence in,” she said. “We tell them
the patents are invalid because they didn’t own that property.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  