-- Google Proposes Changing Stock Structure to Keep Control
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-12T22:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/google-s-profit-tops-estimates-as-new-markets-help-fuel-growth.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest
Internet-search company, plans a new stock structure that gives
management more leeway in issuing shares, while letting it keep
control over the direction of the business.  The stock change would create a new class of nonvoting
shares that will be distributed to existing shareholders in what
is effectively a 2-for-1 stock split. Google announced the move
as part of its first-quarter financial results, which met or
beat most analysts’ estimates, boosted by online-ad spending.  Google aims to prevent employee stock compensation and
stock-based acquisitions from diluting the voting power of its
founders. The  Mountain View , California-based company wants the
flexibility to be able to make long-term investments, using its
shares, without the risk of losing control. The move builds on
Google’s dual-class stock structure, created when the company
went public in 2004, that already limited investor influence.  “We have put our hearts into Google and hope to do so for
many more years to come,” Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page 
and co-founder  Sergey Brin  said today in a statement posted
online. “ So we want to ensure that our corporate structure can
sustain these efforts and our desire to improve the world.”  First Quarter  First-quarter profit, excluding certain costs, was $10.08 a
share, the company said on  its website . Analysts had  projected 
$9.64 on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, sales rose to
$8.14 billion, matching estimates.  Page, who became CEO a year ago, has pushed Google deeper
into display advertising and mobile services. This year the
company will account for 16.5 percent of the U.S. market for
display ads, which include banners and videos, according to
EMarketer Inc. By next year, Google is projected to grab almost
20 percent, unseating Facebook Inc. as the market leader.  “The viability of Google is still very, very strong,”
said Ron Josey, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in  New York . He
recommends buying the stock, which he doesn’t own himself.
“There’s still a lot of room for growth across its multiple
businesses.”  Google’s shares  were little changed in late trading after
the announcement. They had risen 2.4 percent to $651.01 at the
close in New York.  ‘Google’s Story’  The desire to maintain control has always been a driving
force at Google, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners
LP in New York.  “That’s been Google’s story,” he said.  While the new proposal will be subject to a vote at
Google’s annual meeting on June 21, Page, Brin and Chairman  Eric Schmidt  control the majority of voting power.  “We expect it to pass,”  David Drummond , Google’s chief
legal officer, said in the statement.  Investors will receive one share of the new stock for each
one they hold. So a share valued at $600 when the split takes
effect would become two shares, each valued at $300. Unlike with
a typical stock split, though, voting power in the company won’t
change, said  Charles Elson , director of the University of
 Delaware ’s John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance.  “A true stock split would give the holder a share with the
same voting right as the share they held,” Elson said. “This is
more of a stock dividend.”  Google Paranoia?  Paul Hodgson , a researcher at  GovernanceMetrics
International Inc. , a  corporate-governance  consulting firm in
New York, said the approach isn’t ideal because it puts
unnecessary limits on shareholders.  “That is anti-best practice as far as best governance, but
so was the dual-class structure in the first IPO,” Hodgson said.
“There are plenty of companies that have a single class of
shares, one vote per share, and they aren’t paranoid that
shareholders are going to somehow influence the future strategy
of the company.”  Page and Brin said they recognize that some people won’t
support the change.  “We understand that other companies have been very
successful with more traditional governance models,” they said
in the statement. “But after careful consideration with our
board of directors, we have decided that maintaining this
founder-led approach is in the best interests of Google, our
shareholders and our users.”  Cash Holdings  Some investors have been asking Google to consider a cash
dividend or a stock buyback. The company has $49.3 billion in
cash and short-term investments, up from $44.6 billion in the
 previous quarter .  When asked why Google isn’t returning cash to its
shareholders, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Pichette said the
money could be used for strategic investments, such as the
planned $12.5 billion  acquisition  of Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. He said there were nothing new to announce on that front.  Google still gets most of  its revenue  from Internet-search
ads -- the text links that appear in query results. The average
cost per click declined 12 percent in the first quarter after
falling 8 percent in the fourth quarter. The number of paid
clicks rose about 39 percent.  The company posted first-quarter  net income  of $2.89
billion, or $8.75 a share, compared with $1.8 billion, or $5.51
a share, a year earlier.  Mobile search ads have become a bigger piece of Google’s
business. Companies will probably commit 23 percent of their
search-based ad spending to mobile devices by the end of this
year, according to  Marin Software , which helps manage about $3.5
billion annually in online ads. That’s up from 8.7 percent at
the end of last year.  Click Activity  Users are clicking on these ads more aggressively, Marin
Software found. It expects mobile devices to account for 25
percent of all user clicks on search ads by the end of this
year, up from 12.3 percent at the end of 2011.  Including both mobile and desktop-computer searches, Google
had 76 percent of spending on query-based marketing in the first
quarter, according to Covario Inc., an online advertising
company.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , which are Internet-
search partners, had 13 percent during the period.  Google is playing catch-up in the social-networking market,
meanwhile, by promoting Google+. The service, introduced last
year, is designed to let users easily share content by grouping
acquaintances into “circles.” Google+ now has more than 170
million users, the company  said this week .  Still, Google has struggled to keep users engaged. In the
U.S., Google+ visitors spent an average of 3.3 minutes on the
site during January, compared with more than 7 hours for
Facebook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  