-- Icahn Sues Amylin Pharmaceuticals Asking for Books, Records
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-04-12T22:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/icahn-sues-amylin-pharmaceuticals-asking-for-books-records-1-.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
sued  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  demanding records related to a
$3.5 billion takeover offer by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  as he
seeks to start a proxy fight against Amylin’s board.  Icahn, Amylin’s third-largest investor, is seeking records
about the directors’ “evaluation and rejection of the Bristol-
Myers proposal,” according to a lawsuit filed today in  Delaware 
Chancery Court. Earlier this week, Icahn filed a separate suit
aimed at bylaws that hamstrings investors from seeking to vote
out current directors.  “Amylin has flatly refused to provide any books and
records in response” to Icahn’s request, lawyers for the
billionaire said in the suit.  Icahn, who has targeted at least seven drug companies in
the past five years, has threatened a proxy fight over the
Amylin board’s rejection of the $22-per-share Bristol-Myers
offer and urged the drugmaker to pursue a sale.  Amylin officials turned down the $3.5 billion offer in
February, two people familiar with the bid told Bloomberg News
on March 28. The  San Diego , California-based company has never
confirmed the offer.  Shareholder Value  “This is merely an attempt by Mr. Icahn to second-guess
the business judgment of Amylin’s board of directors, and as
such, his lawsuit is without merit,” Alice Izzo, an Amylin
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Amylin rose 52 cents, or more than 2 percent to $24.28 in
Nasdaq composite trading today. The shares are up nearly 58
percent since March 27, the day before Bristol-Myers’s bid was
reported.  Icahn has been critical of Amylin’s directors, saying in an
April 4 letter the board is “dysfunctional and is not operating
in a manner that enhances shareholder value.”  He also cited Amylin’s public offering of 13 million common
shares and its issuance of  stock options  to company executives
at $16 a share as concerns.  Along with records about the board’s handling of the
Bristol-Myers offer, Icahn is seeking documents about share
offering and executive stock grants.  Icahn contends that he “has a credible basis for
suspecting wrongdoing that supports” the request for records,
according to the suit.  The case is Icahn v. Amylin, CA7418, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
7615 or  jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 