-- Lagarde Cuts IMF Funding Request as Economic Risks Abate
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-12T18:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/imf-s-lagarde-says-return-of-europe-crisis-looms-as-largest-risk.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said she will scale down her
request for $600 billion of additional resources as threats to
the global economy diminish.  “Some of the dramas that were envisaged at the end of 2011
or very beginning of 2012 not only have not materialized,” but
some “good news” has “restored a little bit of confidence,”
Lagarde said in Washington today. The IMF is reassessing risks,
“which will bring me to probably reassess a lower number of
additional resources needed.”  Europe ’s handling of its debt crisis has slowed Lagarde’s
attempt to increase the fund’s lending power as countries
including Brazil,  China  and Canada awaited more efforts to stem
the turmoil before pitching in. While euro nations have pledged
to pitch in 150 billion euros ($231 billion), the U.S., the
fund’s largest shareholder, has refused to join in.  With European governments’ recent move to increase their
crisis defenses, Lagarde said she hopes to make “real
progress” on getting additional funding when the IMF’s 187
member nations meet in  Washington  next week. While data indicate
economic improvement in economies such as the U.S., she singled
out a worsening of the European debt turmoil as the largest risk
to global growth.  “Let us make no mistake, the risks and the needs are still
sizable and it would be very imprudent to ignore that fact,”
she said at the  Brookings Institution .  Spanish Borrowing Costs  Lagarde’s comments came as Spain sees borrowing costs
nearing levels that prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts.  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is trying to regain
investors’ trust with the deepest austerity measures in more
than three decades after saying last month the country would
miss a 2012 budget deficit goal. Faced with a recession and
unemployment nearing 24 percent, the government is also pushing
rules making it easier to fire staff and tightening the
government’s grip on regions that overspend.  “What  Spain  has done is laudable” and “needs to be
continued,” Lagarde said today while warning that efforts need
to be made “over the right amount of time so that it does not
strangle growth.”  The IMF is co-financing bailouts in Greece, Portugal and
Ireland. It currently has about $380 billion  available  to lend
and was seeking to boost that by $500 billion by getting $600
billion in new contributions.  Start, Then Recalibrate  “You always start the game with a higher figure and then
you recalibrate as you have more information about the
players,” said Domenico Lombardi, a former IMF board official
and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. The fact
Lagarde “alluded to a lower number just means that we may be
closer to an agreement, albeit still rough and preliminary.”  Emerging markets including  Brazil  and Mexico have indicated
they are ready to participate. Japan and China will seek to
coordinate their support, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
said last week.  Lagarde said a recent decline in China’s current-account
surplus is a “great result,” though “what’s important is to
see exactly what the rebalancing is about.”  She said IMF initial forecasts for the broadest measure of
trade indicate that the surplus will increase again to a range
between 4 and 5 percent of gross domestic product, from less
than 3 percent now. She did not indicate a year for the
prediction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  