-- India Increases Coal, Lignite Royalties, Raising Fuel Prices
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-04-12T11:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/india-increases-coal-lignite-royalties-raising-fuel-prices.html
India ’s cabinet increased royalties
on coal and lignite, meeting a demand by mineral-producing
states seeking to increase revenue and raising prices of the
fuels used to generate electricity.  The royalty on coal will increase to a flat 14 percent of
the notified price and on lignite to 6 percent, according to a
Press Information Bureau statement. Coal is now charged at 5
percent and a fixed levy ranging from 55 rupees ($1) to 130
rupees a metric ton and lignite 2 percent and 45 rupees a ton.  State governments are trying to boost finances as federal
allowances weaken amid the slowest quarterly economic growth in
almost three years. The resource-rich states, including
Jharkhand, Orissa, Chhattisgarh and  Madhya Pradesh , will earn
combined annual revenue of 69.8 billion rupees, an increase of
17 percent, according to the statement. Royalty, last changed on
Aug. 1, 2007, has always been passed on to consumers.  “Royalty is neutral to the coal company,” S. Narsing Rao,
chairman of Singareni Collieries Co. and chairman designate of
 Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , said by phone yesterday. “The impact is only
on the coal consumer.”  India’s electricity generators including NTPC Ltd. and Tata
Power Co. are struggling with high prices of imported coal as
output of the fuel in India lags behind demand. Electricity
generation fell short of peak demand by 12.1 percent in February
compared with 11.7 percent a month earlier.  State-owned Coal India accounts for about 81 percent of the
mineral produced in the country, according to the company’s
website. Output was 435.8 million tons in the year ended March
31.  Royalty paid to nine states in the year ended March 2011
was 55.5 billion rupees, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal told
parliament on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi  at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  