-- India’s Industrial Output Rises Less Than Estimated
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-04-12T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/india-s-industrial-output-rose-less-than-estimated-in-february.html
Indian industrial production rose
less than predicted in February as weaker overseas demand and
the highest  interest rates  since 2008 curbed output, with
January’s figure revised lower because of a data error.  Production (INPIINDY)  at factories, utilities and mines advanced 4.1
percent from a year earlier, the  Central Statistical Office  said
in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The median of 36 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a 6.7 percent gain. January’s
reading was cut to 1.1 percent from 6.8 percent after an error
was found in sugar output calculations, the office said.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which reviews policy on April 17,
has signaled readiness to reduce borrowing costs to bolster
domestic spending and counter export threats from easing Chinese
expansion, slower U.S. jobs growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis. At
the same time, the monetary authority has flagged inflation
risks from  oil prices , a weaker rupee and government spending.  “The central bank will cut interest rates next week, even
though volatility takes away the efficacy of basing policy
decisions on just this data,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian,
an economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in
Mumbai.  Government bonds  rose, with 10-year notes climbing the most
in more than two months. The yield on the 8.79 percent note due
November 2021 fell 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to
8.44 percent from 8.55 percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index
rose 0.8 percent. The rupee declined 0.3 percent to 51.59 per
dollar. It is up 2.9 percent this year, after sliding 16 percent
in 2011.  ‘Frail’ Investment Recovery  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said the correction to
January’s figure was “disappointing,” adding manufacturing
failed to revive in the first quarter of this year.  “Domestic investment recovery has remained frail,” he told
reporters in New Delhi today. “The government, along with the
RBI, will take steps to revive investment activity.”  Indian inflation cooled to 6.65 percent last month from
6.95 percent in February, holding near a 26-month low, according
to another Bloomberg survey ahead of data due April 16.  The  Reserve Bank  raised its benchmark  repurchase rate  by a
record 3.75 percentage points from March 2010 to October last
year, to 8.5 percent, seeking to quell price pressures.  While it kept the measure unchanged for a third meeting in
March, the monetary authority has reduced the amount lenders
need to set aside as reserves twice in 2012 to ease a cash
squeeze threatening growth.  ‘Animal to Tackle’  Eleven of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect
the central bank to reduce borrowing costs to 8.25 percent next
week, while two foresee a 0.5 percentage point cut to 8 percent.
Four predict no change, taking their cue from an inflation rate
that remains the fastest in the BRIC group of biggest emerging
economies that also includes  Brazil , Russia and China.  “There is an acknowledgement that inflation is not going
to be an easy animal to tackle,” said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “We expect rates to be
cut between 50 basis points to 75 basis points this financial
year, much lower than our earlier estimates.”  Sugar production was wrongly taken to be 13.4 million tons
in January, whereas the correct figure is 5.8 million tons, the
government said. Manufacturing expanded 4 percent in February
from a year earlier, compared with 1.4 percent gain in the
previous month, today’s figures showed. Mining grew 2.1 percent.  Emerging markets  from Brazil to the  Philippines  have
lowered rates in recent months to shield expansion.  Slowing Growth  Government estimates show  Asia ’s third-largest economy
expanded 6.9 percent in the year through March 2012, the least
in three years, as costlier credit hampered investment.  China ’s
economy probably expanded 8.4 percent in the first quarter, the
slowest pace in almost three years, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government is facing one of
the most challenging periods since taking office in 2004, as
fiscal and current-account deficits threaten to hamper growth.  In the annual budget on March 16, the administration
announced record borrowing needs to plug a fiscal shortfall
estimated at 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2012-2013.
The current-account gap was $19.6 billion in the three months
through December, the worst quarterly performance on record.  Policy reversals have further hindered Singh’s economic
agenda, including the suspension in December of plans to open
 India ’s retail industry to foreign companies such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 