-- Indian Rupee Drops, Erasing Gains, on Industrial Production Data
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-04-12T12:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/indian-rupee-drops-erasing-gains-on-industrial-production-data.html
India ’s rupee weakened, erasing
earlier gains, after data showed the nation’s industrial
production rose less than economists estimated.  Factory output  advanced 4.1 percent in February from a year
earlier, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement
today, compared with a median estimate of 6.7 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 36 analysts. The government also
revised the data for January to growth of 1.1 percent from 6.8
percent, citing incorrect sugar output numbers.  “The concerns about growth could affect capital inflows
and the rupee,” said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief currency trader at
state-run  Corporation Bank  in Mumbai. “If weaker growth prompts
the central bank to cut rates at the April 17 review, then the
arbitrage appeal is also reduced.”  The rupee declined 0.3 percent to 51.5887 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after rising as
much as 0.3 percent. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 20 basis
points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 10 percent.  The rupee had strengthened earlier after the U.S. Federal
Reserve signaled it will maintain its loose monetary policy that
has helped spur fund flows to faster-growing economies. Further
policy easing “could be warranted” if the U.S. recovery
falters, the central bank’s Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in a
speech in  New York  yesterday.  Six-month onshore forwards traded at 53.27 per dollar,
compared with 53.31 yesterday, and offshore non-deliverable
contracts were unchanged at 53.38. Forwards are agreements to
buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  