-- Indonesia Extends Pause in Rate Cuts as Price Risk Persists
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-04-12T09:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/indonesia-extends-pause-in-rate-cuts-as-inflation-risk-persists.html
Indonesia ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second month as
inflation risks persist even after the government was forced to
postpone an increase in subsidized fuel prices.  Bank Indonesia kept the  reference rate  at 5.75 percent,
Governor Darmin Nasution said at a press conference in Jakarta
today. The decision was predicted by all 21 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Policy makers cut the rate in February.  Inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy accelerated
in March for the first time in seven months, and lawmakers have
rejected an immediate fuel-cost increase while giving the
government power to act if Indonesian crude exceeds the budget
assumption of $105 a barrel by 15 percent over six months. The
central bank said today it will take steps to counter any
temporary impact on price pressures.  “We expect  Bank Indonesia  to hold the policy rate at 5.75
percent for the time being, given the uncertainty over the fuel
price hike and inflation,” Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  Singapore , said in a note.
“Monetary tightening via reserve requirement hikes and
narrowing of the interest-rate corridor, rather than via the BI
policy rate, is likely the preferred first course of action.”  Fuel Price Impact  Inflation may accelerate to about 6.6 percent if the
government raises subsidized fuel prices this year, Nasution
said. The impact would be temporary, and to contain the short-
term inflationary pressure policy will focus on strengthening
monetary operations and curbing excess funds, he said.  The nation’s currency was little changed at 9,182 a dollar
in Jakarta today. The benchmark  Jakarta Composite index  of
stocks gained 0.2 percent. The rupiah has weakened more than 1
percent this year, making it  Asia ’s worst performer after the
yen.  The central bank has moved to contain  consumer lending  and
minimize credit risks using measures other than the benchmark
rate. The authority said last month it will require banks to ask
for down payments for new home and vehicle loans to avoid a
bubble in property prices and slow vehicle imports.  The minimum down payment for mortgages will be 30 percent,
while those for motorcycle loans will be 25 percent, Bank
Indonesia said. For “productive” vehicles such as buses used
for public transportation, the amount is 20 percent, and the
minimum down payment for cars will be 30 percent, it said. The
new rules will be effective June 15.  Cautious Tone  “The central bank continues to lean to a more cautious
tone by stating that it will watch rising inflationary pressures
going forward,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “It only means that BI will
not hesitate to unwind some of its recent monetary easing, if
the government were to implement the fuel price hike sometime
this year.”  Asian nations can refrain from further stimulus because
growth will remain robust and spikes in energy costs can revive
price risks, the  Asian Development Bank  said yesterday. Still,
it said  Europe ’s debt woes “present the greatest risk to the
global outlook,” and policy makers should prepare for the
possibility of an extended period of weak European demand.  Sumatra Quake  “Global financial markets have stabilized as European
sovereign debt tensions ease, while the domestic economy remains
resilient thanks to robust investment and household spending,”
said Fred Gibson, an associate economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney. “We believe Bank Indonesia will keep rates on hold in
the coming months, with a bias toward easing to safeguard
against any turbulence in the global economy.”  Yesterday’s 8.6-magnitude earthquake off Sumatra, which
struck in the late afternoon and triggered widespread tsunami
warnings, has had “no discernable impact on growth,” Gibson
said, predicting Indonesia’s economy to grow 6.4 percent in 2012.  Gross domestic product growth may reach 6.3 percent to 6.7
percent this year and accelerate to as much as 6.8 percent in
2013, the central bank said today. Expansion in the second
quarter may be 6.4 percent, compared with an estimated 6.5
percent the previous three months, it said. Inflation next year
is targeted at 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent, Nasution said.  Indonesian consumer prices rose 3.97 percent last month
from a year earlier, compared with a 3.56 percent gain in
February.  Core inflation  eased to 4.25 percent, compared with a
previously reported 4.31 percent pace for February.  Policy Dilemma  Rising commodity prices, especially oil, have increased
inflationary pressure that can lead to tight monetary policy in
 emerging markets , Nasution said today. With the risks to the
global economy and higher prices, capital flows in emerging
markets may remain volatile, he said.  “Decision-making on  interest rates  has become a dilemma
for emerging economies, as policy makers need to support growth,
and on the other hand there’s inflationary pressure due to high
 oil prices ,”  Destry Damayanti , Jakarta-based chief economist at
PT Bank Mandiri, said before the decision.  Bank Indonesia had lowered rates by one percentage point
since early October, boosting profits at commercial lenders such
as  PT Bank Central Asia (BBCA) , the country’s largest lender by market
value.  “Loan growth was supported by a favorable economic
environment and low interest rate,” said Jahja Setiaatmadja,
president director of Bank Central Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  