-- MIPS Is Said to Have Hired Goldman Sachs to Help Find a B
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/mips-technologies-said-to-have-hired-goldman-sachs-to-find-buyer.html
MIPS Technologies Inc. (MIPS) , the
struggling designer of processors for communications systems and
consumer electronics, is looking for a buyer, according to
people with knowledge of the decision.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company hired  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  to identify and negotiate with possible acquirers,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the plan
hasn’t been made public. The shares jumped 26 percent to $6.58
at yesterday’s close in  New York .  MIPS designs processors and related technology and then
licenses them to chipmakers. The company, whose sales peaked
during the dot-com boom more than a decade ago, has been trying
to capitalize on surging demand for smartphones and tablets. It
has made scant headway in mobile devices and is losing ground in
other electronics, such as televisions, to  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ,
said Suji De Silva, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC.  “Anybody who buys MIPS is going to be zigging while
everyone else is zagging,” said De Silva, who is based in San
Francisco and has a hold rating on MIPS. Still, given its
expertise in processor design, “it has some scarcity value,”
he said.  MIPS  stock  has gained 48 percent this year, giving it a
market value of $349.4 million.  Potential Bidders  The search for a buyer has been under way for several
weeks, the people said. ARM, based in Cambridge,  England , is
unlikely to make a bid, two of the people said.  ThinkEquity’s De Silva said that Broadcom Corp., MIPS’s
biggest customer, and Qualcomm Inc. may consider purchasing the
company to acquire the ability to make more powerful processors.  Jen Bernier, a spokeswoman for MIPS, declined to comment,
as did Andy Phillips at ARM. Representatives from Goldman Sachs,
Broadcom and Qualcomm also declined to comment.  MIPS  lists  Cisco Systems Inc., Broadcom, Sony Corp. and
Texas Instruments Inc. among its licensees. The manufacturers
have used its technology in chips for televisions, digital set-
top boxes and home-networking devices. MIPS technology also goes
into phone networks.  While it seeks faster-growing markets and attempts to
squeeze more money from its intellectual property, MIPS has
posted three quarters of declining sales and earnings. The
company forecast a loss of 2 cents to 6 cents a share for the
most recent quarter, excluding some items. MIPS is slated to
report the results on April 26. The company has cash and short-
term investments of $110.7 million as of Jan. 25.  In January, MIPS Chief Executive Officer Sandeep Vij told
analysts that the company was pursuing “several paths towards
monetization” of its patent portfolio. He declined to give more
details. MIPS has 580 patents worldwide, covering areas such as
power management and chip security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at   mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
   ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at   jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  