-- Iranians Decry Double Standard Before Nuclear Talks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-12T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/iranians-decry-double-standard-before-nuclear-talks.html
For nations seeking to restrict
 Iran ’s pursuit of nuclear technology, Vida Asgari has a
question: if others can do it, why not us?  “Why should only powerful countries have it?” said
Asgari, a 44-year-old sales assistant in a Tehran bookshop. “If
it’s peaceful, it’s our right and we should stand up for it.”  The charge of double standards is echoed across a range of
Iranian opinion as the Islamic republic’s leaders prepare for
nuclear talks with the U.S. and other world powers. It’s voiced
by domestic critics of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  as well as
his supporters, and used by some to justify the development of
nuclear weapons capability as well as  power plants .  The negotiations, starting in Istanbul tomorrow, take place
amid threats by  Israel  and the U.S. to attack Iran’s nuclear
facilities. The U.S. and allies accuse Iran of secretly
developing the capacity to make an atomic bomb, while Iran says
its nuclear program is peaceful. Curbs imposed by Western
nations on oil purchases from Iran have helped push crude prices
up 12 percent this year.  As a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
Iran’s nuclear facilities are under supervision from the United
Nations atomic watchdog and it is entitled to carry out uranium
enrichment work on its soil for use as fuel in nuclear reactors.
Uranium enriched to a high concentration can set off the  chain
reaction  seen in a nuclear explosion.  ‘Self-Interest’  Five of the six countries joining the talks with Iran in
Istanbul -- the U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Russia  and  China  -- have
atomic weapons, while  Germany  runs nuclear power plants.
Germany shuttered more than a quarter of its nuclear capacity
after the Fukushima disaster in  Japan  last March and plans to
complete an exit by 2022.  “If they say they want to cancel the nuclear threat, then
why don’t they start with their own nuclear weapons and clean
themselves up first?” said Hamid-Reza Shadai, a 33-year-old
electrical technician. “Iran has never attacked another
country. The U.S., Israel and western countries have launched
wars out of self-interest.”  Iranians are quick to make the comparison with Israel,
which like Pakistan and  India , other nuclear states in the
region, hasn’t signed the NPT. Israel hasn’t acknowledged having
nuclear weapons.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  in a November report
cited “credible” intelligence that Iran worked on nuclear-
weapon components until at least 2010, an allegation Iran has
dismissed, saying the evidence was faked. “Iran has never been
after nuclear weapons and never will be,” Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said on Feb. 22, describing possession of
such weapons as “unnecessary, harmful and dangerous.”  ‘Deterrent Force’  It may make sense for Iran to use nuclear technology to
deter other countries, as well as for generating electricity and
medical research, said Hossein Ghazari, a political science
student.  “Iran won’t build weapons but why not have the
capability?” the 22-year-old Ghazari said. “None of those who
have it have used it, apart from the U.S. They have it as a
deterrent force, and that’s strength.”  Ahmadinejad and other Iranian leaders have said Israel is
not a legitimate state and will not survive. Such rhetoric
doesn’t equate to aggressive intent in foreign policy, said
Payam, a 40-year-old piano teacher.  “I don’t think they want to build nuclear weapons and
attack other countries,” said Payam, who like some others
interviewed declined to be identified by his surname citing the
topic’s sensitivity. “The government is reasonable enough to
know that we don’t have enough power and it wouldn’t bode well
for us.”  Oil Savings  Iran stands to benefit financially from its first nuclear
reactor, the 1,000-megawatt Bushehr plant, according to the
 World Nuclear Association . It will free up the equivalent of 11
million barrels of oil or 1.8 billion cubic meters of gas per
year for export, the London-based group  said  in a March report.  The Russian-built facility is yet to generate electricity
at full capacity. Operations were delayed after Bushehr’s
computer systems and its centrifuges were targeted by a computer
virus some technology experts say may have been created to
sabotage Iran’s uranium-enrichment. Iran has accused Israel and
the U.S. of being behind the sabotage as well as the killing of
Iranian nuclear scientists.  Under Ahmadinejad, who started the first of his two
consecutive terms in 2005, the Islamic Republic has increasingly
portrayed its nuclear program as a question of national pride
and independence. That struck a chord among many Iranians proud
of the country’s imperial past and its 2,500-year history.  Nuclear Poll  Yet some critics accuse the government of mismanaging the
tensions over its nuclear program, hurting the economy. Though
support for the program is difficult to gauge, it may have
decreased in recent years after the government’s crackdown on
protests in 2009 and the economic hardship caused by stricter
sanctions. The currency has plunged and local analysts say
inflation is higher than the official figure of 21.5 percent.  A poll conducted by the state-run  Iranian Students Polling
Agency  in Tehran in 2010 found 22 percent of respondents saying
the government had handled the nuclear issue successfully, down
from 45 percent two years earlier. More recent figures weren’t
available from ISPA.  “In a developed and stable country, if you do confidence-
building and have good relations with other countries, it should
be possible to have nuclear energy,” said Shahram, who runs a
pharmacy on Vali-Asr Avenue. The current government, at odds
with much of the world, doesn’t meet those criteria, he said.
While Iran has the right to nuclear technology, “the conditions
need to be right.”  ‘Great Powers’  Some Iranians admit to skepticism about their government
while also blaming the U.S. and its western allies for
presenting a one-dimensional view of Iran and whipping up
hysteria over its nuclear program.  “It’s in their interest to portray Iran like this,” said
Mehdi, a shopkeeper in northern Tehran. “It was the same thing
during the  Cold War .” Still, he said, Iran should back down
because “the nuclear issue is in the hands of the great powers.
We’re entering a game in which we don’t have the necessary
capacity.”  For Yousef Kazemi, an interior decorator who fought in the
eight-year war against  Iraq  in the 1980s, the U.S. focus on
nuclear weapons is motivated by dislike of the Islamic Republic
and desire to foment unrest among its people.  “They want to create an issue and say Iranians have a
problem with their regime,” said Kazemi, standing in front of a
bakery with a stack of lavash, an Iranian flatbread, folded
under his arm. Iranians must be left to decide such matters
themselves, he said. “It’s like when you want to marry a woman.
People may keep coming to you and saying she’s no good for you.
But you think she’s the one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  