-- Iran Oil Output May Drop By 950,000 Barrels By July, IEA Says
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-04-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/iran-oil-output-may-drop-by-950-000-barrels-by-july-iea-says.html
Iran ’s oil  production  may decline
by as much as 950,000 barrels a day by the middle of this year
as European Union and U.S. embargoes take effect, the
International Energy Agency said.  Output in March was 50,000 barrels a day less than the
previous month, the Paris-based IEA, adviser to 28
industrialized nations, said in its monthly Oil Market Report
today. Iran pumped 3.3 million barrels, compared with a pre-
sanction rate of 3.55 million at the end of 2011, it said.  “Recently enacted E.U. and U.S. sanctions on Iran’s oil
and banking sectors are affecting shipping and trade flows as
well as undermining Iran’s crude production outlook,” the
agency said. The “long list of countries planning to implement
import cuts in coming months suggests Iranian output could
plummet to 2.6 to 2.8 million barrels a day by mid-summer,
unless alternative buyers can be found.”  Iran’s traditional crude buyers are struggling to arrange
payment, secure tankers and get insured as U.S. and European
Union leaders tighten pressure on Iran. Crude exports in the
second-biggest producer of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries averaged about 2.2 million barrels a day in
2010, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  The IEA said in its March report that Iran’s crude output
may drop by 800,000 to 1 million barrels a day.  U.S. sanctions cut off any companies or countries trading
with Iran from the U.S. financial system unless they show they
have taken steps to substantially reduce their reliance on
Iranian oil.  In mid-March the U.S. granted waivers to  Japan  and 10 E.U.
countries --Belgium, the U.K., the  Czech Republic ,  France ,
 Germany ,  Greece ,  Italy , the Netherlands, Poland and Spain--
deemed to have cut back on purchases. As a result, banks in
these countries have been granted a six-month waiver from being
cut off from the US financial system.  Iran’s two largest buyers, China and  India , and other major
importers  Turkey , South Korea and South Africa, were absent from
the list. Since then, a number of countries have announced plans
to reduce purchases. The U.S. will next review compliance with
sanctions at the end of June.  The IEA highlighted the following
countries’ response to sanctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  