-- Ireland’s Bad Bank Transforms Debtors Into Landlords: Mortgages
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   R o b   U r b a n
-- 2012-04-13T10:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ireland-s-bad-bank-transforms-debtors-into-landlords-mortgages.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency is turning debtors into landlords as it seeks to recoup
the 32 billion euros ($42 billion) it paid for commercial
mortgages after the real-estate market collapsed.  The agency, created to purge banks of toxic property loans,
has forced debtors to find tenants for 4,000 empty apartments,
the legacy of a real-estate crash that led to the country
getting a 67.5 billion-euro international bailout in 2010. NAMA,
which has a goal of repaying its debts by 2020, is focused on
increasing revenue from the properties while it looks for
buyers. It bought the assets using November 2009 valuations and
prices have fallen further since then.  “Debtors sometimes want to hang on and hang on, waiting
for prices to recover and rise so they can sell them,” Chief
Executive Officer  Brendan McDonagh  said in an interview at
NAMA’s headquarters in Dublin on April 10. “I tell them, I need
cash flow.”  Rents are rising because a lack of mortgage financing is
depressing home purchases and pushing more people into the
rental market in a country where traditionally three in four
have owned their own homes.  McDonagh, who aims to repay 7.5 billion euros by 2013, said
he’s talked with potential foreign buyers for blocks of occupied
apartments, which are more attractive as income-producing assets
than ones without tenants, as the Irish shy away from buying
real estate.  ‘Frozen Market’  “The residential  property market  is frozen because of the
lack of credit,” said  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin who expects  home prices  nationally to
drop 14 percent this year and 5 percent in 2013. “The Dublin
market’s price decline may have already overshot.”  Irish home prices fell about 18 percent last year, while
rents in some of the country’s biggest cities rose,  according  to
Daft.ie, Ireland’s largest residential property website. The
average asking price dropped to 176,000 euros in the first
quarter from 366,000 euros in mid-2007, the peak of the boom,
Daft.ie figures show. That’s a drop of 52 percent.  About 553,000 houses were built in the 10 years through
2005 in the country of 4 million people, as homebuilding
expanded at twice the pace of the rest of  Europe , according to
the National Institute for Regional and Spatial Analysis.  Ghost Estates  Many are now empty. About 15 percent of Irish homes were
vacant in 2011, some on so-called ghost estates, the country’s
statistics office said last month. NAMA has loaned its debtors
500 million euros of working capital, some of which was spent on
completing the apartments and adding kitchens and other fixtures
to allow them be leased, according to McDonagh.  During the boom, Irish  house prices  more than quadrupled to
an average of 303,247 euros from 1995 to 2005, the fastest
growth among 18 countries surveyed by the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. In terms
of price per meter, Dublin was more expensive than  London ,
Zurich and Paris, the OECD said.  Catherine O’Connor, a realtor at Dublin-based Hunters
Estate Agent Ltd., said she handled the sale last week of a two-
bedroom apartment at the Grange development in affluent south
Dublin for 240,000 euros. Seven years ago, she sold the same
property for 600,000 euros. The Grange was developed by Ray Grehan, whose loans have been taken over by NAMA.  “There was a shortage of very good product and people were
very keen” during the boom, she said. “Prices were increasing
and they felt that if they didn’t get on the property ladder,
they’d miss out.”  Rising Unemployment  Ireland’s real estate market collapsed in 2008. The
economy has since shrunk about 15 percent, the  unemployment rate 
has almost tripled to 14.3 percent and 14 percent of private
residential mortgages were either more than 90 days in arrears
or restructured at the end of December, according to the Irish
central bank.  Mortgage lending dropped to 2.46 billion euros last year
from about 40 billion euros at the market’s peak in 2006. The
number of new mortgages granted in the fourth quarter declined
31 percent from a year earlier to 3,856, according to the
Dublin-based  Irish Banking Federation .  “NAMA was created to recapitalize the banks, but once it
was set up, it bought the loans for as little as possible,”
said business owner Jay Bourke during an interview in his Eden
Restaurant in central Dublin’s Temple Bar area. “So the banks
still aren’t lending.”  Banking Collapse  In all, the government has injected about 62 billion euros
into the financial system. That amounts to about 40 percent of
gross domestic product, making the Irish banking collapse among
the most expensive in history, according to  Alan Ahearne , who
used to advise former Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan .  With few loans available, many are turning to the rental
market.  The amount of property available to rent in Dublin fell in
January to the lowest levels since July 2008, and average rents
in the city rose 0.3 percent to 1,057 euros in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, according to  Daft.ie , Ireland’s
largest residential property site. In Cork, the second-biggest
city, rents rose 2.6 percent.  NAMA, set up by Lenihan in 2009, is seeking to tap that
market. The agency used so-called NAMA bonds issued to the
country’s banks to buy commercial-property loans with a face
value of 74 billion euros for 32 billion euros.  NAMA has bought about 11,500 real-estate loans related to
16,000 properties since it was set up. The agency plans to sell
off its entire loan book by 2020. The assets include 5.3 billion
euros of land and development loans in Ireland. About 2.4
billion euros of the real estate is outside Dublin and some of
it probably will revert to farmland.  ‘Wall of Money’  International investors remain cautious when looking at
many of the Irish properties, said Robert Murphy, co-founder of
Dublin-based broker  Murphy Mulhall .  “There’s a wall of money, people waiting to jump in, then
in the cold light of day looking again at the price and deciding
it doesn’t make sense yet,” Murphy said.  NAMA paid 3.7 billion euros for Irish residential property
loans, 2.3 billion euros of which is in Dublin, according to its
 website .  “NAMA can’t do anything to defy the market,” McDonagh
said. “We took a significant impairment charge in 2010 of 1.5
billion euros. The Irish market continued to fall in 2011 and
we’re in discussions with our auditors about an appropriate
impairment charge for 2011.”  Bond Repayments  McDonagh said the public will be “pleasantly surprised”
by the agency’s performance last year when it publishes its
accounts and he expects the impairment charge to be lower than
for 2010. Up to the end of last month, NAMA had generated about
7 billion euros from sales, loan repayments and revenue from
rents, McDonagh said. It’s already repaid 1.25 billion euros of
the bonds.  Ireland is “satisfied” the agency’s debts won’t be
brought onto the government’s balance sheet, according to a
Finance Ministry spokesman.  Renting blocks of apartments will make it easier to sell
them, McDonagh said. The agency is in talks to sell apartment
blocks to overseas buyers, including private equity firms that
have teamed with real estate management professionals, McDonagh
said. The firms are looking to buy as many as 3,000 apartments
at a time, he said.  Alliance Building  Apartments in Dublin have attracted some interest from
overseas investors.  Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc., (KW)  a U.S.
investment firm, is in talks to buy the Alliance Building with
210 apartments, near Google Inc.’s European headquarters,
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the information is private. The property
is being sold by  Ulster Bank , the Irish unit of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , through receivers  Grant Thornton .  RBS spokeswoman Sarah Elliott referred questions to the
asset’s receiver Grant Thornton Ltd., whose spokeswoman Lorna
Jennings declined to comment.  NAMA may be moving too slowly as prices continue to slide,
said Rowena Quinn, Hunters’ managing partner.  “There’s such a glut of unsold apartments in the city,”
Quinn said. “The concern for NAMA would be that other
institutions are being proactive and starting to dispose of
properties.”  With little domestic demand, NAMA has targeted buyers from
outside Ireland and has been selling overseas assets. The agency
is currently generating 80 percent of its  cash flow  from the
U.K. because credit is available there and the assets’ locations
are better, it said March 14.  “We’re going to have to attract a significant amount of
foreign capital in to buy these assets, be it buying the assets
directly or be it buying an exposure to these assets through an
investment vehicle,” McDonagh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 