-- Italy Borrowing Costs Rise on Concern Over Debt Crisis
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-12T10:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/italy-borrowing-costs-rise-on-concern-over-debt-crisis.html
Italy  was forced to pay about 1.1
percentage point more than a month ago to sell three-year debt
as concern about  Spain ’s budget deficit reignites the euro
area’s debt crisis.  The Treasury sold 2.88 billion euros ($3.78 billion) of a
3-year benchmark bond to yield 3.89 percent, which was less than
a maximum target of 3 billion euros and up from 2.76 percent at
the previous auction on March 14. Investors bid for 1.43 times
the amount offered, down from 1.56 times last month. The Rome-
based Treasury also sold 2 billion euros of bonds due in 2015,
2020 and 2023. The auction’s top target was 5 billion euros.  The Treasury didn’t allocate all bonds because “it didn’t
need funding at an unfavorable yield,” Deputy Finance Minister
 Vittorio Grilli  told reporters in Milan after the auction. The
yields “reflect current  market sentiment ,” he said.  Italian bonds have declined for the past four weeks after
Spain’s March 2 announcement that it wouldn’t meet its 2012
deficit goal fueled bailout concerns and eroded confidence in
the debt of so-called peripheral countries. The month-long slump
has reversed some of the gains in Italian bonds prompted by
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s efforts to spur the economy and the
 European Central Bank ’s unlimited three-year lending operations.  “Spain and Italy are the twin bellwethers of the euro-zone
crisis,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London , said by e-mail after the auction. “When one
of them catches a cold, the other one sneezes. It’s the
similarities between Spain and Italy that concern investors”.  ‘Spanish Contagion’  “A good part of the current turbulence” in debt markets
“is due to Spanish contagion,” Maria Cannata, head of Italy’s
debt agency, told reporters in  Rome  yesterday.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was down 9 basis points
to 5.45 percent after the auction at 12:41 p.m. in Rome, pushing
the difference with similar-maturity German debt to 364 basis
points. Spanish bonds have fared worse, with 10-year rates
climbing about 1 percentage point to 5.86 percent since Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told European Union allies on March 2 the
nation couldn’t meet its deficit goal for this year. Spain is
now pledging a shortfall of 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with an original commitment of 4.4 percent.  Spanish Selloff  Today marked the first Italian bond auction since Spain
sold 2.6 billion euros of bonds on April 4, near the minimum
planned, triggering a selloff that pushed Spain’s 10-year yield
on April 10 to the highest close since January, with the Italian
10-year yield rising to the most in almost 2 months.  The decline in both countries’ bonds also reflects the
fading effect of the ECB’s three-year loans.  The ECB lent more than 1 trillion euros in three-year loans
to euro-area banks in December and February. Coupled with the
ECB buying bonds, that support prompted purchases of more than
250 billion euros of Spanish and Italian  government securities 
between the third quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of this
year, according to Credit Agricole SA. That’s more than the 216
billion euros of debt the two nations sold in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  