-- Italians Rally in Rome Against Monti’s Pension-Revamp Gap
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-04-13T11:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/italians-rally-against-monti-s-pension-overhaul-limbo.html
Italy’s main labor unions took to
the streets of Rome today to protest Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s pension-system overhaul, saying it traps hundreds of
thousands of workers in a legal limbo without retirement pay.  Maria Dinelli is one such person. When she left  Alitalia
SpA (AZA)  in 2008, her early-retirement deal with the airline provided
jobless benefits until her pension payments begin in 2015. Now,
under the reform that raised the  retirement age , Dinelli won’t
get the payments until 2017, leaving her stuck in a two-year gap
without any income.  “I’ll be without a salary or pension for two full years
before the retirement age, and will have to put money aside,”
Dinelli, 58, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Rome.
“You were told you had guarantees, then you lose it all because
a new government takes power and changes the rules.”  Monti’s pension plan was part of a $26 billion austerity
package passed in January to fight the sovereign crisis by
putting Italy’s  debt , the second highest in  Europe  after  Greece ,
on a downward trajectory from next year. Monti followed with
measures to open closed professions, reduce bureaucracy and ease
firing rules that helped bring down the country’s bond yields
from near euro-era highs when he took power in November.  Rome Rally  Tens of thousands of people marched through the streets of
central Rome this morning before a rally where union leaders
criticized the government for underestimating the extent of the
problem. Last night the Labor Ministry said there are 65,000
Italians who may be left without support between when they leave
work and when their pension kick in as the higher retirement age
delays their payout. Unions say the figure is about five times
that amount.  “We weren’t impressed by the government’s statement,”
 Raffaele Bonanni , head of the CISL union, told the crowd in
Rome’s Piazza dei Santi Apostoli. “The labor minister is acting
like an ostrich, sticking her head in the sand because she
doesn’t want to look in the faces of the hundreds of thousands
of people here today seeking clarity.”  The Labor Ministry “is studying ways” to assist some
workers who signed collective agreements that provided them with
jobless benefits for the period until their pensions start, the
ministry said, according to the e-mailed statement.  ‘Just Ghosts’  The ministry’s figures contrast with those of CGIL, which
estimates 300,000 workers have been left in the lurch by Monti’s
overhaul, according to  Claudio Di Berardino , head of the union
in the Lazio region. “If these figures were correct, then we’d
have to say that the thousands of workers who’ve turned to the
union for help are not real and just ghosts,” Vera Lamonica, a
CGIL leader, said in an e-mail. “The government is playing with
fire.”  Mauro Nori, head of pension agency INPS, told the Senate
Labor Committee on April 11 that the group totals at least
130,000. Providing assistance to such workers could “require
additional resources of about 10 billion euros ($13 billion),”
Roberto Pessi, a labor law professor at  Rome ’s Luiss University,
said in an interview. He estimated the group may total as many
as 450,000 workers.  Besides raising the pension age and penalizing early
retirement, the reform based the system on contributions rather
than salary and ended inflation indexation for larger pensions.
The overhaul means that younger workers will collect smaller
pensions than their parents.  Starvation-Level Pensions  The plan, which Monti has called “cutting edge,” was part
of his efforts to shore up public finances to boost economic
growth, which has trailed the euro-region average for more than
a decade. Italians are chaffing under the effects of the
austerity package, which apart from lower pensions, brought
higher taxes and record gasoline prices that have reached almost
2 euros a liter, or $10.50 a gallon. The resulting slump in
consumer demand helped push the economy into its fourth
recession since 2001.  “An overhaul of the pension system was unavoidable because
the old scheme was too generous compared to the country’s
possibilities and the European standards,” Nicola Marinelli,
who oversees $153 million at Glendevon King Asset Management in
 London , said by phone. “That said, the protest of these workers
may be a harbinger of future social tensions. I don’t think
younger workers have really realized they will have starvation-
level pensions.”  Gaps Covered  While the Labor Ministry is looking into ways to help some
workers left in limbo, the pension overhaul included financing
“adequate to cover all needs without requiring recourse to
further resources,” according to last night’s statement.  Labor Minister Elsa Fornero, author of the pension changes
and the jobs-market shakeup, said on April 3 that experts from
the government and INPS will come up with a solution by June 30.  “I can’t rule out that the government will resort to a
 wealth tax ,” said Pessi, the labor law professor. “So far, the
government hasn’t used a heavy hand with the richest taxpayers,
partly to avoid negative consequences as far as foreign
investments are concerned, but now I think it’s about time for
those who have more to contribute to the needs of the country.”  Back in her Rome apartment, Dinelli looks at bookshelves
full of guides to countries such as China, India and  Australia .  “After working for so many years, I’d have liked to spend
money the way I wanted, maybe traveling or enjoying some peace
of mind,” she said. “I think people in my situation have lost
faith in our institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 