-- Mitsubishi UFJ Seeks U.S. Asset Manager to Broaden Offering
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-04-13T01:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/mitsubishi-ufj-targets-u-s-asset-managers-to-broaden-offerings.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) ’s trust banking arm plans to invest in a U.S. fund
management firm in the next three years as clients seek a
broader range of products.  Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corp., a unit of  Japan ’s
biggest bank, is searching for east coast-based targets with
broader investment vehicles, from equities and fixed income to
property, President Tatsuo Wakabayashi said in an interview on
April 10. The bank can spend as much as 150 billion yen ($1.8
billion) on investments in the next three years, he said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Trust has been buying asset management firms
abroad to globalize its customer base and products. It signed a
A$425 million ($436 million) deal for 15 percent of  AMP Ltd. (AMP) ’s
Australian asset management business last year, after buying a
stake in  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. (ADN)  of  Scotland  in 2008.  “Demand for asset management services with global products
is growing from clients inside and outside Japan, and the U.S.
is the market we are watching closely,” said Wakabayashi, 59,
who took over April 1. “I want to boost our net income to more
than 100 billion yen in the next three years” from 76.2 billion
yen in the year ended March 2011.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ rose as much as 3.6 percent in
 Tokyo  and traded at 401 yen, a gain of 3.4 percent, at 10:10
a.m. They have gained 23 percent this year, outpacing the
benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) ’s 14 percent increase.  Under a December agreement, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and AMP
Capital Holdings, which manages about A$120 billion of assets,
will develop new products for the Japanese company’s clients
including pension funds through the Mitsubishi UFJ Group’s
network, the bank said in December.  Asian Wealth  At home, the trust bank added one official this year to its
three-member international sales team, which handles high-net-
worth Asian investors buying Japanese assets, Wakabayashi said.
Asian wealth is helping drive a recovery in investment demand
for Japanese property including commercial buildings and
warehouses, he said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Trust in 2008 took a 9.9 percent stake in
Aberdeen, named for the U.K. city where it’s based, later
expanding the holding to 17.6 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Aberdeen manages 184.4 billion pounds
($293 billion) of assets as of Feb. 29, its website says.  The Mitsubishi UFJ group has accelerated its growth in the
U.S., where its lending subsidiary, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., may spend “several billion” dollars to buy a
regional bank, unit President Nobuyuki Hirano said last month.
Mitsubishi UFJ signed a $1.5 billion deal in March to buy  Santa
Barbara , California-based Pacific Capital Bancorp. through its
UnionBanCal Corp. unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gunsalus at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net . 