-- Jewish Art Dealer’s Heir Settles Nazi-Era Claim With Bonn Museum
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-04-12T09:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/jewish-art-dealer-s-heir-settles-nazi-era-claim-with-bonn-museum.html
A Bonn museum settled a claim for a
painting by Paul Adolf Seehaus with the heir of Alfred
Flechtheim, one of Germany’s most prominent modern-art dealers
until he fled Berlin and the Nazis in 1933.  The  Kunstmuseum  in Bonn said in a statement today it will
pay half the estimated market value to keep the painting,
“Lighthouse With Rotating Beam,” which it described as “an
important work of Rhineland expressionism.” The museum didn’t
cite a figure for the value of the work.  Flechtheim’s great-nephew Mike Hulton, a doctor based in
 California , has lodged claims with several museums for paintings
from the dealer’s private collection, including works by  Pablo Picasso ,  Max Beckmann  and  Paul Klee . Bonn’s Kunstmuseum is the
first in Germany to reach an agreement with Hulton.  “Despite intensive research, it is no longer possible to
establish with certainty when and under what circumstances the
painting was taken from Flechtheim,” the museum said in a
statement sent by e-mail. “Even so, regardless of the open
questions, the Kunstmuseum recognizes the persecution Flechtheim
suffered. Flechtheim was a victim of the Nazi terror regime.”  As a Jew who sold art that the Nazis condemned as
“degenerate,” Flechtheim was among the first targets of
persecution, suffering harassment in the Nazi press even before
Hitler took power in 1933. When Flechtheim fled, Alex Voemel,
the business manager of his Dusseldorf branch and a member of
the Nazi party, took over the gallery and its contents.  Signal to Others  “We are talking to a lot of institutions and I expect that
this settlement will send signals to others,” Markus Stoetzel,
Hulton’s lawyer, said in a phone interview from Marburg.  “In some cases we have a different view from the museums,
in others there is a need for more research, in still others,
the museums are dragging the process out,” he said.  Under international guidelines known as the  Washington
Principles ,  Germany  is committed to returning art in public
collections that was looted by the Nazis. In the case of
Flechtheim, no inventory of his private collection or the stock
of his gallery has survived and in many cases, the exact
circumstance of loss is not known.  “The Flechtheim case is very complex and the provenance of
each artwork has to be investigated individually,” Stoetzel
said. He said he is in talks with museums in Dusseldorf, Berlin,
Munich and Cologne about other works from the collection.  Hulton plans to use the settlement money to set up a
foundation to investigate the German prewar art market, Stoetzel
said.  Grain Merchants  The Seehaus painting was in Flechtheim’s private collection
until at least 1932, when he loaned it for an exhibition in
Berlin, the Kunstmuseum said in the statement. After
Flechtheim’s flight from Germany, the painting was probably
among those taken by Voemel, the museum said. The Kunstmuseum
acquired it at a Stuttgart auction in 1949.  Flechtheim was born in 1878 into a wealthy family of grain
merchants in the city of Muenster, according to Ottfried
Dascher’s biography, “Es ist was Wahnsinniges mit der Kunst”
(There’s Something Crazy About Art).  He was made a shareholder in the family firm in 1902 yet
showed little interest in or talent for the grain business. He
left to become a full-time  art dealer  in 1912.  His art collection began in the early years of the 20th
century, when regular trips to Paris brought him into contact
with the Cubists. He was among the first German collectors to
own works by Picasso and he bought art by  Georges Braque , Andre Derain, Heinrich Campendonk, Wilhelm Lehmbruck and August Macke.
He also owned works by Vincent van Gogh and Paul Cezanne.  He died in  London  in 1937.  Today’s Muse highlights: Jason Harper on Jeep,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology, Farah Nayeri’s London weekend.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 