-- John Edwards Faces Hometown Jury in Campaign Finance Trial
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-04-13T01:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/john-edwards-faces-hometown-jury-in-campaign-finance-trial.html
Two-time U.S. presidential
candidate and former North Carolina Senator  John Edwards  is
about to learn his fate on charges he violated campaign finance
rules to hide a mistress as the process to select a jury begins.  An initial pool of jurors assembled today before U.S.
District Judge Catherine Eagles in Greensboro, North Carolina.
The pool was split into two groups of about 96 jurors each, who
filled out questionnaires and listened to instructions from
Eagles on trial conduct before being dismissed until April 17.  The process of choosing a 12-member jury and four
alternates is scheduled to be completed on April 23 followed by
opening arguments in the case, according to court documents.  “We’re not here for entertainment,” Eagles told jurors.
“This case is not about whether John Edwards was a good husband
or good politician.”  Edwards, 58, was indicted by a federal grand jury in June
on six counts including conspiracy, false statements and
accepting illegal campaign contributions. Prosecutors allege
Edwards orchestrated a scheme to use campaign funds to conceal
his relationship with filmmaker Rielle Hunter while running for
the  Democratic Party ’s nomination for president in 2008.  Prosecutors and Edwards’s attorneys may call Hunter as a
witness for their side, lawyers for both sides said in a court
filing today.  “It’s unquestionably a precedent-setting case for the
government,”  Robert Mintz , a former federal prosecutor who’s
now a partner with  McCarter & English LLP (1389L) , said in a phone
interview. “It’s the first time prosecutors have gone after
someone for campaign finance violations when money was paid to a
third party.”  “The government’s legal theory is largely untested and
represents by all accounts a fairly aggressive interpretation of
the campaign finance laws,” Mintz said.  Fathered a Child  Edwards who was married at the time and fathered a child
with Hunter, allegedly used more than $925,000 in contributions
from Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, a 101-year-old multimillionaire
heiress, and now-deceased trial lawyer  Fred Baron  to hide the
affair. Each of the six counts he faces carries a maximum five-
year prison term and $250,000 fine.  Edwards, who was the subject of a two-year investigation,
has repeatedly denied the charges, saying he never thought he
was breaking the law.  “Mr. Edwards has been waiting for some time and is looking
forward to his day in court,” Abbe Lowell, an attorney for
Edwards with the firm  Chadbourne & Parke LLP (1224L) , said in an e-mail.
“So much has been said about his life and his case; the time
has come for the evidence.”  Middle District  The jury pool, mostly white and split evenly between male
and female, was pulled from  North Carolina ’s entire middle
district, an area that includes 24 counties in the central part
of the state.  Edwards, his oldest daughter and his parents were present
in the courtroom as Eagles addressed jurors.  “The Constitution states trial by jury, not trial by
Internet or trial by gossip,” Eagles said, cautioning jurors
not to “friend” potential witnesses, lawyers or Edwards on
Facebook.  At the heart of the case is the  Federal Election Act 
Edwards is charged with violating. The law, which prohibits
using campaign funds for personal use, caps the amount
individuals may contribute to candidates. In the case of the
2008 presidential primary, that limit was set at $2,300,
according to court documents.  In September, advocacy group  Citizens for Responsibility
and Ethics in Washington  filed court papers in support of
Edwards, arguing that prosecutors were improperly applying
election laws to seek a criminal conviction.  ‘Uphill Battle’  The disputed payments were made on behalf of Edwards
because of his pre-existing friendships with Mellon and Baron,
the group said. Payments that would have gone to a candidate
regardless of the candidacy aren’t subject to campaign laws, the
group said.  The case “is an uphill battle for the  Department of
Justice  and hopefully they will wind up with egg on their face
that they so richly deserve for bringing this prosecution,”
 Melanie Sloan , CREW’s executive director, said in a phone
interview. “There is no precedent for this case. In the U.S. we
punish people for bad conduct not bad character.”  Lawyers for Edwards argue that Edwards couldn’t have known
that the payments would be treated as campaign contributions.
Two former Federal Election Commissioners, Scott E. Thomas and
Robert Lenhard, are expected to testify on Edwards’s behalf as
expert witnesses.  Campaign Expense  Thomas, a 20-year veteran of the commission and past
chairman, is expected to testify that the payment of living,
medical and other expenses of a candidate’s mistress isn’t a
campaign-related expense, according to court documents. Lenhard,
who served as FEC chairman in 2007, is also expected to testify
that the complexity of the federal election laws makes third-
party expenditures, like those in the Edwards case, unclear,
lawyers for Edwards said in court papers.  Eagles could still dismiss the case given the lack of legal
certainty, Rick Hasen, a professor at  University of California
Irvine  School of Law, said in an interview.  “The question is whether under the rules this should be
treated as an excessive contribution or whether it was not
campaign related,” said Hasen, who blogs about the federal
election law.  “There is some legal complexity and I think the judge has
reserved the decision of whether to dismiss the case,” he said.  2006 Relationship  There may not be any direct evidence of Edwards’s state of
mind leaving the unpopular ex-senator at the mercy of a jury
that could be disinclined to believe what he has to say, Hasen
said.  In an interview with ABC News in August 2008, Edwards said
his relationship with Hunter began in 2006 after he met her in a
bar in  New York . He later hired her to produce Web videos for
his campaign.  In a 2009 book, “Resilience,”  Elizabeth Edwards  said her
husband confessed to the affair in the final days of 2006, after
returning home from a tour announcing his second run for
president. Elizabeth Edwards died in December 2010 after a six-
year battle with  breast cancer .  In exchange for some immunity, Hunter has acknowledged that
she got benefits including medical care and living expenses as
part of Edwards’s effort to support her, prosecutors said in
court papers.  Mellon E-Mail  Prosecutors said Hunter’s immunity only covers her
testimony and she could still be charged in the case. As part of
her agreement with prosecutors, Hunter gave testimonial,
documentary and physical evidence during the investigation,
according to court documents.  Edwards and former campaign aide Andrew Young allegedly
solicited money from Mellon starting in May 2007 after receiving
an e-mail from her asking Edwards to forward “all bills”
necessary and important for his campaign directly to her to
avoid government restrictions, according to the indictment.  Mellon, who has given more than $4 million to organizations
and political committees supportive of Edwards’s 2008
presidential bid, allegedly wrote $725,000 in seven personal
checks to Edwards, according to court documents.  Mellon allegedly made the checks payable to an interior-
decorator friend and falsely listed in the memo lines that the
money was for antique furniture. The friend in turn sent the
checks to Young, whose wife endorsed and deposited them into the
Young family’s bank account. The funds were ultimately used to
finance Hunter’s living and medical expenses, according to court
documents.  ‘Use Cash’  Baron, a Dallas-based lawyer who died in October 2008,
allegedly paid for chartered flights and accommodations valued
at more than $200,000, including the rental of a home in  Santa
Barbara ,  California , to support and hide Hunter from the media,
according to the indictment.  In one instance, prosecutors said Baron had a Federal
Express envelope containing $1,000 in cash delivered to the
Youngs at a hotel with a handwritten note stating “Old Chinese
saying: Use cash, not credit cards!” according to court
documents.  Young, Edwards’s former aide, detailed the affair and
alleged conspiracy in his 2010 book “The Politician.” Young,
who was named in documents as a possible government witness
under an immunity agreement, was a central figure in the
conspiracy who allegedly helped plan and coordinate multiple
transactions between Edwards, Baron and Mellon over a period of
months, prosecutors said.  ‘Soap Opera’  In February, Young settled a lawsuit filed by Hunter in
2010 over the return of property including an alleged sex
videotape of her and the former presidential candidate.  “The tale of this case from the standpoint of the general
public plays out more like a soap opera than a criminal trial,”
Mintz said. “We’ll have to see whether the public still has an
appetite for the story of John Edwards’s dramatic fall from
grace.”  Young’s credibility will be crucial to the case since he’s
the link between Edwards and the donors, Mintz said.  “His conduct presents some problems for prosecutors but
prosecutors deal with witnesses who bring baggage into the
courtroom all the time,” Mintz said.  Edwards, for years a wealthy plaintiff’s attorney, entered
politics by defeating Republican Senator Lauch Faircloth in
1998, two years after the death of his 16-year-old son Wade in
an automobile accident. He served one term before seeking the
Democratic Party’s nomination in the 2004 presidential election.  Edwards, who spent his teenage years in Robbins, a North
Carolina town of about 1,200 people, ran populist campaigns in
which he railed against the divide between rich and poor while
frequently referring to his father’s work in a textile mill.  “There’s no question that I’ve done wrong,” Edwards told
reporters in June. “I take full responsibility for having done
wrong. But I did not break the law.”  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  