-- JPMorgan’s London Whale Could Use New Nickname
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-04-12T23:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/jpmorgan-s-london-whale-could-use-new-nickname.html
Late last week, a little-known
trader at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  London , Bruno Iksil, awoke to
find his life changed forever.  In an instant, Iksil had become famous as the guy who
infuriated some of his bank’s counterparts so much that they
complained to Bloomberg News journalists he was skewing the
credit-derivatives markets with his outsized bets, one of which
they said may be as large as $100 billion. Worse yet, the world
learned Iksil had earned two unforgettable nicknames: (1) The
London Whale, and (2)  Voldemort , after the Harry Potter villain.  One sobriquet would be bad enough. But two? For a single
swaps trader? This is cause for serious concern.  History has often been unkind to famous  Wall Street  figures
with colorful nicknames.  Dick Fuld , the former head of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., was “The Gorilla.” There was Yasuo Hamanaka at  Japan ’s Sumitomo Corp., known as “Mr. 5 Percent”
for the share of the world’s copper market he was said to
control in 1996, before his trades wound up costing his bank
$2.6 billion.  More than a century ago, the financier  Hetty Green , one of
history’s greatest misers, was dubbed “The Witch of Wall
Street.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is the “Vampire Squid,”
while its young salesman Fabrice Tourre of Abacus fame fancied
himself as “Fabulous Fab” in an e-mail. One foul-mouthed bond
salesman,  Tom Bernard , got tagged “The Human Piranha” in
 Michael Lewis ’s book “ Liar’s Poker ,” about  Salomon Brothers  in
the 1980s.  Things to Come  Although there are exceptions -- Green, for instance,
amassed a fortune of more than $1 billion in today’s dollars --
having a clever nickname in high finance can be a sign of
complicated things to come.  This brings us back to Iksil, who has sold so much credit-
default protection this year his trades have moved market
 indexes , unidentified traders at  hedge funds  and rival banks
said. The trades have been so large they are widening gaps
between the relative value of the indexes and the average price
for contracts tied to companies in those indexes. One position,
perhaps as much as $100 billion, consists of contracts in an
index of 121 companies called the  Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Series 9 (IBOXUG09) , although the market participants who
spoke to Bloomberg News said this probably isn’t a one-way bet.  The information available about Iksil’s trades is limited.
So we really don’t know exactly what he did, much less what he’s
doing at this moment. We’re not even sure how old Iksil is, only
that the French-born trader, who works in JPMorgan’s chief
investment office, is said to be in his late 30s.  The unknowns are what make Iksil’s trades so intriguing, of
course. Was he making speculative, proprietary bets? Was he
hedging other investments? And is it even possible to define the
difference between speculating and hedging? At a bank the  size 
of JPMorgan, it would seem almost anything could be made to look
like a hedge if this suited the bank’s interests.  Hedges can and do backfire, sometimes spectacularly. Plus,
with Iksil’s bets now the subject of worldwide fascination, they
could become a target for other traders angling to figure out
when he might try and unwind his holdings. There’s also the
question of how someone could get out of a $100 billion position
if he wanted to, in an index where trading may be inactive.  Predictably, news of Iksil’s doings rekindled debate among
some politicians over the so-called Volcker rule, the portion of
the Dodd-Frank Act that once was promised as a curb on too-big-
to-fail banks making proprietary bets with their own money. This
issue is largely moot, though.  Regulators have turned the rule into a bloated mess filled
with exceptions, in dutiful response to lobbying by JPMorgan and
other banks. Whenever the rule finally takes effect, it probably
 won’t be enforceable . Even if some parts are, by the time the
regulators figure out which ones, the banking industry will have
moved on to more lucrative and potentially disastrous financial
innovations that the government will be clueless about.  Flawless Dimon  JPMorgan’s chief executive officer,  Jamie Dimon , last month
wrote in a  letter  to shareholders that he agrees with the
Volcker rule’s intent to eliminate “pure” proprietary trading.
Loosely translated, what Dimon meant is that almost nothing
should be banned. He will get his wish, no doubt.  While we may not know what exactly Iksil has been doing,
let’s get one thing straight: He isn’t a whale. In gambling
lingo, a whale is a rich guy who walks into a casino and bets a
lot of his own money. Iksil is a guy who works for a big casino
backed by U.S. taxpayers and bets a lot of his employer’s money
at other casinos. JPMorgan is the whale, not Iksil. A more apt
metaphor for him might be a  remora .  As for Voldemort? Please. Iksil is an employee. He can be
fired. The murderous Voldemort, so all-powerful he’s referred to
as “ He Who Must Not Be Named ,” didn’t have a boss. If Iksil is
to have an outrageous nickname, it should clearly convey that he
is under the control of his master.  My pick:  Big Baby , feared  henchman  of the strawberry-
scented villain  Lots-o’-Huggin’ Bear  in the movie “Toy Story
3.” Let’s see if it sticks.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  capital flight  in the
euro zone and some  final words  on gender inequality at the Masters;
 Jonathan Alter  on why  Paul Ryan ’s  budget proposal  would irk the
founders of the  Republican Party ;   Michael Kinsley  on  class warfare 
and the presidential campaign; Stephen Carter on  Mitt Romney  and
his  father’s portrayal  on the program “Mad Men”; Gary Shilling
on  misplaced optimism  in the stock market; and Rohit Aggarwala
on why  user fees  are preferable to an infrastructure bank.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  