-- Kenya Shilling Weakens Second Day on Concern of Crude Prices
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-12T15:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/kenya-shilling-weakens-second-day-on-concern-of-crude-prices.html
Kenya’s shilling weakened for a
second day, touching the lowest in two months, on concern rising
global oil prices would require more dollars to place orders.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
0.1 percent to close at 83.33 per dollar, having weakened as
much as 0.3 percent to 83.50, the lowest since Feb 9.  Oil prices rose for a second day after fuel stockpiles
declined more than expected in the U.S. Crude for May delivery
rose $1.18, or 1.1 percent, to $103.88 a barrel at 11:01 a.m. on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 5.1 percent this
year. Kenya imports almost all the fuel products it consumes.  “The shilling is weakening due to pent up dollar demand
from the oil importers who are likely to spend more in importing
as global prices are expected to surge,” Duncan Kinuthia, a
dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in
a phone interview today.  The Central bank of  Kenya  received bids of 10.1 billion
shillings for a 7-days repurchase agreement and accepted 5
billion shillings ($60 million) for seven-day  repurchase
agreements  at a weighted average rate of 15.54 percent, Godfrey
Putunoi, a bank official, said by phone today from the capital.  The bank has removed a total of 24.6 billion shillings from
the market since April 5, after the monetary policy committee
indicated it would intervene to curb volatility.  “The failure of the shilling to respond to the mop-up
exercise by the central bank is an indicator of the pent-up
demand in the market, which will keep pressure on the shilling
going forward,” Kinuthia said.  Inflation  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in February, the Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics said last month.  Rising  oil prices  are a risk to the inflation outlook,
central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on March 6.  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated on minimal dollar demand.
The currency of the second-biggest economy in East Africa gained
as much as 0.4 percent to close at 1,584 per dollar after
trading 0.6 higher at 1,580, the strongest since Jan 13.  “There is very little demand coming in from small and
medium enterprises today seeking dollars,” Fred Siwale, a
dealer with CRDB Bank Plc, said today by phone from  Dar es
Salaam , the commercial capital.  The Ugandan shilling weakened for a second day, on
increased dollar demand in the  interbank market . The currency of
the third-biggest economy in East Africa depreciated 0.4 percent
to close at 2,514 to the dollar.  “The shilling has lost ground on account of interbank
buying of the dollar,” Peter Mbowa, a currency trader at  Kenya
Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) ’s Ugandan unit, said by phone from Kampala.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  