-- Kinder Morgan Increases Planned Trans Mountain Expansion
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-12T20:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/kinder-morgan-increases-planned-trans-mountain-expansion-1-.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,
the second-biggest U.S. pipeline partnership, is increasing the
planned expansion of its Trans Mountain pipeline in response to
customer demand to move oil across  Canada .  Kinder Morgan  will spend $5 billion to bring the pipeline’s
capacity to 850,000 barrels a day by 2017, according to a
statement today. That’s $2.2 billion more than the company said
it was planning to spend on a smaller expansion in January.  The 1,150-kilometer (714-mile) pipeline system stretches
from Alberta to Vancouver, providing the only access for
Canadian oil to reach the West Coast, Houston-based Kinder
Morgan said. The system is currently capable of carrying 300,000
barrels a day and Kinder Morgan announced plans to double that
to 600,000 barrels a day in January.  Kinder Morgan hopes it can expand an existing pipeline to
open an outlet for Canada’s  oil-sands  production more quickly
than competitors seeking to build new pipelines, Kinder Morgan
Canada President Ian Anderson said.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL line, which would
bring Canadian oil sands to the U.S. Gulf Coast, was rejected by
President  Barack Obama  earlier this year because of
environmental concerns.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed Northern
Gateway pipeline, which would extend from the oil-sands region
to Kitimat, British Columbia, is facing more than a year of
regulatory hearings amid opposition from aboriginal groups.  20-Year Commitments  Kinder Morgan already has 20-year commitments from
producers, refiners and other shippers for 660,000 barrels a day
on the line, Anderson said in a telephone interview. Between
400,000 and 450,000 barrels a day may be exported, he said.  Environmental groups have raised concerns about the size of
Kinder Morgan’s expansion and the amount of tanker traffic that
the increased exports will create in Vancouver.  The company plans to spend 18 months to 24 months writing
detailed plans and building support among local communities,
First Nations and aboriginal groups before applying for
permission to build the line from Canada’s National Energy
Board, Anderson said.  “We’re going to do our darnedest to hear them and consider
them,” Anderson said of the regional groups.  The Trans Mountain expansion will follow the pipeline’s
existing right of way, except in places where urban encroachment
or environmental concerns make that too difficult, Anderson
said.  “Wherever we do divert, it will be because the local
circumstances benefit from that diversion,” Anderson said.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  is the biggest U.S.
pipeline partnership by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  