-- Kuka Robots Invade China as Wage Gains Put Machines Over Workers
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-04-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/kuka-robots-invade-china-as-wage-gains-put-machines-over-workers.html
Kuka AG (KU2) , Europe’s largest maker of
industrial robots, is creating a regional hub in  China  to tap
surging sales in the world’s most populous country, where rising
wages are lifting demand for automated factory gear.  The German company will boost assembly capacity in China to
5,000 units this year, from less than 1,000 two years ago, Chief
Executive Officer Till Reuter said. China will become a center
for procurement, production of components and assembly for the
entire Asian region, while research, development, and most
production will remain in  Germany , he said.  “China alone bought 15,000 robots last year, and we expect
that number to rise to about 20,000 this year,” Reuter said in
an interview. A company target for an operating margin of 10
percent at the robot unit “is within reach,” after standing at
9 percent in the fourth quarter, he said.  Rising wages, a push for quality, and demands for faster
production are prompting China’s manufacturing industry to buy
more robots, helping European companies including Kuka and  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  return lagging businesses into profit centers. Kuka’s
robots have become twice as profitable as the company’s larger
systems unit, and ABB turned its robot unit around in 2010.  At Kuka, robotics revenue jumped 84 percent between 2009
and 2011, as customers include  Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) 
bought equipment for new factories and China became the world’s
largest auto market. The company had record order intake, sales,
and operating profit last year.  Automobile Demand  While demand from China so far was driven by automobile
production, Kuka now seeks more business with customers in other
industries. Manufacturers of semiconductors, electronic devices,
food products and beverages are among the largest buyers of
industrial robots, according data by the International
Federation of Robotics, based in  Frankfurt .  While China doesn’t publish broad data on wages, the
government sets goals for minimum wage increases, targeting an
annual rise of 13 percent for the five-year period through 2015.
Between 2000 and 2007, the measure almost doubled, according to
the International Labour Office’s global database.  Some 13 Chinese provinces raised minimum wages in the first
quarter of 2011 by an average 21 percent, the ILO said in its
Global Employment Trends 2012 report published Jan. 24, and
wages will rise further over the medium term as labor force
growth starts to slow for demographic reasons.  Driving Force  “Salary inflation is the driving force behind robot demand
in China,” Michel Demare, the ABB chief financial officer, said
on Feb. 27 at company headquarters in Zurich.  ABB is  Europe ’s second-largest industrial robot maker, and
one out of three robots it sells goes to customers in  Asia . The
business had record deliveries in 2011, said Per-Vegard Nerseth,
who heads the subsidiary, and he expects unit sales to rise
further this year.  The value of the global industrial robot-system market will
double to $41 billion by 2020, according to an estimate by
Christine Wang, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets in  Hong
Kong . Global unit sales last year jumped about 30 percent to a
record 150,000 units, the IFR said. Kuka forecasts growth at its
robotics unit to outpace the industry this year, which it
expects to expand by about 2 percent.  Japanese rivals are also preparing for the boom.  Fanuc
Corp (6954) , which sold more than 18,000 units in 2010, last year
increased production capacity to 60,000.  Yaskawa Electric Corp. (6506) 
said it is building new plants in  Japan  and China to meet rising
demand.  China will leapfrog  South Korea  and Japan to become the
largest robot market next year, according to an IFR forecast.
Units in operation worldwide will top 1.3 million by 2014, the
lobby group said. Kuka held the number four position in China by
market share in 2010, behind Yaskawa, ABB, and Fanuc, Daiwa’s
Christine said.  Reuter, the Kuka CEO, said higher wages in China make
investing in robots a simple trade off.  “It comes down to the question: at what cost can a robot
do the job more efficiently?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  