-- Naira Appreciates as Oil Companies, Central Bank Sell Dollars
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-04-12T12:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/naira-appreciates-as-oil-companies-central-bank-sell-dollars.html
Nigeria’s naira,  Africa ’s strongest
performing currency this year, advanced after  oil companies  and
the central bank sold dollars as import demand waned.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer appreciated
as much as 0.3 percent and traded 0.1 percent higher at 157.695
per dollar as of 12:37 p.m. on the  interbank market  in Lagos,
the commercial capital. The naira has risen 2.9 percent this
year, the biggest increase out of 20 African currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  “There have been supplies from the multinational oil
companies, they keep supplying dollars to the market,” Edgar Ebinum, an analyst at Cowry Asset Management Ltd., said by phone
from Lagos today. Demand for U.S. currency “has not really
fully picked up, the number of importers has been reduced
drastically,” he said.  Forty-two fuel retailers including the stated-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.,  Conoil Plc (CONOIL)  and  Oando Plc (OANDO)  were
issued fuel import permits, the Petroleum Products Pricing
Regulatory Agency said last month.  The oil industry is the
second major supplier of foreign exchange to the west African
country after the central bank, which holds two foreign-currency
auctions a week and  sold $150 million  yesterday.  “Initially there was spurious demand,” said Ebinum. “The
number of importers was 140, now it’s been reduced to 42, so you
can imagine the impact of that on demand.”  Nigeria’s parliament is also probing whether fraudulent
practices by government agencies spurred a fivefold rise in
spending on gasoline subsidies in the past three years.  Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million of dollar bonds rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percent, to 5.528 percent in  London .  Ghana’s cedi declined for a third day, falling 0.1 percent
to 1.799 per dollar as of 11:36 a.m. in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  