-- Nasdaq Proposes Issuers Pay Market Makers in Less-Active ETFs
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-04-12T15:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/nasdaq-proposes-issuers-pay-market-makers-in-less-active-etfs.html
Nasdaq Stock Market (NDAQ)  asked the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to allow companies sponsoring
exchange-traded funds to pay market makers about $200 per day to
quote their shares more aggressively.  The practice, currently illegal in the U.S., would spur
quoting and transactions in ETFs that trade less than 2 million
shares daily, benefiting investors by making more volume
available to buy or sell at better prices, Nasdaq told the SEC
in a  filing  published on April 6. The exchange said it would
begin the program, which regulators must approve before it can
be implemented, as a one-year study. The SEC rejected two
earlier requests before they reached the public comment stage.  U.S. exchanges are seeking ways to boost the number of
shares that can be bought or sold at or near the best prices in
less-active securities. Executives from  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.
and NYSE Euronext in New York told members of Congress in
hearings in November that they intended to propose pilots
enabling issuers to pay market makers for their services,
mimicking efforts employed in  Europe  for smaller corporations.  “If ETF issuers want to incentivize market makers for
services they provide, there should be mechanisms in place for
that,” Reginald Browne, co-head of the ETF group at  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in Jersey City,  New Jersey , said in a phone
interview. “With more than 50 markets in the U.S., there’s just
not enough incentive for market makers to bear the risk.”  Negotiated Fees  Knight makes markets in more than 625 ETFs on Nasdaq, NYSE
Arca and BZX Exchange. The company is also one of the main
market makers for companies on NYSE and owns almost 20 percent
of Direct Edge Holdings LLC, an exchange operator in  Jersey
City , New Jersey. Browne said the fees issuers pay should be
negotiated instead of standardized, as Nasdaq is proposing.  There were more than 4,200 exchange-traded products
globally with $1.52 trillion in assets at the end of 2011,
compared with 106 with $79 billion in 2000, according to data
compiled by BlackRock Inc. Of the 1,098 U.S. ETFs, fewer than 10
percent traded more than $40 million a day, the data showed.  “It’s a tough problem they’re trying to solve,” Michael Bleich, chief executive officer of Scout Trading LLC, a market-
making firm in New York, said in a phone interview. About 70
percent of Scout’s volume is in ETFs. “Investors looking at a
new product may want to invest but someone must provide a liquid
market,” he said. “In the ecosystem of trading activity, it
may not be profitable for market makers, including ourselves.”  Build Volume  Nasdaq’s program would give ETFs that might otherwise
languish a chance to build volume and attract buyers by
providing better prices, Browne said. While products that later
fail to draw assets may not have appealed enough to investors,
they at least would have had a chance, he said.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees
more than 4,400 U.S. brokers, banned payments to market makers
in 1997 to improve investor confidence. Finra  said  at the time
that the decision to make a market in a security should be based
on supply and demand, the firm’s expectations about trading, its
inventory of shares, and competition. It shouldn’t be influenced
by payments from issuers, the regulator said.  Finra plans to exempt market makers in exchange programs
approved by the commission from the prohibition on taking
payments, Nasdaq told the SEC.  Tim Quast, founder of ModernNetworks IR LLC, a Denver-based
consulting firm that advises EMC Corp. and other companies about
market structure and equities trading matters, said in a phone
interview that exchanges shouldn’t be allowed to treat issuers
differently and that payments to market makers shouldn’t be used
to stimulate liquidity.  ‘Diminishes Investment’  “Trading shouldn’t be incentivized in one security in a
different way than it is for other securities,” Quast said. He
said he doesn’t support payments to market makers to narrow the
difference between bids and offers, price bands, trading curbs
or other rules that limit share moves. “All these are price-
control mechanisms that conform behaviors to norms, which
exacerbates arbitrage and diminishes investment and capital
formation,” he said.  Regulations adopted in the last decade have driven up costs
for companies that want to sell shares and shifted trading
incentives toward higher-capitalization stocks, according to a
 report  in October by the IPO  Task Force , a group of private
securities professionals. President  Barack Obama  signed into law
legislation on April 5 that seeks to ease companies’ access to
capital and initial public offerings as a way to create more
jobs.  Increasing Liquidity  Nasdaq OMX has had “great success” in increasing
liquidity in stocks on its First North market, a European venue
for smaller companies that has had a program enabling issuers to
compensate market makers since 2002,  Eric Noll , executive vice
president for transaction services, said in a phone interview in
November. The exchange operator will serve as an intermediary to
collect payments for the new program from issuers and distribute
them to market makers, he said.  Market makers operating on most U.S. exchanges generate
revenue from the spread between bid and offer prices as they buy
and sell shares and by incentives exchanges pay to spur
liquidity. Joseph Mecane, co-head of U.S. listings and cash
execution at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  said  at the November hearings that
the company’s current liquidity payments for quoting often
aren’t enough to compel market makers to trade more shares at
narrower spreads.  “Allowing issuers to compensate market makers could
help,” Mecane said at the hearings. If the results benefit
investors by increasing volume, regulators should “try a second
experiment with some stocks and see if it has the same effect,”
he said.  ETF Pilot  NYSE Arca is talking to the SEC about a pilot program that
would allow ETF issuers to pay market makers for providing bids
and offers in their shares and “enhance liquidity in less-
active securities,” Laura Morrison, head of the U.S. exchange-
traded products listings and trading business at NYSE Euronext,
said in a phone interview. Arca plans to submit its proposal in
the “near future,” she said.  The SEC asked the public for comment about whether programs
that worked for smaller companies outside the U.S. would be as
effective for ETFs and how Nasdaq’s plan may affect the stocks
in an index tracked by the fund. It also asked if the program
raises conflicts of interest among issuers and market makers.  An ETF issuer in the program must pay Nasdaq a $50,000
annual fee, which the exchange will distribute to one or more
market makers that qualify for the program each quarter,
according to the filing. Firms can pay another $50,000 a year if
they want to foster more quoting and trading. The payments are
in addition to Nasdaq’s annual listing fee.  Maintaining Bids  Market makers qualify for the program by maintaining bids
for 500 shares and offers for the same amount at the best
available prices for at least a quarter of the day, Nasdaq said.
They must also supply quotes to buy at least 2,500 shares and
the same number to sell no more than 2 percent from the  national
best bid or offer . That requirement must be met 90 percent of
the time, Nasdaq said.  Nasdaq’s proposal echoes two earlier ones that the SEC
rejected and didn’t publish for comment. SEC rejections at that
stage usually occur for technical reasons such as an incomplete
filing. While all the plans apply to ETFs, the newer requests
limit the scope to more illiquid products and loosen some of the
quoting requirements for market makers.  Daily Volume  The current proposal and the one dated  Jan. 18  confine the
payment program to securities with an average daily volume of
less than two million shares for three consecutive months,
instead of five million shares a day for half a year in the
 November filing . Nasdaq expanded the initial requirement that
market makers supply quotes for at least 5,000 shares no more
than 1 percent away from the national best bid or offer to no
more than 2 percent from the NBBO.  Amber Anand , a finance professor at Syracuse University’s
Whitman School of Management in Syracuse,  New York , who co-wrote
a paper with two other academics in 2009 about paid-for market
making on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, said smaller companies
benefited from payments to market makers. The paper was based on
an analysis of 50 companies between September 2002 and March
2004 that contracted with market makers to supply liquidity.  “They traded passively to provide liquidity when liquidity
was scarce,” Anand said of the market makers in a phone
interview. “When you create a band and say market makers can’t
have a spread wider than the band, it also changes the behavior
of other market participants. Spreads narrowed much more than
market makers were contracted for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 