-- New Loan Surge Bolsters Stocks as Renren Climbs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-12T21:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/new-loan-surge-bolsters-stocks-as-renren-climbs-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  listed in New York
posted their biggest daily jump in three months, buoyed by
social media stocks, on signs looser monetary policy is already
bolstering lending in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 2.5 percent to 103.76
yesterday in New York, the steepest gain since Jan. 10. Social
network operator  Renren Inc. (RENN)  surged a five-month high while  Sina
Corp. (SINA) , which runs a Chinese Twitter-like service, gained the
most in a month as the prospect of an initial public offering by
Facebook Inc. draws investors to companies in the same sector.  Chinese lenders added 1.01 trillion yuan ($160.1 billion)
of  new loans  in March, the most since January 2011 and more than
all 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated, central bank
data yesterday showed. The People’s Bank of China has lowered
the amount major banks must set aside as reserves twice since
November to spur lending as a global slowdown looms. Policy
makers also doubled the amount foreigners are allowed to invest
in  China ’s capital markets on April 4 to lure more investment.  “There seems to be more liquidity coming into the system
from things like more Chinese bank lending, and other measures
they took recently,”  Dave Lutz , head of exchange-traded fund
trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said
by phone yesterday. The increase in lending “is a piece of the
puzzle, and the puzzle right now is acting like they’re easing.
That’s typically very good for the stocks.”  GDP Data  Official data due today will show China’s economy expanded
8.4 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace of growth
since 2009, the median forecast of 41 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg showed. The government cut this year’s growth target
last month to 7.5 percent, after keeping it at 8 percent over
the previous seven years.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., surged 3.6 percent to $37.45,
the biggest one-day rally since December. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.4 percent to 1,387.57, after Federal Reserve
Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and New York Fed President William C. Dudley endorsed the central bank’s position that borrowing costs
will probably stay low through 2014. The two-day increase in the
gauge was the biggest this year.  Renren, a Beijing-based real-name social-network operator,
surged 11 percent to $6.86 yesterday, the highest level since
October.  Sina (SINA) , which owns Weibo, a Twitter-like service in
China, climbed 6.4 percent to $65.23, the largest one-day
advance since March 7.  ‘Similar Companies’  Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , the world’s biggest
social-networking service, filed on Feb. 1 to raise $5 billion
in the largest IPO on record by an  Internet company . The
company’s prospective IPO is helping to attract investors’
attention to Chinese social media companies like Sina, according
to  Tim Cunningham , who helps oversee $83 billion, including
Chinese stocks, at Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in  Santa
Fe ,  New Mexico .  “When people get excited about Facebook coming to the
market, they do look around at the world and see similar
companies,” Cunningham said.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the largest online search engine in China,
added 3.5 percent to an eight-month high of $151.32. Chu Dachen,
the general manager of Baidu’s advertising partners network, has
left the Beijing-based company and will join Sina’s Weibo
microblogging product team, a news  report  on NetEase Inc.’s
website said on April 11, citing people it didn’t identify.  Baidu’s investor manager and Cathy Peng, Sina’s
spokeswoman, couldn’t be reached by phone after business hours
in China.  ‘Angry Birds’  Rovio Entertainment Oy, creator of the “Angry Birds”
mobile-phone game, said it’s in talks with Chinese companies
including Baidu and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , owner of the third-largest
search engine in China, to work on winning players in the
world’s biggest Web market.  The discussions involve possible new methods of Internet
distribution in China, Henri Holm, senior vice-president at
Rovio Asia, said in an interview yesterday in Hong Kong, where
he is based. The Finnish company is also in similar talks with
Renren, after starting work with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , Sina,
Youku Inc. and Qihoo 360 Technology Co., he said. Tencent is
China’s biggest Internet company by market value.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.8 percent yesterday
to 2,350.86, the biggest advance since Feb. 8. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
added 1.5 percent to 10,664.61, snapping a three-day decline.  Buy Ratings  Youku (YOKU) , the biggest online video operator in China, gained
6.4 percent to $24.01, the steepest increase in a month.  Tudou
Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , the second largest, jumped 7.9 percent to $33.42.
Youku plans to acquire Tudou in a stock swap deal, the companies
said in a joint statement on March 12. The purchase is currently
worth about $961 million, compared with $925.1 million when the
transaction was announced, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  American depositary receipts of  51job Inc. (JOBS) , an online human
resources service provider, jumped 4.6 percent, the biggest gain
in more than a week, to $59.39.  All four analysts who  rate  the Shanghai-based company
recommend it as a buy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aluminum Corp. of China  rose and posted the widest premium
in three months to its Hong Kong stock. ADRs of Chalco, as
China’s biggest producer of the light metal is known, soared 5.1
percent to $12.34 in  New York , the highest level since Jan. 17.
The ADRs, each representing 25 common shares in the company,
traded 3.9 percent above its  Hong Kong shares , which climbed 1.7
percent to HK$3.69, the equivalent of 48 U.S. cents. The premium
was the highest since Dec. 20.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 8.9 percent in the
last three months of 2011, the slowest pace for 10 quarters.  “People are chattering that the GDP numbers are going to
be better than expected, and some are expecting more stimulus,”
said Cunningham at Thornburg Investment.  The country hasn’t moved benchmark  interest rates  since
boosting them to the highest level since 2008 in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  