-- News Corp.’s Times Sued Over Hacking of U.K. Cop’s E-Mail
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-13T14:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/news-corp-s-times-sued-over-hacking-of-u-k-cop-s-e-mail.html
News Corp.’s Times newspaper in
 London , which escaped the phone-hacking and bribery scandals at
 Rupert Murdoch ’s other U.K. titles, was sued by a former police
blogger for hacking into his e-mail account in 2009.  The lawsuit by detective Richard Horton, who wrote an
unauthorized, anonymous blog about police work that gained
national media attention, was filed April 11 in London. The
Times in January admitted the hacking, which allowed it to
reveal Horton’s identity three years ago.  Horton, of the  Lancashire Constabulary  in Northwest
 England , seeks “substantial” damages, his lawyer  Patrick
Daulby  of Taylor Hampton Solicitors Ltd., said in a phone
interview yesterday. The suit was filed after the Times failed
to respond to a letter describing the claims, he said.  The Times, Britain’s oldest daily paper, is the third U.K.
title of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)  to come under suspicion of
wrongdoing during police probes of phone hacking and bribery at
the Sun daily tabloid and the News of the World.  Mark Lewis ,
another Taylor Hampton lawyer who represents hacking victims,
said this week he is preparing to file suits in the U.S. on
behalf of three people, spreading the scandal across the
Atlantic.  London’s Metropolitan Police have said more than 800
people, including celebrities, lawmakers and crime victims, had
their voice mail intercepted by News Corp. journalists and more
than 30 arrests have been made. Murdoch, News Corp.’s chairman,
shuttered the 168-year-old News of the World in July to help
contain public anger over the scandal.  Mary Kearney, a spokeswoman for London-based News
International, which publishes the Times, confirmed the lawsuit
had been filed and declined to comment further.  NightJack Author  The Times’ editor,  James Harding , told a judicial inquiry
into media ethics in February that the paper misled a judge who
oversaw Horton’s failed 2009 lawsuit to block publication of his
name. The publisher won by claiming it deduced the author of the
“NightJack” blog through legitimate means, even though it was
aware of the hacking, Harding said.  Alastair Brett, the newspaper’s lawyer from 1977 to 2010,
told the inquiry the publisher’s claims in the 2009 case were
“not entirely accurate.” Harding has apologized to Horton and
the judge in the 2009 case, the editor said.  Reporter  Patrick Foster  hacked Horton’s e-mail in May 2009
to expose him as the writer of the blog, and the newspaper
argued that his identity was in the public interest. Horton, in
his earlier lawsuit, had raised the possibility that his e-mail
had been illegally accessed.  ‘Not Aware’  Foster told his editor and the newsroom’s lawyer at the
time about the e-mail hacking, and he was advised to continue to
pursue the story through legitimate means, Harding said at the
inquiry.  Murdoch told the company’s annual general meeting in  Los
Angeles  on Oct. 21 that he was “not aware” of computer hacking
by its British papers. A week earlier, Harding submitted a
prepared witness statement to the ethics inquiry, admitting the
hacking of Horton’s e-mail.  Labour party lawmaker  Tom Watson , who is part of a
Parliamentary committee investigating News Corp. wrongdoing, has
said police are now investigating computer-hacking claims
against the company.  The News Corp. scandal started in 2005 with the discovery
mobile phones linked to Britain’s royal family were hacked, and
it was revived last year after revelations the practice was far
more widespread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  