-- LNG Export Plant Verges on U.S. Approval Amid Shale Glut
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-13T14:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/lng-export-plant-verges-on-u-s-approval-amid-shale-glut.html
Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , the natural
gas importer that lost $1.2 billion in a decade, is poised to
become the sole U.S. exporter of fuel from the shale bonanza
that’s turned the nation into the world’s biggest gas producer.  The government may decide as soon as next week on
Cheniere’s request to build a $10 billion Louisiana plant that
would be the largest in the U.S. to liquefy gas and load it onto
ocean-going tankers. Regulators will discuss the project April
19. Cheniere’s shares rose as much as 11 percent in  New York .  As the only company with a 20-year Energy Department
license to export continental liquefied gas to nations without
U.S. free-trade agreements, Cheniere will have a near-monopoly
on selling LNG to some of the biggest gas importers --  Japan  and
Spain -- which currently pay as much as nine times more for the
fuel than it costs in U.S. markets. All rival export-license
requests are on hold while the Energy Department studies the
potential economic impacts of shipping abroad.  “The global LNG market is tight and spot prices are going
to be quite high at least until 2018,” when several new
Australian LNG export projects are scheduled to ramp up, said
Asish Mohanty, senior global LNG analyst at Wood Mackenzie, the
Edinburgh-based energy researcher.  U.S. exporters that start shipping before 2018 have the
best chance of recovering  capital costs  and reaping a profit
within a few years, “before prices start softening,” he said.  Houston-based Cheniere probably will get the go-ahead to
build, although the timing is uncertain and approval will come
with conditions attached, David Wochner, a partner in the
Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP law firm’s energy practice, said
during a March 22 Argus Media Ltd. conference in Houston.  Reviewed Next Week  The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , or FERC, is
scheduled to discuss Cheniere’s project at an April 19 meeting
in  Washington , according to an agenda posted on the commission’s
website yesterday.  Gas output from U.S. wells has surged, pushing prices to a
10-year low as intensive drilling techniques enabled explorers
such as  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  to tap reserves in shale formations.  Cheniere, which as recently as October was judged by
 Standard & Poor’s  to be on the verge of default, has more than
doubled in the stock market in the past year on its exporting
prospects, even as the company sold shares four times. The  Texas 
company counts hedge funds D.E. Shaw & Co. and  Steve Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors SP among its larger investors, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian and European utilities are eager to buy U.S. supplies
that are about 90 percent cheaper than gas from traditional
producers such as Yemen, Mohanty said.  Rival Proposals  Aside from Cheniere’s Louisiana project, there are two
other proposed export plants pending before the FERC: a second
Cheniere project, planned for  Corpus Christi , Texas, and
Freeport LNG Development’s proposal for Freeport, Texas.  Seven companies, including Freeport, are seeking Energy
Department permission to export to non-free-trade agreement
nations.  Cheniere Chief Executive Officer Charif Souki’s next step
after clearing U.S. approvals will be to complete fundraising
for the project. The liquefaction terminal will be built next to
Cheniere’s LNG import facility that has been mostly idle since
opening in 2009, thanks to the same domestic supply glut now
driving Souki’s export plans.  The new plant he envisions will begin operations in 2015 or
2016 and be able to ship 18 million tons of LNG annually, worth
about $1.7 billion at current prices.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the New York-based private-equity
firm, agreed in February to invest $2 billion in Cheniere’s
export plant, a pledge that Souki said will help attract other
financing.  Four Share Sales  Separately, Cheniere sold shares four times in the past
year to avoid a cash crunch while awaiting a construction permit
from FERC. The company had $1.2 billion in losses during the
2002-2011 period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cheniere’s most-valuable asset may be its Energy Department
license to ship domestic gas to nations that aren’t U.S. free-
trade partners. The U.S. has free-trade agreements with 18
nations, of which only  South Korea  is a major gas importer,
according to a Commerce Department website. South Korea’s free-
trade agreement went into effect on March 15.  Japan and  Spain  -- neither of which are within the circle
of U.S. free-trade partners -- imported 4.12 trillion cubic feet
of gas in 2009, the most recent year for which data was
available, the U.S. Energy Department said in a June 2011
report. The Energy Department is scheduled to update its global
LNG import data on June 29.  Japanese Demand  Japan alone imported 3.21 trillion cubic feet of the fuel
in 2009, or 37 percent of all the gas exported worldwide that
year, Energy Department figures showed. Japanese demand is
expected to climb to replace power generation lost as a result
of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami that triggered a nuclear
meltdown at the Fukushima power complex.  With no gas reserves on their own soil, Japanese companies
were paying $20.87 per million Btus to attract Yemeni LNG in
January and $18.43 for Algerian shipments, according to figures
from Japan’s Customs Bureau.  The question for would-be U.S. LNG exporters is whether the
spread between North American and overseas  gas prices  will
persist long enough to capture profits, said Michelle Michot Foss, chief energy economist at the University of Texas’ Center
for Energy Economics in Houston.  As exports add to growing demand for North American gas,
prices will rise and narrow the gap that made the U.S. an
attractive fuel source in the first place, she said.  ‘Tricky to Pull Off’  “It’ll be marvelous if anyone can pull this off but it’s
going to be pretty tricky,” Foss said in a telephone interview.
“The arbitrage is huge but the problem with the arbitrage is
that no one is positioned to take advantage of it right now, and
when everyone jumps in, the arbitrage will disappear.”  Given rising political pressure from U.S. chemical
producers and power generators alarmed by the potential for an
export-driven rally in domestic gas prices, federal regulators
probably will restrict the number of export licenses, Mohanty
and fellow Wood Mackenzie analysts said in a March 28 report.  After issuing Cheniere’s export permit last year, the
Energy Department put all other pending applications on hold
while it studies the future economic impacts of exporting gas.  In the past 6 1/2 years, U.S. gas lost 87 percent of its
value as wells drilled into shale formations disgorged more of
the fuel than domestic markets could absorb. As the surfeit
expanded, prices plunged to $1.971 per million British thermal
units yesterday from a record $15.78 in December 2005.  Price Rise Impact  As early as 2018, exporting LNG could raise U.S. prices
above $9 per thousand cubic feet, which is roughly equivalent to
a million British thermal units, or Btus, the Energy Department
said in a Jan. 19 report.  The price shock would prompt power producers to burn more
coal as a cheaper alternative, and spur more imports of gas from
fields in western  Canada , the department said.  “Increased natural-gas exports lead to higher domestic
natural-gas prices, increased domestic natural-gas production,
reduced domestic natural-gas consumption and increased natural-
gas imports from Canada via pipeline,” the department said in
the January report.  After 2018, U.S. exports will have a tougher time winning
supply deals as the new Australian plants add to world LNG
supplies, pressuring prices and erasing some of the current
price advantage of U.S. gas, Mohanty said.  “Post-2018, the picture becomes quite uncertain,” Mohanty
said in a telephone interview from Houston.  Rich Gas  Asian demand for North American gas also will be muted
because of differing content standards between the continents,
Mohanty said.  In the U.S., liquid components of the gas stream such as
butane and ethane tend to be separated from the methane to
prevent pipeline clogs and so that they can be used by chemical
producers. Asian import plants designed to handle so-called rich
gas from Indonesia or  Malaysia  won’t run as efficiently on
stripped-down U.S. supplies, he said.  The only current LNG producer exporting U.S.-produced gas
outside the group of free-trade partners is Houston-based
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , owner of a liquefaction plant on  Alaska ’s  Kenai
peninsula (91401MF)  that opened in 1969.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  