-- Shirakawa Pledges Japan Easing Amid Political Pressure
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-04-12T06:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/nomura-cites-talk-of-muto-iwata-as-possible-next-boj-head-1-.html
Bank of Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged to continue to add monetary stimulus amid
growing calls from politicians for the central bank to do more
to end deflation.  “The BOJ will pursue powerful easing” to help overcome
deflation and put the economy on a sustainable growth path,
Shirakawa said at a branch manager meeting in Tokyo today,
reaffirming the stance. Stimulus measures announced Feb. 14
drove down the yen, aiding exporters.  Ruling party lawmaker Tsutomu Okubo said yesterday further
stimulus by the BOJ would weaken the yen more effectively than
currency intervention, an indication politicians will continue
to press the central bank to expand its asset purchases. The BOJ
refrained from easing policy at the meeting on April 10, fueling
calls from DPJ lawmakers including Takeshi Miyazaki for them to
take “bold and large-scale” action later this month.  “It’s obvious that the central bank’s policies have more
influence over the currency than intervention,” Okubo, a
 Democratic Party  of  Japan  lawmaker, said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday, citing the yen’s depreciation of more than 4
percent against the dollar since the BOJ’s February decision.  The yen traded at 80.96 per dollar as of 2:57 p.m. in
Tokyo.  The upper house of the Diet last week rejected  Ryutaro Kono ’s nomination to the BOJ board, with some lawmakers saying
they saw the BNP Paribas SA economist as insufficiently
committed to easing.  Sense of Crisis  Kono said yesterday that large purchases of bonds by the 
BOJ have the potential to affect financial stability. He
had “a strong sense of crisis” over the increasing number of
people who want to revise the BOJ law, as central bank
independence prevented “the lure of monetization,'' Kono said 
at a BNP Paribas event in Tokyo.  There are currently two vacancies on the central bank’s
nine member board and Shirakawa is one of three board members
whose term will expire early next year.  Former  Bank of Japan (8301)  deputy governors Toshiro Muto and
Kazumasa Iwata are being talked about as possible candidates for
the central bank’s top job, Nomura Securities Co. said in a note
today. Muto worked at the  Finance Ministry  for 37 years and is
chairman of the Daiwa Institute of Research, while Iwata is
president of the Japan Center for Economic Research, a think-
tank in Tokyo.  “The two men are also regarded as being more open to
easing action than Mr. Shirakawa,”  Takahide Kiuchi , chief
economist at Nomura said. Nomura did not speculate on possible
nominees for the two vacant board seats.  Quantitative Easing  Both Muto and Iwata were on the central bank board when it
was pursuing quantitative easing by flooding the economy with
cash while keeping the key  interest rate  near zero. The two
weren’t made available to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News today.  Muto, whose nomination to head the bank in 2008 was
rejected by lawmakers, said in a February interview that it was
appropriate for the central bank to increase its purchases of
government debt. Iwata, who has also sat on government panels on
national strategy, said in a January interview that the
government should allow the BOJ to create a 50 trillion yen
($618 billion) fund to buy foreign bonds to combat the yen’s
gains.  “It’s appropriate for the BOJ to increase its buying of
 government bonds ,” Muto said in the interview. If there isn’t
an improvement in the economy and financial markets going
forward, “the BOJ may have to shoulder a big burden depending
on those developments.”  Australia Payrolls  Elsewhere, payrolls in  Australia  rose more than economists
forecast in March, climbing by 44,000, a statistics bureau
report showed in Sydney today, almost seven times the median
estimate of a 6,500 increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 24
economists. South Korea’s workforce increased last month,
pushing the  unemployment rate  for March down to 3.4 percent.  In  France , consumer prices probably rose 2.1 percent in
March from a year earlier, according to an economist survey, and
industrial production in  India  probably advanced 6.7 percent in
February from a year earlier. Producer prices in the U.S.
climbed 0.3 percent in March after increasing 0.4 percent the
previous month, analysts surveyed said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  