-- Nomura Says Worker Brought ‘Inappropriate Item’ to Building
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-13T01:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/nomura-says-employee-brought-inappropriate-item-to-building.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said it placed
an employee on administrative leave who was responsible for
bringing an “inappropriate item” into its  New York  offices
after police said a fake grenade was found in the building.  Parts of 2 World Financial Center were evacuated today
after security reported finding a suspicious package that
contained something that resembled an explosive, police said.  A UPS package that was scanned in the building’s
underground mailroom appeared to contain a grenade, the New York
Police Department said in an e-mailed statement. The bomb squad
discovered that it was a grenade-like novelty item mounted on a
wooden plaque with a sign “Complaint Department: Please Take a
Number,” according to the statement.  The package was ordered by an unidentified employee who had
bought it from an Oklahoma City-based company that specializes
in U.S. Marine Corps novelties, police said. There was no crime,
according to the NYPD statement.  Nomura evacuated its U.S. headquarters in the building
because of the police investigation and “returned to business
as usual” after the all-clear, Jonathan Hodgkinson, a spokesman
for Nomura, said in an e-mail. The employee, who wasn’t
identified, was placed on administrative leave pending an
internal review, said Hodgkinson, who declined to elaborate on
the item or how it arrived.  The 44-story building, owned by  Brookfield Office
Properties Inc. (BPO) , sits across from  Ground Zero  and was damaged
during the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the World Trade
Center. It is home to the offices of  Bank of America Corp. ’s
Merrill Lynch as well as  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Deloitte & Touche .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  