-- North Korea Rocket Fails in Setback for New Leader Kim
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-13T08:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/north-korea-launches-rocket-in-defiance-of-warnings.html
North Korea ’s long-range rocket
failed minutes after liftoff in the biggest setback to Kim Jong Un since he succeeded his father as head of the totalitarian
state four months ago.  Scientists are investigating what went wrong, North Korea’s
state media said. The missile reached an altitude of 151
kilometers (93 miles) before disintegrating into 20 pieces and
falling into the ocean 100 to 150 kilometers off the western
coast, South Korean Major General Shin Won Sik said at a press
conference in Seoul. Asian  stocks  and the won rose.  The botched firing may put pressure on the new leader to
demonstrate his military power by conducting a nuclear test, and
General Shin said  South Korea  is on alert for the possibility.
The launch also complicates U.S.-led efforts to engage North
Korea after Kim took over control of the reclusive state
following Kim Jong Il’s death in December.  “Kim Jong Un has lost an enormous amount of face,” said
Brian Myers, a professor of international studies at Dongseo
University in Busan, South Korea. “This makes an underground
nuclear test virtually a certainty.”  Chances are “very high” that Kim’s regime will fire more
long-range missiles, conduct a nuclear test, or carry out some
other provocation to garner domestic support, South Korean
Deputy Defense Minister Lim Kwan Bin said in parliament today.  The rocket “failed to enter its preset orbit” after
liftoff from the Sohae Satellite Launching Station, state-run
Korean Central News Agency said. “Scientists, technicians and
experts are now looking into the cause of the failure.”  Long-Range Missiles  It was the fourth time the country has fired a long-range
rocket. The last time was in April 2009, when a Taepondong-2
missile flew 3,800 to 4,000 kilometers before disintegrating,
according to Baek Seung Joo, a North Korea specialist at the
Korea Institute for Defense Analyses in Seoul.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.9 percent, while the
won rose 0.5 percent to 1,135 per dollar.  The  United Nations Security Council  will hold an emergency
session later today, according to a diplomat who spoke on
condition of anonymity. White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney 
said the launch “threatens regional security, violates
international law and contravenes its own recent commitments,”
and an Obama administration official said the U.S. will halt
planned shipments of thousands of tons in food aid in response.  Japan  joined the U.S. and South Korea in denouncing today’s
act. Kim’s regime has said the projectile would carry a
satellite into orbit to mark the April 15 centennial of state
founder  Kim Il Sung .  ‘Pyongyang’s Seriousness’  While the government in Pyongyang insisted it was not a
long-range missile test in violation of a February agreement to
end nuclear and long-range missile tests in exchange for 240,000
tons of U.S. food, Obama administration officials had warned
otherwise.  “We urge the North Korean leadership to honor its
agreements and refrain from a pursuing a cycle of provocation,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in  Washington 
after a Group of Eight foreign ministers’ meeting. “It can
pursue peace and reap the benefits of closer ties with the
international community, including the  United States , or it can
continue to face pressure and isolation.”  Kim Jong Un was named head of North Korea’s sole political
party April 11 in a display of his hereditary grip on power. His
late father was named “eternal secretary general” of the
Workers’ Party, the Korean Central News Agency said.  ‘Blackmail Diplomacy’  “They want to show the world that they are capable of
developing a long-range ballistic missile,” said  Andrei Lankov ,
an associate professor at Kookmin University in  Seoul .  “It has
not happened. So this will decrease the efficiency of their
blackmail diplomacy.”  A South Korean intelligence report warned that North Korea
may follow the rocket launch with the detonation of an atomic
device. Recent activity at the Punggye-ri nuclear testing site
is consistent with preparations for previous detonations in 2006
and 2009, according to the intelligence report obtained April 9
by Bloomberg News.  “I’m not surprised the North Koreans launched and I’m not
surprised it failed,” said James Acton, a senior associate in
the nuclear policy program at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Washington. “I will also not be
surprised if, in the next few months, they test a nuclear
weapon.”  North’s Economy  The North’s economy contracted 0.5 percent to 30 trillion
won ($26.3 billion) in 2010, compared with South Korea’s 1,173
trillion won, according to the South’s central bank. North Korea
had a food shortfall of as much as 700,000 metric tons of food
last year, according to the UN, and is dependent on aid from
 China , its only ally.  China today called on all parties to not do anything that
harms the peace and stability of the Korean peninsula, Foreign
Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in statement on the
ministry’s website.  The test involved a Kwangmyongsong-3 satellite mounted on
an Unha-3 carrier rocket, according to North Korea. The firing
took place on the second day of the window between April 12 and
16 that the North had specified in its filing with international
agencies.  Kwangmyongsong means “bright star,” a word North Koreans
have used to describe late leader  Kim Jong Il . “Unha” means
galaxy.  The UN Security Council banned North Korea from using any
missile technology in 2009 shortly after the North fired a long-
range missile carrying what it said was a communications
satellite that failed to enter orbit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  