-- Oaktree Capital Declines 1.4% in Trading Debut After IPO
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-04-12T20:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/oaktree-capital-declines-1-4-in-trading-debut-after-ipo.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, fell on its first day
of trading after raising less than sought in an initial public
offering.  Oaktree, which began trading today on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol OAK,  declined  1.4 percent to
$42.39 at the close of trading after losing as much as 5.5
percent. The Los Angeles-based firm, co-founded by  Howard Marks 
and Bruce Karsh, raised $380.2 million in its IPO yesterday,
about 27 percent less than originally sought.  Investors’ appetite for newly listed companies is being
tested after volatility in U.S. stocks on April 10 spiked to the
highest level in a month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index
completed a five-day, 4.3 percent slump that day as a surge in
Spanish and Italian bond yields fueled concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis is worsening.  “When you file to go public, you want the economy to be in
good shape and you want the stock market to be in good shape,”
 Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of Chicago Booth
School Business, said in a telephone interview. “When these
firms filed, that was all true. The question, and the
uncertainty they have to deal with, is what happens to the
markets after filing.”  Kim Martinez, a spokeswoman for Oaktree, declined to
comment.  Bottom of Range  Oaktree sold 8.84 million shares for $43 each, the bottom
of the proposed range, according to a statement late yesterday.
The firm and some of its stakeholders had offered to sell 11.3
million shares for as much as $46 apiece, according to
regulatory filings.  Under the original terms, Oaktree planned to have about 151
million units outstanding following the offering. At today’s
closing, that values the company at about $6.4 billion, compared
with $16.7 billion for  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and $5.1 billion for
 Apollo (APO)  Global Management LLC.  Oaktree carried out the first IPO by an alternative-asset
manager since Apollo sold stock in March 2011. Underwriters have
an option to purchase as many as 1.33 million additional shares
in the next 30 days, according to yesterday’s statement.  Rivals have fared poorly in the public markets since the
2008 global financial crisis. Blackstone, the world’s largest
buyout firm, is trading at about half its value since its IPO in
2007 and Apollo has lost a quarter of its value.  Carlyle’s Plans  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , which has been weighing a public offering
since 2007 and put those plans on hold because of the global
financial crisis, may delay its IPO roadshow if investors aren’t
receptive to Oaktree and if the stock market continues to
decline, a person familiar with the plans said earlier this
week.  Carlyle, the second-largest private-equity firm, said it
will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol CG. It
hasn’t set a price range or the number of shares it plans to
offer.  Carlyle is seeking a valuation of $7.5 billion to $8
billion and plans to sell a stake of about 10 percent in its
IPO, according to people with knowledge of the plans. The
Washington-based firm, which has been gauging public interest
since last year, is targeting its share sale in early May, said
another person.  Oaktree and Apollo first sold shares through a private
exchange managed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which led
Oaktree’s offering with Morgan Stanley. Apollo, based in  New
York , transferred the listing to the New York Stock Exchange via
an IPO in March 2011.  Marks, Karsh  Like other private-equity firms that have already tapped
the public market, Oaktree is offering prospective shareholders
a slice of profits from managing money for investors such as
pensions, university endowments and sovereign-wealth funds.  Chairman Marks and President Karsh, two of Oaktree’s co-
founders, had been set to get almost 40 percent of the proceeds
from the share sale. Marks and six partners from TCW Group Inc.
started the firm in 1995. He and Karsh were to each be paid
about $101.9 million from the IPO, based on the original terms
of the offering and the expected  price range , according to
filings.  Other Oaktree executives also stood to benefit from the
IPO. John Frank, a managing principal, was to receive $4.8
million under the original terms; Caleb Kramer, a managing
director, was to get $4.3 million; and Stephen Kaplan, a
principal, was to be paid $3.7 million.  KKR’s Gains  The IPO may help Oaktree in its transition to new managers,
which it has already begun by transferring some
responsibilities. Oaktree will no longer pay Kaplan a direct
share of management fees, it said in a recent filing, instead
paying him fixed quarterly payments that represent about 75
percent of the amount he would otherwise have received.  In Blackstone’s IPO, co-founder  Peter G. Peterson  sold most
of his stake to fund his philanthropic efforts and his
foundation, and his partner,  Stephen Schwarzman , sold some
shares.  KKR (KKR)  has gained 37 percent since the New York firm listed
its shares in the U.S. in July 2010.  Henry Kravis  and  George
Roberts , the cousins who are KKR co-founders and managing
partners, have yet to sell stock in their New York-based firm,
according to KKR’s regulatory filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  