-- Obama Faces Latin Anger on U.S. Cuba, Drug Policies at Summit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/obama-faces-latin-anger-on-u-s-cuba-drug-policies-at-summit.html
President  Barack Obama  will be
under fire from Latin American leaders frustrated with the U.S.-
led war on drugs and attempts to isolate Cuba when he arrives
this week in Colombia for a regional summit.  Growing criticism of policies that have formed the backbone
of U.S. strategy toward the region for decades comes as
Washington’s influence in its backyard fades.  China  has ousted
the U.S. as the main trading partner in one South American
nation after another, and the State Department has warned of
inroads by Iran in nations aligned with Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez.  The Summit of the Americas began as a gathering of 34 heads
of state in 1994 to promote free trade. That goal has since
receded as Latin America has prospered and become more
assertive, meaning this weekend’s sixth edition in the Caribbean
city of Cartagena is likely to be marked by grandstanding of the
sort seen in 2009, when  Nicaragua ’s Daniel Ortega slammed
“Yankee troops” and Chavez gave Obama a book about the U.S.
“pillage” of the region’s resources.  “In the absence of an agenda, this has become a forum for
the lowest common denominator,”  Christopher Sabatini , senior
policy director of the Council of the Americas, said in a phone
interview from  New York . “The story becomes Ortega’s harangue
and Chavez’s book club. And people like that can’t pass up the
spotlight, so they’ll do it again.”  Trouble flared even before this year’s summit began, with
eight nations led by Chavez threatening a boycott over the
exclusion of Cuba, the region’s sole dictatorship. Diplomacy by
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos , who flew to Havana to 
meet with President  Raul Castro , managed to keep the event on 
track and only Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa  will now stay 
away.  OAS Rival  Still, even leaders friendlier to the U.S. have expressed
regret at Cuba’s absence, with Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff
telling Obama at the White House this week that this must be the
last regional event to exclude the communist state. In a sign of
the region’s growing independence, Cuba is a member while the
U.S. is excluded from the Community of Latin American and
Caribbean States, a regional body established in 2010 that
rivals the Washington-based Organization of American States.  While the U.S. “is often focused on trouble spots” in
other parts of the world, relations with  Latin America  run
“much deeper” because so many Americans trace their heritage
to the region, U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes 
said. Underscoring the Western Hemisphere’s economic importance
to the U.S., exports to the region grew 17 percent last year,
more than other parts of the world, Rhodes told reporters on a
conference call yesterday.  At the previous summit in Trinidad and Tobago in 2009,
Obama vowed to improve relations, saying “there are no senior
partners or junior partners, just equal partners.” Since then,
the global financial crisis and unrest in the Middle East has
diverted his attention from the region.  ‘Star Quality’  Still, he remains Latin Americans’ favorite leader, with a
rating of 6.3 out of 10 in a 2011 survey of regional political
trends by Santiago-based pollster  Latinobarometro . Rousseff came
in second, at 6.0, in the annual ranking with Chavez near the
bottom at 4.4. In 2009, Obama had a 7.0 percent rating.  Obama’s “star quality” hasn’t halted the U.S.’s decline
in the region, said  Michael Shifter , president of the Inter-
American Dialogue, a policy center in  Washington .  The U.S. share of foreign direct investment in Latin
America fell to 16 percent in 2010, from 32 percent a decade
earlier, while investment from  Asia  rose to 14 percent from 2
percent, according to the  United Nations ’ Economic Commission
for Latin America and the Caribbean.  While the  U.S. economy  stagnated in the wake of the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Latin America
recovered swiftly, spurred by Chinese demand for their iron ore,
copper and soy exports. The region will grow 3.6 percent this
year, twice the rate of the U.S., according to January forecasts
by the  International Monetary Fund .  Rethinking Drug War  Leaders also plan to use the meeting to rethink U.S.-
orchestrated policies that criminalize drug use and rely on
troops to fight regional drug traffickers.  Guatemalan President Otto Perez, a former military officer
trained in the U.S., has been leading a campaign to urge policy
alternatives such as decriminalization. Writing in London-based
newspaper The Observer this month he said drug prohibition
policies have failed and that Guatemalans no longer wish to be
“ dumb witnesses  to a global self-deceit.”  Santos and Mexican President Felipe Calderon, the region’s
two most-committed drug warriors, have also said they’re willing
to debate new tactics as violence reaches “alarming and
unprecedented levels” along cocaine transit routes to the U.S.,
according to UN report from February. In Mexico, more than
50,000 people have been killed since Calderon took office in
2006 vowing to confront the nation’s drug gangs.  Obama’s Agenda  Dan Restrepo, an Obama adviser for the region, said there
are “real differences of opinion” on the decriminalization of
drugs. While Obama doesn’t support decriminalization “we
welcome” the debate, he said, cautioning “there is no magic
bullet” to address the region’s security concerns.  On Cuba, Obama will insist that the government’s human
rights record and respect for democracy improve if it wants to
participate in future summits, Restrepo told reporters
yesterday. Obama will use his second trip to  South America  to
push for open markets that benefit American exports, he said.  Showcasing Colombia  Host  Colombia  provides a backdrop for Obama to showcase
some of the U.S.’s policy successes in the region. In October,
after working with the nation to strengthen protection for union
leaders, he got Congress to pass a stalled free-trade agreement,
as well as deals with  Panama  and South Korea.  Colombia is the biggest recipient of $13.1 billion in
American anti-drug aid to the region from 1990 to 2008, and the
country’s U.S.-backed crackdown on drug cartels has helped
reduce one of the world’s highest murder rates by 50 percent
since 2002.  “They’re the country we can rely on at a time when we’ve
got lots of other countries, most notably Venezuela, that seem
to want to go down the state capitalism, the more socialist
route, and meeting with our adversaries like  Iran ,” Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican who served as U.S. Trade
Representative at the time of the 2005 summit in Argentina, said
in an interview. “I think we need Colombia more than ever.”  Still, reflecting a broader regional trend, even Colombia
is taking distance from the U.S., said Shifter. As passage of
the U.S. trade agreement dragged on, Santos forged plans with
China to build a rail link between the Pacific and Caribbean to
compete with the once U.S.-managed Panama Canal. He’s also
seeking a trade deal with South Korea.  “Colombia’s still a close ally of the U.S., but it’s
moving on,” Shifter said. “Because of its politics and because
of its economic problems, the U.S. is less and less relevant to
Latin America’s agenda.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  