-- Obama Expands Web Lobbying for Buffett Tax Rule
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-04-12T21:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/obama-expands-web-lobbying-for-buffett-tax-rule-as-vote-nears.html
The Obama administration put a
“Buffett Rule” calculator on the White House website today to
pressure Congress to adopt tax law changes it said would ensure
millionaires pay their “fair share.”  President  Barack Obama  also planned to sit for interviews
with television stations from four states whose senators are
being courted by White House lobbying on the bill. It was the
third straight day that the president and his campaign
highlighted the issue.  The Buffett rule, named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , would require a minimum  tax rate  of 30 percent on
taxpayers with at least $2 million in adjusted gross income and
impose the increase on a sliding scale on incomes between $1
million and $2 million.  Tapping the influence of the Internet, the White House
website featured a “Buffett Rule Calculator” on its main page.
With a few keystrokes, the average taxpayer can find out “how
many millionaires pay a lower effective tax rate than you.”  Vice President  Joe Biden , campaigning in Exeter,  New
Hampshire , said that as the April 17 income tax deadline
approaches, citizens “ought to be able to know that everyone
one else is paying their fair share, as well.”  “But the truth is you know they’re not,” Biden said.
“The truth is when you pay those taxes you know not everyone is
paying their fair share.”  Mainstream and Social Media  Obama’s interviews were scheduled with stations in
Columbus, Ohio; Cedar Rapids, Iowa;  St. Louis , Missouri, and
Reno, Nevada. A vote in the Senate was scheduled next week.  The Chicago-based Obama campaign transmitted segments of
Biden’s speech on the social-network Twitter to reach a much
wider audience.  In one 20-minute period, the campaign sent six excerpts of
his speech, such as “Vice President Biden: ‘The Bush tax cuts
for the wealthy, the ones that were intended to expire --
Governor Romney wants to extend them.’”  Romney, co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, earned $21.6
million in 2010 and paid 13.9 percent of that in income taxes,
according to tax returns he released in January.  Republicans say that the rule, if passed, would amount to a
tax on small business, whose owners typically file as
individuals. White House spokesman  Jay Carney  has acknowledged
that the rule faces an uphill battle in the Senate.  Obama’s push today followed an event yesterday where four
millionaires joined Obama in the support for the rule and
augmented remarks by the president April 10 in the swing state
of  Florida .  Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  told reporters April 9
that tax fairness will a cornerstone of the president’s re-
election theme.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  