-- Oil-Sands Riches Sparking Alberta Election Spending Spree
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/oil-sands-riches-sparking-alberta-election-spending-spree.html
Alberta ’s political leaders are
promising to loosen the province’s purse strings as they woo
voters with oil-sands wealth and predictions of crude prices
rising to $108 a barrel.  Premier Alison Redford’s Progressive Conservatives, who
have held power for more than 40 years, say they’ll spend almost
C$4 billion ($4 billion) on 50 new schools, 140 medical clinics
and post-secondary education. The leading contender, the
Wildrose Alliance led by Danielle Smith, promises a C$300
“energy dividend” for each Albertan by 2015. Both parties say
they’ll pay for their pledges with growing oil sands royalties.  At stake is management of Canada’s third-largest economy,
where  more jobs  were created last year than in any other
province, and home to companies like Calgary-based  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU) , which spent almost C$7 billion in  capital spending  last
year, the most among Canadian firms.  Wildrose says it will hold government spending growth below
the rate of inflation and use surpluses to increase the
province’s royalty fund, called the  Heritage Fund , to C$200
billion by 2032 from about C$15 billion. The Conservatives
pledge to invest in infrastructure, education and health and
create budget surpluses.  Alberta is forecasting a return to surplus next year after
five years of deficits. While neither party is talking about
changes to taxes or royalties, whichever one wins will need to
reduce Alberta’s dependence on oil revenues, said Ron Kneebone,
professor of economics at the University of Calgary’s School of
Public Policy. That may mean higher taxes.  “Governments shouldn’t be budgeting based on oil prices,”
he said. “I don’t view either party as having a sensible
spending policy. Neither has said they will limit energy price
volatility in the budget -- and Alberta has a lot of that.”  Leaders’ Debate  The leaders of the major parties will hold a televised
debate tonight in  Edmonton , the provincial capital. Redford, 47,
is emphasizing fiscal management in her campaign. “Albertans
expect their government to treat their tax dollars with the same
care and respect they do,” she said in a statement on the
Conservative party’s  website . The election “is about making
sure we are providing the right services at the right time in
the right way.”  Smith says her party’s energy dividend will ease pressures
families are facing. “By giving Albertans a direct share in our
resource wealth, we are helping make life more affordable for
students and helping parents get a head start on their
children’s education,” she said in a statement on the party’s
 website .  Close in Polls  A Leger Marketing  poll  conducted April 5 - April 8 showed
Wildrose with 36 percent support among decided voters, followed
by the Conservatives with 34 percent, and the Liberals and new
Democrats with about 13 percent each. Leger didn’t report a
margin of error for the survey of 902 Albertans because it was
conducted online.  Alberta’s oil fortunes -- and risks -- contrast with the
economic situation in Ontario,  Canada ’s largest province, where
the government is slowing spending growth on health care,
seniors and education. Alberta, home to 3.7 million people,
relies on oil and gas revenue for almost 30 percent of its C$40-
billion annual budget.  The province, home to the world’s third-largest oil
reserves, will record a budget shortfall of C$886 million in the
fiscal year that began April 1 and return to surplus the
following year, Finance Minister Ron Liepert forecast in
February. The economy is projected to grow by 3.8 percent in
2012, compared with a 2 percent growth forecast by the  Bank of
Canada  for the country as a whole.  Oil Price  Liepert’s February budget was based on an average price for
the benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude of $99.25 a barrel
this year, rising to $106.25 in 2013-2014 and $108.25 by fiscal
2015. Every $1 increase in the price of oil adds C$223 million
to government coffers, the finance ministry estimates.  Wildrose, which shares its name with the provincial flower,
is budgeting C$2.5 billion less in oil revenue than the
government’s estimates through fiscal 2014, according to Heather
Hume, a spokeswoman for the party. That puts the average price
at less than $100 a barrel, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Crude for May delivery rose $1.68, or 1.5 percent, to
settle at $102.70 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday. Prices are up 3.9 percent this year.  The U.S. Department of Energy expects WTI crude to average
$105.75 next year, up from an average of $105.72 this year,
according to its Short-Term Energy Outlook published April 10.  Double Output  Oil-sands companies are undergoing an expansion that will
more than double output from the bitumen fields of northern
Alberta to 3.5 million barrels a day by 2025, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Imperial Oil (IMO) , the
second-largest oil producer in Canada by market value, is
spending C$8.9 billion to build its Kearl project, while  Cenovus
Energy Inc. (CVE)  will increase spending by 23 percent this year to
about C$3.4 billion.  The election marks the first time leaders of the two most
popular party are women. British Columbia and Newfoundland, on
opposite coasts, also have female leaders, as does the northern
territory of Nunavut.  The Progressive Conservatives came to power in 1971 under
then-leader Peter Lougheed. Since then, the party has overseen a
nine-fold increase in the size of the economy, while the
population has more than doubled. Redford is the fifth
Conservative premier in that time.  Wildrose, which claims both libertarian and social-
conservative political mantles, was formed in 2008 and held 4
seats in the 83-seat legislature when the election was called,
including two defectors from the Progressive  Conservative party .
The Conservatives had 66 seats, the Liberals held 8, the New
Democrats 2, the Alberta Party 1, there was one independent and
one vacancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at   or
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   or  dscanlan@bloomberg.net  