-- Oil Drops First Time in Three Days as China Growth Eases
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-13T07:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/oil-trades-near-week-high-on-central-bank-stimulus-signs.html
Oil dropped for the first time in
three days, erasing a weekly gain, after  China’s economy  grew at
the slowest pace in 11 quarters and  Saudi Arabia ’s oil minister
said the producer is determined to see lower prices.  Futures fell as much as 0.5 percent after government data
today showed  China ’s  gross domestic product  expanded 8.1 percent
from a year earlier in the first quarter, after an 8.9 percent
gain in the final three months of 2011. Industrial output rose
at a faster pace in March, while retail sales growth
accelerated. Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter,
is not happy with prices and is working toward its goal of
seeing levels drop, Ali al-Naimi said today.  “The GDP numbers were a negative surprise for growth-
related assets, particularly oil,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief
market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney,
said by telephone today. “The fall so far is really a neutral
situation on the China numbers because of the conflicting
signals between the backward looking GDP and the forward looking
industrial production.”  Crude for May delivery fell as much as 55 cents to $103.09
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $103.16 at 3 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract gained 0.9 percent yesterday to $103.64, the highest
close since April 3. Prices are down 0.2 percent for the week.  Brent oil for May settlement decreased 70 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $121.01 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices are down 2 percent this week, heading
for the fourth weekly decline in five. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
was at $17.82, compared with $18.07 yesterday. Front-month Brent
futures expire today.  Technical Resistance  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along its 50-day
moving average, around $104.22 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday traded above this
indicator for the first time this week, before settling below
it. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance
levels.  Gross domestic product in China was forecast to expand 8.4
percent, according to the median estimate of 41 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the report from the National Bureau
of Statistics. Industrial production increased 11.9 percent in
March from a year earlier, today’s statistics bureau report
showed. That compared with an 11.6 percent median estimate in
the Bloomberg News survey and an 11.4 percent gain in January
and February combined.  China, the world’s second-biggest consumer of oil, cut
daily crude processing by 3 percent in March from a month
earlier as refineries started maintenance, according to data
released by the National Bureau of Statistics today.  Monetary Stimulus  Oil prices rose yesterday after central bank officials in
the U.S. and  Japan  indicated they will use monetary policies to
stimulate their economies. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet
Yellen  and William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York , endorsed the view that borrowing costs will
stay near zero through 2014. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  “will pursue
powerful easing” to overcome deflation, according to Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa.  Saudi Arabia is working toward its goal of seeing prices
drop by highlighting there’s no shortage of supply, al-Naimi
said in a statement in  Seoul  today. Stockpiles held by consumer
nations are rising and the kingdom is producing 10 million
barrels a day, he said. That’s close to the fastest rate in at
least 31 years, official data shows.  “We are seeing a prolonged period of high  oil prices ,”
al-Naimi said. “We are not happy about it.” Fundamentally, the
oil market remains balanced and there is no lack of supply, he
said.  Oil may fall next week, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Sixteen of 33 analysts, or 49 percent, forecast prices will
decline through April 20. Last week, 57 percent of surveyed
analysts expected a decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  