-- Oil Fluctuates on U.S. Jobless Claims, Fuel Supply
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-04-12T19:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/oil-fluctuates-on-u-s-jobless-claims-fuel-supply.html
Oil climbed for a second day as
U.S. stocks gained and the dollar weakened against the euro on
speculation that central banks will stimulate economic growth
with supportive monetary policies.  Futures gained 0.9 percent after Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the view that borrowing costs are
likely to stay low through 2014 as the Fed misses its goal for
full employment and inflation remains in check. The  Bank of
Japan (8301)  will pursue “powerful easing” to overcome deflation,
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today.  “Stimulus plans may be on the table again and that’s
certainly supportive for commodities,” said  Tom Bentz , a
director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York. “We
are moving in tandem with stocks.”  Crude for May delivery rose 94 cents to settle at $103.64 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 4.9
percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement gained $1.53, or 1.3 percent,
to $121.71 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased as much as 1.4
percent. The dollar slipped as much as 0.8 percent against the
euro. A weaker dollar boosts the appeal of commodities as an
alternative investment to the U.S. currency.  The Fed last month affirmed a plan, first announced in
January, to hold  interest rates  near zero through late 2014 as
the economy may not be improving enough to change the outlook
for coming years.  ‘Accommodative’ Stance  “I consider a highly accommodative policy stance to be
appropriate in present circumstances,” Yellen said in a speech
in New York after U.S. financial markets closed yesterday. She
echoed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  by saying unemployment will
decline “only gradually.”  Oil prices fell earlier today after the Labor Department
reported more Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits . Jobless claims  increased  13,000 in the
week ended April 7 to 380,000, the highest level since Jan. 28,
the department said. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for 355,000.  In  Japan , Shirakawa said in Tokyo that defeating deflation
and achieving sustained growth are important tasks for the BOJ.
The central bank unexpectedly expanded bond purchases by 10
trillion yen on Feb. 14 and set an inflation goal of 1 percent.  Quantitative Easing  The U.S. central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in
bonds from December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds of purchases
in a tactic that has been dubbed quantitative easing. Fed policy
makers meet next on April 24 and April 25.  “People are starting to think that there is a greater
chance of a third round of quantitative easing,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester, Massachusetts. “QE3 will be supportive for the
energy market, especially assets like oil.”  William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, said today that he hasn’t “seen any set of
information that should suggest to me that we should change that
view” on keeping interest rates low. He spoke in Syracuse, New
York.  Crude also advanced today as the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index showed  consumer confidence  held last week near a four-year
high as more Americans said their finances were in better shape.
Euro-area  industrial production  also unexpectedly increased in
February, according to data from the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg.  Rising Supplies  Oil prices  fell 8 percent from Feb. 24 to April 10 amid
speculation that the Fed was holding off on increasing monetary
accommodation and on climbing U.S. inventories.  Markets are better supplied for the first time since 2009,
the  International Energy Agency  said in its monthly Oil Market
Report today. It cited “sluggish” global demand and a three-
year high in output from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  OPEC, in a monthly report also released today, boosted its
forecast for production from outside the group and described the
world market as “well-supplied.”  President  Barack Obama  discussed the “tightness’ in the
global oil market in a video conference with French President
Nicholas Sarkozy, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
today. The U.S. and its allies continue to monitor the economic
impact of energy costs, he said.  French Industry Minister Eric Besson said yesterday that
the country is ‘‘open’’ to the possibility of a release of oil
stockpiles by IEA member countries to keep prices in check.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 646,168
contracts as of 3:35 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 637,180
contracts yesterday, 1.4 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  