-- Tokyo Steel to Triple Output at New Plant, Eyes Auto Share
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-04-13T07:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/tokyo-steel-to-triple-new-plant-output-eyes-auto-market-share.html
Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co. (5423) ,
 Japan ’s biggest maker of the alloy from scrap iron, plans to
triple output at its newest plant as it seeks to eventually
compete with  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  in the auto industry market.  The Tahara city plant in central Japan is targeting
production of 1 million metric tons of hot-rolled coil in the
financial year ending March 2013 for sale in the domestic and
overseas markets, Director Kiyoshi Imamura said in an interview.
Output was about 350,000 tons in the previous year, the company
said in January.  “Conditions are now on our side,” Imamura said April 11
at the company’s Tokyo headquarters, referring to improved
operations at the Tahara plant and a recovery in demand. “The
chance has come for us to chase the target.”  The $2.2 billion plant is located close to a  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  factory and  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s Okazaki facility,
making it easier to ship metal sheets to the carmakers. Tokyo
Steel is seeking to widen its customer base to include auto and
electronics, which are controlled by Nippon, Japan’s largest
steelmaker, and  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) , as demand from builders wanes
amid a cutback in public works spending.  Nippon Steel spokesman Tsuyoshi Yoshizumi declined to
comment.  Tokyo Steel  shares  fell 2.7 percent to 678 yen at the close
in Tokyo. The stock has risen 8.3 percent this year.  The company’s first new factory in 14 years opened in 2009
in Tahara city and is located 4.2 kilometers (2.6 miles) from
the Toyota facility that produces Lexus models.  Test Samples  Tokyo Steel and other operators of electric-arc furnaces
use scrap from buildings and discarded cars and ships to produce
steel, mostly for construction purposes. High-grade steel used
in cars is typically made from  iron ore  and coking coal using
conventional blast-furnaces.  “Tokyo Steel and blast furnace steelmakers have competed
for decades” in construction steel, said  Yoku Ihara , an adviser
at Retela Crea Securities Co. in Tokyo. Tokyo Steel’s foray into
automotive steel will be “a threat” to traditional suppliers,
including Nippon Steel, he said.  The  steelmaker  has supplied samples of its new products to
“dozens” of companies to test whether the alloy can be used in
cars and consumer electronics, Imamura said, declining to
identify potential customers for reasons of confidentiality. It
will start shipping the alloy to  Southeast Asia  this quarter, he
said, without elaborating.  “Carmakers and consumer electronics makers are interested
in our products,” Imamura said. “But the facilities at the
Tahara plant are just completed and we have yet to know sales
volume for cars.”  Japan’s  Ricoh Co. (7752)   said  March 27 it will use steel sheets
made from scrap in new models of  office equipment  to be released
by March 2013. The alloy was jointly developed with Tokyo Steel.  Reduced Emissions  Producing steel from scrap cuts carbon-dioxide emissions by
about 75 percent, compared with making the alloy out of iron ore
and coal, Tokyo Steel said on its website.  The Tahara plant’s production will be ramped up to about
70,000 tons this month from slightly less than 50,000 tons a
month earlier, Imamura said.  The domestic market for construction steel has shrunk 34
percent over the five years through March 2011, according to
data from the Japan Iron and Steel Federation. Japan’s orders
for ordinary steel exports slid 4.6 percent in February,
compared with a year earlier, the smallest decline in six
months, according to data from the steel federation.  “In matured markets like Japan, the share of construction
steel is declining, but demand for steel sheets used in cars and
consumer electronics is increasing,” Imamura said.  Tokyo  Steel remains focused on the domestic market and will
increase exports to Asian countries when there’s demand, Imamura
said. The weakening of the yen from a record high in October has
helped to restore the competitiveness of Japanese companies
against overseas rivals, he said.  The yen, which climbed to a postwar high of 75.35 a dollar
on Oct. 31, traded at 80.92 yen to the dollar as of 4:07 p.m. in
Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  