-- Hong Kong Exchanges Said to Seek Loan for Potential LME Purchase
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-04-12T11:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/hong-kong-exchanges-said-to-seek-loan-for-potential-lme-purchase.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
is seeking an acquisition loan to back a possible bid for the
London Metal Exchange, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  The loan may be as much as $3 billion, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.  Hong Kong  Exchanges spokesman Scott Sapp declined to
comment on the potential financing package when contacted by
telephone at his office in Hong Kong today. The company owns and
operates the city’s stock exchange, futures exchange and their
related clearinghouses.  The London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest metals
trading platform, said on March 29 it is in the process of
answering questions from bidders, which must submit offers for
the 135-year-old bourse by May 7. The LME got preliminary bids
from CME Group Inc., NYSE Euronext and IntercontinentalExchange
Inc., three people with direct knowledge of the matter said in
February. Hong Kong Exchanges also bid, the  South China Morning
Post  reported at the time, citing two people it didn’t identify.  The LME handles more than 80 percent of global trade in
metals futures and reported record volume of $15.4 trillion last
year. It’s being advised by Moelis & Co. on the sale process.
LME may be valued at about $1.3 billion, according to Equity
Research Desk, a hedge-fund adviser in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The talks with potential lenders were reported by Reuters
earlier today.  Hong Kong Exchanges has been expanding its products and
forming international alliances as it enters the final year of
its three-year strategic plan and seeks to become a
comprehensive financial center for China.  An “urgent action” is required to build its businesses in
financial derivatives and commodities to meet its goal of being
a comprehensive financial center for  China , the bourse said in
its earnings statement on Feb. 29, when it reported a 1 percent
increase in its full-year net income.  “If it is the ultimate goal for Hong Kong Exchanges to
diversify its revenue sources, I’m sure they are trying their
best to bid for LME,” Kenneth Yue, an analyst at CCB
International Securities Ltd., said by telephone from Hong Kong
today. “Looking into metal exchanges will enhance its
revenues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  