-- Monster Jeep Burns Gas as It Takes on Porsche, BMW SUVs
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/monster-jeep-burns-gas-as-it-takes-on-porsche-bmw-suvs.html
Twelve miles per gallon. That’s all
the  Jeep Grand Cherokee  SRT8 4x4 gets around town. As a
privileged, high-horsepower SUV, this special edition seems
primed for a Hummer level of vilification.  Why is it that the stuff that’s most fun is also the worst
for us? By any rational measure, the Grand Cherokee SRT8 is
about as necessary as a single-pronged fork. But it’s also a
5,150-pound hunk of hurtling, bombastic fun.  I don’t think I could look a polar bear in the eye after
stepping out of the $54,470 Jeep ($61,785 as tested). I’d done
our environment wrong, repeatedly lighting up tires from stop
lights.  This juggernaut of American excess will break average
highway speed limits in 4.8 seconds. And you can find yourself a
quarter mile down the road in around 13 seconds from a standing
start if you never let up on the go pedal.  My reward for these transgressions? An average mpg of 13.4.
Geez, I really am a bad person, despite what my mom says.  By comparison, the regular, 4x4 Grand Cherokee with lots of
plush options costing around $40,000 is a moderate sipper. Its
3.6-liter V-6 gets 290 horsepower and yields 16 mpg in the city
and 23 on the highway.  Sporty Suspension  The SRT edition jettisons that V-6 for a 6.4-liter Hemi V-8
packing 470 horsepower and 465 pound-feet of torque. It also
gets an adaptive sport suspension and exterior tweaks.  The attention given to detail is evident everywhere, from
the feel of the steering wheel to the choice of the tires and
carbon-fiber trim in the interior. This is not the old, careless
Chrysler, eco-issues notwithstanding.  The real difference is the way it drives. This is a
different and rather magical machine.  It’s worth noting that the Jeep SRT8 is a low-volume, niche
product: Chrysler plans on making no more than 3,800 this year.
The new 2013  Dodge Dart  sedan, on the other hand, should get
around 40 mpg and, Chrysler hopes, will be a high-volume model
sold worldwide.  Officially, the tuning division has become a separate
entity, the SRT Brand, Chrysler Group LLC, including the Grand
Cherokee SRT8. The initials stand for Street and Racing
Technology. Like the rest of the company, SRT is in undergoing a
giddy resurgence with a stream of renewed products, including
SRT versions of the Dodge Charger, Challenger and Chrysler 300.  Test Drive  The division’s ultimate product is the new SRT Viper,
unveiled for the first time at the  New York International Auto
Show  during the first week of April. The two-door, flagship
sports car has been out of production for several years, and the
all-new design was the standout hit of the event. I’m already
salivating for an early test drive.  “It’s a good feeling,” said  Ralph Gilles , president and
CEO of SRT, shortly after the Viper’s unveiling. “The new
design is exactly where we want it.”  The Viper won’t go into production until late this year. In
the meantime, Gilles says the Grand Cherokee best represents the
SRT ethos. “It’s a go-anywhere, do-everything vehicle. It will
carry the family and sporting equipment. You can go to Home
Depot and drive it fast on mountain roads.”  Gilles says his division is concentrating on vehicles that
are lighter and better handling. “The horsepower race is
pointless. We want vehicles that dance, not wrestle,” he says.  Smooth Cornering  The Grand Cherokee actually delivers this promise. If you
pick a good line through a corner, it will follow it smoothly,
with very little body roll. (It does ride roughly on broken
pavement, though.)  There are other fast SUVs out there, notably the Porsche
Cayenne Turbo and  BMW X5 M . BMW is particularly good at making
heavy vehicles which are light on their feet. The Grand Cherokee
is the first time I’d seen European-worthy handling in a big
American-made SUV.  Considering the Grand Cherokee is normally championed for
its off-road ability, there are jarring details you wouldn’t
normally expect from an off-roader. Slick-looking Pirelli tires
replace rugged, knobby rubber. And driving modes include auto,
sport, tow, snow and track. Yes, track.  Now let’s be honest. The Grand Cherokee SRT8 is not going
to be prancing about at private race courses with Ferraris, so
the track setting is a misnomer. Rather it puts traction control
on its lowest setting, allowing for a bit of wheel slip and the
quickest starts.  Bellowing Boar  The truck rears back when you crunch on the gas, and
bellows like a boar as the Hemi winds up. The trip computer will
compute your best 0 to 60 mph time and quickest quarter mile.
Again, an unnecessary indulgence, but oh, so much fun.  The steering wheel, which is coated in sporty thin leather,
weights up nicely on long sweeping turns, and you can click
through gears -- all, um five of them -- with paddle shifters.
(Part of those gas mileage issues have to do with this
antiquated transmission. Chrysler is developing an automatic
eight speed.)  Braking on the behemoth is especially good.  Many drivers simply feel more secure in an SUV, a result of
the ride height and being wrapped in a heavy cocoon of metal.
And some of them want to be able to drive really, really fast.  Sometimes, it just feels oh-so-good to be so bad.  The 2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee SRT8 4x4 at a Glance  Engine: 6.4-liter Hemi V-8 with 470 horsepower and 465
pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Five-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.8 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 12 city; highway 18.  Price as tested: $61,785.  Best feature: Great interior, good handling.  Worst feature: Gurgle, slurp, gurgle.  Target buyer: The SUV driver who’s always late to work.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights:  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology ,
Farah Nayeri’s London  weekend , Jorg von Uthmann on  opera .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 