-- OPEC Pumps More Oil as Iraq Boost Offsets Iran Decline, IEA Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/opec-pumps-more-oil-as-iraq-boost-offsets-iran-decline-iea-says.html
OPEC’s crude oil production rose to
the most in more than three years in March as  Iraq  boosted
output and offset a decline in Iranian supply, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries pumped 31.43 million barrels a day of crude last
month, up from a revised 31.29 million in February, the Paris-
based IEA said in its monthly Oil Market Report. That exceeds
the group’s 30 million output ceiling set in December.  “Increased output by Iraq, Libya, Kuwait and the United
Arab Emirates more than offset declines in Iran, Angola and
Nigeria,” the IEA said. The advance counters “exceptionally
reduced non-OPEC supplies” in Sudan, Syria, Yemen, the North
Sea,  Canada  and  Australia , the agency said.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest  crude exporter ,
maintained production close to a three-decade peak at 10 million
barrels a day in March, unchanged from the previous month, the
agency said.  “The kingdom is well placed to meet incremental global
refiner demand from May onwards after April’s seasonal low in
throughputs,” the IEA said. “Output is expected to trend
higher over the next few months judging by customer nominations
and tanker loading forecasts.”  Iraqi production advanced by 220,000 barrels a day to 2.84
million barrels a day in March, the highest since May 2001, the
agency said. The nation’s exports may drop in April because of a
payment dispute between Iraqi authorities and the Kurdistan
Regional Government, and after the bombing of a pipeline to
Ceyhan,  Turkey , this month, the IEA said.  Production Plateau  Libyan  output  rose to 1.32 million barrels a day in March
compared with 1.29 million in February, according to the IEA’s
estimate. “Production levels have essentially reached a plateau
for now, with much needed maintenance and repair work planned
over the next several months,” the agency said.  OPEC’s “effective” spare capacity declined to an
estimated 2.54 million barrels a day in March from 2.75 million
the previous month. That figure excludes Iraq,  Nigeria , Libya
and Iran.  The group set its biggest-ever supply cuts at the end of
2008 when output from all members excluding Iraq was cut by 4.2
million barrels a day to 24.845 million. Most producers exceeded
quotas last year as they sought to take advantage of higher
prices and to make up for the lack of Libyan crude.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  