-- OPEC Crude Shipments Surge Most Since 2008, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-12T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/opec-crude-shipments-surge-most-since-2008-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will boost oil shipments this month by the
most since at least 2008 as Asian refiners build stockpiles,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC will export 24.32 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to April 28, an increase of 5.2 percent on the 23.12
million a day that was scheduled for shipment in the period to
March 31, the researcher said in an e-mailed report today. The
data exclude  Angola  and Ecuador.  “It’s unnaturally high for the time of year,” Roy Mason,
the company’s founder, said by telephone from Halifax in
 England . “It’s been driven by the east. It’s coming from the
Gulf and could be stock-building in advance of the completion of
refinery maintenance in the east.”  OPEC raised forecasts for supplies from outside the group
today, echoing an assessment by the  International Energy Agency 
that oil markets are adequately supplied. Brent crude futures
have climbed 12 percent this year, trading at $120 a barrel
today in  London , amid concern that a tougher embargo imposed on
 Iran  in the middle of this year will cut supply and stoke
political tension in the  Middle East .  Crude on board tankers will average 512.94 million barrels
in the four weeks, up 9.7 percent from the month to March 31,
Oil Movements said. That is the most since December 2000.  “The oil market is well-supplied,” OPEC’s Vienna-based
secretariat said in its monthly report. “High prices cannot be
justified by the current market fundamentals. Instead it is more
the impact of geopolitical factors and a perceived shortage of
oil, rather than evidence of any actual or impending shortfall,
that is keeping prices high.”  Exports from the Middle East, including non-OPEC members
Oman and Yemen, will rise 6.5 percent to 18.14 million barrels a
day in the four-week period, according to the report.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by tallying tanker-
rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on board ships
as floating storage.  OPEC’s members, which pump 40 percent of the world’s oil,
are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya,
Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and
Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  