-- Ormat Wins Geothermal Generation Deal in Kenya’s Rift Valley
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-12T14:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ormat-international-wins-power-contract-in-kenya-s-rift-valley.html
Ormat Technologies Inc.’s (ORA) 
international unit won a contract to build and operate the first
well-head generator at the Menengai geothermal field in  Kenya ,
which holds potential capacity of at least 1,600 megawatts.  The so-called modular power-generation unit, which will
provide 5 megawatts to 10 megawatts, will start operating by
August 2013 and the government will assume ownership after 15
years, said Silas Simiyu, managing director of Kenya’s state-run
Geothermal Development Co. The cost to set up the facility will
be about $10 million to $20 million, Simiyu said in an interview
today in Nairobi, the capital.  Kenya, Africa’s largest producer of geothermal power with
installed capacity of 212 megawatts, is trying to exploit steam
produced by hot underground rocks in the Great Rift Valley where
shifting tectonic plates provide a key source of the energy.
East  Africa ’s largest economy has set a goal of producing 5,000
megawatts of geothermal energy by 2030 and estimates it has the
ability to derive 10,000 megawatts.  Ormat Technologies is a Reno, Nevada-based maker of
geothermal  power plants  that operates a 48-megawatt project in
Olkaria, about 75 kilometers (47 miles) northwest of Nairobi.  Kenya is betting that its own investment of $380 million to
search for geothermal steam will pay off with commercially
viable discoveries and attract private-sector investors to
finance, build and manage power plants in the Rift Valley. It’s
also secured money from the African Development Bank,  World
Bank ,  European Investment Bank  and French Development Agency.  23 Megawatts Found  Geothermal Development Co.  has tapped 23 megawatts after
sinking five wells in the Menengai field, 180 kilometers
northwest of Nairobi, using two drilling rigs paid for by the
Kenyan government, Caleb Indiatsi, deputy manager of corporate
planning, told a conference in the city today. The French
Development Agency is funding the purchase of two more rigs due
to arrive next month, while the  African Development Bank  will
finance another two expected for delivery by May 2013, he said.  The first phase of development in Menengai envisions
building a 400-megawatt facility by 2016 that’s able to offset 2
million tons of carbon-dioxide emissions annually from energy
consumption and power 500,000 households, 300,000 small
businesses and provide 1,000 gigawatt-hours to industries.  More immediately, Kenya plans to acquire more well-head
generators to start producing electricity once steam fields are
ready as it awaits construction of full-fledged power plants,
which can take several years to put up, Simiyu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  