-- Morocco Approves Expansionary $40.8 Billion 2012 Budget
-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i
-- 2012-04-12T13:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/morocco-approves-expansionary-40-8-billion-2012-budget.html
Morocco’s parliament approved a
delayed budget that set spending at 346 billion dirham ($40.8
billion), and targeted a deficit of around 5 percent, as the
North African country looked to stave off unrest that has rocked
other Arab nations.  Revenue for 2012 was projected at 314.5 billion dirhams.
The government also looked to boost public sector jobs by 40
percent, a move aimed at easing disquiet in the country where
urban unemployment was at about 9 percent.  “That massive increase in public sector jobs is a bit
awkward,” Said Hirsh, Mideast economist with  Capital Economics ,
said in a telephone interview from  London  today. “Once they’re
in place, they would have to be supported further down the line.
That’s one thing that could be a burden in coming years.”  Hirsh said that economic growth was projected to slow to 2
to 3 percent, while inflation was seen as climbing - twin
developments that could add more pressure on the government.  The budget was based on an oil price of $100 a barrel, a
level that may be too conservative, he said, and could end up
costing the government more as it supports subsidies. The new
plan allocates 46.5 billion dirhams for government subsidies.  Public investments were set to rise to 188 billion dirhams
for the year from 167.3 billion dirhams in 2011.  ‘Fiscal Reforms’  “The budget is expansionary -- big increases in subsidies,
recruitments -- but no real effort has been put in fiscal
reforms,” said Zouhair Ait Benhamou, a Moroccan blogger who
closely watches the country’s economy and writes on the
“Moorish Wanderer” blog. “Tax loopholes have not been closed,
the moratorium on agricultural tax still benefits only a few
wealthy farmers and the income tax falls heavily on middle
classes.”  Coalition parties that won last November’s elections, led
by the Islamist Justice and Development party, raised taxes on
alcohol for the first time since 2010 by 12 percent for beer and
43 percent on other alcoholic beverages.  The budget establishes a new “solidarity tax” of 1.5
percent on profits of companies whose annual profits are 50 to
100 million - measures aimed at addressing the social
inequalities in the country.  Finance Minister Nizar Baraka said recently in parliament
that the new budget bill aims to boost domestic growth, promote
investment and boost social solidarity efforts. He said the
government wants to reduce the deficit to 3 percent from 5
percent by 2016.  Last year, the country’s budget deficit widened as it spent
heavily in an attempt to curtail economic challenges that helped
spark uprisings elsewhere in the Arab world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aida Alami in Cairo at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  