-- Most-Wired Generation Meets Greatest Generation in Census Frenzy
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-04-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/most-wired-generation-meets-greatest-generation-in-census-frenzy.html
Americans have downloaded 134
million document images from the 1940 census since individual
records were released April 2. That’s 2 million more images than
the number of Americans who were alive when the census was taken
72 years ago.  The decennial headcount, taken in the immediate aftermath
of the  Great Depression  and shortly before the U.S. entered
World War II, has been pure gold for genealogy buffs seeking to
flesh out information about their ancestors.  “It has universal appeal,” said Daniel Jones, vice
president of content strategy and acquisition for  Ancestry.com (ACOM) ,
an online family history provider. “It’s really on the cusp of
a historical period.”  The 1940 census numbers, available on the  National Archives 
website, include names, ages, race, family relationships,
education, birthplace, 1935 residence, employment and income.
The information, the largest collection of data about
individuals ever released by the Census Bureau, was suppressed
for 72 years for privacy reasons.  About 21 million people who were counted in the 1940 tally,
or one in 15 Americans, are still alive. The  website  is
receiving about 40 million hits per day, said Susan Cooper, a
spokeswoman for the  National Archives .  Tracking Down  Tracking down people from the 1940 census, alive or dead,
takes some perseverance. The records aren’t searchable by name.
They consist of scanned images of handwritten documents, meaning
the individual information has to be obtained by browsing
through geographic locations, then through pages of records,
some of which were written by enumerators with dubious
penmanship.  Provo, Utah-based Ancestry.com, which has 1.7 million
paying subscribers, began preparing to digitize the records
about two years ago, Jones said. The website has 8 billion
genealogical records online, including data from every decennial
census dating to 1790, when the first headcount was taken.  The company has joined with the Minnesota Population Center
to transcribe approximately 7.8 billion keystrokes from the 1940
data. Researchers at the center, operated by the  University of
Minnesota , hope to link mortality and demographic data to the
more than seven-decade-old headcount to study the impact of
earnings, education and family on health.  ‘Massively Important’  “This is a massively important building block,” Jones
said.  The project is expected to be duplicated by a joint venture
involving the National Archives; FamilySearch, a free online
genealogy service provided by the Church of  Jesus Christ  of
Latter-Day Saints; and Archives.com, a website owned by
Inflection, a privately held company based in  Redwood City ,
 California . The organizations are attempting to get 300,000
volunteers to enter the data manually.  FamilySearch says about 113,000 volunteers have already
indexed 12.3 million names, spurred by contests to win an Amazon
Kindle Fire or Apple iPad. The volunteers have completed 75
percent or more of the records for four states, and 1940 records
for the entire state of  Delaware  are available.  The 134 million census document images downloaded from the
National Archives’ website represent only part of the online
activity surrounding the release of individual census records.  Cooper, the archives spokeswoman, said the archives have
delivered more than 100 terabytes of 1940 census data since
April 2. One terabyte is 1 trillion bytes, or enough to store
almost half the data collected by the U.S. Library of Congress.  The Archives aren’t the only government site receiving
traffic. Robert Bernstein, a spokesman for the U.S. Census
Bureau, said the agency’s website on the 1940 count has received
1.2 million hits and accounted for 11 percent of all page views
on the census.gov website. The release increased the Census
Bureau’s web traffic by 60 percent during the week of April 2,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in New York at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in Washington at  mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  