-- Emerging Market Stocks Advance on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-12T22:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/most-emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-policy-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks jumped the
most in two weeks on prospects central bankers from the U.S. and
 Japan  will loosen monetary policy to bolster their economies,
stimulating global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.9 percent to
1,024.90 at the close in New York, headed for the biggest gain
since March 30. Materials producers jumped the most in almost
three months, following commodities higher.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s
largest iron ore producer, gained the most since July 20, 2010,
spurring the  Bovespa (IBOV) ’s best advance since March 13.  Chinese
stocks (SHCOMP)  jumped the most in two months in Shanghai.  Central bankers from the U.S. and Japan indicated they may
act to support growth a day after a European Central Bank
executive board member triggered speculation the bank will
provide support to  Spain . Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the view that borrowing costs are likely to stay
low through 2014 while Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said it’s “still too soon to conclude that we are out of
the woods.”  The comments “remind the market of the scope for policy
stimulus,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said by phone. “There is
speculation of policy stimulus, the ECB doing a bit more in
particular. And there were some dovish comments from Japan as
well.”  Commodities Climb  Emerging-market stocks have  gained  12 percent this year,
 beating  the 8.6 percent advance in developed-country shares.
Emerging stocks trade for 10.5 times estimated earnings, lower
than the 12.5-times ratio for developed-nation equities on the
MSCI World Index.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
increased 1.2 percent as nickel and zinc led gains.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 2.6 percent to $42.81 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 7 percent to 27.23.  The Bovespa advanced 2.9 percent as  Vale  jumped 6.1
percent. Retailer  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar  climbed 4.9 percent, the most in a month, after saying
net sales rose 12 percent in the first quarter from last year.  Ricardo Salinas  Voting shares of  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA ,
 Brazil ’s second-largest steelmaker, plunged 5.3 percent, as
Brazil’s antitrust regulator barred rival Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA from buying more shares in Usinas Siderurgicas.  Grupo Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*) , the retail and banking firm controlled by
billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , dropped 18 percent, the most since
October 1997, after stock market rule changes threatened its
position on  Mexico ’s benchmark IPC index.  The gauge of Mexican equities gained 0.5 percent, advancing
for a second day.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  added 0.5 percent, as
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest resources company, rose
2.3 percent.   India ’s Sensex climbed 0.8 percent, the most since March
30, amid speculation that factory output data will prompt the
central bank to reduce lenders’ reserve ratios or interest rates
next week to boost economic growth.  Rocket Launch  India’s statistics office reported today that  factory
output  grew 4.1 percent in February, missing the 6.7 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  South Korean  equities  fell 0.4 percent amid concern its
northern neighbor will conduct a rocket launch in the coming
days.  North Korea  has begun fueling for a launch of a rocket to
put a satellite in orbit sometime between April 12 and 16,  South
Korea ’s Yonhap News agency reported on April 11, citing space
agency official Paek Chang Ho as telling a group of foreign
journalists in the capital of Pyongyang. An intelligence report  The  Shanghai  Composite Index rallied 1.8 percent before
data tomorrow that may show  China’s economy  grew 8.4 percent in
the first quarter, the slowest pace since 2009, according to the
median of economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect the batch of heavyweight activity data due on
13 April to remain perplexing in appearance, but weakening in
nature,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-markets strategy at
Societe Generale SA in London, said in a note to clients, in
which he forecast Chinese growth of 8.1 percent. “In light of
the data, the authorities are likely to continue to respond with
cautious and selective easing.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 353, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  