-- Pennsylvania State Judge Delays State Oil Exploration Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-12T00:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/pennsylvania-state-judge-delays-state-oil-exploration-law.html
A  Pennsylvania  judge delayed for
120 days a new state law shifting control of oil and gas
exploration sites, saying localities needed time to adjust to
the change.  The measure, signed by Governor Tom Corbett on Feb. 14,
shifted control of oil and gas exploration sites to the state
from municipalities. It was part of the so-called Marcellus
Shale bill, named after a geologic formation believed to hold
more natural gas than that of any other state. The law was to
have taken effect on April 14.  Judge Keith Quigley of the Commonwealth Court of
Pennsylvania today blocked implementation of parts of the law, a
ruling sought by six townships, a borough and an environmental
advocacy group, the  Delaware Riverkeeper Network .  “Preexisting ordinances must remain in effect,” Quigley
said in a decision finding that the state’s municipalities
hadn’t been afforded enough time to pass appropriate zoning
laws.  Other parts of the new law will take effect, meaning the
oil and gas industry may continue to develop sites, said
Quigley.  When signing the legislation, Corbett said it was the first
comprehensive rewrite of Pennsylvania’s oil and gas laws since
1984. The new measures increase by 200 feet well set-back
distances from bodies of water and enhance rules for hydraulic
fracturing disclosure.  Eric Shirk, a spokesman for the governor, said the state is
reviewing the judge’s ruling.  The judge ’’granted the exact relief that we sought,’’  John
Smith , a lawyer for two municipalities, said in a telephone
interview. Without the ruling, some municipalities might have
had no applicable zoning laws in effect, said Smith, a partner
in Southpointe, Pennsylvania-based Smith Butz.  Maya Van Rossum, an official with the Delaware Riverkeeper
Network, called Quigley’s decision “very positive.” Without
today’s injunction, municipal controls would have been “ripped
away” by the new law in three days, she said in a telephone
interview.  “It sends a strong message that municipalities need to be
treated fairly in this process,” she said.  The case is Robinson Township v.  Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania , 284 M.D. 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  