-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate as Stabilized GDP Anchors CPI Outlook
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-04-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-for-11th-month-as-stimulus-boosts-economy.html
Peruvian policy makers kept
borrowing costs unchanged yesterday for an 11th month as the
government’s fiscal stimulus and rising business confidence
bolster the economic outlook.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching
the forecasts of all 10 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The decision to keep rates unchanged is due to the fact
“the deviation in inflation has reflected temporary supply
factors,” and “the pace of economic growth is close to
potential,” the bank said in a  statement posted  on its website.
“At the same time, inflation expectations for the year are
anchored within the target range.”  South America ’s sixth-largest economy will expand faster
than expected this year as public investment soars and stronger
U.S. growth boosts the outlook for exports in the third-biggest
copper-producing nation, the bank said in a March 23 report.  “Activity indicators show economic growth has stabilized
around a level that’s sustainable in the long term,” policy
makers said in their statement.  Rate Horizon, Investment  The central bank will probably keep rates on hold for the
rest of this year on concern that Europe’s debt crisis may choke
the U.S. recovery, even as  Peru ’s inflation remains above
target, said  Hugo Perea , the chief economist at  BBVA Banco
Continental .  “There is support from private investment and public
investment is better than expected,” Perea said by phone from
Lima. “The  Europe  problem has been contained, but it’s still
there.”  Peru’s government is implementing economic stimulus
measures worth almost 2 percent of gross domestic product to
offset slower global growth, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla
said March 21.  President  Ollanta Humala ’s administration will also seek
private investors to participate in $10.4 billion of
infrastructure projects to be started this year and next, he
said.  Public infrastructure spending, which shrank 18 percent in
2011, jumped a record 41 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the  finance ministry  said April 9.  Growth, Inflation  GDP may expand 6 percent this year if an increase in
business sentiment to a one-year high in February leads to
stronger private investment, Castilla told Congress April 10.  Cement demand rose almost 20 percent in March, indicating
construction activity is recovering, he said.  Policy makers in their quarterly inflation report published
March 23 increased their GDP forecast to 5.7 percent from 5.5
percent previously. GDP rose 6.9 percent in 2011.  The report also forecast a 2 percent to 3 percent increase
in consumer prices this year before moderating to 1.5 percent to
2.5 percent in 2013.  The central bank, which targets annual inflation of 1
percent to 3 percent, had said Feb. 9 that the pace of price
increases would ease to 2 percent in 2012.  In March, prices climbed 0.77 percent from February and 4.2
percent from than a year earlier on higher fuel and food prices,
the national statistics agency said April 1.  Policy View, China  “The impact of rising international fuel prices and
domestic supply shocks will be reversed “with greater intensity
around the middle of the year,” policy makes said.  The yield on the country’s May 2015 sol-denominated bond
has risen 22 basis points to 4.33 percent since central bank’s
March 23 report prompted investors to rule out an expected cut
in borrowing costs.  The Peruvian sol has gained 1.4 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  this year. The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to
2.6590 at the close of trading yesterday, according to Deutsche
Bank’s local unit.  Still, a slowdown in exports is a sign that slower Chinese
growth could hurt Peru’s $176 billion economy, said Juan Varilias, president of exporter group Adex.  Copper, zinc and lead shipments fell in February amid
concern demand may ease in  China , Peru’s top export market, he
said in an April 10 e-mailed statement. Metals account for about
two-thirds of Peru’s exports.  Exports rose at an annual rate of 9.7 percent in February
after surging 31 percent in January, the national statistics
agency said April 10. Import growth almost halved to 12 percent
from 22 percent.  “Lowering the rate now would be a very aggressive move by
the bank given the pace of domestic demand,” said  Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in  New York . “If
we head into a phase with a much weaker global economy, then the
central bank’s next move would be a cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  