-- Pharmacy Graduate Gets 17 1/2 Years for Aid to Al-Qaeda
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-12T21:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/pharmacy-graduate-gets-17-1-2-years-for-aid-to-al-qaeda-1-.html
Tarek Mehanna, a  Massachusetts 
pharmacy-school graduate convicted of conspiring to give
material support to al-Qaeda, was sentenced to 17 1/2 years in
prison today after calling a prosecutor a liar in court.  U.S. District Judge George O’Toole imposed the sentence in
Boston, where Mehanna was convicted by a jury in December.
Prosecutors said he translated terrorist materials from Arabic
into English, including a manual titled “39 Ways to Serve and
Participate in Jihad.”  “I am frankly concerned by the defendant’s apparent lack
of remorse,” the judge said. “His position in this respect as
we have seen this morning has a quality of defiance.”  Mehanna, 29, was also convicted of making false statements,
providing material support to a terrorist organization and
conspiring to kill in a foreign country. U.S. prosecutors asked
for a 25-year prison sentence.  Prosecutors said Mehanna traveled to  Yemen  in 2004 to seek
training as a terrorist in order to kill American soldiers.
After failing to get the training, they said, he edited and
translated recruitment materials for al-Qaeda, the organization
that planned the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in  New York  and
 Washington .  After Assistant U.S. Attorney Aloke Chakravarty told the
judge that Mehanna’s claim that the government sent an
undercover agent to entrap him was untrue, Mehanna shouted,
“You’re a liar. Sit down.”  Talk to Court  In an address to the court, Mehanna became increasingly
angry. He showed a photo of a 14-year-old girl he said had been
raped and killed by U.S. soldiers and asserted that they were
the terrorists.  Mehanna’s attorneys said in court filings that “no harm
occurred to a single individual” as a result of his actions.
“Espousing unpopular political views, even the views of al-
Qaeda, is not illegal,” they said.  J.W. Carney, a lawyer for Mehanna, told reporters after the
hearing that he will file an appeal next week and argued that
the prosecutors’ references to the Sept. 11 attacks prejudiced
the jury. He also said that an unidentified female juror, whom
the judge wouldn’t allow to comment during the hearing, wanted
to speak out against a lengthy sentence.  Maximum Sentence  Mehanna’s lawyers asked for a maximum sentence of 6 1/2
years, saying in a court filing that it would “promote respect
for the law, provide just punishment, afford adequate deterrence
and protect the public.”  U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz told reporters, “We’re
disappointed it wasn’t longer. He came across as an angry
defiant young man.”  Mehanna has been held in solitary confinement for more than
two years. He probably will serve his sentence under the
“severe” conditions of a so-called Supermax prison, his
lawyers said in court papers.  The judge also sentenced Mehanna to seven years of
supervision after his release from prison. He said he rejected
federal guidelines that called for life in prison because
Mehanna had no prior criminal record and hadn’t engaged in
specific terrorist acts.  Mehanna, who lived in Sudbury, Massachusetts, with his
family, earned a doctorate from the Massachusetts College of
Pharmacy and Health Science. He was hired to set up a
pharmaceutical division for diabetes at a medical center in
 Saudi Arabia , according to court filings. His father, Ahmed,
emigrated from  Egypt  in 1981 and is a professor at the college.
As a teenager Tarek Mehanna played guitar in a grunge  rock band ,
according to court papers.  “The evidence showed the defendant to be a serious young
man interested in how he would form his life to please God,”
the judge said today. “He became, however, consumed with a
religious enthusiasm that was at once partly admirable and
partly horrifying. As to the events in this case, the horrifying
part came to dominate.”  The case is U.S. v. Mehanna, 09-10017, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in  Boston  at  jmlawrence@mac.com ;
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 