-- Philippine Peso Gains as Exports Increase More Than Forecast
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-12T08:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/philippine-peso-gains-as-exports-increase-more-than-forecast.html
The Philippine peso strengthened
for a second day as the government reported exports rose more
than forecast in February. Bonds advanced.  Overseas shipments jumped 14.6 percent from a year earlier
to $4.43 billion, compared with a 3 percent gain in January,
official data showed today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists was for a 1.7 percent increase.
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central
bank’s “highly accommodative” policy, which has helped free up
funds for investment in emerging-market assets.  “The scale of the rebound in exports caught the market by
surprise,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in
 Singapore . “The Fed might keep an easing bias longer than
expected. That’s why Asian currencies are higher.”  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent to 42.715 per dollar at
the close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency touched 42.625 today, the strongest level since April 3.
One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was steady at 5.70 percent.  “Over the next several years, I anticipate that we will
fall far short in achieving our maximum employment objective,
and I expect inflation to remain at or below” the Fed’s 2
percent target, Yellen said yesterday in a speech in  New York .
The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  last month
maintained its view that  interest rates  are likely to stay low
through at least late 2014.  The yield on the Philippines’ 15 percent bonds due March
2022 declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
5.77 percent, according to noon fixing prices from the
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 