-- Plosser Sees Need for Fed to Be Clearer About Policy Shifts
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-04-12T20:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/plosser-says-fed-should-be-clearer-on-reasons-for-policy-shifts.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the Fed can promote
its credibility and independence by being clearer about how it
adjusts policy according to changes in the economy.  The Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  has sought for years to
improve transparency, most recently in January by setting an
inflation goal of 2 percent and publishing the interest rate
projections for participants on the policy-making panel.  “The steps taken in January are important steps forward
for the FOMC, but more can and should be done,” said Plosser, a
member of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s working group on
communications.  Policy makers last month repeated their outlook for an
“exceptionally low” federal funds rate through late 2014. At
an April 24-25 meeting FOMC participants plan to update their
forecasts for inflation, employment and growth.  “The committee’s description of how policy will be
conducted is not entirely clear,” Plosser said. The Fed should
aim to follow a “systematic” policy rule whereby changes in
the economy prompt predictable responses by the central bank.  “The better the public and the markets understand how
policy is likely to be adjusted as the economy changes, the more
predictable policy becomes, Plosser said to the National
Economists Club in  Washington . Transparency promotes  price
stability  and better economic outcomes, he said.  Pushing Down Unemployment  Plosser, who didn’t comment extensively on the Fed’s policy
stance, said the economy will probably expand 3 percent this
year, with growth gradually pushing down the unemployment rate.  Under such conditions, he said, further bond purchases by
the central bank wouldn’t have “a lot of coherence” with past
 Fed actions . The central bank launched a second round of
quantitative easing in November 2010 at a time when the
unemployment rate was 10 percent and the personal consumption
expenditures price index was 1.2 percent.  The gauge rose 2.3 percent for the 12 months ended in
February. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent in March
from 8.3 percent in February.  The Philadelphia Fed chief said FOMC participants probably
aren’t ready to adopt a policy rule. Still, they could probably
agree on which economic variables merit the largest policy
response, he said. For example, policy could react aggressively
to deviations in inflation, and less so to deviations in output
based on estimates of potential.  The FOMC could also improve communications by publishing a
quarterly monetary policy report, said Plosser, a non-voting
member of the committee this year.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , and New York Fed President
 William Dudley  this week endorsed the central bank’s view that
borrowing costs are likely to stay low through late 2014 as the
Fed misses its goal for full employment and inflation remains in
check. Yellen and Dudley have voting power on the FOMC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  