-- Public TV Political Ad Ban Unconstitutional, Court Rules
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-12T23:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/public-tv-political-ad-ban-unconstitutional-court-rules.html
A law saying public television
stations can’t air political or public-issue ads is
unconstitutional, a federal appeals court in  California  said.  A three-judge panel of the San Francisco-based court ruled
today in a lawsuit brought by Minority Television Project Inc.,
a California nonprofit that operates  San Francisco  Bay area
public television station  KMTP . The station was fined by the
Federal Communications Commission for violating the ban on
public stations’ airing of paid ads from corporations.  The station sued the FCC claiming the ban on ads violated
its right to free speech. Public TV and radio stations have been
barred from airing ads for or against political candidates, ads
expressing views on topics of public interest, and ads for
products placed by for-profit companies.  The appeals panel decided on a 2-1 vote that the government
had no evidence to support its claim that allowing the stations
to air public issue and political ads would harm their
educational mission.  “If there truly is evidence that broadcast of public issue
and political advertisements would cause substantial harm --
that their broadcast would change program content as directly
and substantially as would for-profits’ advertising -- Congress
could compile a record to show as much and perhaps pass a law
restricting such speech,” the panel said.  The court upheld the ban on product ads from for-profit
entities.  The FCC referred a request for comment on the ruling to the
 Justice Department . The agency is reviewing the decision and had
no immediate comment, said spokesman  Charles Miller  in an e-
mail.  There was no answer at KMTP’s office in  Palo Alto ,
California.  The case is Minority Television Project Inc. v. FCC,
09-17311,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  