-- QNB Talks to Buy Dexia’s Denizbank Stall Over Price
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-12T17:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/qnb-talks-to-buy-dexia-s-denizbank-stall-over-price.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) ’s talks to
acquire  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , the Turkish lender put up for sale by
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , remain stalled over price as other potential buyers,
including Russia’s OAO Sberbank, express renewed interest,
according to three people familiar with the situation.  QNB is still seeking a price close to Denizbank’s book
value, which stood at about $2.5 billion at the end of last
year, while Dexia is seeking more than 1.5 times book value, two
of the people said, declining to be identified as the talks are
private. Dexia is in discussions with buyers who had earlier
considered bidding for Denizbank, the people added, including
Sberbank, whose deputy chief executive officer said yesterday
that his bank was looking seriously at a potential deal.  Assets on sale by European financial institutions are
beginning to find buyers as the region’s sovereign debt crisis
recedes and the  European Central Bank  injects more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system, easing
liquidity concerns. Earlier this week,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) ,
 Greece ’s second-biggest lender, agreed to sell its Turkish unit
for $357 million to Kuwait’s  Burgan Bank SAK (BURG) , following Banco
Santander SA’s February deal to create Poland’s third-largest
lender by buying KBC Groep NV’s Kredyt Bank unit.  Dexia, based in Paris and Brussels, put Denizbank up for
sale as part of a rescue plan imposed by the French and Belgian
governments when the debt crisis eroded its ability to obtain
funding. The sale came amid decisions by lenders including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and France’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to shed more
than $1 trillion in assets, loan portfolios and entire units to
raise cash, according to Bloomberg data, creating a surge in
available banking assets.  The sale of Denizbank, which is listed on the Istanbul
bourse with a market value of 11.5 million liras ($6.4 billion),
last year attracted interest from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Sberbank, in addition to QNB. The British and Russian banks
dropped out of the process over price disagreements, leaving the
state-backed Qatari lender as the only credible bidder. Italy’s
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  said last month that it would consider a bid for
Denizbank if talks with QNB fail to reach a deal.  Spokesmen for Dexia and QNB declined to comment on the
Denizbank process.  Denizbank shares have surged more than 90 percent since
October, following the first reports Dexia would sell its
majority stake under its rescue plan, which included putting its
most troubled assets into a so-called bad bank and selling
profitable units to raise cash. The Turkish lender’s shares rose
2.6 percent today to close at 15.90 liras in Istanbul.  The European Banking Authority told the region’s banks to
raise 114.7 billion euros ($151 billion) in fresh capital in
December to respond to the fall in the value of securities
issued by euro-area governments. The agency also required banks
to keep a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent and hold
additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, to protect
against default on debt tied to weaker euro-area economies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  