-- Trade Gap in U.S. Probably Shrank on Fewer Imports
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-shrank-in-february-on-fewer-imports.html
The trade deficit in the U.S.
probably retreated in February as imports cooled from a record,
economists said before a report today.  The gap shrank to $51.8 billion from $52.6 billion in
January, according to the median of 73 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey . It would be the largest back-to-back readings since
late 2008. Other reports may show wholesale prices climbed at a
slower pace and claims for jobless benefits were little changed.  Demand for foreign-made goods may remain elevated this year
as an improved labor market underpins consumer spending. At the
same time, sales overseas by American companies may moderate as
parts of Europe stagnate and  China  slows, a sign international
commerce will fail to be a source of strength for the world’s
largest economy.  “It doesn’t look like trade is going to be a big plus to
growth this year,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gaps of $46.5 billion to $54.1 billion. January’s shortfall
was the biggest since October 2008.  The  U.S. economy  picked up heading into 2012 as the euro
area faces a potential recession and China restrains its economy
to stem inflation. The U.S. expanded at a 3 percent annual rate
in the fourth quarter after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior
three months.  Growth in China  The Chinese economy grew 8.9 percent in the last three
months of 2011 from the same period a year ealier, the slowest
pace for 10 quarters. The government last month lowered this
year’s economic growth target to 7.5 percent, after keeping the
goal at 8 percent over the past seven years.  The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, according to the European Commission, which projects
contractions in  Italy ,  Spain ,  Belgium ,  Greece , Cyprus, the
Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia. By contrast,  Germany ’s
economy is forecast to expand 0.6 percent.  “With the U.S. holding up better than the rest of the
world,” exports are expected to slow this year, Gault said.
“It’s a consequence of the U.S. economy performing better than
others.”  Signs the American economy is improving have helped boost
shares. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 8.8 percent
so far this year through yesterday.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “Our business continues to be impacted by the challenging
global economic environment,”  Blake Jorgensen , chief financial
officer of Levi Strauss & Co., said in an April 10 conference
call with analysts. “All of  Europe  is in an economic doldrums
in many ways. As you probably saw with China and  India  during
the quarter, we’ve seen some slowing of the rapid growth there,
and we’re seeing that show up as well in some of the consumer
spending patterns of our consumer base in our stores.”  Revenue at Levi Strauss grew in the Americas and Asia
Pacific region, while declining in Europe, he said.  A rise in oil costs in March is one reason why economists
say imports probably rebounded last month from the February
lull. A barrel of crude on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
averaged $106.20 in March, compared with $102.26 the previous
month. The cost retreated to $101.02 on April 10.  The  U.S. dollar  has  declined  1 percent this year through
last week against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners. The decrease makes American
goods less expensive to foreign buyers, helping to offset a
slowdown in demand.  Another report today may show applications for jobless
benefits fell to a four-year low last week. Claims dropped to
355,000 from 357,000 the previous week, economists said ahead of
Labor Department figures due at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  A report at the same time may show wholesale prices rose
0.3 percent in March, compared with a 0.4 percent increase the
previous month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  