-- Trade Gap in U.S. Narrows More Than Forecast as Imports Drop
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-12T12:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/trade-gap-in-u-s-narrows-more-than-forecast-as-imports-drop-1-.html
The trade deficit in the U.S.
narrowed more than forecast in February as imports fell by the
most in three years, reflecting the smallest amount of crude oil
purchases in 15 years and a drop-off in demand for Chinese goods.  The  gap  shrank 12 percent to $46 billion, the smallest since
October, from a revised $52.5 billion in January, the Commerce
Department in  Washington  said today. The median estimate of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a deficit of
$51.8 billion in February. Purchases of foreign goods decreased
by 2.7 percent, the biggest decline since February 2009. Exports
barely rose to reach a record.  The Chinese Lunar New Year holiday may have contributed to
the slump in imports, indicating demand will probably rebound as
a strengthening U.S. labor market bolsters consumer spending. At
the same time, sales overseas by American companies may moderate
as parts of Europe stagnate and China slows, a sign international
commerce will be less of a source of strength for the world’s
largest economy.  “As domestic demand begins to gain some momentum you should
start to see imports pick up,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist
at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It appears that
the drop in imports was reflective of the Chinese New Year. We’ve
assumed slower export growth based on global growth slowing in
2012.” At the same time, he said, “it doesn’t appear that
exports are likely to be a significant drag on the U.S.
economy.”  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week and producer prices were little
changed in March, figures from the Labor Department as showed
today. Jobless claims increased 13,000 in the week ended April 7
to 380,000, the highest since Jan. 28.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures trimmed earlier gains as investors were
disappointed by the jump in jobless claims. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June rose 0.1 percent to
1,365.5 at 8:55 a.m. in  New York , after having been up as much as
0.6 percent.  The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey called for the
trade deficit to narrow from a previously estimated $52.6 billion
in January. Projections ranged from $46.5 billion to $54.1
billion.  The value of imports in February declined to $227.2 billion,
the fewest since November. In addition to petroleum, Americans
also bought fewer  consumer goods , like toys and clothing, and
automobiles and parts from overseas.  Oil imports in February were valued at $23.4 billion, down
from $28.1 billion the previous month. The number of barrels of
imported crude dropped to 225.7 million last month, the fewest
since February 1997.  Gap With China  The February  trade gap  with  China  narrowed to $19.4 billion,
the smallest since March 2011, from $26 billion as imports
plunged 18 percent, today’s report showed. The week-long Lunar
New Year holiday, which extended into early February, may have
limited demand from the Asian nation.  Total exports increased 0.1 percent to $181.2 billion,
boosted by sales of capital equipment, like commercial aircraft
and industrial machines to buyers overseas.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit shrank to $44.1 billion, the smallest since April 2011.  The smaller-than-forecast gap may prompt some economists to
boost forecasts for growth in the first quarter.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 3 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter after growing at a 1.8 percent pace in
the prior three months, Commerce Department figures showed on
March 29. The trade gap subtracted 0.26 percentage point from GDP
in the final three months of 2011, after adding 0.43 points in
the prior quarter.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “Our business continues to be impacted by the challenging
global economic environment,”  Blake Jorgensen , chief financial
officer of Levi Strauss & Co., said in an April 10 conference
call with analysts. “All of  Europe  is in an economic doldrums in
many ways. As you probably saw with China and  India  during the
quarter, we’ve seen some slowing of the rapid growth there, and
we’re seeing that show up as well in some of the consumer
spending patterns of our consumer base in our stores.”  Revenue at Levi Strauss grew in the Americas and Asia
Pacific region, while declining in Europe, he said.  The  U.S. dollar  has declined 1 percent this year through
last week against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners. The decrease makes American
goods less expensive to foreign buyers, helping to offset any
slowdown in demand.  The  U.S. economy  picked up heading into 2012 as the euro
area faces a potential recession and China restrains its economy
to stem inflation.  Growth Slowdown  The Chinese economy grew 8.9 percent in the last three
months of 2011 from the same period a year earlier, the slowest
pace for 10 quarters. The government last month lowered this
year’s economic growth target to 7.5 percent, after keeping the
goal at 8 percent over the past seven years.  The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, according to the European Commission, which projects
contractions in  Italy ,  Spain ,  Belgium ,  Greece , Cyprus, the
Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia. By contrast,  Germany ’s
economy is forecast to expand 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  