-- Kreider Doesn’t Play in Rangers Playoff Win Against Senators
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/rangers-kreider-goes-from-ncaa-title-to-nhl-playoffs-in-a-week.html
New York Rangers  forward Chris Kreider will have to wait until tomorrow for another chance to
become the first person since 1987 to play in the National
Hockey League playoffs in the same year that he won a national
college championship.  Five days ago the 20-year-old Kreider won the National
Collegiate Athletic Association title with  Boston College . The
last person to claim that title and then play in the NHL
postseason was Tony Hrkac, who won the college championship with
the University of  North Dakota  25 years ago before playing for
the  St. Louis Blues  in the NHL playoffs, the league said.  Kreider wasn’t included in the Rangers lineup for last
night’s 4-2 win at Madison Square Garden against the  Ottawa
Senators . The best-of-seven first-round series resumes with Game
2 in New York tomorrow.  The Eagles’ leading scorer this year, Kreider was drafted
by the Rangers in the first round of the 2009 NHL Entry Draft,
signed with the team on April 10 and participated in his first
NHL practice two days ago.  “I haven’t had a chance to pinch myself, let alone absorb
it all,” he told reporters after skating with the team. “It
was kind of surreal. One minute I was in school, the next minute
I’m in a car on my way down here.”  NCAA Title Game  Boston College  defeated  Ferris State University  4-1 in
Tampa,  Florida , on April 7 for its fifth national title and
third in five seasons. Kreider had three goals and an assist in
four NCAA tournament games this season, and finished his junior
year as the team leader in goals (23), points (45) and penalty
minutes (66).  Kreider said he celebrated his second championship in three
years with teammates and friends for one day before beginning to
think about joining the Rangers. He discussed the decision with
his parents and made sure that leaving school wouldn’t
jeopardize his ability to graduate.  “It was a pretty quick turnaround,” Kreider said. “No
expectations coming in, just trying to be a sponge and learn
from everyone.”  The Rangers finished the regular season with 109 points,
the most in the Eastern Conference, but lost three of their four
games against the Senators.  New York  is the conference’s top
seed for the first time since 1994, when it last won the  Stanley
Cup .  Farkas  Jeff Farkas, who lost the NCAA title game with Boston
College in 2000 and then joined the  Toronto Maple Leafs , is the
only other player to participate in college hockey’s final game
and the NHL playoffs in the same year, according to the league.
 Matt Carle  of the  Philadelphia Flyers  is among those who have
played in the NCAA and the NHL in the same season.  “There’s definitely a noticeable difference between the
speed in practice here and the speed in practice in college,”
Kreider said. “The guys are obviously a lot bigger, too, and
the intensity is definitely ramped up a bit.”  Rangers coach John Tortorella declined after Kreider’s
first practice to say when he might make his debut.  “This is a young man that we feel has a great future,”
Tortorella said. “We’re happy he’s here and he’s a Ranger. From
there, we go day by day.”  A native of Boxford,  Massachusetts , the 6-foot-3, 230-pound
Kreider said he has spoken briefly with teammates about what to
expect in his first NHL game.  “I have an up-tempo, energetic game,” Kreider said. “I
like to try to keep my feet moving and I’m a pretty big body, so
I’ll try to wreak as much havoc as I possibly can if I do get to
play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  