-- Raskin Says U.S. Economy May Be Stronger, With ‘Long Way to Go’
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-04-12T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/raskin-says-u-s-economy-may-be-stronger-with-long-way-to-go-.html
Federal Reserve  Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said she sees signs the U.S. economic recovery may
be strengthening while still having a “long way to go.”  “Some economic news has been encouraging and may be
suggesting that the pace of the recovery is picking up,” Raskin
said today in the text of a speech in  Los Angeles . “Even though
general economic activity and labor-market conditions have
improved modestly in the past two and a half years or so, house
prices have continued to trend down.”  Fed officials disagree over whether the benchmark interest
rate should stay low through at least late 2014, a plan that the
Federal Open Market Committee endorsed last month. Minneapolis
Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said today improvements in
the economy may warrant a policy tightening as early as this
year. Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and New York Fed President
William C. Dudley said borrowing costs will need to stay low
through late 2014 to foster a revival in the job market.  “It is an understatement to say that these are profoundly
challenging times for millions of Americans,” Raskin, 50, said
at the  San Francisco  Fed’s business and community leaders
luncheon.  Policy makers at their March 13 meeting favored more
stimulus only if growth faltered or inflation was below the
Fed’s 2 percent target, according to minutes of the meeting.  Employers added 120,000 jobs in March, marking the slowest
pace of  job creation  in five months, Labor Department figures
showed last week. Also, jobless claims reached a two-month high
in the week ended April 7, according to a report released today.  Still, the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey
released yesterday that the economy continued to grow at a
“modest to moderate pace” from mid-February to late-March.  “The Federal Reserve remains fully committed to doing
everything it can to promote maximum employment in the context
of  price stability ,” Raskin said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  