-- Renewable-Energy Investment Plunges in Quarter to Three-Year Low
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-12T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/renewable-energy-investment-plunges-in-quarter-to-three-year-low.html
Global investment in clean energy
dropped to its lowest since the depths of the financial crisis
three years ago as the U.S. and European nations cut support for
wind and solar projects, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Spending on new wind farms, solar parks and other renewable
projects fell to $27 billion in the first quarter, a 28 percent
slump from the last three months of 2011 and a 22 percent drop
from the same quarter a year earlier, New Energy Finance said
today in a statement. That’s the lowest quarterly total since
the $20 billion recorded in the first three months of 2009.  The quarterly decline follows a record year in which an
estimated $263 billion was poured into renewable energy,
according to the London-based research company. The clean-energy
industry has been hurt by subsidy cuts in European nations
including  Spain ,  Germany  and the U.K., and expiring tax credits
in the U.S., the biggest market in 2011 for renewables.  “The weak first-quarter number reflects the destabilizing
uncertainty over future clean-energy support in both the
European Union, driven by the financial crisis, and the U.S.,
driven by the expiry of stimulus programs,” New Energy Finance
Chief Executive Officer Michael Liebreich said in the statement.
“There is no sign of a rapid turnaround in either of these
regions.”  Spain suspended subsidies to new renewable-energy projects
in January, while Germany and Britain have curtailed support to
solar power. In the U.S., a Treasury grant program offering as
much as 30 percent of development and construction costs for
renewable-energy plants expired on Dec. 31, while the Production
Tax Credit, which grants an incentive worth 2.2 cents a
kilowatt-hour of wind power, is due to end this December.  Expiring U.S. Credits  The last time the Production Tax Credit was allowed to
expire, at the end of 2003, U.S. annual wind installations
declined to 397 megawatts in 2004 from 1,670 megawatts the
previous year, according to data from the  American Wind Energy
Association .  “With the expiration of the Production Tax Credit at the
end of this year, there’s really been no new wind commissioned
for 2014,” Phyllis Cuttino, clean energy director at the
Washington-based Pew Charitable Trusts, said by telephone.  Asset-financing of utility-scale renewables projects
accounted for $24.2 billion of global spending, the bulk of
first-quarter investments.  Venture capital  and private-equity
investments totaled $1.9 billion, and $601 million was raised on
equity markets, New Energy Finance said.  The quarterly data exclude spending on small-scale projects
and corporate and government research and development, which the
research company reports on annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 