-- RIM Plans Dubai Store in Retail Push: Corporate Canada
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/rim-plans-dubai-store-in-retail-push-corporate-canada.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , seeking to
offset plunging U.S. sales, is preparing to open stores across
the Middle East as part of a push in a region where demand for
its BlackBerry phones has held up better.  The company is in the final stages of negotiating a lease
on a flagship store of as much as 1,500 square feet (140 square
meters) in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates city-state known for
its malls, said Sandeep Saihgal, managing director of RIM’s
Middle East business. Stores with local partner Axiom Telecom
are planned across the region, he said.  “We’re getting the first one up and running and then we’ll
be looking at other cities across the Middle East --  Saudi
Arabia ,  Kuwait , Qatar,” Saihgal said in an interview this week
at RIM’s headquarters in Waterloo, Ontario, where he was
visiting from his base in Dubai.  While Americans are dumping their BlackBerrys for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone or Android devices, RIM is counting on first-time
smartphone buyers across the Middle East, Africa and  Asia  to
choose a BlackBerry. Helped by features like the free instant-
messaging BlackBerry Messenger program, shipments in the Middle
East and Africa more than doubled to 2.29 million units in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, outselling the iPhone by a
margin of 4-to-1, IDC data show.  Africa Next  RIM’s push into retail mimics the strategy of Apple, which
is relying on its own stores around the world in addition to
partners to sell its products. While additional stores add sales
channels, they alone won’t help RIM revive global demand -- it
also needs better products, said Anil Doradla, analyst at
William Blair & Co.  “Apple stores do well not because of the store experience
-- which definitely is a positive -- but because they make good
phones,” said Doradla, who is based in  Chicago  and  rates  RIM
the equivalent of a hold. Until RIM “addresses the phone
issues, they’re not going to get a lot coming out of these
stores.”  RIM’s shares have slid 76 percent in the past year, while
Apple almost doubled. RIM  added  0.9 percent to $13.05 yesterday.  The Middle East expansion will probably be followed by
 Africa , with RIM planning flagship stores in markets including
Nairobi,  Kenya , and Lagos,  Nigeria ,  Patrick Spence , RIM’s global
head of sales, said in the interview with Saihgal.  In February, RIM said it’s planning about 4,000 outlets
across  Indonesia , including dedicated BlackBerry stores, store-
in-stores and kiosks, a “proving ground” for potential
additional locations across southeast Asia.  Local Preferences  To cater to local tastes, RIM plans to customize the look
of its Middle Eastern stores with Axiom, which bills itself as
the Middle East’s largest mobile-phone distributor.  “The Middle East is different from Indonesia and what we
need to do is a little bit different in terms of the experience
we want to deliver,” Spence said. “We’re being very focused in
terms of the countries and cities we’re doing it in, based on
where the brand is and what we think we need to do.”  Spence, who has been with RIM since 1998, runs global  sales 
from its offices in Slough,  England . Once one of RIM’s strongest
markets, sales in the U.K. fell 32 percent last quarter.  RIM doesn’t break out sales by country other than for the
U.K.,  Canada , and the U.S. While sales plunged 25 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, dragged down by a 57 percent drop
in U.S. revenue, sales from the rest of the world including the
Middle East were little changed at about $2.84 billion.  Android Threat  Still, RIM is set to face intensifying competition in
 emerging markets  as low-cost Chinese manufacturers like Huawei
Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , who make handsets running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, concentrate their firepower on Africa
and Asia. Android’s gains at the BlackBerry’s expense in the
U.S. may be repeated in markets outside  North America , William
Blair’s Doradla said.  “The North American smartphone market has proven to be the
testing lab for the success and failure of these smartphone
vendors,” he said. “Whatever happens in the North American
market on a delayed time basis shows up on a global basis.”  RIM is up to the challenge, Spence said.  “Android continues to come on everywhere,” said Spence,
who was formerly based in Asia. “Even with the influx,
especially at Christmastime, of a lot of really cheap products
in the  Middle East , in Africa, in  Europe , we’ve held our own.”  The slump in markets such as the U.S. drove RIM’s global
market share to 8.8 percent in the fourth quarter from 15
percent a year earlier, according to Gartner Inc. Android jumped
to 51 percent from 31 percent and Apple climbed to 24 percent
from 16 percent.  No Rushing  Thorsten Heins, RIM’s new chief executive officer, said
last month that the company will refocus on the corporate
market, where it has lost market share, and concentrate on
“targeted” consumer markets.  That led to the wrong impression that RIM was retreating
from some markets or regions, Spence said. Rather, it means RIM
isn’t trying to match every rival device, he said.  RIM has said it plans to debut the first phone on its new
BlackBerry 10 platform in the “latter” part of this year.
Spence wouldn’t elaborate on when that would be, adding only
that RIM learned from past mistakes that it’s critical to get
the phone as good as it can be rather than rushing it out.  “We’ve got to make sure we deliver more than we have in
the past,” Spence said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  