-- Roche First-Quarter Sales Drop on European Pricing, Franc
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-12T16:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/roche-first-quarter-sales-drop-on-european-pricing-franc.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs, said first-quarter sales declined
1 percent, hurt by pricing pressure in  Europe  and the strength
of the Swiss franc.  Sales dropped to 11 billion francs ($12 billion) from 11.1
billion francs a year earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts predicted 11.1
billion francs, the average of eight  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Roche, which doesn’t release quarterly earnings,
reiterated its forecast for the year.  Roche indicated it’s willing to raise its $6.7 billion
hostile takeover offer for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  The bid is a “more
than reasonable starting point for negotiations,” Roche said in
a letter to Illumina shareholders late yesterday. In a separate
statement today, Roche said publicly available information
doesn’t justify a higher price.  Roche will consider “all options” for Illumina and
negotiations remain “the preferred way,” Chief Executive
Officer Severin Schwan said on a conference call with reporters
today. Roche spoke with several of Illumina’s main shareholders
before raising its bid, Schwan said.  Pharmaceutical revenue dropped 1 percent to 8.6 billion
francs. Sales of the Rituxan cancer medicine, Roche’s biggest-
selling product, rose 7 percent at constant exchange rates to
1.61 billion francs, while the cancer drug Avastin climbed 1
percent to 1.39 billion francs. Diagnostics revenue was
unchanged at 2.4 billion francs.  ‘Solid’ Sales  “Overall, these are a very solid set of 1Q 2012 sales
numbers,” Jeffrey Holford, an analyst with Jefferies & Co.,
wrote in a note to investors today. He recommends buying the
stock.  The strength of the Swiss currency cut 3 percentage points
off Roche’s sales growth. Drug sales in western Europe, where
governments have been trying to rein in health spending, fell 4
percent on continued pricing pressure.  Roche shares rose 1.6 percent to 156.70 Swiss francs in
Zurich. The stock had returned 22 percent including reinvested
dividends in  the past year , compared with a 20 percent return
for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Roche reiterated that it expects percentage sales growth
this year in the low- to mid-single-digit range at constant
exchange rates for the company and the pharmaceutical division.
Drug sales should accelerate, driven by new products and
expanded sales of existing products, the company said. Roche
also expects diagnostic sales to outpace the market. Core
earnings per share should increase by a high single-digit
percentage, it said.  Refusal to Negotiate  Illumina has rejected Roche’s offer as inadequate and
refused to negotiate. Roche raised the bid to $51 a share on
March 29 from $44.50 a share on Jan. 25. It also proposed that
Illumina shareholders oust four directors at the April 18 annual
meeting, expand the board and elect six Roche nominees, giving
the Swiss company a majority.  The Swiss drugmaker said last week it is willing to study
“additional value” in its proposal after a proxy-advisory firm
recommended the target company’s shareholders reject the offer.  “There is no reason for us, whatsoever, to increase our
offer unless we get into negotiations,” Schwan said on a
conference call with analysts today.  ‘A Signal’  Investors in the genome-sequencing company “should have
the right to choose between Roche’s $51 all-cash offer, plus any
increase to that offer that negotiations between Roche and
Illumina may produce, and an uncertain future amid increasing
headwinds for Illumina and the broader sequencing sector,”
Schwan wrote in the letter yesterday.  “That kind of says you could get $51 and then some,”  Les Funtleyder , a  fund manager  who helps oversee $100 million at
Miller Tabak & Co., including Illumina shares, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s at least a signal that Roche would
be willing to increase its offer.”  Spokesmen for Illumina declined to comment on Roche’s
letter.  Roche said in its letter that Illumina’s future as an
independent company is “far from certain,” disputing a
comparison Illumina cited recently between itself and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable company and the maker of the
iPhone and iPad.  “Apple’s revolutionary products were huge and
instantaneous commercial successes, appealing to a seemingly
endless consumer base around the world,” Schwan said in the
letter. “Illumina’s products on the other hand, although
‘revered by genomics researchers around the world,’ serve a much
smaller and highly regulated market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 