-- Ronaldo’s Hat Trick Restores Real’s Lead; Dortmund Beats Bayern
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-12T00:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ronaldo-s-hat-trick-restores-real-s-lead-dortmund-beats-bayern.html
Cristiano Ronaldo  scored a hat
trick as Real Madrid won 4-1 at  Atletico Madrid  to restore its
four-point lead atop Spanish soccer’s La Liga.  Borussia Dortmund 
beat  Bayern Munich  1-0 as the top two teams met in  Germany .  Ronaldo opened the scoring in the 25th minute last night
before Falcao tied it half an hour later. Ronaldo made it 2-1 in
the 68th minute and added his third from the penalty spot to
lift his tally to 40 league goals this season, one more than
Barcelona’s Lionel Messi. Jose Callejon got Real’s fourth goal.  Defending champion Barcelona moved to within a point of the
leader two days ago with a 4-0 win over Getafe. The archrivals
have six games remaining and are scheduled to meet at
Barcelona’s Camp Nou on April 21.  “We were under a bit of pressure after Barca won,”
Ronaldo, who matched the La Liga single-season goal record he
set last year, said on Real’s website. “We have to look to win
the rest of our games.”  In Germany, Robert Lewandowski scored with a back heel in
the 77th minute as Dortmund moved closer to a second straight
Bundesliga title. Bayern’s  Arjen Robben  missed an 84th-minute
penalty kick after being taken down by the goalkeeper.  Dortmund, which became only the second team in Bundesliga
history to beat Bayern four times in a row, now leads by six
points with four matches remaining in the season.  “It was an important step against our biggest rivals,
nothing more than that,” Dortmund Sporting Director Michael
Zorc said in comments on Bayern’s website. “The title is still
a long way off.”  Del Piero Strikes  In Italy, Alessandro Del Piero came off the bench to score
an 82nd-minute free kick and give Juventus a 2-1 win over Lazio
that took the Turin club back atop the standings.  Simone Pepe also scored as Juventus remained unbeaten and
moved one point ahead of defending champion AC Milan, which took
over the top spot with a 1-0 win at Chievo two nights ago.  Montpellier moved three points ahead of Paris Saint-Germain
atop  France ’s Ligue 1 with a 3-1 win at Marseille. Younes
Belhanda scored twice and Olivier Giroud added his league-
leading 19th goal for Montpellier.  Siem de Jong had a hat trick as Ajax took a three-point
lead in the Dutch Eredivisie with a 5-0 win at 10-man Heerenveen.
Second-place AZ Alkmaar stayed two points ahead of  FC Twente 
after the teams drew 2-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 