-- Russian Stocks Decline for Second Day This Week as Urals Slips
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-04-12T16:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/russian-stocks-fall-to-lowest-in-almost-3-months-as-urals-slips.html
Russian  stocks  dropped for the
second day this week as oil, the country’s main export revenue
earner, fell, damping the outlook for producers.  The Micex Index of 30 shares fell 0.3 percent to 1,501.63
by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, paring an earlier loss of as
much as 1.1 percent. Oil producer OAO Tatneft retreated 1
percent. OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, Russian billionaire
Victor Rashnikov’s steelmaker, fell 1.3 percent. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index advanced 0.3 percent to 1,620.19.  Urals crude,  Russia ’s chief export blend, was earlier down
as much as 0.2 percent to $116.94. The oil market is going to
stay “very volatile” because of the situation with Iran, even
as talks are scheduled to discuss sanctions and the country’s
nuclear program,  Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy
Research Associates, said yesterday at a conference in  New York .  “ Oil prices  remain under pressure even as Iran concerns
decrease ahead of negotiations on its nuclear program,” Maria Kalvarskaia, who heads equity research at TKB Capital in Moscow,
wrote in an e-mailed report today.  The U.S. has threatened sanctions against countries that
fail to make “significant” reductions in Iranian oil purchases
in the first half to halt the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear
program.  Japan  and 10 European Union nations won exemptions
after demonstrating cuts in imports.  Russian stocks rallied 8.2 percent in the first three
months of the year, the biggest quarterly gain in more than a
year on signs the global economy recovery is spurring demand for
commodities. The gauge trades at 5.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for member companies, below the 11.8 ratio for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  