-- Russian Space Industry Gets ‘Second Wind’ With New Launch Site
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-04-12T16:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/russian-space-industry-gets-second-wind-with-new-launch-site.html
Russia ’s space industry is getting
a “second wind” with a new launch center near  China , which
cuts the reliance on the Soviet-era Baikonur cosmodrome in
Central Asia, said Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin .  “We have to create a new geopolitical center in the east
of the country and the cosmodrome will become its reference
point,” Rogozin, a former ambassador to the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization who was appointed in December to oversee the
military industry, told reporters in Moscow today following a
government meeting led by President-elect  Vladimir Putin .  The effort to build the Vostochny center is comparable in
scale to Soviet-era electrification or the Baikal-Amur rail link
spanning Lake Baikal with the  Far East , Rogozin said. Baikonur’s
share of Russian launches should drop to 11 percent by 2020 from
65 percent in 2010, according to the Federal Space Agency.  The government is spending 150 billion rubles ($5 billion)
on its space program this year, including 30 billion on the new
facility in the Amur region, which is expected to handle its
first rocket launches by 2015 and manned missions by 2018, Putin
said.  Russia, which today celebrated the 51st anniversary of
manned space flight, has experienced setbacks including the
failure in November of the Phobos probe to Mars. Last August, it
lost its most powerful telecommunications satellite and a cargo-
supply ship destined for the International Space Station.  Catalyst for Development  “Creating the cosmodrome will serve as a catalyst for
development of the entire Far East region, fully helping to
utilize the industrial potential of the Far East and Siberia,”
Putin said today.  Speaking  yesterday in his final address to the lower house
of parliament as premier, Putin reiterated his pre-election
pledge to spend 23 trillion rubles over the next decade to
upgrade the country’s military and use the defense industry to
generate demand for innovation and technology. The premier also
stressed the strategic importance of reversing Russia’s
demographic decline.  Russia leases Baikonur from  Kazakhstan  under a contract due
to expire in 2050 and uses the military Plesetsk Cosmodrome in
the northern Arkhangelsk region.  A science city will be built near the launch center, which
will also handle planned missions to the moon, Rogozin said. The
project will help staunch the depopulation of the area, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  