-- Russia Wants UN Monitors Sent to Syria in Next Few Days
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-12T16:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/russia-wants-un-monitors-sent-to-syria-in-next-few-days-1-.html
Russia called on the  United Nations 
to send observers to  Syria  to monitor the cease-fire that took
effect today and guard against the risk of “provocations.”  “We’d like this to happen in the next few days,” Deputy
Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said today in an interview in
Moscow, adding that the UN has all the necessary resources to do
so. “We shouldn’t allow a big pause between the cease-fire
taking effect and monitors being deployed,” he said.  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said on his ministry’s
Twitter Inc. account that the presence of independent observers
in Syria is “very important” in case of “provocations.” He
said he’d asked UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon to finalize
details of the monitoring mission in order to secure approval of
the  Security Council , the UN’s decision-making body.  Syria’s army ended operations this morning after carrying
out “successful missions in combating criminal acts by armed
terrorist groups,” the official Syrian Arab News Agency
reported, citing a Defense Ministry official it didn’t identify.
It said troops will stay on alert “to confront any attack by
armed terrorist groups against civilians, law-enforcement
members, the armed forces and private and public facilities.”  Fast Action  The Security Council will take fast action to support a
request by special envoy  Kofi Annan  for observers to monitor the
cease-fire, according to a Council diplomat who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the members met in closed
consultations. The 6 a.m. cease-fire was holding, Annan said in
a statement.  The Syrian government is “absolutely” committed to the
cease-fire, Jihad Makdissi, a spokesman for the Foreign
Ministry, said today in an interview with the  BBC ’s Radio 4.
“We do want monitors to come as soon as possible to monitor any
possible violations.”  Russia has a positive stance on the Syrian government’s
response to the cease-fire and is seeking a similar approach
from the country’s opposition, according to Gatilov.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  