-- Ryan’s Cuts Diss the Republican Party’s Founders
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-04-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ryan-s-cuts-diss-the-republican-party-s-founders.html
Grover Norquist , the tax-cutting
champion, famously said he wanted to shrink the federal
government “down to the size where we can drown it in the bath
tub.”  With gargantuan deficits, that seems like a pipe dream, but
it may be time to start running the water.  The new plan offered by House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  and approved recently by Mitt Romney and congressional
Republicans puts the Republicans on record supporting a federal
government that within a decade will consist of little more than
national defense, entitlements and interest on the national
debt.  Those are largely transfer payments to defense contractors,
seniors and bankers. The rest of what the government actually
does would be eviscerated, from building roads to environmental
protection to medical research.  Ryan has abandoned the Republican fantasy on display during
the primaries that cutting liberal spending programs will be
enough to restore fiscal sanity. He’d go where the big money is
-- entitlement reform -- and also eliminate a series of  tax
deductions  used by the affluent, though in an April 10 editorial
board session with Bloomberg View he was still mum on which
ones.  Going Beyond Reagan  Let’s stipulate that Ryan is right to start means-testing
entitlements (reducing them for the wealthy) and to consolidate
duplicative programs in areas like job training and pre-school.  But to make his numbers work, merely reforming government
functions won’t be nearly enough.  For all the noise in recent days about his plan’s impact on
Medicare (a voucher option), taxes (big new reductions for
millionaires), and fiscal sanity (no balanced budget for
decades), the cutting of the non-defense discretionary portion
of the budget may be most consequential. According to the
 Economic Policy Institute , the plan would reduce discretionary
spending to  2.1 percent  of gross domestic product by 2022, less
than half of its average level under  Ronald Reagan .  Liberals spent years crying wolf when the rate of increase
in a spending program didn’t keep pace with inflation. Now that
the wolf is at the door and many of these programs face
elimination if Romney wins, will the public listen?  Are we really talking about the elimination of broad swaths
of government services not to protect our children from
mountains of debt but to help offset another  tax cut  for the
wealthy? Yup.  If the pain of the Ryan plan was spread across all spending
except defense, Social Security and Medicare (the most likely
political outcome should the plan be enacted), every other
government program would have to be cut by 38 percent by 2016
and 56 percent by 2022,  according  to the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities . Since some programs (say, air-traffic
control) obviously won’t be cut in half, others (mostly for the
poor, who would bear more than 60 percent of the cuts) will have
to be zeroed out.  No one, for instance, expects the earned income tax credit,
the most successful anti-poverty idea in a generation ( enacted 
in 1975 under  Gerald Ford  and significantly expanded by Reagan),
to survive a Republican takeover of  Washington . God forbid the
working poor continue to get a little help.  1856 Was Different  These savage cuts, only now coming into public view and
perhaps too abstract to resonate, are at odds not only with the
aspirations of a great nation but with the history of the
 Republican Party , long committed to planting seed corn.  The Republican Party was born in 1854 in opposition to
slavery in the territories, but from the start it supported what
Federalists and Whigs (the party’s predecessors) throughout the
19th century called “internal improvements.” Today, Democrats
call these programs “investments in the future” and Republicans
call them “wasteful spending.”  The 1856 Republican  platform  demanded that “the Federal
Government render immediate and efficient aid in [the]
construction” of a transcontinental railroad. Money was also
pledged for “the improvement of rivers and harbors.”  Soon thereafter,  Abraham Lincoln  signed laws creating
hundreds of new colleges (the Morrill Land Grant Act), helping
Americans buy property (the Homestead Act), establishing a new
Cabinet department (Agriculture) and protecting public land from
development (Yosemite).  Today’s Republican Party is on the other side of each of
those Lincoln-era achievements, voting to slash money for
education (Pell grants, which are discretionary, would be
eviscerated in the Ryan budget), withdraw federal loans to buy
property (closing  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ), shut Cabinet
departments (Romney has said he’d shutter a few, though not
which ones) and open up more coastlines for drilling.  The idea of using government money to invest in the future
hardly died with Lincoln.  Theodore Roosevelt  built the Panama
Canal; Dwight Eisenhower constructed the interstate highway
system; and Republicans have voted for smaller such investments
repeatedly over the years.  Even in 1964, when Republicans nominated conservative  Barry Goldwater  for president, the party platform made it clear that
the tax cuts it promised would only materialize “as fiscal
discipline is restored.”  Richard Nixon  supervised the regulatory apparatus now
scorned by conservatives and Reagan agreed to raise taxes
several times.  When I raised this history of government investment with
Ryan, he replied with a lukewarm endorsement of basic research
(though without saying it would be spared the knife) and an easy
talking point about Solyndra LLC, the now-bankrupt solar company
that had received a federal loan guarantee of more than $500
million.  I’d be more inclined to give him credit for helping to open
a big, consequential debate if I weren’t so worried that a lot
of what he proposes will actually be enacted in 2013 if Romney
wins. Republicans see victory this fall as a mandate for the
Ryan plan and wouldn’t hesitate to employ the reconciliation
process in the Senate to ram it through, give or take a few
impossible-to-close tax loopholes.  Won’t Republican members fight for spending in their
districts? Not necessarily. The old model of bringing home the
bacon has been replaced by bringing home the tax cuts. If the
Republicans win in November, the pork barrel becomes a bath tub.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  capital flight  in the
euro zone and some final words on  gender inequality  at the
Masters;  Jonathan Weil  on JPMorgan  derivatives trader  Bruno
Iksil’s nicknames;  Michael Kinsley  on  class warfare  and the
presidential campaign; Stephen Carter on  Mitt Romney  and his
 father’s portrayal  on the program “Mad Men”; Gary Shilling on
 misplaced optimism  in the stock market; and Rohit Aggarwala on
why  user fees  are preferable to an infrastructure bank.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 