-- Ryanair Deepens Cuts at Edinburgh as BAA Seeks to Complete Sale
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-04-12T11:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ryanair-deepens-cuts-at-edinburgh-as-baa-seeks-to-complete-sale.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount carrier, said it would cut eight more routes at
Edinburgh airport after failing to reach an agreement on fees
with the terminal’s owner BAA.  Ryanair will eliminate flights to destinations including
Frankfurt and Fuerteventura,  Spain , from October, adding to the
five routes that the carrier said in February it would remove
from its summer schedule. The cuts will reduce the number of its
passengers using Edinburgh by about 500,000 a year, from 1.8
million to 1.3 million, and cost 500 jobs, the Dublin-based
airline said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Ryanair regrets BAA Edinburgh Airport’s rejection of our
proposals for a competitive cost base which would allow Ryanair
to further grow our traffic,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Michael Cawley said in the statement. “Sadly, BAA Edinburgh
seems to prefer higher costs, even if it means fewer passengers
and jobs at Edinburgh.”  BAA, the owner of London’s Heathrow airport, is seeking to
sell Edinburgh after losing a legal challenge to an order from
the U.K.’s antitrust regulator to break up the company. The
airport operator, controlled by Spain’s  Ferrovial SA (FER) , plans to
take final bids for the airport this month and conclude a deal
by the summer.  Edinburgh Airport Managing Director  Jim O’Sullivan  said
that the carrier’s estimate of the effect on passenger numbers
and jobs was “speculative,” and the airport operator was
disappointed with Ryanair’s decision.  “We have tried extremely hard to negotiate with Ryanair
but sadly on many issues have not been able to find common
ground,” O’Sullivan said in an e-mailed statement. “We
continue not to be able to accept their wish to not pay the
agreed air traffic control costs that all other airlines pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  