-- Mitsui Sumitomo to Buy 26% Stake in India’s Max New York Life
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-04-12T07:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ms-ad-falls-on-max-new-york-stake-purchase-report-tokyo-mover.html
MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings
Inc. (8725) , Japan’s biggest casualty insurer, will buy a 26 percent
stake in Max New York Life Insurance Co. from the owners of the
closely held venture in  India .  Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., a unit of MS&AD, will
purchase 16.63 percent from New York Life Insurance Co. and 9.37
percent from  Max India Ltd. (MAX) , the Indian company said in a
statement to the stock exchange today. The statement didn’t
disclose the total value of the transaction. The deal is valued
at about 27 billion rupees ($531 million), according to two
people familiar with the sale.  MS&AD, formed in 2010 through a merger of Mitsui Sumitomo
Insurance,  Aioi Insurance Co. (8761)  and Nissay Dowa General Insurance
Co., has been turning to foreign markets and cutting costs in
 Japan  as the nation’s stagnant economy and declining population
damp demand. The insurer is targeting profit of 30 billion yen
for its overseas businesses, compared with 12 billion yen in the
last fiscal year ended March 31.  “MS&AD has been saying they want to expand the life
insurance business in  Asia , so this isn’t a big surprise,” said
Ayako Nakajima, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in Tokyo.
“India is an emerging market where you can bet on the potential
for growth, but at the same time, it’s not a mature market like
Japan’s so there are risks that need to be closely monitored.”  Yuki Fujikawa, a spokesman at MS&AD, confirmed earlier
today that the insurer is in talks.  Stock Falls  New York Life will exit the Indian life insurance market
upon completion of the sale, the people said. The deal is
expected to close in the second half of the year, they said.  The deal will be entirely in cash and represents a multiple
of 3.3 times so-called embedded value, or net assets plus the
present value of future profits, as of March 31, 2011, the
people said.  MS&AD  shares  declined 1 percent to 1,560 yen at the close
on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange. MS&AD shares have gained 9.4
percent this year. Shares of Max India headed for their biggest
gain since June 2011 in Mumbai trading, rising 6.6 percent to
200.65 rupees.  Citigroup Inc. was the financial adviser to Mitsui
Sumitomo, according to the people. Godwin Chellam, a Hong Kong-
based spokesman at Citigroup, declined to comment.  Max New York is a joint venture between Max India, which
invests in health care and technology, and New York Life, the
biggest U.S. life insurer owned by policyholders. The U.S.
insurer holds 26 percent of the venture, the maximum possible
under current regulations.  Overseas Expansion  Max New York Life reported an 8 percent increase in revenue
to 44.7 billion rupees for the nine months ended Dec. 31,
according to a company statement on Business Wire India. Assets
under management grew 18 percent to 153.57 billion rupees over
the same period in fiscal 2010, the company said.  MS&AD is not alone in trying to expand abroad to grapple
with a shrinking domestic market. In December,  Tokio Marine
Holdings Inc. (8766) , Japan’s second-largest non-life insurer, agreed
to buy Delphi Financial Group Inc. for $2.7 billion in its
biggest acquisition in three years after buying Philadelphia
Consolidated Holding Corp. in 2008 for $4.7 billion.  The purchase will allow MS&AD to have a foothold in India
through the nation’s seventh-largest insurer, as the Japanese
insurer expands its business in emerging Asian markets, the
Nikkei newspaper reported earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  