-- Samsung Probably Overtook Nokia in Phone Handset Sales
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-04-12T09:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/samsung-probably-overtook-nokia-in-phone-handset-sales.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Asia’s
largest electronics maker, probably overtook  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as the
top handset seller for the first time, helped by the popularity
of the Galaxy smartphones, according to analyst estimates.  The South Korean company may have shipped about 92 million
mobile phones, including basic types, in the first quarter,
according to the median of five estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Nokia sold 83 million units, with 12 million smartphones
and 71 million low-end models, during the three-month period,
the Espoo, Finland-based company said yesterday.  The gap could end Nokia’s 14-year reign in the global
mobile-phone market. While Samsung has been benefitting from the
popularity of Galaxy phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, Nokia has been losing market share as
consumers choose the iPhone from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Android devices
over products using its Symbian software.  “Samsung is displacing Nokia fast,” Lee Sun Tae, a Seoul-
based analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co., said by phone.
“Nokia, with no competitiveness in smartphones, will keep
losing ground.”  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment on the numbers, citing company policy not to disclose
handset shipment figures.  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for Nokia,
also declined to comment on the analysts’ estimates.  Samsung Profit  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , last week reported
first-quarter operating profit that exceeded estimates.  Nokia is allying with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to adopt the U.S.
company’s mobile-phone operating system, instead of joining
Samsung,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and other companies in using Android, to
recover market share.  Nokia reported an operating loss for its mobile-phone
division yesterday, while forecasting earnings won’t recover
this quarter as emerging market handset sales slumped and
margins on smartphones shrank.  Nokia declined as much as 7.8 percent to 3.01 euros in
Helsinki, the lowest intraday price since April 1997, and traded
down 7.5 percent as of 12:33 p.m. local time. The stock slumped
14 percent yesterday.  “Nokia is slower than expected in responding to the
smartphone market, whereas Samsung is doing better with models
like the Galaxy Note,” said Kim Young Chan, a Seoul-based
analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. “The net result is Samsung
edging out Nokia faster than expected.”  Samsung fell 2.9 percent to 1,273,000 won at the
close of trading in  Seoul . The stock has climbed 20 percent this
year, outperforming the benchmark Kospi index’s 8.8 percent
advance. Nokia has declined 20 percent in the period.  Galaxy Phones  Kim said he had forecast Samsung’s overall handset
shipments would surpass Nokia’s from the second half this year.  Samsung probably sold 44 million smartphones in the first
quarter, more than tripling from a year earlier, Matt Evans, a
Seoul-based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in an
April 2 report.  Samsung, which plans to introduce a successor to the Galaxy
S II by June, is still facing competition from Apple.  “The S III is going to come just before the iPhone 5
launches,”  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at Gartner Inc. said.
“Although Samsung seems to be doing no wrong in the Android
camp, I think with the Galaxy S III it is going to struggle to
get the same success as the S II had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  