-- Sandusky Request to Dismiss Abuse Charges Denied by Judge
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-12T19:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/sandusky-request-to-dismiss-abuse-charges-denied-by-judge-1-.html
Former  Pennsylvania  State
University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, who is
scheduled to face trial in June for allegedly abusing boys
during a 15-year period, lost a bid to dismiss the charges.  State court Judge John M. Cleland in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania, denied several requests in an omnibus motion
submitted by Sandusky’s lawyers including ones to dismiss
because the allegations weren’t specific, lacked sufficient
evidence or were too old. Cleland gave Sandusky the option of
revisiting some requests at a later date and reserved ruling on
others because of the ongoing investigation.  Some of Sandusky’s “requests for relief are premature,”
Cleland said in his ruling today.  Sandusky, 68, is scheduled to face trial June 5 on on more
than 50 criminal counts tied to the alleged abuse of boys he met
through a charity he founded for needy children.  Cleland also denied Sandusky’s request to postpone the
trial beyond the June date. He ordered state prosecutors to
deliver a written statement of any uncharged misconduct evidence
to Sandusky’s lawyer along with details on the prior criminal
records of all Commonwealth witnesses, according to the ruling.  Joseph Amendola, an attorney for Sandusky, declined to
comment on the ruling, citing a gag order.  In a ruling earlier this week, Cleland barred attorneys in
the case, including past attorneys and employees of the state’s
Attorney General’s office, from making any statements regarding
Sandusky’s guilt or innocence and stating opinions on the
factual or legal merits of the case and credibility of any
potential witnesses.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  