-- Sarkozy Says Spain Woes Show France Must Avoid Socialist Win
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-12T12:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/sarkozy-says-spain-woes-show-france-must-avoid-socialist-win-1-.html
Nicolas Sarkozy  said the turmoil in
 Spain  shows why French voters must not hand power to Socialist
Francois Hollande, at least the fourth time this week he singled
out his southern neighbor’s woes in his re-election bid.  “My opponent says we shouldn’t take markets into
account,” the French incumbent said  in a speech today . “I have
advice for you then: pay back all your debts, don’t borrow
money. Then you won’t have to worry about markets,” he said in
Saint Brice, north of Paris. “I don’t want  France  to suffer the
fate of  Greece  and Spain, and that’s why I’m running.”  Sarkozy’s comment came after Hollande said today that he
didn’t “fear any crisis” and that he “wouldn’t give in” to
markets if he wins the election on May 6. Hollande led Sarkozy
by six points in a Harris Interactive Poll on April 10.  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds, which climbed to a
four-month high of 6.02 percent yesterday, are approaching the 7
percent level that prompted Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
European bailouts and stoking concern Spain may succumb as well.  One of Sarkozy’s main campaign themes is that he has
protected France from the penalties investors have imposed on
 Europe ’s periphery. Spain’s rising debt yields and missed
deficit targets, requiring ever-deeper austerity measures and
threatening to reignite the regionwide crisis, have given
traction to the French leader’s message.  “Look at Spain -- a great civilization, a friend of France
-- and look at where seven years of socialism have left them,”
Sarkozy said today. Socialist Jose Luis Rodriquez Zapatero was
defeated by  Mariano Rajoy  last year.  Rajoy demurred when asked in Warsaw today to respond. “I
am not going to seek controversy with any leader,” he said.  In contrast, Sarkozy today referenced the Spanish leader
directly. “If you went to Rajoy -- a courageous, intelligent
man -- and said ‘don’t take into account what markets say,’ he’d
tell you, because he’s an intelligent man, ‘how then do I pay
back my country’s debt?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  