-- Scene Last Night: David Rubenstein, Paul McCarthy, Chloe Sevigny
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-12T09:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/scene-last-night-david-rubenstein-paul-mccarthy-chloe-sevigny.html
Before the clock struck six last
night,  David Rubenstein , managing director and co-founder of the
 Carlyle Group , was at  Lincoln Center ’s Avery Fisher Hall talking
business -- the culture business, that is -- with Reynold Levy,
the president of the Manhattan performing arts complex.  As often happens at Lincoln Center benefits, that brief
conversation gave way to lengthier cultural consumption.
Rubenstein had a ticket for the all-Beethoven program by Joshua Bell and the Academy of St.-Martin-in-the-Fields.  David Coulter, a managing director at  Warburg Pincus  and
gala honoree, picked Beethoven too, for reasons his wife
explained.  “The men who work the 80-hour-a-week jobs, they recharge
themselves through the arts,” Susan Coulter, chairman of the
Global Film Initiative, said. “If you can’t go trout fishing
after work, you go to a concert.”  The Coulters fish for trout together. (Neither would say
who has caught the bigger fish.)  As for concertgoing: “You walk away with a sense of
energy, saying to yourself, ‘I can be creative,’” David Coulter
said.  Artist  Paul McCarthy  was some kind of creative in his
remarks at the New Museum gala, held last night at Cipriani  Wall
Street .  “Uh, okay, summary,” McCarthy began his honoree speech.  A stream of words followed.  Financial Bubble  “Financial bubble, dollars, material bubble, to learn to
relax” he said. “Suburbs, John Cage, what’s what,” he added.
“Dress up, pretend, pretend, pretend.”  In this context, the special-edition sculpture of a
mushroom by artist Carsten Holler was an entirely appropriate
take-home gift for guests including Chloe Sevigny and Leelee Sobieski.  The award for exercising creativity at a gala goes to the
guests of Publicolor’s Stir, Splatter + Roll.  These folks put on Tyvek suits over their business and
party attire and painted artworks in the hallways of  Martin Luther King Jr . High School.  Artists and designers including Mark di Suvero, Carleton
DeWoody and Edwin Schlossberg supervised the fun, which helped
get across Publicolor’s mission to elevate students by painting
their public schools in mood-lifting colors.  Christo was there to show his support last night. So was
Lisa Perry, wife of hedge-fund manager Richard Perry. She had
splatter-painted her dress for the party.  Publicolor board chairman Deven Parekh, a managing director
at Insight Venture Partners, brought the Publicolor concept to
his firm. Employees choose the color of their office. Parekh’s
is peach.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights: Jason Harper on  Jeep ,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology , Farah Nayeri’s London  weekend .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 