-- Scene in D.C.: Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Sebelius, Podesta
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-12T15:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/scene-last-night-blankfein-david-rubenstein-rattner.html
Actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus, who
plays a harried vice-president in the new HBO series “VEEP,”
had a penchant for comedy early in life.  “We were always trying to out-funny each other,” said her
Holton-Arms School classmate Kelly Baker, the president of
 Washington  Analytical Group, at a screening of “VEEP” last
night.  “We were kind of nerds,” she added. “We were not the
cool girls.”  Meanwhile, Louis-Dreyfus worked the red carpet at the U.S.
Institute of Peace in lacy curve-hugging black. Her co-star Anna
Chlumsky, who portrays her resilient chief of staff, wore pink.  Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius,
also in pink, chatted with Anne Shields, a board member of
American Rivers, while  CNN  anchor Wolf Blitzer stayed close to
the buffet tables featuring bite-sized duck hors d’oeuvres.  Fish and chips was the appetizer across town at the home of
Peter Westmacott, British ambassador to the U.S., who was
hosting a reception for the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s 25th
anniversary.  Westmacott’s wife, Susie, has a personal connection to the
gallery -- she worked as a curatorial assistant there when it
opened in 1987.  Anniversary Gala  The Westmacotts were joined by Tony Podesta, the founder of
the Podesta Group, and AOL co-founder Jim Kimsey, as well as art
dealer Ann Nitze and arts patron Susan Pillsbury, who will serve
as co-chairs of the gallery’s gala on Nov. 29.  Julian Raby, the director of the gallery, posed under the
house’s famous Warhol portrait of the Queen with the nattily-
attired journalist Roland Flamini and Jeffrey Cunard from the
firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  Although the ambassador was in high spirits for his guests,
he and his wife recently laid to rest their beloved cat. He
explained they are thinking about getting a small dog, perhaps a
Westie, “but we don’t like to talk about it, because we’re
still in mourning.”  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
StephanieGreen in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 