-- Serbian Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Rate at 9.5 Percent
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-04-12T10:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/serbian-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-rate-at-9-5-percent-1-.html
Serbia’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a third month as
policymakers look to a new government following May 6 general
elections for future policy direction.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije kept its two-week
repurchase rate at 9.5 percent, matching the forecast of 15 of
23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Three saw the need for a
rate increase while five expected a reduction. Governor Dejan Soskic will hold a briefing at 2 p.m. in Belgrade.  Serbia is trying to avoid a second recession in three years
at a time the nation prepares to vote for a new president,
parliamentary lawmakers and local representatives. The main rate
has been shaved by a total of 3 percentage points since last
June to contain the economic slowdown that has been triggered by
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  “With a view to uncertainty over import prices, the new
agricultural season and probably faster pace of growth of
regulated prices in the second half of the year,” the bank’s
management “decided to keep the  reference rate  unchanged,” the
central bank said in an e-mailed statement.  Rate-setters based their decision on a benign inflation
outlook for April, when they expect consumer prices will be “at
a minimum” with “low aggregate demand still the key
disinflationary factor.”  The bank targets inflation at 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5
percentage points, at the end of 2012. The inflation rate was
3.2 percent in March, compared with 4.9 percent in February,
though price pressures may emerge in the second half of the
year, according to central bankers and analysts.  Policy Instruments  The central bank has shifted its focus to other policy
instruments as it tries to encourage banks to lend more to cash-
strapped companies amid sinking industrial and export activity.  Following months of pressure from businesses, the National
Bank of  Serbia  amended reserve requirement rules. While the
measure will release foreign-currency liquidity, the central
bank will proportionately drain dinar assets to avoid pressures
on inflation.  The central bank lowered mandatory reserves to 29 percent
from 30 percent for foreign-currency assets of up to two-year
maturity and to 22 percent from 25 percent for longer-dated
assets. It also raised the dinar part of this reserve
requirement by five percentage points to 20 percent for shorter
maturities and to 15 percent for longer dated assets.  This should stabilize inflation, contribute to lower cost
of credit and easier refinancing, stabilize the foreign exchange
market and encourage banks to search for longer-dated sources of
financing, the central bank said.  The central bank’s room to adjust interest rates, its key
policy instrument, has been limited by concerns about the
ability of the incumbent government of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic to keep fiscal policies intact after it already
slipped on targets in the first two months of the year, analysts
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  