-- Shell Confident It’s Not Source of Gulf of Mexico Sheen
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-04-12T22:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/shell-falls-most-in-two-months-on-gulf-of-mexico-oil-leak-probe.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, said an oil sheen between two of its
platforms in the  Gulf of Mexico  is dissipating, and the company
is trying to determine where it came from.  The sheen, estimated at about six barrels that covered 10
square miles, has broken up, the Hague-based company said in an
e-mailed statement. Shell said in an earlier statement that an
inspection found “no sign of leaks” and “no well control
issues” from its operations in the area.  “It is well-studied and documented that the Gulf of Mexico
has a long history of natural occurring seeps, which can on
occasion produce sheens,” Kelly op de Weegh, a company
spokeswoman in Houston, said in the e-mailed statement.
“Shell’s subsea surveillance today and tomorrow will continue
to determine if there is a connection between natural seeps and
this orphan sheen.”  The company’s Mars and  Ursa (RIGBP163)  platforms off the coast of
 Louisiana  are still operating, op de Weegh said. The platforms
handle the equivalent of about 60,000 barrels of oil a day for
Shell, about 1.8 percent of the company’s  output , according to
research company Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Macondo Explosion  The sheen’s appearance comes almost two years after an
April 20, 2010, explosion at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well caused the
biggest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. London-based BP
holds a stake in both platforms.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  are partners in Ursa.  “Given the location of the sheen, we expect sensitivities
to be high,” said  Peter Hutton , an RBC Capital Markets analyst.  A U.S. Coast Guard helicopter was sent to fly over the area
to get “a feel for the size and composition and hopefully where
it’s coming from,” Petty Officer Steve Lehmann said in an
interview today.  The federal Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement,
established after the Macondo spill, directed Shell to use a
remote-operated vehicle to survey the seafloor for leaks. It
also asked pipeline operators near the sheen to check their
lines, according to a statement issued today.  Shell’s Class A shares declined 0.8 percent to 2,125 pence
at the close in  London . Shell’s American depositary receipts,
which represent two ordinary shares, rose 0.2 percent to $67.86
at the close in New York.  Maintenance Planned  The company’s credit-default swaps, which protect against
losses on its debt, jumped 18 basis points to 85, the highest
since Jan. 10, according to CMA prices at 3 p.m. in London. The
contracts are up from 57 basis points March 27.  Shell planned to shut Mars in the second quarter for
maintenance and to conduct work related to a second platform
it’s building in the field, the company said on April 3.
Production from its Olympus platform, capable of handling about
100,000 barrels a day, is expected to begin in 2015, the company
said when announcing the project in 2010.  Shell produced an average of 180,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the Gulf last year, according to its annual
report. The Mars platform is about 100 miles (160 kilometers)
south of  New Orleans  and Ursa is about 130 miles.  The company reported several leaks in the North Sea and
Nigeria since August, including the worst for the regions in at
least a decade.  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest oil producer, is fighting
a natural-gas leak at its Elgin platform in the U.K. North Sea,
which also contains light liquids. A sheen of condensate spread
to an area 22 kilometers by 4.5 kilometers, U.K. Department of
Energy and Climate Change estimates from March 29 show.  Separately, Shell said operational spills of oil and oil
products doubled to 6,000 metric tons last year, from 2,900 tons
in 2010, according to a  sustainability report  published on its
website today. The Bonga field spill in Nigeria accounted for
about 80 percent of the total volume in 2011, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in  New York  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  