-- Shougang Fushan Defends Coal Mine Acquisitions, Higher Margins
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-12T13:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/shougang-fushan-defends-coal-mine-acquisitions-higher-margins.html
Shougang Fushan Resources Group
Ltd. (639) , a Chinese coking coal producer partly owned by Shougang
Corp., defended its acquisition of coal mines and higher margins
and said the company follows good corporate governance.  The acquisition was well received by investors at the time
and the higher margins are due to its superior quality of coal,
Chairman Li Shaofeng said today by telephone. His comments
followed a report this morning from U.S. short seller Glaucus
Research Group California LLC that said Shougang Fushan overpaid
a related company for the mines and inflated profit margins.  “We don’t know where the information in this report came
from and they never had any interaction with the company,” Li
said. “The listed companies under Shougang Corp. are
responsible to shareholders and abide by the law.”  Shougang Fushan shares fell 3.1 percent in Hong Kong
trading to HK$2.53, the lowest in six months. Corporate
governance of Chinese companies has come under scrutiny after
short-sellers leveled allegations of financial fraud against
 Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) ,  Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd. (1733)  and  Chaoda
Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682)   The report published by Glaucus Research on its website
named Matthew Wiechert as its research director. Short investors
bet against a stock by selling borrowed shares with the
expectation of repurchasing them at a lower price. Long
investors buy shares betting the price will rise.  The trading volume of Shougang Fushan shares was almost six
times the three-month average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shougang Corp., the sixth-largest steelmaker in  China 
by production, owns 29.4 percent of Shougang Fushan, according
to the website of the Hong Kong stock exchange.  Shougang Fushan “will continue to expand production and
scale and reflect the advantage of having Shougang Corp. as a
major shareholder,” Li said. The company is seeking to buy
coking coal assets and hasn’t secured any so far, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  