-- SNB May Keep Franc-Euro Near Cap, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-04-12T05:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/snb-action-may-keep-franc-euro-rate-near-cap-deutsche-bank-says.html
(Corrects third paragraph to remove reference to franc
breaching the cap a second time.)  The Swiss central bank’s
“passive” defense of its 1.20 limit on the franc’s rate
against the euro may spur traders to end bets the currency will
weaken, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The method of intervention has been passive, rather than
active, with the  Swiss National Bank  not pushing euro-Swiss
franc aggressively higher,” George Saravelos, a currency
strategist in  London , wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The franc traded at 1.20261 per euro at 6:26 a.m. London
time. It appreciated to 1.19995 on April 5, penetrating the
SNB’s exchange-rate limit for the first time since the cap was
set on Sept. 6. SNB interim chief Thomas Jordan told reporters
two days ago that the central bank is prepared to buy foreign
currency in unlimited quantities to enforce the policy.  “This passive method goes in contrast to a potentially
more activist approach” and “may result in an unwinding of
some of the large speculative longs in euro-Swiss franc,”
Saravelos wrote, referring to bets the euro will rise against
the franc. “An unwind of the speculative long may mean ranges
become even tighter, with euro-Swiss franc staying very close to
the floor.”  The franc has traded between 1.21989 and 1.19995 this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since the day after the
cap was implemented, it has fallen to as weak as 1.24736, which
occurred on Oct. 19.  “The SNB usually prevents euro-Swiss franc slipping below
the 1.20 mark with the help of unlimited buying orders at this
level,”  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in an investor report two
days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  