-- Sony Tunes Out TVs as Hirai Sees Future in Imaging, Portables
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-04-12T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/sony-tunes-out-tvs-as-hirai-sees-future-in-imaging-portables.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  plans to win back customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  by
concentrating on mobile devices, games and digital imaging. TVs
aren’t on his list.  Hirai is falling back on products that made Sony a
trendsetter in the 1980s before competition with Apple and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  pushed it into four consecutive losses,
culminating in yesterday’s announcement the company will
eliminate 10,000 jobs. Sony also will  take  a one-time  charge  of
75 billion yen ($926 million) as restructuring costs this fiscal
year.  The emphasis on three “core businesses” comes after Sony
lost 714 billion yen on TVs in the past eight years as demand
for its Bravia models slumped. Hirai will cut costs at the TV
operations and reduce the number of models in an effort to reach
the same profitability target set by former CEO  Howard Stringer 
in 2005.  “The market’s expectation about Sony is for the company to
again become a creator of the Walkman,” said  Yuuki Sakurai ,
chief executive officer at Fukoku Capital Management, which
oversees $7.4 billion in Tokyo. “That’s a tough goal as the
times have changed.”  ‘Various Contingencies’  Sony wants to “revitalize and grow” its electronics
business under Hirai’s new management plan, according to the
statement. The initiatives include bolstering the digital
imaging, games and mobile businesses; turning around the TV
division; expanding in  emerging markets ; creating new businesses
and accelerating innovation; and realigning the business
portfolio.  Asked what the company would do if the TV business didn’t
return to profit by the targeted March 2014, Hirai said it’s
“natural for us to consider various contingencies.” Sony is
the world’s third-largest TV maker.  “We naturally need to consider what to do when the
business turns profitable as we planned and what to do
otherwise, not to mention we also need to consider courses of
action to take in each cases,” Hirai said.  Hirai, who took the top job this month after earning a
reputation for turning around the PlayStation game business,
said in February it was “very difficult to imagine Sony getting
out of the TV business.”  Apple TV  Cupertino, California-based Apple, maker of the iPod and
iPhone, will debut a TV within a year,  Brian White , an analyst
at Topeka Capital Markets, wrote earlier this month.  Sony plans to strengthen the three segments so they generate
70 percent of revenue and 85 percent operating profit at the
electronics operations in the year ending March 2015, the
company said yesterday.  “The previous announcement he made near the end of last
month was TV is very much at the center of staking his
reputation on turning their business around, and all of a sudden
he’s talking about mobile devices,” said Nick Dillon, a London-
based analyst at Ovum.  “There’s definitely some wiggle room there should he want
to go the other way.”  Sony rose 0.9 percent to close at 1,528 yen in  Tokyo 
yesterday, before the announcement. That extended its gain this
year to 11 percent after slumping 53 percent in 2011. Sony,
worth more than $120 billion in 2000, is now valued at $19
billion, compared with $584 billion for Apple and $164 billion
for Samsung.  Delaying Targets  Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics  exporter  plans to
raise operating-profit margin to 5 percent, have a return on
capital of 10 percent, cut fixed costs at its TV operations 60
percent and consider an alliance on batteries for electric cars,
it said. In 2009, Sony announced a push back on the target.  “I wonder if Sony will accomplish the target figures as
Sony doesn’t tell how to reach them,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura ,
who helps manage the equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-Gin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The management might be too
optimistic on its sales and profits, so more and more investors
doubt the ability of Sony’s management.”  The job cuts announced yesterday will include employees
expected to be transferred outside of the group as part of the
sale of businesses and other realignments, Sony said.  The company has cut 66,500 jobs in four restructuring plans
since 1999, according to Keita Sanekata, a spokesman for the
company. It had 168,200 employees as of March 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Job Cuts  Sony will consider selling or forming alliances in
businesses that are losing money, have small room for growth or
have little synergy with its core electronics operation, Hirai
said yesterday. Two months ago, Hirai appointed Tadashi Saito
chief strategy officer to assist him on decisions such as
 acquisitions .  Last month, Sony agreed to sell Sony Chemical & Information
Device Corp. to the  Development Bank  of  Japan . The two companies
plan to reach a formal agreement in May and complete the sale
this year, they said March 22 without specifying the value of
the deal.  “I still can’t see anything positive in this plan,” said
Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at Myojo Asset
Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund advisory firm.
“I’m not convinced the company has a logical plan to achieve
its goal of raising the operating profit margin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  