-- Soros Says Bundesbank Guarding Itself Against Euro Break-Up
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-12T11:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/soros-says-bundesbank-guarding-itself-against-euro-break-up-1-.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said financial markets are concerned other countries will follow
 Germany ’s Bundesbank in girding against the end of the euro.  The Bundesbank is campaigning against the “indefinite
expansion” of  money supply  and taking steps to limit the losses
it would face if the euro splintered, Soros said in a speech in
Berlin today.  “This is creating a self-fulfilling prophecy,” he said.
“Once the Bundesbank starts guarding against a breakup
everybody will have to do the same. Markets are beginning to
reflect this.”  As the debt crisis stretches into a third year, Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann has begun warning that the  European
Central Bank ’s emergency liquidity measures “create risks and
have to be unwound” after the ECB balance sheet ballooned by
about 30 percent since November.  If the ECB continued offering support for a few more years
then a “break-up of the euro would become possible without a
meltdown,” Soros said.  “The omelette could be unscrambled, but it would leave the
central banks of the creditor countries with large claims
against the central banks of the debtor countries which would be
difficult to collect,” he said.  Fiscal Compact  Soros also said  Europe ’s so-called fiscal compact “cannot
possibly work” because highly indebted nations will either
choose not to meet its tougher fiscal rules or by doing so
trigger collapsing demand.  “Either way, debt ratios will rise and the competitiveness
gap with Germany will widen,” he said. “Whether or not the
euro endures, Europe is facing a long period of economic
stagnation or worse.”  The resulting “deflationary debt trap” will threaten the
existence of the European Union, he said,  Soros is best known for making $1 billion in 1992 betting
the U.K. would be forced to devalue the pound. Soros Fund
Management LLC decided in July to return outside capital and
focus on running assets for Soros and his family, who made up
the bulk of its then $25.5 billion assets, to avoid having to
register with the Securities and Exchange Commission by last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Berlin at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  