-- South African Mine Production Drops Most Since March 2008
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-04-12T11:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/south-african-mine-production-drops-most-since-2008-correct-.html
South Africa ’s drop in  mining
production  in February, the biggest monthly decline in almost
four years, may boost prices of platinum-group metals in the
near term, BMO Capital Markets Ltd. said.  Total mining output retreated 14.5 percent from a year
earlier, the most since March 2008, Pretoria-based Statistics
South  Africa  said in a  statement  today. Mines produced 48
percent less platinum-group metals because of a strike at the
world’s biggest platinum mine and safety-related shaft closures.  “Such a decline in production from South Africa has a
material impact on the global supply-demand balance, which could
be positive for near-term PGM prices,” Edward Sterck, analyst
at BMO Capital Markets, wrote in an e-mailed note. South Africa
produced about 75 percent of global primary platinum supply last
year, according to BMO.  Workers at  Impala Platinum Ltd. (IMP) ’s Rustenburg operation
downed tools on Jan. 20 in a dispute over pay. The mine
restarted on March 5 and is still ramping up to full production.  “The biggest reason for the decline was the strike at
Implats,” Juan-Pierre Terblanche, a spokesman for the
statistics office, said by phone. “We’re expecting the figures
for March will also be low,” he said. Safety stoppages also
contributed to the drop in platinum and gold output, he said.  Gold production slumped 11.5 percent, Statistics South
Africa said.  Mine Deaths  Mines in Africa’s biggest economy are facing increasing
safety inspections and work stoppages as the Department of
Mineral Resources works to cut fatalities, which stood at 123
last year. The platinum industry lost an estimated 300,000
ounces of production last year because of safety stoppages,
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  said Feb. 17.  Platinum fell 9.1 percent to an average of $1,658.86 an
ounce in February, from a year earlier. Platinum-group metals
are typically found and mined together and consist of platinum,
palladium, rhodium, iridium, osmium and ruthenium.  Gold rose 27 percent to an average of $1,741.43 an ounce in
the month from a year earlier.  The retreat in platinum-group metals production contributed
12.6 percentage points to the decline in total mining output,
Statistics South Africa said in the  report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  