-- South Africa Factory Growth Encouraging, Minister Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-12T12:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/south-africa-manufacturing-growth-encouraging-minister-says-1-.html
South African Trade and Industry
Minister  Rob Davies  said he is encouraged by the pace of growth
in manufacturing output and the economy may grow faster than
forecast in the first half.  “I am encouraged by the figures we saw,” Davies said in
an interview at a trade conference in Sun City,  South Africa ,
today. “There are some signs that some of the worst
expectations for the first half of this year won’t come to
fruition.”  The manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 15
percent of the economy, expanded 4.1 percent in February, the
quickest pace since September. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan
said on April 1 the economy will probably grow faster than his
previous estimate of 2.7 percent. The  Reserve Bank  last month
raised its forecast for growth in 2012 to 3 percent.  A weaker rand exposes the economy to the impact of a higher
oil price, though the decline last year may help manufacturers,
Davies said.  “The rand where it is now is a degree of comfort to
manufacturers, more so than when it was overvalued,” he said.  South Africa’s rand fell 18 percent against the dollar in
2011, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It
has gained 1.9 percent since then.  ‘Too Long’  Davies said an agreement on the cost of iron ore from the
Sishen deposit is taking “too long.”  The government wants to ensure 21.4 percent of iron ore
from the country’s Sishen deposit is available to local
manufacturers at cost plus 3 percent.  In March 2010,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) 
unit said a 2001 agreement to supply 6.25 million metric tons of
ore a year from Sishen to  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa Ltd. at
cost plus 3 percent lapsed. In December last year, the High
Court ruled that Kumba was awarded a 100 percent right to the
Sishen mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  