-- Spain Cracks Down on Fraud as Rajoy Says Aid Impossible
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-04-13T14:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/spain-cracks-down-on-tax-fraud-as-rajoy-says-bailout-impossible.html
Spain ’s government approved a
crackdown on  tax fraud  as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  redoubles
efforts to reduce the deficit and convince investors that a
surge in borrowing costs won’t force the nation into a bailout.  The Cabinet approved limits on using cash and rules to make
taxpayers declare foreign bank accounts, Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said after the weekly meeting in Madrid.  Rajoy is trying to regain investors’ confidence in Spain’s
shrinking economy as the nation’s  borrowing costs  approach the
levels that prompted  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek
European bailouts. The premier, in power since Dec. 21, said
yesterday that the country won’t need a bailout and that it is
“not possible to rescue Spain.”  The government is “taking measures every day” to increase
the confidence of investors and European countries in Spain,
Montoro told reporters today.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to 5.97 percent at 3:50
p.m. in  Madrid  from 5.82 percent yesterday, widening the gap
between Spanish and German  borrowing  costs to 424 basis points.
The yield has  surged  from 4.87 percent on March 1 and 5.07
percent the day before Rajoy took over from the former Socialist
government.  ECB Loans  Bonds fell today after Bank of Spain data showed Spanish
banks’ borrowings from the  European Central Bank  surged almost
50 percent in March to 227.6 billion euros ($300 billion), the
most on record. Spanish banks are tapping the emergency ECB
loans and channeling some of them into purchases of sovereign
debt, Treasury data show.  Cash transactions are limited to 2,500 euros between
companies or between an individual and a company and to 15,000
euros for non-residents, Montoro said. Fines of 1,000 euros to
100,000 euros will be levied for failure to comply with tax
inspections.  The tax measures are part of efforts to shrink the
underground economy, which may equal 19 percent of gross
domestic product, according to Friedrich Schneider, an economics
professor at the University of Linz in  Austria  who has studied
unregistered economic activity across  Europe .  Undeclared Assets  The program comes after a decree approved on March 30
allowing tax evaders to pay 10 percent of undeclared assets, a
move designed to raise 2.5 billion euros. The government says
that will help slash the budget  deficit  to 5.3 percent of GDP
this year from last year’s 8.5 percent, even as the economy
contracts and unemployment exceeds 23 percent.  As part of efforts to reduce spending and increase
competitiveness, Education Minister Jose Ignacio Wert said a
committee of experts has been asked to work on an overhaul of
the university system.  Spain spends more on education than the average by
countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The results aren’t satisfactory, considering none
of its universities are ranked internationally and the level of
dropouts is high, Wert said.  The committee will review the number of universities, which
Wert said is very high compared with a U.S. state with a similar
population such as  California , as well as degree programs and
the number of students per course, Wert said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  