-- Starwood Hotels Combines Americas Units, Makes Executive Changes
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-12T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/starwood-hotels-combines-americas-units-makes-executive-changes.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, announced
management changes and said it is combining its operations in
 North America  and  Latin America .  Sergio Rivera, currently president and chief executive
officer of the company’s vacation ownership segment, and Osvaldo Librizzi, president of Starwood Latin America, will become co-
presidents of Starwood Americas, the Stamford, Connecticut-based
hotelier said today in a statement. Starwood also will
incorporate its vacation ownership unit into the Americas
division.  In other changes, Stephen Ho, currently senior vice
president of acquisitions and development for Starwood China,
will become president of the Asia Pacific division. Qian Jin,
head of Starwood’s China operations, will be president of
Greater  China . The appointments take effect July 1.  Starwood, which opened China’s first international-branded
hotel 26 years ago, moved its headquarters to Shanghai for a
month last year to learn more about its second-largest market.
The company has said China may eventually pass the U.S. in hotel
demand.  “The promotions are reflective of where their growth
opportunities are,” said Patrick Scholes, an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets Corp. “ South America  is their fastest-growing
region but also their smallest, and they’ve obviously been very
focused on China and Asia Pacific.”  The job changes coincide with the departures of Matt Avril,
president of the hotel group; Denise Coll, president of Starwood
North America; and Miguel Ko, chairman and president of the
company’s Asia Pacific region. The three executives will stay
through the end of the year to help with the transition, the
company said.  Frits Van Paasschen, Starwood’s president and chief
executive officer, said the “planned retirements” create an
“opportunity to refine our structure to match a changing
marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  