-- State Bank of India to Buy Loans From European Lenders
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-12T04:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/state-bank-of-india-to-buy-loans-from-european-lenders.html
State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest lender, plans to buy loans from banks in the U.S. and
 Europe  to boost its overseas credit assets and profitability.  The lender, based in Mumbai, is seeking to purchase loans
given mostly to Indian companies, Managing Director Hemant Contractor, who heads the bank’s  international operations , said
in an interview yesterday.  Record  net interest margin  for its international loans
encouraged the 205-year-old lender to seek the acquisitions and
expand the business, Contractor said. Credit at State Bank’s
overseas offices expanded 21 percent last year compared with a
17 percent increase at its local unit, the bank said on Feb. 13.  “Being a state-run lender they have better access to
dollar funding which gives them confidence that they will be
able to widen the margins further,”said Saikiran Pulavarthi,
Mumbai-based banking analyst at Espirito Santo Securities.  State Bank  rose 2.2 percent to 2,207 rupees as of 9:52 a.m.
in Mumbai. The shares has risen 25 percent in the past six
months.  European banks are trying to sell 2.5 trillion euros ($3.3
trillion) of assets as they seek to cut balance sheets,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a report on Feb. 3. While the
total amount of their bad loans has remained stable at about 518
billion euros in the past year, increases in Spain, Greece and
 Italy  are offsetting reductions in Germany and Ireland, PwC
said.  ‘Opportunity to Buy’  “Shedding of assets by European and some American lenders
in the aftermath of the crisis gives us an opportunity to buy
them selectively,” Contractor said.  State Bank (SBIN)  had 174 branches overseas as of Dec. 31,
accounting for more than 16 percent of its 8.7 trillion-rupee
($169 billion) loan book, the lender  said .  Net interest margin on international loans will widen from
a record 1.77 percent as the cost of dollar funding narrows,
Contractor said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, the biggest
shareholder in State Bank, plans to invest 79 billion rupees in
the lender to boost its risk buffers. Shareholders of the bank
approved the sale of preference stock to the government last
month, ending a two-year wait for the funds.  The cost of protecting the debt of State Bank of  India 
against default fell 49 basis points this year to 346, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay
face value if a company defaults on its repayment obligations.  The lender will sell medium-term notes to raise up to $1
billion after May, Contractor said.  The bank is also looking to “selectively” finance
repayment of Indian foreign-currency convertible bonds that are
coming up this year, Contractor said. Indian companies will have
to repay $5.3 billion of convertible bonds in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 