-- Stocks in Switzerland Climb, Snapping Five Days of Losses
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-04-12T15:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/stocks-in-switzerland-climb-snapping-five-days-of-losses.html
Swiss stocks  climbed the most in a
month as signs the  Federal Reserve  will keep  interest rates  low
outweighed an unexpected increase in U.S. initial jobless claims
and a rise in Italy’s borrowing costs at a debt sale.  Holcim Ltd. gained 2.9 percent after Russian oligarch
Filaret Galchev-Kaltsidis increased his stake in the world’s
second-biggest cement maker.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and Swatch Group
AG advanced at least 1.5 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of  Switzerland ’s largest
and most actively traded companies, rose 1.1 percent to 6,125.39
at the close in Zurich, the biggest jump since March 13. The
gauge has retreated for the past three weeks as borrowing costs
rose in  Spain  and the Federal Reserve indicated that it will
hold off from making further asset purchases. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also gained 1.1 percent today.  “Investors are currently trying to interpret the Fed’s
message last night in a positive way, and on the other hand
being attentive as  Italy ’s bond sale reminds them that we’re
still in an environment where one needs to be cautious,” said
John Plassard, director at Louis Capital Markets SA in Geneva.  The number of shares changing hands on the SMI today was 13
percent higher than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the view that
borrowing costs will probably stay low through 2014 as the
central bank misses its goal for full employment and inflation
remains in check.  ‘Modest to Moderate’  The Fed said the  U.S. economy , the world’s biggest,
maintained its expansion in all 12 of the central bank’s regions
as manufacturing, hiring and retail sales showed signs of
strength last month.  “The economy continued to expand at a modest to moderate
pace from mid-February through late March,” the Fed said in its
Beige Book business survey published late yesterday, two weeks
before the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets to set monetary
policy.  A U.S. Labor Department report showed that more Americans
than forecast filed  initial applications for jobless benefits 
last week, a sign the pace of improvement in the labor market is
slowing. Claims rose to 380,000, the highest since Jan. 28, from
a revised 367,000 the previous week.  Economists predicted  a drop
to 355,000 in a Bloomberg survey. On April 6, a report showed
U.S. employers added fewer workers than forecast.  Italy’s Debt Auction  Italy’s  borrowing costs  jumped at a sale of 4.88 billion
euros ($6.4 billion) of bonds amid concern that Spain’s deficit
woes have rekindled the region’s debt crisis. The Treasury sold
the three-year notes at an average yield of 3.89 percent, the
highest since January and up from 2.76 percent at the previous
auction on March 14.  Investors bid for 1.43 times the amount offered, down from
1.56 times last month. The Treasury also sold 2 billion euros of
bonds due in 2015, 2020 and 2023. The auction’s maximum target
was 5 billion euros.  Holcim (HOLN)  gained 2.9 percent to 57.60 Swiss francs. Filaret
Galchev-Kaltsidis has invested 100 million francs ($109 million)
in the cement maker, raising his stake to 10.8 percent from 10.1
percent, Handelszeitung reported, citing Thierry Sauvaire, who
heads Galchev-Kaltsidis’s Zurich-based Eurocement Holding AG.  Roche Gains  Roche climbed 1.6 percent to 156.70 francs. The world’s
largest maker of cancer drugs said first-quarter sales declined
1 percent, hurt by pricing pressure in  Europe  and the strength
of the Swiss franc.  Revenue dropped to 11 billion francs from 11.1 billion
francs a year earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-based company
said. Analysts had predicted 11.1 billion francs, the  average of
eight estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Roche doesn’t release
quarterly earnings.  Roche indicated late yesterday that it is willing to raise
a $51-a-share bid for Illumina Inc., calling its current offer a
“more than reasonable starting point for negotiations” in a
letter to Illumina’s shareholders.  Swatch Advances  Swatch (UHR)  rallied 3.1 percent to 427 francs, the most in more
than a month. The world’s biggest watchmaker said it will
acquire 100 percent of the shares of Simon Et Membrez SA in
Delémont, Switzerland. The company’s CEO, Philippe Membrez,
Etienne Membrez and Didier Membrez currently own the securities.  Swatch also said it will purchase a related 60 percent
holding in Termiboîtes SA in Courtemaîche.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  advanced 1.6 percent to 101.10 francs as
Morgan Stanley raised its price estimate for the hearing-aid
maker by 38 percent to 106 francs.  Transocean Ltd. (RIGN)  fell 1.4 percent to 45.08 francs. The
world’s largest offshore drilling company asked a U.S. judge to
block the U.S. Chemical Safety Board’s investigation of the
fatal explosion of the Deepwater Horizon platform. Transocean
claimed that the agency lacks authority to probe offshore rig
disasters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  