-- Subway-Stop Ad Blitz Targets SEC Money-Market Fund Rule Writers
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-12T18:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/subway-stop-ad-blitz-targets-sec-money-market-fund-rule-writers.html
The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  is
bringing its opposition to money market fund regulation right to
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Beginning next week the business lobby will take over the
advertising space inside the Union Station Metro stop in
 Washington , where many of the agency’s employees arrive for work
each morning. The so-called station domination ad buy will
consist of more than 30 posters, banners and “backlit
dioramas” on the train platforms, above fare card machines and
even on the floor.  Featuring large, colorful question marks, the ads argue
that money market funds are “strong,” and ask, “why risk
changing them now?”  David Hirschmann, a chamber official, said the effort is
part of a campaign to highlight questions that business wants to
ask regulators about the need for additional rules. Blanketing
the SEC’s Metro station with the bright purple and orange
placards wasn’t an accident, he said.  “We certainly want to get the attention of those who are
capable of giving us the answers,” said Hirschmann, who is
president of the chamber’s Center for Capital Markets
Competitiveness.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has pushed for the new rules as
one of her top priorities, arguing that changes are needed to
stabilize the funds and prevent mass withdrawals like those in
2008 that contributed to the financial crisis. Much of the $2.6
trillion industry is opposed to additional regulation.  Dissent Slowing Work  Internal dissent within the commission has slowed the
agency’s work on the issue. With the SEC’s two Republican
members publicly opposed to additional regulations, Schapiro has
been courting Democratic commissioner  Luis Aguilar  to ensure she
has a majority vote to issue a plan that could increase  capital
requirements  for the funds or allow their traditional $1 share
price to fluctuate.  Aguilar, who rides the Metro to work, remains uncommitted.  “We look forward to putting the subway station into the
public comment file,” said  John Nester , an SEC spokesman.  In an interview, Hirschmann said the chamber doesn’t know
if the SEC employees working on the rule use the Union Station
stop for the Metro. While he declined to reveal the cost of the
campaign, he said it will continue as the SEC gets closer to
issuing its proposal, which is expected in the coming weeks.  The chamber also brought corporate treasurers to Washington
to meet with policy makers on the issue earlier this year and
has set up a website,  www.AskTheRegulators.com .  The regulation is opposed by major mutual fund firms,
including  Fidelity Investments  and Vanguard Group Inc. While the
chamber’s members include about 40 mutual-fund companies,
Hirschmann said that opposition extends to non-financial
companies that use the funds to manage their cash for meeting
short-term expenses.  Funds’ ‘Vital Role’  “When you are managing your week-to-week and day-to-day
cash flow, money-funds play a vital role,” Hirschmann said. The
chamber’s involvement “shows the intensity we feel about how
fundamental  money market funds  are to broader American
business.”  Once seen as among the safest of investments, money market
funds rose to the top of regulators’ concerns after the
September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund. Its troubles triggered a broader run that calmed only when
the Treasury Department temporarily guaranteed shareholders
against losses and the Fed began buying fund assets at face
value to help them meet redemptions.  The funds are used by millions of U.S. households and
companies as a vehicle for parking cash that can be quickly
accessed for paying bills. They also help investment managers
hold on to customers as they shift funds between asset classes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 