-- Swiss Bank Data, FSA Return-Estimates Rule, J&J: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-12T11:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/swiss-bank-data-fsa-return-estimates-rule-j-j-case-compliance.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  can’t
disclose a client’s account data to U.S. tax authorities because
a request for assistance last year addressed only  tax evasion ,
which isn’t covered by a 1996 treaty, a Swiss court ruled.  The “search criteria” for the identification of bank
clients “are formulated in terms encompassing above all mere
tax evasion, for which administrative assistance cannot be
granted,” the  Federal Administrative Court  said in a April 5
ruling published yesterday.  The court’s decision follows an appeal by a Credit Suisse
client. That came after Switzerland’s second-biggest bank last
November told some customers that the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service had sent a request on Sept. 26, via the Swiss Federal
Tax Administration, for the names of Americans with accounts
owned through a “domiciliary company.”  Switzerland and the U.S. are holding talks to resolve an
investigation involving 11 Swiss financial firms, including
Credit Suisse, after the Department of Justice indicted Wegelin
& Co. on Feb. 2 for allegedly helping customers hide money from
the IRS. Switzerland, the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth, is trying to shed its image as a haven for undeclared
assets following a crackdown on tax evasion by U.S. authorities.  Beat Furrer, a spokesman for the Swiss Federal Tax
Administration, declined to comment on the court ruling.  Marc
Dosch , a spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse, declined to
comment on the judgment or its possible impact.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Pension, Insurance Firms Must Reduce Return Estimates, FSA Says  Firms selling pension and life insurance products must
reduce the estimates of returns they use to market them by at
least 0.5 percent, the U.K. financial services regulator said
yesterday.  The London-based  Financial Services Authority  said firms
must reduce average estimates of a 7 percent rate of return for
investment products that are a mix of equities and bonds to
between 5.5 percent and 6.5 percent, based on the results of  a
study  by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The projected returns are
“reasonable central estimates over a 10-15 year time period,”
the report said.  PwC carried out the last review of so-called projection
rates in 2007, keeping them steady about a year before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the start of a
financial crisis that would plunge many Western countries into
recession.  Rosengren Says U.S. Money Funds Threaten Financial Stability  Money-market funds in the U.S. may be taking excessive
risks that pose a threat to financial stability by holding
European debt whose value could decline if the region’s crisis
worsened, said Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric
Rosengren .  “A significant source of the credit risk in many prime
money market funds over the past year has been the large
exposure to European banks,” Rosengren said at Stone Mountain,
Georgia, yesterday. In evaluating “risk from unexpected
problems in  Europe , money-market funds remain an important
potential transmission channel to the United States,” he said.  Rosengren presented the most detailed public argument yet
by a Fed official on the need for new money fund rules, which
regulators and executives have debated since Reserve Primary
Fund’s collapse in 2008. He endorsed proposals by staff at the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to reduce risk by
requiring firms to maintain capital buffers or to redeem shares
at the market value of underlying assets rather than at a fixed
price of $1. His comments echoed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who
called this week for additional steps to curb “shadow banking”
operating beyond standard oversight.  For more, click here, and see Interviews section, below.  U.S. Swap Regulators Said to Weigh Dealer Line Above $3 Billion  U.S. derivatives regulators are considering setting a
threshold above $3 billion for determining which banks, hedge
funds and energy firms are swap dealers under the Dodd-Frank
Act, according to two people briefed on the rule.  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  and  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  are debating when the aggregate gross
notional value of a company’s dealing business requires
registration as a swap-dealer, according to the people who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the rulemaking process isn’t
public. The agencies first proposed a $100-million threshold in
2010, then considered this year setting a $3 billion rule and
are debating a threshold as high as $8 billion, the people said.  The CFTC and SEC are required by Dodd-Frank, the 2010
regulatory overhaul, to determine when companies are dealers and
should face the highest capital and collateral requirements. The
law was intended to reduce risk and increase transparency in the
$708 trillion global swaps market after largely unregulated
trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Shell Energy North America LP and Vitol Inc. are among
energy companies that have told the CFTC the dealer rule is too
broad and limits their ability to use derivatives to hedge risks
tied to oil, natural gas and other underlying assets.  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.
 Steve Adamske , a spokesman for the CFTC, didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Swap-dealer regulation is among the most contentious
measures required by Dodd-Frank, prompting hundreds of meetings
and comment letters to the CFTC. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  control 95 percent of cash and derivatives trading
for U.S. bank holding companies as of Dec. 31, according to the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Japan’s Financial Agency to Revamp Bank Risk Regulations  Japan’s  Financial Services Agency  yesterday began debate on
reduction of bank credit risk and how best to improve depositor
protection, BNA reported.  The topics covered include a review of regulations on,
credit extensions, foreign banks’ deposit insurance, and other
rules affecting banks and insurance providers. Regulations
impacting mergers and acquisitions will also be reviewed.  The first meeting to review new rules for banks and
insurance providers was held by the FSA’s top policy commission,
the Financial Study Council. Debate is expected to continue
through the end of 2012 for drafting amendments to the Banking
Law, the Insurance Law, and other related laws for submission to
the 2013 regular parliament, known as the Diet.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Beltone Financial Unit Acquires U.K. Investment Advising License  Beltone Financial Holding (BTFH) , an Egyptian investment bank,
said one of its units has acquired a license from the London-
based Financial Services Authority, allowing it to advise
investors in the U.K. and euro zone on investing in the  Middle
East .  The firm expects to finalize seven to eight merger and
acquisition deals by the end of this year valued at $3 billion
to $4 billion, Chairman Aladdin Saba said in an interview in
Cairo yesterday.  Beltone Financial advanced to the highest intraday level in
three weeks after the Egyptian investment bank said it will
expand in Europe.  SEC Sues AutoChina International and 11 Investors  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission charged that
 AutoChina International Ltd. (AUTCF)  and 11 investors conducted a  market
manipulation scheme  to create the false appearance of a liquid
and active market for AutoChina’s stock.  AutoChina senior executive and director Hui Kai Yan, a
former AutoChina manager, and others fraudulently traded
AutoChina’s stock to boost its daily trading volume, the SEC
said yesterday in a statement.  Japan’s SESC to Recommend Fine for Olympus, Yomiuri Reports  Japan’s  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission 
plans to recommend Olympus pay a 200m yen ($2.4m) fine for
falsifying financial statements, the Yomiuri newspaper reported,
without citing a source for the information.  The commission plans to make a recommendation to the
Financial Services Agency today.  Apple, Four Publishers Seek to Settle EU’s E-Book Probe  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology company, and
four publishers may be able to settle a European Union probe
into digital book sales similar to one that resulted in a U.S.
lawsuit.  Apple,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Harper
Collins, Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan
unit and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre sent “possible
commitments” to the European Commission, EU Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The EU will review the offers with competitors to see
if they would address antitrust issues.  The U.S. Department of Justice sued Apple, Macmillan and
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin in  New York  yesterday, claiming the
publishers colluded to fix eBook prices.  Simon & Schuster (0000817D) ,
Hachette and HarperCollins reached settlements with the DOJ.  The European Commission opened a probe into Cupertino,
California-based Apple, the four publishers and Penguin in
December to examine the iPad-maker’s deals with publishers and
the publishers’ deals with retailers.  “We are in active and productive discussions” with the
EU, Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for Simon & Schuster in New York,
said in an e-mail. Siobhan Kenny, a spokeswoman for
HarperCollins in London, declined to comment because the company
is still negotiating details of the settlement with regulators.  Penguin wasn’t mentioned in the EU statement on the
possible settlement. Charles Goldsmith, a spokesman for Pearson
in London, declined to immediately comment.  Spokespersons for Apple and Verlagsgruppe Georg von
Holtzbrinck declined to comment. Hachette didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls and e-mails.  Courts  J&J’s Marketing of Risperdal Violated Law, Arkansas Jury Rules  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials misled Arkansas doctors and
patients about the risks of the antipsychotic drug Risperdal,
and the company’s marketing campaign violated consumer-
protection laws, a jury ruled.  Jurors in state court in Little Rock, Arkansas, April 10
found J&J and its Janssen unit engaged in “false or deceptive
acts” by sending a 2003 letter touting  Risperdal  as safer than
competing drugs to more than 6,000 doctors across the state. The
state is seeking more than $1.25 billion in penalties over the
Risperdal marketing campaign, and a judge will decide later
whether to fine J&J.  It’s the third jury verdict against J&J, the  second-biggest 
maker of health products, in cases where states alleged the
drugmaker hid Risperdal’s risks and tricked Medicaid regulators
into paying more than they should have for the medicine.
Louisiana and South Carolina juries also found the company’s
Risperdal marketing violated consumer-protection laws.  Teresa Mueller, a spokeswoman for J&J’s Janssen unit, said
the drugmaker was disappointed with the Arkansas jury’s ruling.  “It is our position that an individual state should not
penalize a pharmaceutical company for using an FDA-approved
package insert or decide for itself whether a company complies
with FDA rules,” Mueller said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. Justice Department is demanding that J&J pay about
$1.8 billion to resolve the civil claims by federal regulators
and some state attorneys general, people familiar with the
settlement talks said this month.  The case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit Court
(Little Rock) Arkansas.  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Pulls Appeal of $59 Billion UniCredit Ruling  The liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm withdrew a notice
of appeal of a court ruling that tossed most of his $59 billion
in claims against  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Sonja Kohn and other
defendants, leaving in place earlier appeals seeking to recover
about $30 billion in damages from banks.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  gave notice to a U.S. appeals
court in Manhattan last month that he might appeal U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff’s February ruling in the case. Rakoff dismissed
Picard’s claims under the racketeering statute, which allows for
triple damages, saying he couldn’t prove his allegations.  Picard had $90 billion in claims before the appeals court,
out of about $100 billion he had demanded in more than 1,000
suits to gather money for customers with Madoff Ponzi scheme
losses. Rakoff and another district judge, Colleen McMahon,
dismissed the claims in Picard’s suits against banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and UniCredit,
which is a defendant in the HSBC case as well as the Kohn suit.  Rakoff also dismissed common-law claims including unjust
enrichment and conversion. He directed that the remaining claims
be returned to bankruptcy court.  Marco Schnabl, a lawyer for UniCredit, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the withdrawal of the appeal in
the racketeering case. Picard spokeswoman Amanda Remus didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-CV-1181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Pennsylvania Man Gets 33 Years in Prison for Ponzi Scheme  Robert Stinson Jr., 56, who admitted his role in a $17.6
million Ponzi scheme that defrauded 260 investors, was sentenced
to more than 33 years in prison by a federal judge.  Stinson, of Berwyn, Pennsylvania, pleaded guilty last year
to 26 charges including wire and mail fraud, money laundering
and bank fraud, according to U.S. Justice Department officials.  U.S. District Judge Michael Baylson April 10 also ordered
Stinson to pay $14 million in restitution.  Officials said Stinson used some of the proceeds to buy two
Mercedes-Benz sedans, and falsely told investors he was a
graduate of Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  The case is U.S. v. Stinson, 10-cr-00724; a related lawsuit
is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stinson, 2:10-cv-3130,
both in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  Shadow Banking on Trial as China’s Rich Sister Faces Death  The death sentence imposed by a Chinese court on Wu Ying,
known in China as “Rich Sister,” for taking $55.7 million from
investors without paying them back, has sparked an unexpected
firestorm drawing in China’s top leadership.  Wu was 28 when she was sentenced to death. Her crime
involved a common, illegal practice in China: raising money from
the public with promises to pay back high  interest rates . Known
as shadow banking, these underground lending and investing
networks are estimated to total $1.3 trillion, according to Ren
Xianfang, an economist with  IHS Global Insight Ltd. (IHS)  in Beijing.
That’s the size of the 2011 U.S. government  deficit .  Operating outside the banking system or government
regulation, the informal networks provide an important source of
economic growth,  capital  for private companies and return for
investors seeking to beat inflation. Premier Wen Jiabao, in an
unusual move, weighed in on the Wu case at a March 14 news
conference.  Wu’s lawyer says his client, now 30, did not commit fraud.
The Supreme People’s Court is reviewing the 2009 verdict.  Shadow banking has been fueled by a two-year credit squeeze
in China and by large, state-owned banks’ preference for lending
to government-run companies rather than small businesses. At
least 17 people, including Wu, now sit on death row after being
sentenced for illegally raising funds from individuals,
according to Chinese media reports compiled by Bloomberg since
2009.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Lockhart Says Smart Regulation Is the ‘Holy Grail’  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart
spoke about the need to work toward smarter regulation that
reduces the risks to financial stability.  He spoke during closing remarks at an Atlanta Fed
conference in Stone Mountain, Georgia.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 