-- Syrian Truce Tested Amid Reports Army Fires at Protests
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-04-13T14:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/syrian-truce-to-be-tested-on-day-of-prayers-and-protest.html
The United Nations-brokered cease-
fire in  Syria  is being tested by nationwide protests against
President Bashar al-Assad after Friday prayers, with reports of
attacks on demonstrators in several regions.  At least seven people were killed as clashes broke out in
areas including Idlib and Aleppo in the north, Hama in central
Syria and Daraa in the south, the Local Coordination Committees,
an umbrella opposition group, said by e-mail. Security forces
used tear gas and explosives and arrested protesters, and about
30 activists were arrested in Idlib, it said.  The rebel Free Syrian Army came under shellfire today in
Idlib province, near the Turkish border, and one of its
positions was captured, according to Al Arabiya television. The
two sides exchanged fire, the Coordination Committees said.  The cease-fire that took effect yesterday has eased the
violence in Syria, where the death toll has often exceeded 100 a
day and reached 9,000 in the 13 months since the uprising began.
A prolonged lull may allow peacekeepers to be sent to the
country, while failure of the cease-fire may encourage calls for
international military intervention.  Assad, 46, is fighting for the survival of his Alawite
family’s four-decade hold on power. While more than 70 percent
of Syria’s population is Sunni, Assad and the ruling elite are
in a minority, belonging to an offshoot of the Shiite branch of
Islam that predominates in Iran and which stands to lose
privileges should he fall.  ‘Extremely Tenuous’  “The situation in Syria is extremely tenuous right now,”
 Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , said in an interview. “What you have at the moment
appears to be a quiet more than the truce called for” by United
Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan  in his six-point peace plan.  Syria’s  Interior Ministry  urged citizens who have fled
their homes to escape “crimes by terrorist groups” to return,
the official Syrian Arab News Agency said today.  The UN  Security Council  is scheduled to vote today on a
resolution to send 30 unarmed observers to monitor the cease-
fire. U.S. Ambassador to the UN  Susan Rice  said the relative
calm in Syria is a “very fragile and initial opening.”  At least a million people in Syria “remain in need of
urgent humanitarian help,” the UN’s emergency relief
coordinator,  Valerie Amos , said in an e-mailed statement today.
She said it’s “extremely important that negotiations to enable
humanitarian organizations in Syria to deliver aid remain
separate from other efforts to resolve the crisis.”  ‘Further Steps’  The Security Council, the UN’s decision-making body,
“expresses its intention to consider further steps in the event
of non-implementation of relevant commitments,” according to a
draft resolution obtained by Bloomberg. The text is still under
negotiation.  Rami  Abdel Rahman , the London-based head of the  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights , said the return to calm should
allow protesters “to prove their size and their strength.”  Yet as Syrians take to the streets, the question remains
whether soldiers will stand back and let demonstrations happen.
There hasn’t been the pullback of troops and heavy weapons from
cities required under Annan’s plan, opposition groups say.  Soldiers have remained in some cities disguised as police
or civilians, Colonel Riad al-Asaad, leader of the Free Syrian
Army, told Kuwait’s Al Rai newspaper.  ‘Not a Menu’  “The Annan plan is not a menu of options,” U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  told reporters yesterday in  Washington .
“It is a set of obligations. The burden of fully and visibly
meeting all of these obligations continues to rest with the
regime. They cannot pick and choose.”  As the conflict entered its second year, violence has bled
into Lebanon and  Turkey , which has said it may call on fellow
NATO countries to reinforce its border after Syrian soldiers
fired across the frontier at refugees trying to escape.  Turkey has begun receiving international aid for the Syrian
refugees now on its territory, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu 
told reporters in Istanbul today. They currently number about
25,000, three times as many as at the end of 2011.  Iran  and Sunni-led  Saudi Arabia  are also battling for
influence in Syria, with the Gulf monarchy standing to benefit
from a leadership change.  Russian Role  Russia , on the other hand, is invested in the survival of a
Soviet-era ally, selling Assad weapons during the 13-month
uprising. Moscow leaned on the Syrian government to accept the
terms of a cease-fire and allow UN monitors into the country.  “Russia played an extremely important role in creating the
conditions for Mr. Annan’s mission to move ahead,” Russian
Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin told reporters. “You should
give us credit.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , who met with
Clinton in Washington, said the presence of independent
observers in Syria is “very important” in case of
“provocations.”  The UN has had monitors and political officers in the
 Middle East  since the 1940s and in other regions, with the most
recent experience being a group of 180 observers sent to oversee
the end of the civil war in Nepal.  The UN presence in Syria may involve 200 to 250 personnel,
covering a much larger country, according to Richard Gowan,
associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace operations at
the New York University Center for International Cooperation.  “It will be very hard to establish a robust monitoring
presence in Syria if violent incidents continue,” Gowan said in
an e-mail. “UN planners will be concerned about keeping their
personnel safe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  