-- Syria Violence Halts as Assad Observes UN’s Ceasefire
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-12T08:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/syria-violence-halts-as-assad-observes-un-s-ceasefire.html
Violence came to a halt across most
of  Syria , according to activists, after President Bashar al- Assad pledged to observe a  United Nations  brokered cease-fire.  The streets were “quiet” this morning with no reports of
major violence, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Damascus-based Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said in a telephone interview.
There is “complete calm across Syria” except for a few
explosions in the capital as the cease-fire went into effect at
6 a.m., Rami Abdel Rahman of the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said in a telephone interview from  London .  The reports were contested by the Syrian National Council
and television stations. Syria’s army breached the cease-fire in
some parts of the country, Burhan Ghalioun, leader of the main
opposition alliance, told  Al Arabiya . The channel reported
shootings in the town of Saraqib, while  Al Jazeera  cited attacks
in the northern province of Idlib.  Assad’s crackdown on protests that started peacefully in
March last year has left more than 9,000 people dead. The UN
envoy to Syria,  Kofi Annan , brokered the cease-fire as part of a
six-point peace plan that won backing from Russia and China.
Those two countries had vetoed earlier efforts by the U.S. and
its European and Arab allies to pass a UN Security Council
resolution calling for Assad to cede power.  Democratic Elections  “We hope that calm will continue to prevail so that we
reach a phase where we have democratic legislative, local and
presidential elections, under international supervision, without
any bloodshed,”  Abdel Rahman  said. “The Syrian authorities
should now start releasing detainees, which are between 25,000
and 30,000.”  The Syrian government pledged to “cease all military
fighting” as of 6 a.m. local time, according to a letter from
the foreign ministry released by Annan’s office.  Syria’s army ended operations this morning after carrying
out “successful missions in combating criminal acts by armed
terrorist groups,” the official Syrian Arab News Agency
 reported , citing a Defense Ministry official it didn’t identify.
It said the army will stay on alert “to confront any attack by
armed terrorist groups against civilians, law-enforcement
members, the armed forces and private and public facilities.”  ‘Possible Violations’  The Syrian government is “absolutely” committed to the
cease-fire, Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi said in an
interview with the  BBC ’s Radio 4 today. “We do want monitors to
come as soon as possible to monitor any possible violations.”  As many as 160 people have been killed daily since Assad
agreed to Annan’s plan on March 27, according to the Local
Coordinating Committees of Syria, an opposition group.  Western diplomats have expressed skepticism about Assad’s
pledge to abide by the cease-fire. U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice
said yesterday that Syria’s commitments “have little if any
credibility.”  Turkey  warned that it may call on fellow NATO countries to
reinforce its border with Syria, after Syrian troops fired
across the frontier at refugees trying to escape. Turkey may
invoke a NATO article defining an attack on one member as an
attack on the alliance requiring a collective response, Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters during a visit to
 China , according to Sabah newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 