-- Syrians Take to Streets in Test of Annan Cease-Fire Plan
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-04-12T18:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/syrians-take-to-streets-in-test-of-annan-cease-fire-plan.html
Syrians took to the streets to
demonstrate against President Bashar al-Assad, emboldened by a
cease-fire as the  United Nations  prepared to deploy monitors to
help sustain a fragile peace.  The 6 a.m. cease-fire was holding with only a few isolated
reports of gunfire and explosions in the north and east,
compared with a death toll that has often exceeded 100 a day and
claimed more than 9,000 lives since the uprising began.  “The return to calm should allow the demonstrators to
prove their size and their strength,” Rami Abdel Rahman, the
London-based head of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights,
said in a telephone interview.  UN special envoy  Kofi Annan , who negotiated the truce, said
“Syria is apparently experiencing a rare moment of calm on the
ground.” At the same time, Annan and U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said Assad has failed to comply with all his
obligations in a six-point peace plan, including the pullout of
troops and heavy weapons from cities.  “The Annan plan is not a menu of options,” Clinton told
reporters in  Washington . “It is a set of obligations. The
burden of fully and visibly meeting all of these obligations
continues to rest with the regime. They cannot pick and
choose.”  At Annan’s request, the UN Security Council, its  decision-
making body, will adopt a resolution as soon as tomorrow to
deploy a monitoring mission. An advance team of about 30 UN
observers will head to Syria within 48 hours to test the waters
before deploying a bigger monitoring mission, according to a
Council diplomat speaking on condition of anonymity because the
negotiations are private.  Assad’s Survival  At stake for Assad is the survival of his family’s four-
decade hold on power.  Syria ’s top officials are members of the
Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shia Islam, which is a minority in
Syria and whose privileged status may be at risk should they be
toppled. Syria also threatens to become a proxy battleground
between Sunni-led  Saudi Arabia  and Shiite-majority  Iran , while
violence has spilled over into Lebanon and Turkey.  Syria’s army breached the cease-fire in some parts of the
country, Burhan Ghalioun, leader of the main opposition
alliance, told  Al Arabiya . Government troops killed 11 people
today, according to the television channel.  Annan’s peace plan won backing from Russia and  China , two
countries that had vetoed earlier efforts by the U.S. and its
European and Arab allies to pass a  Security Council  resolution
calling for Assad to cede power.  Russian Influence  Russia used its influence on Syria, a Soviet-era ally, to
lean on Assad to agree to a cease-fire. Moscow is invested in
the survival of Assad, selling him weapons during the uprising.
Its only military base outside the former  Soviet Union  is a
naval maintenance and supply center in the Syrian port of Tartus
on the Mediterranean Sea.  “Russia played an extremely important role in creating the
conditions for Mr. Annan’s mission to move ahead,” Russian
Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin, told reporters. “You
should give us credit. We have every right to be given credit.”  Syria’s army ended operations this morning after carrying
out “successful missions in combating criminal acts by armed
terrorist groups,” the official Syrian Arab News Agency
 reported , citing a Defense Ministry official it didn’t identify.
It said the army will stay on alert “to confront any attack by
armed terrorist groups against civilians, law-enforcement
members, the armed forces and private and public facilities.”  Syria ‘Absolutely’ Committed  The Syrian government is “absolutely” committed to the
cease-fire, Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi said in an
interview with the  BBC ’s Radio 4 today. “We do want monitors to
come as soon as possible to monitor any possible violations.”  As many as 160 people have been killed daily since Assad
agreed to Annan’s plan on March 27, according to the Local
Coordinating Committees of Syria, an opposition group.  Western diplomats have expressed skepticism about Assad’s
pledge to abide by the cease-fire. U.S. Ambassador to the UN
 Susan Rice  called the truce a “very fragile and initial
opening.”  “Today we saw for the first time in a long time a positive
step that we hope will be sustained,” Rice, currently president
of the Security Council, told reporters.  Turkey  warned that it may call on fellow NATO countries to
reinforce its border with Syria, after Syrian troops fired
across the frontier at refugees trying to escape.  Turkey may invoke a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
article defining an attack on one member as an attack on the
alliance requiring a collective response, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters during a visit to China, according
to Sabah newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  