-- U.K. Stocks Gain as Fed Says U.S. Economy Still Growing
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-04-12T16:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-k-stocks-drop-as-shell-falls-on-investigation-of-sheen.html
U.K. (UKX)  stocks gained after the
 Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  continues to expand and
amid speculation that a report in  China  tomorrow may show the
world’s second-largest economy grew faster-than-forecast.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  pared a decline of as much as 5.5
percent today, to close 0.8 percent lower. Europe’s largest oil
producer said it has a “high degree of confidence” that its
operations aren’t the source of an oil sheen in the Gulf of
Mexico.  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  gained 3.1 percent after reporting a 21
percent increase in underlying revenue in the first quarter.
Hays Plc jumped after forecasting full-year operating profit.  The FTSE 100 Index advanced 75.72 points, or 1.3 percent,
to 5,710.46 at the close in  London , rebounding from an earlier
retreat of as much as 0.6 percent. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index gained 1.4 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
increased 1.8 percent.  “Rumors of a stronger Chinese gross domestic product
number certainly put a rocket under the FTSE 100 today, but this
of course runs the risk of disappointment tomorrow,” said Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in London. “The bulls
seem to be fractionally more powerful, having pulled markets
back from the post-Easter selloff.”  More Americans than forecast filed claims for jobless
benefits last week.  Jobless claims  increased 13,000 in the week
ended April 7 to 380,000, the most since January, the Labor
Department reported today in  Washington . The  median forecast  in
a Bloomberg News survey had called for 355,000 claims.  Fed’s Beige Book  The Fed said yesterday that the world’s biggest economy
maintained its expansion in all 12 of the central bank’s regions
as manufacturing, hiring and retail sales showed signs of
strength last month.  “The economy continued to expand at a modest to moderate
pace from mid-February through late March,” the Fed said in its
Beige Book business survey published late yesterday, two weeks
before the Federal Open Market Committee meets to debate
monetary policy.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central bank’s
view that borrowing costs will probably stay low through 2014.  “I consider a highly accommodative policy stance to be
appropriate in present circumstances,” Yellen said yesterday in
a speech in  New York . She also said that allowing the Fed’s
program to extend the maturity of the assets on its balance
sheet to expire in June wouldn’t amount to a policy tightening.  China’s GDP  China, the world’s largest consumer of copper, will publish
its  first-quarter GDP  release tomorrow. The report may show the
economy expanded 8.4 percent from a year earlier, slowing from
the fourth quarter’s  8.9 percent increase , according to a survey
of economists. The World Bank today cut its estimate for 2012
Chinese growth to 8.2 percent.  Shell retreated 0.8 percent to 2,125 pence as the oil
producer investigated the source of a “light sheen” of oil in
the Gulf of Mexico.  Aggreko rose 3.1 percent to 2,226 pence after posting
increased sales and saying that its order intake remains strong.  Hays (HAS)  rallied 8.9 percent to 88.5 pence after forecasting
full-year operating profit toward the top end of analysts’
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  