-- U.K. Trade Gap Widened as Car Exports Dropped to U.S., China
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-12T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-k-trade-gap-widened-as-car-exports-dropped-to-u-s-china.html
The U.K. trade deficit widened to
the most in three months in February as exports of cars and
heavy machinery fell, especially to the U.S.,  China  and  Russia .  The goods-trade gap widened to 8.77 billion pounds ($14 
billion) from a revised 7.88 billion pounds in January, the Office
for National Statistics said today in  London . The median of 18 
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of 7.65 
billion pounds. Exports fell 3.4 percent while imports were 
unchanged.  Prime Minister David Cameron is in  Asia  this week, leading
a trade and diplomatic mission seeking to boost commercial ties
with the region. The government hopes exports can bolster the
British economy as manufacturers cope with rising unemployment
and inflation that’s reducing demand at home.  “Concern persists that U.K. exports will be limited in the
near term at least by muted global growth,”  Howard Archer , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said before the
report. “Meanwhile, moderate domestic demand is likely to limit
U.K. imports over the coming months.”  Britain’s trade deficit with countries outside the European
Union widened to 5.02 billion pounds in February from 3.72
billion pounds in January. Exports to those countries fell by
8.8 percent to 11.7 billion pounds.  The gap with EU nations narrowed to 3.76 billion pounds
from 4.17 billion pounds.  PV Crystalox Solar Plc, a maker of solar-power components
based in Abingdon, England, reported a full-year net loss on
March 28 and canceled its dividend due to “very challenging”
market conditions.  While  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  still says the
U.K.’s predicament feels “like a crisis,” policy makers kept
the central bank’s asset-purchase plan unchanged last week as
they awaited new forecasts for growth and inflation due next
month. The British Chambers of Commerce said April 3 that the
U.K. will probably avoid a recession, though the recovery
remains “weak.”  Nevertheless, U.K. manufacturing growth unexpectedly
accelerated in March to the fastest in 10 months, Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
said in a report last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  