-- U.K. Home Prices Rose in March on Tax Holiday, Academetrics Says
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-04-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-k-home-prices-rose-in-march-on-tax-holiday-academetrics-says.html
U.K. house prices rose for a fourth
month in March as a “rush” to buy before the expiry of a tax
holiday on some home purchases boosted demand, Acadametrics Ltd.
and  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  rose 0.2
percent from February to 221,543 pounds ($353,000), the groups
said in an e-mailed report in  London  today. From a year earlier,
values fell 1.3 percent, matching February’s annual fall.  “Given that the holiday was saving first-time buyers
between 1,000 pounds and 2,500 pounds, it is no wonder that
transactions were higher,” said Acadametrics Chairman Peter Williams. “We can perhaps hope to see a clearer market-driven
price response over coming months. With inflation edging down,
we are beginning to see house-price falls, in real terms,
beginning to moderate.”  While surveys of manufacturing and construction this month
suggested the U.K. avoided a recession, consumers are still
being squeezed by government spending cuts and inflation that is
outpacing wage growth.  Bank of England  policy makers maintained
their asset-purchase target at 325 billion pounds last week and
kept their benchmark  interest rate  at a record low 0.5 percent.  Out of the 10 regions tracked by Acadametrics, all apart
from London saw average values decline on an annual basis in the
three months through March.  Nationally, the number of transactions rose by 31.4 percent
compared with a year earlier to more than 60,000, a “level not
seen in the month of March since 2008,” according to the
report. From the previous month, transactions rose 32 percent.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures for
their index of values.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  