-- U.K. Property-Development Index at the Highest in Two Years
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-04-13T09:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-k-commercial-real-estate-index-highest-in-more-than-two-years.html
A U.K. commercial property-
development index rose to the highest in more than two years in
March as construction companies bet that Britain will avoid its
second recession in four years,  Savills Plc (SVS)  said.  The Total Commercial Development Activity Index, a measure
of the country’s commercial-property industry, rose to 13.1
percent from a negative 3.6 percent in February, according to a
report published today by the London-based broker. The gain was
the first in nine months and lifted the index to its highest
since February 2010, Savills said.  “Developers are becoming slightly more optimistic about
the prospects for economic growth,” Matt Oakley, head of
commercial research, said by phone. “People are beginning to
embrace the idea that a double-dip recession isn’t inevitable.”  The U.K. probably avoided a technical recession of two
consecutive quarters of falling economic output by growing 0.1
percent in the first three months of 2012, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research said last week.
Developers stepped up office construction in 2010 amid
expectations that tenants would choose new buildings when their
leases ended.  About a quarter of developers said their work increased in
March. A decline in output was reported by 12 percent of
respondents. Companies in southeast  England , excluding London,
were more than twice as confident than a month earlier,
according to the survey of more than 200 real-estate developers.
The report was compiled by Markit Economics Ltd. for the broker.  Industrial Projects  Six of the nine industries involved in the survey had gains
in development, led by industrial and warehouse-related real
estate projects. Developers of public retail and leisure
property had the greatest drop in confidence.  Around 18 percent of respondents said they expect
development to increase in the next three months as Britain’s
economy expands, compared with one in 10 who expected a decline.  “Encouragingly, this recovery appears to be broad-based
and not just London-focused,” Michael Pillow, head of building
consulting at Savills, said in the report. “With development
activity rising at its strongest rate for two years, it is clear
that developers are anticipating a demand-side improvement.”  A positive number signals improvement in the index and a
negative number a deterioration, according to Savills. The
higher or lower the number, the greater the rate of change
indicated.  U.K. commercial-property values fell 0.3 percent in
February from the previous month, the fourth straight decline,
Investment Property Databank Ltd. said March 14. Retail
buildings led the drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 