-- U.S. March Producer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-04-12T12:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-s-march-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S. producer price
report for March released by the Labor Department.  The  Producer Price Index  for finished goods was unchanged in March, seasonally
adjusted, the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today. Finished goods prices rose 0.4
percent in
February and 0.1 percent in January. At the earlier stages of processing, prices
received by
manufacturers of intermediate goods climbed 0.7 percent in March, and the crude
goods index
declined 2.5 percent. On an unadjusted basis, prices for finished goods moved up 2.8
percent for
the 12 months ended March 2012, the smallest year-over-year increase since a 2.7-
percent rise in
June 2010.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  The index for finished goods was unchanged in March, as a 0.3-percent increase
in prices for
finished goods less foods and energy and a 0.2-percent advance in the index for
finished
consumer foods offset a 1.0-percent decline in prices for finished energy goods.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and energy moved up 0.3
percent in
March, the fifth consecutive increase. Over one-third of the March advance can be
attributed to
prices for light motor trucks, which rose 0.7 percent. Increases in the indexes for
passenger cars
and for soaps and other detergents also contributed to higher finished core prices.
(See table 2.)  Finished foods:  Prices for finished consumer foods moved up 0.2 percent in
March, the first
increase since November 2011. Leading the March advance, the index for fresh and dry
vegetables jumped 12.8 percent. Higher prices for pork also contributed to the rise
in the finished
foods index.  Finished energy:  Prices for finished energy goods fell 1.0 percent in March
after rising 1.3
percent a month earlier. This decrease was led by the gasoline index, which declined
2.0 percent,
seasonally adjusted. (On an unadjusted basis, the gasoline index climbed 7.5
percent.) Lower
prices for  diesel fuel  and residential electric power also were factors in the
decline in the finished
energy goods index.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials, supplies, and components
moved up 0.7
percent for the second consecutive month. The March advance was broad based, with
prices for
intermediate materials less foods and energy climbing 0.6 percent, the intermediate
energy goods
index rising 1.3 percent, and prices for intermediate foods and feeds advancing 0.6
percent. For
the 12 months ended in March, the intermediate goods index moved up 2.9 percent, the
smallest
year-over-year increase since a 2.9-percent rise in December 2009.  Intermediate core:  The index for intermediate goods less foods and energy
moved up 0.6
percent in March, the second straight advance. Over two-thirds of the March increase
can be
traced to the index for basic organic chemicals, which jumped 4.4 percent. Higher
prices for
rubber and rubber products and for plastic packaging products also contributed to
the rise in the
intermediate core index.  Intermediate energy:  Prices for intermediate energy goods advanced 1.3 percent
in March, the
second consecutive increase. A major factor in the March rise was the index for
lubricating oil
base stocks, which climbed 6.9 percent. A jump in the index for residual fuels also
contributed to
higher intermediate energy goods prices.  Intermediate foods:  The index for intermediate foods and feeds increased 0.6
percent in March after five straight declines. Most of the advance can be attributed
to a 2.3-percent rise in prices for prepared animal feeds.  Crude goods  The Producer  Price Index  for crude materials for further processing declined
2.5 percent in
March. For the 3-month period ending in March, prices for crude materials fell 0.6
percent
following a 0.8-percent decrease for the 3 months ending in December. In March, the
monthly
decline in the crude goods index is attributable to prices for crude energy
materials, which fell
9.2 percent. By contrast, prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs and for crude
nonfood
materials less energy rose 2.8 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials dropped 9.2 percent in
March. For the 3-
month period ending in March, prices for crude energy materials fell 7.4 percent
subsequent to a
4.7-percent advance for the 3 months ended December 2011. Over eighty percent of the
monthly
decline in March can be traced to crude petroleum prices, which decreased 11.2
percent,
seasonally adjusted. (On an unadjusted basis, crude petroleum prices rose 3.4
percent.) Lower
prices for natural gas and coal also were factors in the decline in the crude energy
materials
index.  Crude foods:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs advanced 2.8
percent in March.
For the 3 months ending in March, prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs jumped
5.0 percent
subsequent to a 3.5-percent decline from September to December. Nearly forty percent
of the
monthly rise in March was the result of an 8.4-percent increase in the index for hay,
hayseeds,
and oilseeds. Higher prices for slaughter chickens also contributed to the advance
in the crude
foods index.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy moved up 1.1
percent in March.
From December to March, crude core prices climbed 1.5 percent after falling 5.8
percent in the 3
months ended December 2011. A 1.6-percent increase in the index for carbon steel
scrap
accounted for nearly two-fifths of the March monthly advance in the crude core index.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total trade
industries climbed 1.2 percent in March, the largest rise since a 1.6-percent jump
in August 2011. (Trade indexes measure changes in margins received by wholesalers
and retailers.) Over two-fifths of the March advance is attributable to a 1.1-
percent increase in the margin index for the wholesale trade industry group. Higher
margins received by general merchandise stores and by  motor vehicle  and parts
dealers also were major factors in the rise in the total trade industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price Index for the
net output of
transportation and warehousing industries moved up 1.1 percent in March, the sixth
consecutive
increase. Nearly two-thirds of the March rise can be traced to prices received by
the industry for
scheduled passenger air transportation, which climbed 4.0 percent. Advances in the
indexes for
truck transportation and water transportation also contributed to the rise in prices
received by
transportation and warehousing industries.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for the net output of
total traditional service industries inched up 0.1 percent in March, the third
straight increase. Leading the March rise, prices for the passenger car rental
industry surged 26.6 percent. Higher prices received by hotel and motels and by the
securities, commodity contracts, and other financial products and related activities
industry group also were factors in the advance in the total traditional services
industries index.  The Producer Price Index for April 2012 is scheduled to be released on Friday,
May 11,
2012 at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  