-- Unemployment Claims in U.S. Rises to Two-Month High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-12T20:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-s-jobless-claims-increase-to-380-000-higher-than-forecast.html
More Americans than forecast filed
applications for jobless benefits last week, reinforcing concern
among Federal Reserve policy makers that the labor-market
recovery will be slow to develop.  Unemployment claims  increased  13,000 in the week ended
April 7 to 380,000, the highest since Jan. 28, the Labor
Department reported today in Washington. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey called for 355,000 claims. Other reports
showed  consumer confidence  held near a four-year high and the
 trade gap  narrowed more than projected.  The claims data, coming on the heels of last week’s weaker-
than-forecast payroll number, raise the possibility that the job
gains that drove unemployment down to a three-year low last
month will moderate. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and Fed Bank
of New York President William C. Dudley said over the past 24
hours that they support keeping the central bank’s main interest
rate low through late 2014 to help reduce joblessness.  “There’s a modest recovery in the labor market, but still
a ways to go,” said  Michael Hanson , a senior U.S. economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York .  “There’s a number of tailwinds for the labor market that
are fading a bit,” he said. “And there are a number of headwinds
that are still out there,” including the European debt crisis
and possible U.S. government budget cuts early next year.  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher
for a second day, as the possibility that the Fed will keep
 interest rates  low overshadowed the increase in claims. The  S&P
500  climbed 1.4 percent to 1,387.57 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York.  Confidence Holds Up  The increase in jobless applications has yet to damp
confidence. The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index (CONCCONF)  was minus 32.8
in the period ended April 8, second only to the prior week’s
minus 31.4 as the highest since March 2008. Households were the
most optimistic about their finances since April 2008.  The claims week included Good Friday, prompting some
economists to downplay the jump in claims. Because the Easter
holidays come at different times during the year, it makes it
more difficult for the government to adjust the data for
seasonal variations.  “I wouldn’t make too much out of just one reading,” said
Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “We don’t think it’s likely to soften going
forward, regarding employment data. Other indicators of the
labor market are pretty solid.”  Claims in the prior week were revised to 367,000 from a
previously reported 357,000.  Survey Results  Estimates of the 46 economists in the Bloomberg  survey 
ranged from 350,000 to 372,000. The four-week moving average, a
less-volatile measure than the weekly figures, increased to
368,500 last week from 364,250.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  this month said it will eliminate nearly
1,000 jobs as it seeks to revive sales.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) 
will close 62 of its 4,010 stores in the first half of the year,
Best Buy Co. will shutter 50 of its big-box locations, the
company announced in March.  Employers added 120,000 jobs in March, half as many as in
February and the fewest in five months, a report from the Labor
Department showed last week. Almost three years after the
recovery began, employment remains 5.2 million short of the pre-
recession peak.  The report also showed the  jobless rate  dropped to 8.2
percent, the lowest since January 2009, as the workforce shrank.  Fed View  Yellen, speaking yesterday in New York, echoed Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  by saying unemployment will decline “only
gradually.” U.S. central bankers next meet on April 24-25 to
debate policy for an economy that Yellen said may be sapped by
government spending cuts and the European debt crisis.  Dudley said today that the economy may be gaining strength
even as last week’s Labor Department report on the job market
highlights risks to growth. “It is still too soon to conclude
that we are out of the woods,” he said, adding he still
supports holding the Fed’s main interest rate close to zero
through late 2014.  In the euro-area, industrial production unexpectedly rose
in February, driven by a weather-related surge in energy output,
figures from the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg showed today.  Elsewhere, Bank of  Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged
to continue to add monetary stimulus amid growing calls from
politicians for the central bank to do more to end deflation, or
a persistent drop in prices.  Trade Gap Shrinks  Another report today showed the trade deficit in the U.S.
narrowed more than forecast in February as imports fell by the
most in three years, reflecting the smallest amount of crude oil
purchases in 15 years and a drop-off in demand for Chinese
goods.  The  gap  shrank 12 percent to $46 billion, the smallest
since October, from a revised $52.5 billion in January, the
Commerce Department said. The median estimate of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a deficit of $51.8 billion in
February. Purchases of foreign goods decreased by 2.7 percent,
the biggest decline since February 2009. Exports barely rose to
reach a record.  The Chinese Lunar New Year holiday may have contributed to
the slump in imports, indicating demand will probably rebound as
U.S. consumer spending improves. At the same time, sales
overseas by American companies may moderate as parts of Europe
stagnate and  China  slows.  Lunar New Year  “As domestic demand begins to gain some momentum you
should start to see imports pick up,” said UBS’s Cummins. “It
appears that the drop in imports was reflective of the Chinese
New Year. We’ve assumed slower export growth based on global
growth slowing in 2012.” At the same time, he said, “it
doesn’t appear that exports are likely to be a significant drag
on the  U.S. economy .”  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. were among those boosting their tracking estimates for
first-quarter gross domestic product based, in part, on the
improvement in the trade account.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski at in Washington or
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  