-- U.S. Clean Energy Policies Risk Losing Lead Over China
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-12T16:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-s-clean-energy-policies-risk-losing-lead-over-china.html
The U.S. government is creating a
“boom and bust” in renewable energy investment that threatens
to undermine its lead over  China , the Pew Charitable Trusts said
in a report.  U.S. investment reached $48.1 billion in 2011, largely in
wind and solar power, the Washington-based research group said
last night in a report based on Bloomberg New Energy Finance
data. Those funds trumped the $45.5 billion China allocated to
renewables, for lead for the U.S. since 2008.  The jump to the top of the G-20 ranking followed
developers’ efforts to finish projects before incentives expire.
With China taking on long-term renewable energy targets and an
American tax-break for wind lapsing in 2012, the U.S. again
risks losing its edge, said Phyllis Cuttino, Pew’s clean energy
director.  “China is sending that important policy signal which the
 United States  is failing to do to investors,” Cuttino said in
an interview. “Even though China has fallen to number two, it
seems as though investment there is going to continue at a very
significant level for the foreseeable future. They are going to
continue to be a dynamic clean-energy hub for the world.”  The U.S. doesn’t have any comparable targets to China’s
goals of installing a total of 160 gigawatts of wind power and
50 gigawatts of solar power by 2020, she said. At the same time,
a production tax credit benefiting wind producers expires at the
end of the year. That’s a threat to the wind industry and has
prompted  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest wind
turbine maker, to say 1,600 U.S. factory jobs are at risk.  Germany, Italy  “In the absence of long-term policy, it’s hard to see how
the U.S. can grow significantly in the future,” Cuttino said.
“The boom-and-bust cycle of U.S. energy policy sends a very
different signal to investors” from China.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  took office three years ago
pledging to generate jobs in the wind and solar industries.
Since then, carbon cap-and-trade legislation has stalled and
lawmakers have attacked assistance to renewables after solar
manufacturer Solyndra LLC filed for bankruptcy in September.  Globally, the installed capacity for renewable power now
totals 565 gigawatts, 133 of it in China, 93 in the U.S. and 61
in  Germany , according to today’s report. Cuttino said Pew had
expected an increased deployment of renewables in 2011, with
investment falling, and was surprised spending rose.  “This sector is like the little engine that could -- it
just keep growing somewhere, somehow,” she said.  Germany ranked third for investment in clean energy in
2011, with $30.6 billion, followed by Italy on $28 billion,
 India  on $10.2 billion and the U.K. with $9.4 billion, Pew said.  U.K. Rebound  The U.K.’s rebound followed a plunge to 13th in 2010 from
fifth a year earlier. Investment in 2011 rose to $9.4 billion
from $7 billion in 2010, which was revised up from an estimate
of $3.3 billion reported a year ago, according to Pew. The
latest number remained below the 2009 total of more than $11
billion. More than half of the investments came in solar power,
as developers rushed to take advantage of subsidies that the
government has now cut.  “Many businesses have brought their investments forward
before the government’s cuts to support for renewable energy
come into force,” Caroline Flint, spokeswoman on energy for the
opposition  Labour Party , said in an e-mailed statement. “The
U.K. must not be allowed to fall behind.”  Ministers are “determined” to see continued growth in
renewables in the U.K. and plan to pass a law reforming the
 electricity market  that provides long term certainty for
investors in low-carbon technologies, the Department for Energy
and Climate Change said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 