-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 10 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-04-12T12:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-10-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Weather Summary: A series of cold fronts traversed across the
lower 48 States, keeping temperatures below-normal in the West,
and dropping readings to more seasonable levels in the Northeast
and south-central Plains. The rest of the contiguous U.S.
recorded above-normal temperatures, but not at the March record
levels. The greatest departures (+6 to +10 degF) were found in
the northern Plains and the middle Mississippi and  Tennessee 
Valleys. The fronts triggered scattered showers and
thunderstorms, mainly in the Pacific Northwest, southern and
central Plains, lower Missouri and Mississippi Valleys, and in
the southern Appalachians and Carolinas. It was mostly dry in
the Southwest, northern Plains and upper Midwest, Northeast, and
Florida.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Although temperatures remained
at more seasonable levels after record-breaking warmth during
mid-March, precipitation continued to bypass the region and was
accompanied by gusty winds and low humidity. A few locations in
extreme northern Vermont,  New Hampshire , and western Maine
received 0.5 to 1.5 inches of precipitation yesterday, but
nearly all other sites recorded little or no weekly
precipitation. During the past 60-days, 25 to 50 percent of
normal precipitation has fallen from northern  Virginia  northward
into coastal  Maine , with deficits between 4 and 8 inches.
Similar percentages and deficiencies also existed at 90-days in
the same areas. Since the start of the year, deficits have
included: 7.63 inches at Islip, NY; 7.39 inches at Providence,
RI; 7.18 inches at  Boston , MA; 5.71 inches at Salisbury, MD; and
4.90 inches at Hartford, CT.  The early green-up of trees and
vegetation was slowed by the colder air, but yet many plants
have begun to grow, taking moisture out of the soils. According
to the USGS, stream flow levels were at near- or record lows for
April 10 at 1-, 7-, 14-, and 28-day averages in much of New
England and the mid-Atlantic. Additionally, there have been
several outbreaks of brushfires and some large wild fires, even
as far north as upstate  New York . Most reservoirs, however, were
near or at capacity due to the early-season snow melt and thaw,
and to wetter conditions in the past (9-12 months ago).
Accordingly, a 1-category degradation was made, mainly along the
coast, with D2(S) introduced to most of Long Island,
 Connecticut , Rhode Island, and  Massachusetts , and farther south
to the Delmarva Peninsula. D1(S) now stretched from northeastern
Maryland northward into eastern Maine, and in southeastern
Virginia. D0(S) slightly expanded westward in the Northeast, but
the driest short-term conditions were mainly located along
coastal areas.  Southeast:  Early week rains (2 to 4 inches) fell on the
southern Appalachians, with lesser amounts (1 to 2 inches)
recorded in eastern sections of the Carolinas and Georgia. The
rains were enough to eliminate D0 in extreme western  North
Carolina , but not enough for improvement in the rest of the
Carolinas. Conditions, however, deteriorated somewhat in
portions of the Carolinas and Georgia where rainfall was light
(less than 0.5 inches), and that included north-central North
Carolina into southeastern Virginia (D1 added); D2 and D3
slightly increased in southern South Carolina; and D3 and D4
expanded in central and southern Georgia. In the latter two
states, the drought encompassed both short- and long-term
shortages, with 12-month deficits exceeding 25 inches in parts
of Georgia and adjacent  Florida . At Augusta, GA, the driest
rolling 365-day period ending on April 4 beat the former record
by 5 inches, while this 365-day period was the 4th driest such
period ever (since 1872). Meanwhile, short-term dryness expanded
into northwestern Georgia, northern Alabama, and western
Tennessee and Kentucky as 60-day deficiencies reached 4 to 8
inches. Some D0 relief occurred across central Tennessee where 2
inches of rain fell. In Florida, the continued lack of rain
produced additional deterioration across the state. The first
100 days at Jacksonville, FL, have been the driest since 1921,
and only 30 percent of normal. Much of the downgrading was based
upon precipitation departures and rankings during the last 180-
days where many stations reported the driest such 6-month period
on record, especially in north-central Florida. Southern
sections of Florida have fared somewhat better, but the lack of
decent short-term rains has also caused some deterioration. Lake
Okeechobee was below 12 feet this morning (11.97 feet, or 2.1
feet below normal), and now falling at 0.2 to 0.3 feet per week.
Numerous wild fires have occurred throughout the state as the
fire index is now over 700 in south-central Florida. Farther
west, another 2 to 4 inches of rain deluged southeastern
Louisiana and southern  Mississippi , further eroding away the
D0(L). Although short-term conditions are quite wet, long-term
deficits still remained (more than 16 inches at 12-months), thus
maintaining the D0(L) area.  Midwest:  Little or no precipitation fell over the drought areas
of the upper Midwest and adjacent northern Plains. Although
temperature anomalies decreased from previous weeks, readings
still averaged 6 to 12 degF above normal. 1 to 2 inches of rain
did fall on northwestern and southeastern Missouri and
southwestern Illinois, but missed the newly expanded D0 and D1
areas. With the recent unseasonable warmth and subnormal
precipitation, topsoil moisture has rapidly decreased, even
without any crops consuming water yet. According to the USDA,
percent topsoil and subsoil moisture rated very short or short
was: Illinois (46/47),  Minnesota  (60/68), and  Iowa  (78/85).
Canton Lake in Fulton County, IL, was 5 feet below full pool.
Based upon short-term and 6-month departures, D2 was slightly
increased in northwestern Iowa and southeastern Minnesota, D1 in
west-central Wisconsin, and D0 across central Wisconsin and the
UP of Michigan. In contrast, the D1 in northwestern Minnesota
was scaled back after AHPS 6-month precipitation indicated
surpluses  The Plains: A scattering of moderate (0.5 to 1.5 inches) to
heavy (1.5 to 4 inches) rains fell on parts of  Texas , Oklahoma,
Kansas, eastern Colorado, and southern  Nebraska , but from
central Nebraska into the Dakotas, little or no rain was
measured. Since October 2011, a persistent pattern of above-
normal precipitation has brought slow but welcome relief to
parts of the southern and central Plains. This week was no
different as 1 to 3 inches of rain fell on northeastern Texas,
enough to remove the small D1 area there and cut back on some
D0. In southwestern Texas (Stockton and Edwards Plateaus), 1 to
locally 4 inches of rain diminished D3 to D2. And a reassessment
of SPI products and agricultural reports indicated improved
conditions in the Coastal Bend area where a 1-category
improvement was made. In northeastern Oklahoma, the D0(L) area
was realigned to better represent hydrologic conditions. This
included Lake Skiatook in eastern Osage County which continued
to struggle as the lake level declined even with an inch of rain
in its watershed. In northern Kansas, southern Nebraska, and
eastern Colorado, 1 to 2 inches of rain eliminated the short-
term dryness (D0), while a reassessment of conditions was made
in southwestern Kansas. Based upon several precipitation and
soil moisture products out to 6-months, no large-scale
deficiencies were found, and instead surpluses existed. But at
12-months and beyond, the deficits were there. Accordingly, the
D0-D3 was adjusted for improvement at 6-months and less (1-
category), but not entirely removed due to the longer-term
drought signal. Most of the shortages had accumulated during the
hot and dry summer months of 2011 when normals are much larger
than the fall and winter months. In the northern Plains,
however, another dry and mild week further depleted soil
moisture as accumulated short-term deficiencies slowly
increased. Based upon the 60-, 90-, and 120-day anomalies, D0
expanded in central  South Dakota  while D1 spread into north-
central and southwestern South Dakota and western Nebraska.  The West: Light to moderate precipitation (0.5 to 2 inches) was
confined from northern  California  and the northern Sierra Nevada
northward into the Pacific Northwest and northern Rockies.
Little or no precipitation fell on central and southern
California, the Great Basin, and the Southwest. Temperatures
averaged below normal in western areas, slightly above normal in
far eastern sections. As the wet season normally diminishes as
spring progresses, most areas were left at status-quo. Some
changes, however, were made in northwestern California and the
southern San Joaquin Valley, southern  Utah , southeastern
 Arizona , northern New Mexico, and south-central Colorado. In
northwestern California, another 1 to 1.5 inches of rain
effectively erased any lingering deficits since October 1, and
D0 was eased slightly eastward. In the southern San Joaquin
Valley near Bakersfield, D2 was expanded into the area as Water
year-to-date precipitation stood at 60 percent, similar to
Fresno in the northern San Joaquin Valley. In southern Utah and
southeastern Arizona, another dry week added additional
shortages to these two areas, effectively expanding the D0 and
D2 areas, respectively. In northern New Mexico, an early week
storm brought 0.5 to 1.5 inches of precipitation, improving
conditions from D2 to D1 in Santa Fe, northwestern San Miguel,
and western Mora Counties, and from D1 to D0 in central and
western Sandoval County. In eastern Colorado, decent rains (0.5
to 1 inch) alleviated the D0(S), while 0.5 inches further
diminished the D2 and D3 in extreme southeastern Colorado (Baca
County). In contrast, drier weather somewhat increased drought
(D1 and D2) in south-central sections of the state.  Hawaii, Alaska and Puerto Rico:  In Hawaii, some windward
locations on Maui and the Big Island received 2 to 4 inches of
rain, but much less fell on leeward sides. Fortunately, most of
the islands (except the Big Island) received surplus March
rainfall, easing any further deterioration there. On the Big
Island, however, many northern and leeward locations have
reported less than 25 percent of normal rainfall since January
1. Kona coffee growers indicated that leaves are starting to
shrivel on their trees and berries are starting to fall. The
main hope for the Kona coffee belt is that it is the only area
in the state with a summer rainfall maximum. As a result, the D3
was slightly expanded in northwestern Kona, and D0 was pushed a
tad eastward. The unusual shape of the D3 (instead of a broad
brush D3 across the west) was due to slightly better upper
elevation pasture conditions according to FSA. On Maui, D2 was
expanded eastward from Haleakala to Kaupo, with ranchers noting
deteriorating conditions there. Maui received some early March
rainfall which started the grasses growing, but a lack of rain
thereafter has turned the grasses brown. Similar conditions were
noted at Kula, except that early March temperatures were too
cool for the grasses to grow much (ineffective rainfall).  There were no drought conditions noted in Puerto Rico and
Alaska.  Looking Ahead: Over the next five days (April 11-15), unsettled
weather will move along the West Coast, track into the northern
and central Rockies, and eventually into the Nation’s
midsection. The northern coast of California and the Sierra
Nevada may receive decent precipitation, while a swath of
moderate to heavy precipitation is expected to fall from
northeastern Texas northward into Iowa. Temperatures are
forecasted to be subnormal in the southwestern quarter of the
U.S. and above-normal in the northern Plains, and from the Great
Lakes region and New England southwestward into the lower
Mississippi Valley.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (April 16-20) has favorable odds of
above-normal precipitation in the Pacific Northwest and in the
eastern third of the Nation (except for New England). Chances
for subnormal precipitation are likely from the Southwest
northeastward into the upper Midwest. Wet conditions are likely
for southeastern Alaska, with subnormal precipitation expected
in western parts of the State. Temperatures are forecasted to be
above-normal in the West, Southeast, and interior Alaska, and
below-normal in the southern third and northern Great Plains and
upper Midwest.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  