-- U.S. Producer Costs Minus Food, Fuel Rise More Than Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-12T12:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/u-s-producer-prices-minus-food-fuel-rise-more-than-forecast.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S.
excluding food and fuel rose more than forecast in March, led by
a pickup in the costs of light trucks and soaps.  The so-called  core producer price index  climbed 0.3 percent
after a 0.2 percent rise, Labor Department figures showed today
in Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
overall gauge was little changed after a 0.4 percent rise.  Fuel costs advanced more slowly last month, supporting the
 Federal Reserve ’s view that the recent surge in energy prices
will be temporary. With diminished inflationary pressure from
energy, producers will probably find less reason to pass
expenses to consumers, who are facing slow  income  growth.  “Energy prices typically rise quicker than they did this
particular month,” Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before the report.
“Looking at the overall trend for producers, there doesn’t seem
to be any sign of a major pickup in finished good prices.”  Another report from the Labor Department showed initial
 jobless claims  rose by 13,000 to 380,000 in the week ended April
7, the highest since Jan. 28 and a sign the pace of improvement
in the labor market is slowing. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for 355,000 claims.  Stock-index futures trimmed gains after the figures. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,364.7 at 8:48 a.m. in  New York ,
after rising as much as 0.6 percent earlier.  Estimates of the 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
the overall  producer price index  ranged from a decrease of 0.4
percent to an increase of 1.5 percent.  Year Ago  In the 12 months ended March 2012, companies paid 2.8
percent more for goods, the smallest gain since the year ended
June 2010. The core index increased 2.9 percent over the past
year.  The cost of  diesel fuel  fell 6.3 percent, and gasoline
prices dropped 2 percent, the report showed.  More than one-third of the increase in core prices in March
was attributable to a 0.7 percent gain in the cost of light
trucks, the report said. Prices of soaps and detergents jumped
2.1 percent, the biggest gain since July.  The cost of passenger cars rose 0.8 percent last month, the
most since November.  Prices of capital goods rose 0.2 percent last month after a
0.1 percent rise in February.  Oil Prices  Oil prices  have retreated after reaching the highest level
this year. Brent oil for May delivery has dropped 5 percent
through yesterday’s close since from a peak of $126.22 a barrel
on March 13.  “The recent increase in oil and gasoline prices will push
up inflation temporarily, but the Committee anticipates that
subsequently inflation will run at or below the rate that it
judges most consistent with its dual mandate,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said in the minutes of its March 13 meeting.  The central bank officials indicated they will probably
hold off on more monetary accommodation unless prices rise more
slowly than their 2 percent target or the economic expansion
falters, according to the minutes. Their preferred price gauge,
tied to  consumer spending  and issued by the Commerce Department,
rose 2.3 percent in the year ended in February.  Raw Materials  At the same time, gains in commodity prices over the past
year are making it difficult for some companies.  “We continue to experience increases in the cost of  raw
materials ,” Mark Bachmann, chief financial officer at  Zep Inc. (ZEP) ,
an Atlanta-based maker of detergents, hand cleaners and
lubricants, said on an April 9 conference call. “The tremendous
volatility in raw material prices makes it difficult for us to
pass through sufficient price increases, creating an imbalance
between price and cost.”  The cost of intermediate goods rose 0.7 percent for a
second month, reflecting higher chemicals. Crude prices dropped
2.5 percent.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The  consumer price index , due
tomorrow, rose 0.3 percent in March after gaining 0.4 percent in
the prior month, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey.  The cost of goods imported into the U.S. rose 1.3 percent
last month, reflecting more expensive fuel and metals costs,
Labor Department data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  