-- UBS Sells Structured Notes Tied to Czech Republic, ArcelorMittal
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-04-12T08:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ubs-sells-structured-notes-tied-to-czech-republic-arcelormittal.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  sold a pair of structured
notes tied to the credit of the  Czech Republic  and steelmaker
ArcelorMittal.  UBS sold a 95 million-koruna ($5 million) credit-linked
note linked to a euro-denominated bond from the central European
government maturing in June 2014, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investors in the note, which will mature in July 2016 or
earlier if the government defaults, will receive a coupon equal
to 1.9 times the three-month Prague interbank offered rate, or
 Pribor (PRIB03M) , to a maximum level of 5 percent.  Pribor was fixed at 1.24 percent yesterday. At that level,
investors would receive a payment of 2.4 percent in a year’s
time, compared with a current yield on the underlying government
note of 1.44 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  UBS also issued a 60.6 million-koruna security due July
2017 tied to a June 2018 dollar bond from Luxembourg-based
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker.  Investors in the ArcelorMittal-linked structured note
receive a fixed coupon of 3.7 percent in the first two years,
switching to three-month Pribor plus 4 percent from year three.  The notes are only the third and fourth structured
securities to be priced in the koruna this year, Bloomberg data
show. The two other notes in the currency were also sold by UBS
in January and were linked to the bonds of  Austria  and Glencore
International AG.  Credit-linked notes are debt securities issued and
underwritten by banks linked to the bonds or credit-default
swaps of a separate entity, with investors exposed to losses if
either the bank that sold the note or the entity that the note
is tied to defaults.  Stephanie Aneto, a spokeswoman for UBS in  London , declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  