-- Ukraine Jails Third Member of Ex-Premier Tymoshenko’s Cabinet
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-04-12T14:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/ukraine-jails-third-member-of-ex-premier-tymoshenko-s-cabinet.html
A Ukrainian court jailed a third
member of Yulia Tymoshenko’s Cabinet as prosecutors pursue
charges against the former prime minister, who’s been in prison
since last year.  The Pechersk district court in the capital, Kiev, sentenced
Valery Ivashchenko, a former acting Defense Minister who’s been
in detention since his arrest in August 2010, to five years for
abusing his power when approving the bankruptcy of a ship-
building plant in the Crimea region.  “The verdict is unlawful,” Ivashchenko told reporters in
remarks broadcast by the private Channel 5 TV station. “I’ve no
doubt it will be overturned -- it’s just a matter of time.”  Tymoshenko, 51, was sentenced in October to seven years in
prison for abuse of office when signing a 10-year natural-gas
supply and transit pact with  Russia  in 2009. She says President
 Viktor Yanukovych  engineered the case to prevent her from
participating in parliamentary elections scheduled for October.
The European Union has sought Tymoshenko’s release.  A Kiev court last week handed Heorhiy Filipchuk, an
 environment minister  in Tymoshenko’s government, a three-year
jail term for exceeding his authority. Former Interior Minister
Yuriy Lutsenko was sentenced to four years in prison in February
for abuse of office.  Further charges will be filed against Tymoshenko over
damages incurred by United Energy Systems, a company she used to
run, prosecutors said in March. The former premier was complicit
in the murder of lawmaker Yevhen Shcherban 16 years ago and may
still be charged, First Deputy Prosecutor General Renat Kuzmin
said April 6 in televised comments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  