-- Umeco Surges to Record on Takeover by Cytec: London Mover
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-12T10:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/umeco-surges-to-record-on-takeover-by-cytec-london-mover.html
Cytec Industries Inc. (CYT) , a maker of
reinforced plastics used in aircraft, agreed to buy  Umeco Plc (UMC) ,
sending shares of the U.K. supplier for Airbus planes and
McLaren racing cars to their highest price ever.  Cytec agreed  to pay 550 pence in cash per share, a
46 percent premium to the stock’s closing price yesterday, Umeco
said today in a statement. Umeco advanced as much as 48 percent
to 555 pence and traded at 552 pence at 11:17 a.m., leading
gains in the FTSE All-Share Index.  The purchase values the Warwickshire, England-based
manufacturer at 274 million pounds ($437 million), while Cytec
had a market capitalization of $2.63 billion at the close of
trading yesterday in  New York .  Cytec Chief Executive Officer Shane Fleming is refocusing
the Woodland Park, New Jersey-based specialty chemicals and
materials company on products for planes and cars. The
manufacturer said in January it hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
review options for the “separation” of its coating resins unit
and last year sold a chemical unit to HIG Capital LLC.  The acquisition “greatly improves our presence in the
industrial sector, where we see tremendous potential for
significant value creation in applications like automotive as
customers seek to reduce weight and CO2 emissions,” Fleming
said in the statement.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Hermes Focus Asset Management and Aberforth
Partners, which together hold about 30 percent of Umeco’s stock,
have agreed to sell their stakes, the U.K. company said. The
offer is “fair and reasonable,” Umeco said.  Umeco’s management board will step down after the planned
takeover and the U.K. company’s headquarters will probably be
closed, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss said today on a
conference call.  Rothschild and Investec advised Umeco’s board. Barclays was
the sole adviser to Cytec.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  