-- UniCredit Investors Propose Allianz’s Vita as Chairman
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-04-12T15:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/unicredit-investors-propose-allianz-s-vita-as-chairman.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  investors proposed
Giuseppe Vita as the new chairman of  Italy ’s biggest bank,
replacing Dieter Rampl.  The bank’s main shareholders reached agreement unanimously
on the nomination at a meeting in Milan today, Massimo Paniccia,
chairman of Fondazione CRTrieste, told reporters.  Vita, 76, is chairman of  Allianz SE (ALV) ’s Italian unit, Allianz
SpA. He is also chairman of investment bank Gruppo Banca
Leonardo SpA. Vita is the second Allianz executive to be
appointed to a prominent position at an Italian lender in the
last six months. Allianz’s Enrico Cucchiani was named chief
executive officer of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s No. 2 lender,
in November. Cucchiani also was a UniCredit director.  The bank’s corporate governance, human resources and
nomination committees decided that Vita “is the best candidate
in terms of profile and requirements among the short list of
highly professional candidates who have given their
availability,” UniCredit said in a statement.  UniCredit CEO Federico Ghizzoni said last month that the
Milan-based bank was seeking to recruit a new chairman with an
international profile. Rampl announced in February that he
wouldn’t stand for another term. A former head of HVB Group,
Rampl was named to the post in 2006 after the German bank was
purchased by UniCredit.  Gian Maria Gros Pietro, a former chairman of energy company
Eni SpA, and Massimo Tononi, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
banker and chairman of the Italian Stock Exchange, also were
mentioned by Italian newspapers as candidates for the UniCredit
position.  UniCredit’s investors will vote to renew all board members,
including the CEO, on May 11. They must submit the lists with
candidates for the board, including the chairman, by April 16.  Vita is a graduate of the medical school at  Rome ’s La
Sapienza University.  -Editors: Dan Liefgreen, Frank Connelly  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  