-- Turkey to Detain 30 Ex-Soldiers for '97 `Postmodern Coup'
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-04-12T10:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/turkey-to-detain-30-ex-soldiers-for-97-postmodern-coup-.html
Turkish prosecutors are seeking to
detain 31 retired military officers in connection with the so-
called postmodern coup of 1997 that toppled the fourth civilian
government in as many decades.  Police in Ankara, Istanbul, Nigde and Canakkale are raiding
the homes of former officers, the state-run Anatolia news agency
reported, citing the prosecutor’s office in the capital.  The military toppled a coalition government led by an
Islamist party after a Feb. 28, 1997, National Security Council
meeting, when the generals said they viewed Necmettin Erbakan’s
Welfare Party as a threat to  Turkey ’s strictly secular republic.
Retired General Cevik Bir, the deputy chief of General Staff at
the time who called the ouster a “postmodern coup,” has been
detained, Anatolia said.  “Turkey must face the events in its recent and past
political history that disrupted democracy for certain
periods,” Justice Minister Sabullah Ergin said today in
televised comments from Ankara. “I hope that in the period that
follows our country will gain stability that is grounded, not
disrupted, and based on institutionalized democracy. All the
efforts are for that.”  The warrants come after Turkish military commanders who
seized power in a 1980 coup went on trial April 4, charged with
using force to topple the government.  Turkish prosecutors are also pursuing two cases against
current and former military officers for alleged plots to
overthrow Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government. More
than 200 officers along with academics and journalists have been
jailed in the Ergenekon and Balyoz, or Sledgehammer,
investigations that began in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 