-- Vitt to Fill in for Payton at Saints During Yearlong Suspension
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/vitt-named-saints-coach-to-fill-payton-s-job-during-suspension.html
Joe Vitt will fill in for New
Orleans Saints coach  Sean Payton  while he serves a one-year
suspension for his part in a case the  National Football League 
says involves payments to players for injuring opponents.  Vitt, the team’s assistant head coach and linebackers coach,
was interim head coach last season after Payton broke his leg.  Vitt also is suspended for six games of the coming season
for his role in the bounty system. Aaron Kromer, the offensive
line coach, will take charge during Vitt’s ban, ESPN reported,
citing an unidentified person in the league.  “It is important that we keep Sean Payton’s philosophy
front and center during this season,” General Manager Mickey Loomis said yesterday in a news release from the team. “This
will provide the most seamless transition for our players and
our coaching staff, allowing our offensive and defensive staffs
to remain intact with the fewest changes.”  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  this week upheld Payton’s
one-year suspension, as well as a $500,000 fine on the Saints,
the loss of two draft picks, a half-season suspension for Loomis
and Vitt’s six-game ban.  The NFL said it discovered a program in which Saints
players paid each other bonuses from 2009 through 2011 for on-
field accomplishments including forced turnovers and injuring
opponents. All such payments violate league rules on non-
contract bonuses.  Bounty Plan  Players funded a bounty pool that paid $1,500 for a
“knockout” in which an opposing player was unable to return to
the game, and $1,000 for a “cart off” in which opponents were
carried from the field, according to the NFL. Payments doubled
or tripled during the playoffs. The Saints won the Super Bowl
after the 2009 season.  On the day last week when Payton, Loomis and Vitt were
appealing their penalties before Goodell in New York, filmmaker
Sean Pamphilon released an audio recording of former Saints
defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams  encouraging his players to
injure the  San Francisco 49ers  in a profanity-laced speech prior
to a playoff game last season. Williams, now defensive
coordinator for the  St. Louis Rams , was suspended indefinitely.  Payton told reporters last month that the team had talked
to Bill Parcells, who won two  Super Bowls  with the  New York
Giants , about coaching the Saints during his suspension.  The league is also in discussions with the NFL Players
Association about what penalties will be imposed on the players
who took part in the bounty program. The union has asked the NFL
to share information from an investigation that showed 22 to 27
defensive players were part of the pool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 