-- Vodka-Swilling Trader Rocks Morgan Stanley Alum’s Novel
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/vodka-swilling-female-trader-rocks-morgan-stanley-alum-s-novel.html
Aifric Campbell is sipping coffee
in a bar in  London ’s West End. Across the street are the former
Morgan Stanley offices where she worked for 13 years, eventually
running the international convertible-bond sales desk.  That experience suffuses “ On the Floor ,” her third novel,
which is that rare work of fiction in which the financial world
functions as more than mere backdrop. Its heroine, Geri Malloy,
is a vodka-slamming trader in the middle of a hostile takeover.  The book’s appeal is broad enough to have landed it a spot
on the long list for this year’s Orange Prize for Fiction.  Campbell  is a fast talker with a faded Irish accent.
Wearing black dress pants with an embroidered velvet jacket, she
manages to discuss ambition, depression and what banking taught
her about writing before swapping heels for flats and dashing to
her next meeting.  Anderson: “On the Floor” takes place during the lead-up
to the  Gulf War . Why set the novel when you did?  Campbell: I wanted that backdrop to broaden the context,
though the war is just another variable for Geri. That was also
when the business started to change.  I’m surprised that so much of the discussion of the
financial crisis is focused on events in the immediate past,
when really it was the movement of quants into the business that
transformed everything.  Accidental Banker  Anderson: You’ve written since you were a kid. How did you
get into banking?  Campbell: I was your accidental banker. I’d done a
linguistics degree and applied for 40 jobs, mostly with
publishers. I got two offers, one from British Airways -- air
hostess -- the other, which I took, a marketing job with the
Council of the Stock Exchange.  I had a ball for a year then got on to  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
graduate training program. I was completely hooked.  Anderson: Geri has what you describe as a “moment of
becoming,” when she sets the course of her career. Have you had
a similar moment?  Campbell: I can remember vividly the first time I stepped
on to the trading floor. My family was involved in greyhounds,
so I spent a lot of time at the racetrack as a child, and there
is the same feel of something about to happen.  That, combined with current affairs. You’re in the
unfolding world and you have to respond very quickly to each new
challenge.  Women at Work  Anderson: Like Geri, you didn’t have many female
colleagues.  Campbell: I was struck that first time that these were all
men but I didn’t see that as an obstacle.  Anderson: Was it sometimes a plus?  Campbell: I used to say to women I mentored, look, if
there’s a room of 200 guys and you’re the only woman, at least
they’re going to notice you.  So much of the conversation about women and work is about
glass ceilings or obstacles. That wasn’t my experience. Of
course it took me longer and of course I probably got paid less,
but I took the view that merit would out.  The head of the trading floor who asked me off-the-record
was I going to have children got his comeuppance -- he lost his
job. I was pregnant when I got promoted to run the convertibles
desk and they knew it.  Leaving the City  Anderson: Why did you leave?  Campbell: I went back to work after my maternity leave and
four or five months later, everything just fell apart. I don’t
think I even knew post-natal depression existed before then.  The firm was very good but it was over for me. When
something like that happens you lose all sense of yourself. It
was the right time, ironically, to do the thing that was the
scariest, and just write a book.  Anderson: How have readers responded to Geri?  Campbell: I wasn’t prepared for the fact that a lot of
female readers would find her an anti-heroine. I wonder if it’s
to do with this female attitude toward ambition.  Attributes that are positive for men -- hard working, very
focused, intensely competitive -- make women sound like bitches.
They internalize it and attribute their success to luck, which
is complete balls.  Anderson: What do you make of the financial crisis novels
by writers outside the industry?  Campbell: It’s a very human story but there’s a lot of
stereotyping. All that does is reinforce the idea that there’s
only one villain in this story, that financiers are evil and
there was some vague conspiracy as opposed to lots of
incompetence. Where are all the politicians in these books?
Everyone was at the party.  “On the Floor” is published by Serpent’s Tail (256 pages,
12.99 pounds). The  Orange Prize  shortlist will be announced on
April 17 and the winner on May 30.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Today’s Muse highlights include an  interview  with architect
 Frank Gehry  and a  profile  of chef April Bloomfield.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 