-- Wal-Mart to Push Low Prices for Growth in China, Brazil
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-12T20:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/wal-mart-to-push-low-prices-for-growth-in-china-brazil.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, plans to push its everyday low price strategy
in  China  and Brazil to accelerate international sales growth
that is lagging behind competitors.  Wal-Mart’s Brazilian operations have been moving to an
everyday low price strategy -- as opposed to using temporary
sales and discounts -- and will start a similar push in China in
the first quarter of next year, Doug McMillon, president and
chief executive officer of the retailer’s international
operations, said today at an investor presentation in Toronto.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has been struggling to
help the retailer expand its overseas operations as profitably
as it does in the U.S. The international unit’s operating margin
narrowed last year as its sales rose 15 percent. Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart lost market share in Brazil and China
and faces new challenges in mature markets such as Canada, where
 Target Corp. (TGT)  is expanding.  “International is the future, and they’re not doing
much,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in  New York , said in a phone interview before today’s
presentation. “China is barely profitable, and margins are
going down.”  Everyday Low Pricing  Brazil’s conversion to everyday low pricing is well under
way and has been encouraging, McMillon told investors. In China,
it will take time because Wal-Mart still is envisioning how the
strategy will work in that market, he said.  “The next market I am focused on walking across that
bridge is China,” McMillon said. “My expectation is that, at
the latest, we’ll start that the first quarter of next year.”  Wal-Mart expects everyday low pricing can differentiate its
stores in Brazil, where retail typically includes sales and
special offers,  Kevin Gardner , a Wal-Mart spokesman, said in a
phone interview. Wal-Mart made the conversion in Japan in 2008
and gained market share there last year.  Chief Financial Officer  Charles Holley  said last month that
the overall retail market in China grew by 16 percent in Wal-
Mart’s fiscal 2012 while the company’s sales there advanced 13
percent. In Brazil, sales increased 11 percent compared with a
5.6 percent gain for Wal-Mart.  The retailer said it posted market share gains in  South
Africa , Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Japan, Canada and the U.K.  ‘Growth Engine’  Wal-Mart has said its international operations are its
“growth engine” and it plans to add as much as 33 million
square feet of store space in those markets this year.  The retailer also said it is going on the offensive against
Target, which is entering the Canadian market with a goal of at
least $6 billion in sales by 2017.  Wal-Mart is adding a record 73 stores in  Canada  this year
at a cost of $750 million. The company also said in today’s
presentation that it has a 11 percent price advantage on its
competitors.  Canada’s sheer size and high transportation costs to
deliver goods to remote areas also works against expanding e-
commerce there, said Shelley Broader, president and CEO of Wal-
Mart’s Canadian operations.  “What we need to do is say we’re already there,” Broader
said. “We have an inherent advantage in our 18-year history,
and we’re in every single area in Canada minus the northern
territories.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  