-- Wall Street Falls In Love With Gap Again as Clothes Sell
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-04-12T14:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/wall-street-falls-in-love-with-gap-again-as-clothes-sell.html
Wall Street  loves  Gap Inc. (GPS)  Again.  The largest U.S. apparel chain has surged 37 percent to
$25.48 this year through yesterday and on March 26 hit a 10-year
closing high. Analysts are raising their price targets to levels
-- $28 and higher -- not seen since one of the best-performing
companies of the 1990s began to lose its footing in 2001.  The euphoria is being driven in part by February and March
same-store sales that beat analysts’ estimates and were the best
back-to-back results since 2010. After shunning Gap for the
likes of  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and Forever 21 Inc., U.S. consumers
have been snapping up brightly colored denim at Gap’s namesake
stores and 1960s-inspired dresses from  Banana Republic ’s “Mad
Men” collection. Items from the chain’s Diane von Furstenberg
children’s collection are popping up on EBay Inc.’s website for
about twice the original retail price.  Even analysts who earlier this year were less bullish on
Gap have changed their tune. Two months of robust same-store
sales will compel more people to “join in the positive chorus”
on Gap,  Dorothy Lakner , of Caris & Co. in New York, wrote in a
April 5 note. For the first time since May, she has changed her
recommendation to “above average,” raising her price target to
$32 from $27.  The big question is whether Gap’s gains are sustainable,
said Dave Weiner, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York .  “It’s too early to say,” said Weiner, who has a $19 price
target and hold rating on Gap’s stock. “What the brand needs to
do is prove it can sell product at full price. They are still a
very promotional brand.”  Fewer Markdowns  A measure of Gap’s revenue per product is up this year,
driven by “improved customer response to women’s assortment,
especially at Gap and Banana Republic, which has translated to
fewer promotions and markdowns,” Edie Kissko, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Gap’s gains come as Americans continue to spend
judiciously. U.S. same-store sales rose 3.9 percent last month,
beating the estimate for a 3.3 percent gain, as many chains used
discounts to woo shoppers. Though Gap sales climbed 8 percent,
unseasonably warm weather and an early Easter may have prompted
shoppers to stock up early on spring gear.  When  Glenn Murphy , 50, became Gap’s chief executive officer
in 2007, he focused on international and online sales while
shrinking or closing stores at home. Since 2007, sales in the
U.S. and  Canada  have fallen 6.6 percent, and some investors
began looking overseas for growth. In the past 12 months, Murphy
has been re-emphasizing North America, which last year generated
85 percent of the company’s $14.5 billion in revenue.  Jade Green  He has moved the creative operation to New York from
hometown  San Francisco , bringing together for the first time the
design, marketing and production teams. He poached former Gap
executive Tracy Gardner from  J. Crew  Group Inc. to advise on
ways of making the women’s clothes more appealing. The spring
line, which features denim and khakis in colors from red to jade
green, is the new team’s first outing.  “With more confidence in our product assortments at Gap
and Banana Republic, we feel this is a good time to invest more
in marketing,” Kissko said. “The ultimate pacing and amount
will in part be determined by the brands’ continued momentum.”  Murphy, who ran  Canada’s Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. (SC)  chain
before becoming CEO, has assembled and disassembled several
creative teams at Gap. It was as though he was throwing
“spaghetti up against the wall until it sticks,” according to
Connor Browne, who oversees more than $3 billion as co-manager
of the Thornburg Value Fund in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . His firm
owned 10.6 million Gap shares as of December.  Finally Hitting  “It would be great if the move of the design team to New
York, bringing on the adviser from J. Crew, if all of that was
finally hitting and they were designing product that resonates
with customers,” he said.  Browne said when his firm invested in Gap last year it was
lured by the prospect of higher margins over time from online
sales and franchisees overseas -- not potential improvements in
 North America . Boosting sales in the U.S. would “be a really
nice outcome for shareholders,” he said.  Investors won’t see how improving sales will affect
operating margins and profit until Gap reports quarterly
earnings on May 17. The company said in February that operating
margins at Gap would be relatively flat this year, as it invests
in the business, buys back shares and returns cash to
shareholders in the form of higher dividends.  “Analysts have been taking up estimates on expectation
they have improved operating margins,” Browne said.  Cotton Prices  Gap’s operating  income  was 9.9 percent of its sales last
year, the lowest since fiscal 2008, and down from 13.4 percent
in the year-earlier period, as it struggled to pass along higher
cotton prices and was forced to discount clothing that failed to
resonate with consumers, such as women’s tops.  Randal Konik of Jefferies & Co., who boosted his
recommendation on Gap shares to buy from hold in July and is
calling for a $37 price target, is the most bullish analyst. Gap
last reached that price in August 2000, when J. Crew CEO and
Chairman Mickey Drexler was still running the show.  “We continue to hear positive feedback on the new spring
product at Gap,” Konik wrote in a March 19 note. “There is a
clear and noticeable improvement in style with better designs
and bright colors that are on trend with the fashion, and we
have seen more customers buying the merchandise.”  Still, a sustainable turnaround will depend largely on
whether Gap can get full price for its clothes.  Too Early  Although the company has “seen some real traction in its
business and has been able to pull back on promotions at Gap
Brand and Banana Republic,” it’s too early to say this is the
start of a “long-awaited turnaround,”  Paul Lejuez , an analyst
at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York, wrote in a
note on April 5. He has a neutral rating on the stock.  April same-store sales will offer a clearer picture of
Gap’s success this year than the past two months, according to
Deutsche’s Weiner. It will be a tough comparison; sales rose 8
percent last year partly because the Easter holiday fell late in
April.  “The appeal for people who like the stock is the product
turns meaningfully better into the back half of the year,” he
said. “My own view is it’s just too early to say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  