-- Wells Fargo Wins Possession of Three Parking Garages in Stockton
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/wells-fargo-wins-ownership-of-garages-in-stockton-lawsuit.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , in a lawsuit it
filed as a bond trustee against financially ailing Stockton,
 California , was awarded possession of three parking garages.  San Joaquin County Superior Court Judge Roger Ross in
Stockton yesterday made the decision about who controls the
garages after Stockton missed a $779,935 payment on lease
revenue bonds issued in 2004.  Stockton, a farming center about 80 miles (130 kilometers)
east of San Francisco, is struggling under the weight of
escalating retiree costs, dwindling  tax revenue , accounting
errors and the lingering effects of the recession. As part of
its effort to avert bankruptcy, the City Council decided
Feb. 28 to default on $2 million in bond payments after missing
the bond payment for the parking garages.  The ruling against Stockton “enables the City to sit down
with Wells Fargo to work out terms and conditions that we think
will protect the public and assure uninterrupted vital parking
services,” Connie Cochran, a spokeswoman for the city, said in
an e-mail. “These assurances and our ability to work through
the details with Wells Fargo are particularly important in light
of how essential these resources are to downtown Stockton and
special events.”  Bond Rating  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its rating on the garage bonds to
CC from BB- on Feb. 29, citing concerns about the city’s
“willingness to meet its obligations” after the Feb. 28
council meeting.  Under a state law signed last year, Stockton is relying on
an outside mediator to resolve disputes with creditors and
unions. After 60 days without a resolution through mediation, or
if the city runs out of money, it may then seek court
protection. The law was sought by public-employee unions after
Vallejo, a city of 120,000 in the San Francisco Bay Area, went
bankrupt in 2008 and asked a court to help it void labor
contracts.  In the case that went to trial before Ross yesterday, Wells
Fargo argued that the city entered into a lease agreement for
the garages and has defaulted on that agreement, allowing the
San Francisco-based bank to repossess the property. Stockton
acknowledged the missed bond payment, though claimed in court
documents that the repossession isn’t permitted because the
relationship between the city and the bank is “not that of a
landlord-tenant.”  Jeff Davis, a lawyer for Wells Fargo, told Ross that after
Stockton failed to make its bond payment, the bank served the
city with a three-day “pay or quit” notice followed by a
filing claiming Stockton is occupying the garages illegally.  Parking Fees  “The bondholders are not being paid,” Davis told the
judge. With a court order allowing Wells Fargo to repossess the
garages, the bank could collect parking fees and “investors
would get some of their money back,” Davis said. The city would
get credit for those payments, he said.  Thomas Keeling, a lawyer representing Stockton, told Ross
that the San Francisco-based bank had adopted a “shoot first
and ask questions later strategy.” The order the bank seeks
isn’t a “permissible remedy” because under state law
regulating financing for the garages, Stockton must benefit from
the bank’s re-leasing.  “Wells Fargo has not presented a plan for re-letting, much
less a plan showing that the city will benefit from it,”
Keeling told Ross.  Police Association  The City Council also decided in February to suspend sick
leave and vacation payouts to retiring workers. That prompted an
objection from the Stockton Police Officers’ Association in a
previously filed lawsuit. A hearing on the officers’ request for
a court order requiring the city to restore the payouts is
scheduled for today in the same court before Judge Lesley
Holland.  “The city’s finances are precarious for the balance of
this fiscal year,” City Manager Bob Deis said in a Feb. 24
letter to Stockton employees. “Any new surprise may push us
into insolvency or uncontrolled default. As a result, we are
forced to implement a temporary ‘time out’ and examine our
leave-payout exposure.”  The move is intended to discourage employees from seeking
early retirement and extracting large amounts from city coffers
during its negotiations with creditors.  The case is Wells Fargo Bank National Association v. City
of Stockton, 39-2012-00277662, Superior Court of San Joaquin
County (Stockton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  