-- Wells Fargo Said to Face HUD Scrutiny on Fair Lending
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-04-12T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/wells-fargo-said-to-face-hud-scrutiny-on-fair-lending.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, faces a U.S. probe over claims that it neglects
bank-owned homes in minority communities, according to a person
briefed on the matter.  The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development is
examining allegations that the San Francisco-based bank violated
fair-lending laws, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the review isn’t public. If the agency finds
violations and can’t reach an agreement to have the bank remedy
them, the matter may be transferred to the  Department of
Justice , the person said.  The Obama administration has boosted scrutiny of banks to
discourage loan discrimination after the  housing bust  led to
record defaults. The U.S. has conducted at least two other
reviews of fair-lending practices by the bank in the past year.  “We are hopeful that we’ll be able to work with Wells
Fargo to identify practices and procedures to correct the
discriminatory behavior that we have identified,” said Morgan
Williams, director of enforcement and investigations at the
National Fair Housing Alliance, which brought the case to HUD.
“We are dismayed by the findings of our investigation.”  The nonprofit organization, which announced the claims in
an April 10 statement, said Wells Fargo violated the Fair
Housing Act by allowing homes it owns in minority neighborhoods
to remain in a state of disrepair. The NFHA said it reviewed 218
properties in eight cities, finding that properties in white
neighborhoods were better maintained and marketed than similar
buildings in areas with large black and Hispanic populations.  ‘Fair and Consistent’  “Wells Fargo conducts all lending-related activities in a
fair and consistent manner without regard to race,” Vickee Adams, a bank spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. “That
includes the marketing and maintenance standards for all
foreclosed properties for which we are responsible.”  The lender has its own property manager, Premiere Asset
Services, which conducts monthly checks of homes and performs
maintenance, including lawn care, debris removal and protecting
vacant houses from the elements, Adams said. Wells Fargo doesn’t
know if it owns the properties cited in the report or whether it
acts as a trustee or servicer for them, she said.  Tiffany Thomas Smith, a HUD spokeswoman, said the complaint
is under review and declined to comment further.  The case is part of a larger investigation by the NFHA and
four member groups, which evaluated 39 marketing and maintenance
attributes -- such as accumulated trash, broken or discarded
for-sale signs, and dead lawn grass -- at more than 1,000 bank-
owned properties. The probe was funded by a HUD grant, the
nonprofit said in its  report . The group said it plans to
announce a complaint against another large U.S. bank next week.  Separate Probe  Wells Fargo had been negotiating with the  Justice
Department  to resolve a separate probe into whether it directed
blacks toward subprime loans, a person familiar with the matter
said in July. The investigation, conducted by the department’s
Civil Rights Division, focused on the lender’s actions during
the housing bubble, the person said at the time.  Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  That same month, the company settled  Federal Reserve  claims
that it steered reliable borrowers into subprime loans and
falsified information in mortgage documents. Wells Fargo agreed
to pay an $85 million fine, the largest assessed by the Fed in a
consumer-protection enforcement case at the time, and compensate
clients.  Riskier Borrowers  Employees at the firm’s Wells Fargo Financial unit pushed
customers who may have been eligible for prime  interest rates 
into loans carrying higher rates intended for riskier borrowers,
the central bank said in a July 20 statement announcing the
accord. The company didn’t admit wrongdoing in agreeing to
settle, the Fed said.  Wells Fargo still faces a 2008 lawsuit by the city of
Baltimore alleging a “pattern or practice of illegal and
discriminatory mortgage lending” leading to foreclosures on
Wells Fargo loans in minority neighborhoods.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  agreed in December to pay a record
$335 million to compensate customers of its Countrywide
Financial unit who were charged more for home loans based on
race and national origin. Countrywide, which the bank acquired
in 2008, steered minorities into higher-cost subprime mortgages
from 2004 to 2007, even when they qualified for prime loans, the
Justice Department said in a Dec. 21 statement.  “We will not hesitate to hold financial institutions
accountable, including one of the nation’s largest,” Attorney
General Eric Holder said in the statement. “These institutions
should make judgments based on applicants’ creditworthiness, not
on the color of their skin.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  