-- Wells Fargo, Stockton Police Group Take City to Court
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-04-12T20:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/wells-fargo-should-be-forced-to-meet-subpoenas-sec-says.html
Stockton,  California , went to trial
today against  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and will have a hearing tomorrow
on litigation by its police officers that may signal whether it
becomes the largest U.S. city to file for bankruptcy.  Beleaguered by escalating retiree costs, dwindling  tax
revenue , accounting errors and the lingering effects of the
recession, Stockton, a farming center about 80 miles (130
kilometers) east of San Francisco, said in a court filing that
it is “teetering precariously on the edge of insolvency.”  After the city missed a bond payment for parking garages on
Feb. 25, Wells Fargo sued. The City Council decided on Feb. 28
to default on $2 million in bond payments, begin mediation with
creditors, and to suspend sick leave and vacation payouts to
retiring workers. That prompted an objection from the Stockton
Police Officers’ Association in a previously filed lawsuit.  “These lawsuits only advance the narrow agendas of two
creditors and possibly push the city into insolvency,” Stockton
City Manager Bob Deis said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  He said Wells Fargo and the police are “trying to elbow
their way to the front of the line, which harms all other
employees, creditors and the citizens of Stockton. This is what
happened in Vallejo, sending that city spiraling into
uncontrolled bankruptcy.”  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its rating on the garage bonds to
CC from BB- on Feb. 29, citing concerns about the city’s
“willingness to meet its obligations” after the Feb. 28
council meeting.  Outside Mediation  Under a state law signed last year, Stockton is relying on
an outside mediator to resolve disputes with creditors and
unions. After 60 days without a resolution through mediation, or
if the city runs out of money, it may then seek court
protection. The law was sought by public-employee unions after
Vallejo, a city of 120,000 in the San Francisco Bay Area, went
bankrupt in 2008 and asked a court to help it void labor
contracts.  The suit brought by Wells Fargo, being tried in Stockton
before San Joaquin County Superior Court Judge Roger Ross,
claims Stockton missed a $779,935 payment due Feb. 25 on revenue
bonds issued in 2004.  Jeff Davis, a lawyer for Wells Fargo, told Ross today that
after Stockton failed to make its bond payment, the bank served
the city with a three-day “pay or quit” notice followed by a
filing claiming Stockton is occupying the garages illegally.  ‘Not Being Paid’  “The bondholders are not being paid,” Davis told the
judge. With a court order allowing Wells Fargo to repossess the
garages the bank could collect parking fees, “investors would
get some of their money back, and the city would get credit for
those payments,” Davis said.  Thomas Keeling, a lawyer representing Stockton, told Ross
that Wells Fargo had adopted a “shoot first and ask questions
later strategy.” The order the bank seeks isn’t a “permissible
remedy” because under state law regulating financing for the
garages, Stockton must benefit from the bank’s re-leasing.  “Wells Fargo has not presented a plan for re-letting, much
less a plan showing that city will benefit from it,” Keeling
said.  Wells Fargo argues that the city entered into a lease
agreement for the garages and has defaulted on that agreement,
allowing the San Francisco-based bank to repossess the property.
Stockton acknowledges the missed bond payment, though claims in
court documents that the repossession isn’t permitted because
the relationship between the city and the bank is “not that of
a landlord-tenant.”  ‘Helping Hand’  “It seems when certain banks were in trouble, they asked
for a helping hand and received a bailout from the government,”
Deis said in his statement.  “Now that our city government is in trouble -- largely
because of a mortgage foreclosure crisis caused by some banks --
this bank is responding with a lawsuit instead of constructive
participation in the larger effort to find a solution,” Deis
said. “The irony should not be lost on the public.”  Elise Wilkinson, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail that the bank, as the trustee of the bonds at issue, filed
its suit at the direction of the bond insurer, National Public
Finance Guarantee Corp. The company backs the debt.  “Wells Fargo has no funds at risk in this case, nor are we
attempting to recover funds for our own accounts,” Wilkinson
said. “Rather, we are acting solely in the interest of the bond
insurer and the bondholders and at their direction.”  Accrued Vacation  The Stockton Police Officers’ Association, in its lawsuit
originally filed in 2010, is seeking a court order requiring the
city to restore payouts to retiring for accrued vacation. The
group, accusing the city of breach of contract, claims Stockton
unilaterally cut police pay by about 30 percent by declaring an
emergency rather than negotiating concessions.  In court documents, Stockton argues it temporarily
suspended payouts of accrued vacation for all city employees as
one element of a wide-ranging effort to close a budget gap and
preserve critical public safety services through the end of its
fiscal year -- and while the state-mandated mediation continues.
The measures have left Stockton with a general fund of less than
$1 million, lawyers for the city said in the filings.  The police officers’ association “brazenly seeks to push
its way to the front of the line,” threatening to trigger a
city-wide payout of more than $1 million that would “most
likely force the city into bankruptcy,” according to the
filing.  ‘Smokescreen’  David E. Mastagni, a lawyer representing the police
officers, said in a phone interview that the city has no legal
right to withhold approximately $321,000 in accrued vacation pay
that some officers earned over 30 years of service. The threat
of a bankruptcy is a “smokescreen,” he said.  Such a small sum wouldn’t trigger a bankruptcy filing,
Mastagni said. He said the city manager’s “real intention is to
throw the accrued vacation pay into the bankruptcy” once it’s
filed “so he doesn’t have to pay the full amount of these
earned wages.”  Wells Fargo rose 32 cents to $33.94 at 3:54 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The cases are Wells Fargo Bank National Association v. City
of Stockton, 39-2012-00277662, Superior Court of San Joaquin
County (Stockton); and Stockton Police Officers’ Association v.
City of Stockton, 39-2010-00245197, Superior Court of San
Joaquin County (Stockton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   merelman@bloomberg.net  