-- Will U.S. Avoid a Recession in 2012? (Part 4): Shilling
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-04-12T23:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/will-u-s-avoid-a-recession-in-2012-part-4-.html
I have explained why I believe
there may be a U.S. recession this year, spurred by renewed
consumer retrenchment amid further declines in  house prices ,
stagnant incomes and uncertain job prospects. So why are
investors continuing to show such an appetite for equities?  Stocks have been volatile: Over the past month, the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index had three trading days when gains
exceeded 1 percent and three when losses exceeded 1 percent. And
major stock indexes dropped sharply in the early days of
April. Yet, despite concerns about the strength of the U.S.
economic recovery, the S&P 500 closed the first quarter above
the 1,400-point mark for the first time in almost four years
while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed out its best first
quarter since 1998 and the Nasdaq Composite Index topped the
3,000 level for the first time in more than 11 years.  So either I’m dead wrong, or investors are ignoring reality
as they emphasize “risk-on” trades.  Stocks (ICJ)  have been strong,
with the exception of defensive dividend payers, such as
utilities, that investors have ignored. Until very recently,
Treasury yields surged and prices plunged as investors switched
to riskier securities.  Fed Cues  The volatility is due to investors taking their cues not
from the performance of the economy, as they traditionally have,
but from the  Federal Reserve .  The  Federal Open Market Committee  met March 13, and its
statement, for the first time in several years, included some
hints of optimism about the economy, which it said “has been
expanding moderately”; labor markets, which “have improved
further”; and household spending and business investment, which
“have continued to advance.”  Wall Street  responded positively,
with the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 both
jumping by 1.7 percent or more that day.  Two weeks later, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said further
declines in unemployment would require “more rapid expansion of
production and demand from consumers and businesses, a process
that can be supported by continued accommodative policies.”  Investors interpreted that as suggesting the economy might
falter enough to precipitate another round of quantitative
easing, seemingly believing that the negative effect of a weak
economy on corporate profits and dividends pales in comparison
with the influence of the money received directly by sellers of
securities to the central bank. Stocks took off after Bernanke’s
remarks, with the Dow rising 1.2 percent and the  S&P 500 
advancing 1.4 percent.  In contrast, stocks tanked when the minutes of the Fed’s
March meeting were released April 3 and showed that the central
bank had no immediate inclination to institute another round of
easing or other stimulus. Markets fell sharply that day, with
the Dow falling 0.5 percent and the S&P dropping 1 percent.  It seems that, until recently, investors have been ignoring
the big picture of the still-weak economic recovery and focusing
instead on the Fed. That is partly what generated the robust
first-quarter gains for stocks and other risky investments while
Treasuries slumped. The sole focus, it appears, is on liquidity
created by the Fed. If investors believe the central bank is
about to dump more money into the system, stocks soar. If
Bernanke hints that the liquidity tap is closed for now, stocks
tank. This narrow focus suggests that investors aren’t happy
with the fundamental state of the economy.  Apple Surge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  offers another example of this narrow focus and
the willful suspension of disbelief concerning the uncertain
outlook for the economy and corporate profits. Of course,
civilization would come to a grinding halt without Apple iPhones
and iPads. But when the market capitalization of that one stock
-- about $585 billion -- exceeds that of the entire retail
sector -- about $550 billion -- is it conceivable that
speculation may be afoot?  The zeal for Apple, whose  share price  is up more than 50
percent this year alone and is almost double its year-ago level,
reminds me of the early 1970s and the era of the Nifty Fifty
“one decision” stocks: Companies with such wonderful long-run
growth prospects that investors could simply buy them and never
worry about selling. That list narrowed as icons fell from
grace, but the true believers never faltered. I remember
becoming concerned when the interest focused on only four
companies --  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,  Polaroid Corp. (PRDCQ) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
and  Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO)   It struck me then that hamburger stands, cameras, amusement
parks and motor homes were the limbs and outward flourishes --
and not the soul -- of the economy. If investors were avoiding
just about everything else, they were implying that the economy
was in trouble. This, along with a huge, but generally
unrecognized, inventory buildup, led me to successfully forecast
the 1973-1975 recession, until then the worst since the 1930s.  Is history about to repeat itself? Maybe, just maybe,
reality is re-entering investors’ field of vision. The payroll
employment increase for March -- 120,000, or about half the
expected gain -- was announced April 6, when most markets were
closed for Good Friday. There was futures trading, and stock
futures plummeted and Treasury bonds soared. And that pattern
persisted in subsequent days with Treasuries and the dollar
leaping while stocks and commodities nosedived. In a pattern
that is very similar to early 2011, investor optimism may be
entering an agonizing reappraisal. The “risk-off” trades may
be back, in line with my economic forecast.  Next week, I will reply to some of the comments and
questions posted online regarding this series.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2  and  Part 3  of the
series.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  capital flight  in the
euro zone and some final words on  gender inequality  at the
Masters;  Jonathan Alter  on why  Paul Ryan ’s  budget proposal  would
irk the founders of the  Republican Party ;  Jonathan Weil  on
JPMorgan  derivatives trader  Bruno Iksil’s nicknames;  Michael
Kinsley  on  class warfare  and the presidential campaign; Stephen
Carter on  Mitt Romney  and his  father’s portrayal  on the program
“Mad Men” and Rohit Aggarwala on why  user fees  are preferable to
an infrastructure bank.  To contact the writer of this article: A. Gary Shilling at
 insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Max Berley
at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 