-- Wisconsin High Court Judge Seeks Accuser’s Recusal From Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-12T23:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/wisconsin-high-court-judge-seeks-accuser-s-recusal-from-case-1-.html
David T. Prosser Jr., a Wisconsin
 Supreme Court  justice accused of ethics code violations for
allegedly putting his hands around the neck of colleague Ann Walsh Bradley, said she shouldn’t play any role in judging him.  Prosser’s alleged altercation with Bradley occurred when
the two had a disagreement last year over the fate of a law
limiting Wisconsin public employee collective-bargaining rights.  He breached rules requiring judges be “patient, dignified
and courteous” to others in the court system, special
prosecutor Franklyn M. Gimbel, a Milwaukee lawyer, said in a
filing with the high court last month seeking the imposition of
sanctions. Prosser also breached rules that judges must
cooperate and maintain high standards of conduct to ensure the
integrity of the judiciary, Gimbel said. He asked for a three-
judge panel for a trial.  Prosser’s lawyers, in a filing today, said Bradley should
recuse herself and not participate in the review.  “It is evident that Justice Bradley is disqualified from
participation in this matter and must withdraw,” Prosser’s
attorneys said.  ‘Central Figure’  “Justice Bradley is not only a material witness but also a
central figure in leaking skewed representations” of incidents
cited in the complaint to the news media and the instigator of a
criminal investigation against Prosser, his lawyers said.  In a separate filing, Prosser also asked that the state
Supreme Court’s chief judge, Shirley Abrahamson, also recuse
herself, asserting that she, too, is a material witness and that
she is “clearly biased against Prosser.”  The three-judge panel that would hear Gimbel’s case against
Prosser would be drawn from the 12 members of the state’s
intermediate level appellate court and not the seven-member
Supreme Court said Amanda Todd, a spokeswoman for the Wisconsin
court system. That the panel hasn’t yet been selected.  If the panel found Prosser had violated one or more ethics
rules, it would be up to the Supreme Court to decide an
appropriate sanction, which could be a written reprimand,
suspension without pay or removal from office.  While Abrahamson referred calls for comment to her, Todd
said she had no immediate comment on behalf of the justice.  “The anger and accusations contained in his latest filing
and his past attacks on the integrity of the judicial commission
cause me great concern,” Bradley said in a statement. “Justice
Prosser’s motion is rife with inaccurate statements and
unfounded attacks.”  As a judge, “I have dedicated myself to deciding cases in
a fair, neutral, impartial and non- partisan manner,” she said.
“I will apply those principles when I file my written response
to Justice Prosser’s motion.”  ‘Partisan, Unreasonable’  A different special prosecutor last year declined to issue
criminal charges against Prosser or Bradley related to the
incident after Bradley filed a police report.  Prosser responded to the later-filed ethics charges by
saying he never intentionally touched Bradley’s neck, according
to a statement distributed by Supreme Court spokesman Tom
Sheehan on March 16. The judge called the charges against him
“partisan, unreasonable and largely untrue.”  “They will be vigorously contested because I am
innocent,” Prosser said.  The high court ultimately split 4-3 on the question of
whether the collective-bargaining legislation was lawfully
adopted with Prosser in the majority and Bradley in the
minority. Abrahamson wrote a minority opinion, to which Bradley
concurred.  The case is In re Matter of Judicial Disciplinary
Proceedings Against the Hon. David T. Prosser, 12 AP 566J,
Wisconsin Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 