-- World Bank Cuts China 2012 Growth Outlook on Exports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-12T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/world-bank-cuts-china-2012-growth-outlook-on-exports.html
China ’s economic growth may slide
to a  13-year low  in 2012 as a sluggish world recovery damps
export demand and domestic investment and consumption growth
decelerate, the World Bank’s latest forecast shows.  The Washington-based lender cut its estimate for China’s
expansion this year to 8.2 percent in a report released today in
Beijing from a January projection of 8.4 percent.  The world’s second-largest economy lost additional steam in
the first quarter, with a report by the statistics bureau
tomorrow likely to show expansion was the smallest in almost
three years, according to a Bloomberg News  survey . The slowdown
underscores the risks to the global recovery after the U.S.
reported March job growth that trailed estimates and concern
mounted that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is worsening.  “With the economy slowing in the near term, the policy
challenge is to ensure that this continues in a gradual
fashion,” the World Bank said. “Sufficient policy space exists
to facilitate an orderly adjustment and respond to downside
risks if they were to materialize.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  this month pledged to boost
infrastructure investment, ensure “reasonable” liquidity and
accelerate payments of export rebates amid cooling domestic and
overseas demand last quarter. The central bank has lowered
banks’ reserve ratios twice since November and a Bloomberg
survey last month showed economists forecast more reductions
this year.  ‘Volatile Environment’  The government should increase fiscal spending to spur
consumption and banks’ reserve requirements could be lowered to
ease credit, the  World Bank  said.  “In this very volatile environment,” it’s necessary “to
be very flexible, to look at data that are out from month to
month and be ready to move,” Ardo Hansson, the World Bank’s
chief economist for China, said at a briefing in Beijing when
asked for an estimate of the scale of likely reserve-requirement
cuts.  Room for lowering benchmark  interest rates  may be limited
because such a move “could sow the seeds for inflationary
pressure and speculative activities later on,” the institution
said. China’s central bank has kept rates unchanged since the
last increase in July.  Cutting rates should be the “last resort” to stimulate
growth “because they are still relatively low right now,”
Hansson said.  The benchmark one-year lending rate is 6.56 percent and the
one-year savings rate is 3.5 percent. China’s inflation rate
averaged 3.8 percent in the first quarter and 5.4 percent in
2011.  ‘Mild Recovery’  A pickup in world trade next year may help drive a “mild
recovery” in China’s expansion, the World Bank said, raising
its 2013 growth forecast to 8.6 percent from a January estimate
of 8.3 percent.  China’s  trade surplus  may drop to 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 3.4 percent in 2011 while the
current account excess will rise to 3 percent from 2.8 percent,
according to the World Bank’s projections. China posted the
largest trade deficit since at least 1989 in February as exports
grew less than forecast and imports surged.  The shrinking trade surplus will result in a slower
accumulation of foreign-exchange reserves and the Chinese
currency will appreciate at a slower pace as long as the weak
external environment weighs on export volumes and prices, the
World Bank said.  Inflation in the nation this year will average 3.2 percent
as growth slows, commodity-price “impulses” fade and the
property market cools further, the report estimated.  Aging Population  China will face a “structural” slowdown in GDP expansion
as the nation adjusts its growth model and experiences “major
demographic change” including an aging population and a
shrinking labor force, the World Bank said. It cited estimates
that forecast a moderation to an annual 5 percent by 2030 from
an average 8.5 percent from 2011 to 2015. Growth averaged 10.5
percent a year from 2007 to 2011.  A  moderation  in China, which accounts for 80 percent of the
combined GDP of developing economies in  East Asia , “distorts”
the regional economic picture, the World Bank said in today’s
report.  Growth in  developing countries  in the East Asia and Pacific
region may slow to 7.8 percent this year from 8.2 percent in
2011. Excluding China, expansion would accelerate to 5.5 percent
from 5.2 percent due to “sufficient vigor” in domestic demand
in some economies, the lender estimated.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  