-- WTO Sees Trade Growing 3.7% After 5% Expansion in 2011
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-04-12T16:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/wto-sees-trade-growing-3-7-after-5-expansion-in-2011.html
Global trade in goods will grow 3.7
percent this year after expanding a less-than-forecast 5 percent
in 2011 as  Europe ’s debt crisis continues to crimp commerce, the
 World Trade Organization  said.  “Europe is extremely integrated tradewise. Europe is a big
global supply chain,” WTO Director-General  Pascal Lamy  said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview from Geneva. “If
Europe growth drops, then inevitably the volumes of trade not
only within Europe, but with Europe and the rest of the world,
will drop, and that’s the forecast we have for the moment.”  Developing economies will again lead trade growth this
year, with a forecast 5.6 percent increase in merchandise
exports, compared with 2 percent for developed nations. After
two straight years of slower growth, trade will recover in 2013,
with volume seen expanding 5.6 percent. The WTO used volumes
rather than values for its assessment to avoid distortions
caused by changes in commodity prices or exchange rates.  The dollar value of global merchandise trade climbed 19
percent last year to a record $18.2 trillion, beating the
previous peak of $16.1 trillion in 2008, due in large part to
higher commodity prices. The value of commercial-services
exports advanced 11 percent to $4.2 trillion.  The prediction for 2012 assumes global output growth of 2.1
percent, down from 2.4 percent last year. Risks to that forecast
include a steeper-than-expected downturn in Europe, financial
contagion related to the European debt crisis, surging  oil
prices  and geopolitical risks, the WTO said.  Downside Risks  The forecasts for both 2012 and 2013 are below the long-
term average of 6 percent for the period from 1990 to 2008.  “Our benchmark is long-term growth of 6 percent in trade
volumes per year,” Lamy said. “We were below that trend last
year and, unfortunately, we forecast to be even lower this year.
This year, as far as we can forecast, the main factor is a
sluggish world economy and we see the risk on the downside
rather than on the upside.”  Lamy warned that slow trade growth may lead governments to
impose measures to protect their domestic industries.  “The WTO has so far deterred economic nationalism, but the
sluggish pace of recovery raises concerns that a steady trickle
of restrictive trade measures could gradually undermine the
benefits of trade openness,” he said. “It is time to do no
harm. WTO members should turn their attention to revitalizing
the trading system and to ensuring such a scenario does not
materialize.”  Tsunami, Floods  The WTO, which initially forecast commerce would grow 6.5
percent last year, scaled back its prediction as the world
economy cooled amid the European debt crisis. Other “shocks”
that held back trade last year included the Japanese earthquake
and tsunami and floods in  Thailand . The disruption of oil
supplies in  Libya  cut African export growth by 8 percent and
uprisings around the Arab world curbed African services exports.  Global trade grew a record 13.8 percent in 2010 after
dropping 12 percent in 2009, the biggest contraction since World
War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  