-- Yankees Triumph in Extra Innings Again, Strasburg Silences Mets
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-12T04:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/yankees-triumph-in-extra-innings-again-strasburg-silences-mets.html
Nick Swisher’s two-run homer in the
10th inning gave the  New York Yankees  their second straight
extra-inning victory and a sweep of their three-game series at
the Baltimore Orioles.  Curtis Granderson hit a home run and drove in three runs
for the Yankees, who are 3-3 after losing all three games in
their opening series at Tampa Bay. New York’s home opener is
tomorrow against the Los Angeles Angels.  Rafael Soriano got the win for New York with 1 1/3 innings
of relief last night and Mariano Rivera got the save for the
second straight game. Rivera, the Major League Baseball career
leader in saves, now has 605.  Stephen Strasburg  struck out nine batters in six scoreless
innings and the visiting Washington Nationals defeated the  New
York  Mets 4-0, sending Johan Santana to the loss.  Strasburg, 23, the No. 1 overall pick in the 2009 MLB Draft,
allowed two hits and three walks for his first victory of the
year. Santana struck out eight and walked three while allowing
one run on five hits in five innings. It was his second start
since missing the 2011 season following shoulder surgery.  Mets pitchers walked 10 batters, including two with the
bases loaded, at New York’s Citi Field on the 50th anniversary
of the Mets’ inaugural game as a franchise.  The Mets have dropped their past two games after opening
the year with four wins. The Nationals also are 4-2, tied with
the Mets for first place in the National League East division.  The  Tampa Bay  Rays improved to 4-1 and handed Detroit its
first loss of the season by rallying for four runs in the ninth
inning off Tigers starter  Justin Verlander , who had a one-hit
shutout through eight innings. The Rays won 4-2.  The Boston  Red Sox  dropped to 1-5 with a 3-1 loss at
Toronto. The Red Sox have played all six of their games on the
road so far this season.  The Minnesota Twins won for the first time this season
after four straight losses, defeating the Angels 6-5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  