-- Zeltia Plans Europe Drug Sales Force in Market-Share Push
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-04-12T16:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/zeltia-plans-europe-sales-drive-for-magnificent-growth.html
Zeltia SA (ZEL) , the Spanish developer of
cancer drugs from sea creatures, plans to establish distribution
subsidiaries in Europe to gain market share for products led by
ovarian-tumor and soft-tissue sarcoma treatment Yondelis.  Zeltia, whose stock has  lost  80 percent in the past five
years, is setting up units in countries including Italy and
 Germany  to gain better access for Yondelis and win licensing
agreements for other drugmakers’ cancer treatments, Chairman
Jose Maria Fernandez Sousa-Faro said in an interview.  The drugmaker posted its first profit since 2005 last year
because of a payment from U.S. partner Johnson & Johnson under
an agreement that revived a stalled regulatory approval process
for Yondelis in the country. Earnings growth was held back as
debt-battered governments in Spain,  Italy  and  Portugal  delayed
payments to health-care suppliers such as Zeltia in a deficit-
cutting move.  “As we have more units in Europe, we could sign licensing
for other oncologic products so that our network doesn’t just
sell Yondelis,” Fernandez Sousa-Faro said yesterday at company
headquarters in Madrid. “This is going to be a magnificent year
because we’ve turned around the business after suffering from
many calamities last year.”  Zeltia  rose  0.7 percent to 1.51 euros at the close in
Madrid, valuing the company at 334.4 million euros ($440
million). That contrasts with a 0.8 percent decline today in the
 Madrid Stock Exchange General Index. (MADX)   Payment Delays  Zeltia is experiencing payment delays of more than 500 days
from  Spain ’s government and exceeding 300 days from Italy. The
company expects eventually to receive the 20 million euros that
those two countries owe as well as another 1 million euros from
Portugal, Fernandez Sousa-Faro said.  “We expect to be paid in Spain from August onward thanks
to new government measures,” the chairman said. Collections in
Italy will probably improve after the company’s PharmaMar
cancer-research division sets up its distribution unit in that
country in May. “Zeltia should report better sales and profit
margins this year.”  Yondelis, based on a chemical found in sea squirts, first
went on sale in 2007 to treat soft-tissue sarcoma, a cancer that
develops in connective tissue. The drug is approved for sale for
that form of cancer in  Europe  and  Canada .  Marketing Obstacles  Zeltia encountered marketing obstacles for Yondelis in 2011
when the U.K.’s health-cost agency declined to recommend it for
state reimbursements in ovarian cancer cases and J&J withdrew a
U.S. regulatory application for the drug.  The Spanish drugmaker’s return to profit “is good, but it
really needs to show a significant increase in both sales and
net income,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at
FGA/MG Valores, said by phone today. “The lesson Zeltia should
learn from the difficulties it’s experienced with Yondelis is
that it needs to focus on profitable drugs.”  Fernandez Sousa-Faro, who remains Zeltia’s biggest
 shareholder  even after he and his wife gave 2.2 million shares
to each of their three daughters last month, said he’s
“optimistic” about this year’s drug-development pipeline.  From September through November, Zeltia will be reporting
late-stage trial results for Yondelis on soft-tissue sarcoma,
interim analysis of late-stage studies of Aplidin for multiple
myeloma, more results on an Alzheimer’s treatment study and
“spectacular” findings on the 1183 molecule for resistant
ovarian cancer to be presented at the European Society for
Medical Oncology in late September, the chairman said.  ‘Positive’ Study Results  “I think we can obtain positive results from all of
them,” he said.  J&J (JNJ) ’s Janssen unit pledged in December to pay PharmaMar $25
million under an agreement to conduct a new advanced clinical
test of Yondelis on patients with ovarian cancer. The Spanish
biotech company may also get as much as $85 million through 2015
if certain targets are met.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
owns the marketing rights for Yondelis outside Europe and  Japan .  “We expect payment very soon this year and, as regulators
approve the product in many other countries, we’ll gain more
from royalties,” the executive said. Sales of Yondelis in 2011
were penalized because of a lack of Caelyx, a product combined
with Yondelis for ovarian cancer. “This will be solved by
August, and we are already seeing sales from it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid   at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  