-- Zimmerman Arraignment Set for May 29 in Florida Shooting
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h ,   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-04-12T19:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/zimmerman-arraignment-set-for-may-29-in-florida-shooting.html
George Zimmerman, the  Florida  man
who claimed self-defense in the February shooting death of an
unarmed Trayvon Martin, was scheduled to be arraigned May 29 on
a second-degree murder charge following an initial court hearing.  Zimmerman, 28, charged yesterday, appeared today before
Judge Mark Herr via teleconference for the alleged murder of
Martin, 17. Handcuffed and wearing a dark-colored jumpsuit,
Zimmerman said only “yes sir” to acknowledge his
representation by lawyer Mark O’Mara during the five-minute
hearing. The judge found sufficient evidence to support the
charges, clearing the way to send the case to a trial court.  “I do find there was probable cause for charges as
portrayed in the information,” Herr said at the hearing, held 
at a detention facility in Sanford.  While Zimmerman or his lawyers may enter a not guilty plea
at the May 29 hearing before a circuit court judge, O’Mara may
seek a separate hearing on bail beforehand. Zimmerman is being
held in protective custody and faces as long as life in prison
if convicted.  “They went through a horrible tragedy. They lost their
son,” O’Mara said of Martin’s family at a press conference
after the hearing in Sanford. He said he would seek bail as
early as next week.  Initial Hearing  Under Florida law, the purpose of the initial hearing was
to insure Zimmerman was informed of his rights and represented
by counsel. Judges also are supposed to decide if there’s reason
to hold an arrested suspect until a bail hearing can be held.  At the request of Zimmerman’s attorney, the judge ordered
the case file sealed except for the probable cause affidavit.  “There is a certain amount of information in the court
file that includes personal information about some witnesses,
addresses, telephone numbers,” O’Mara said. “There is even
some information about Trayvon Martin.”  State Attorney Angela Corey, who was present for the
hearing, concurred with his request to seal the file.  Zimmerman stood in front of the microphone as the judge
asked him if he understood that he was at a first appearance
hearing, and he said that he did.  Zimmerman shot Martin on Feb. 26 in Sanford, a central-
Florida town of 54,000 people north of  Orlando . He told
authorities afterwards that he shot Martin in self-defense.  Florida’s “Stand Your Ground” law enables individuals who
feel threatened in a public place to “meet force with force,”
rather than back away, a statute that strengthens any
traditional self-defense assertion, criminal attorneys said.  Prevented Arrest  The law prevented police from arresting Zimmerman in
February, officials said at the time, and may play a role in
derailing the prosecution, according to Florida defense lawyers.  In his comments after today’s hearing, O’Mara, said his
client is “tired” and “frightened.” The lawyer said he
hasn’t seen the state’s evidence yet and “we’re not taking any
possibilities off the table for how this case gets resolved.”  “It was a horrible intersection of two young men’s lives,
and it ended in tragedy,” O’Mara said of the shooting. “We
have to figure out how it happened, why it happened, and who
might be responsible for it.”  Bernie de la Rionda, an assistant Florida state attorney,
declined to discuss what factors led to the decision to file the
second-degree murder charge.  “We charged what we thought was appropriate,” de la Rionda
said.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Circuit Court of the 18th Judicial Circuit (Seminole County).  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
Mark Niquette in Sanford, Florida,
at   mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  