-- A Perilous, Promising Time to Be a Democrat
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-03T22:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/a-perilous-promising-time-to-be-a-democrat.html
The  Democratic Party  enters its 2012
convention this week on a surprisingly even keel.  Despite harsh electoral conditions -- high unemployment,
low growth and public pessimism about the economy -- President
 Barack Obama  remains in a tight race with Republican  Mitt Romney . It seems possible that Democrats might even retain their
majority in the Senate, a prospect that appeared unlikely just
months ago.  Democrats’ competitiveness, however, owes more to the
weakness of the rival party than the strength of their own. As
Republicans grow increasingly infatuated with fringe policies
and candidates, Democrats can’t help but look more appealing by
default.  To be fair, Democrats have also earned their status as a
relative haven. The party survived its flirtation with the
fringe in the 1970s, during which its indulgence of antisocial
behavior, identity politics and a sometimes lurid suspicion of
capitalism threatened its future. From George McGovern to  Bill Clinton  and Barack Obama, Democrats traveled a long and rocky
road back to the political center.  The good news is that the journey resulted in a center-left
party wedded to realism and largely dominated by moderates. The
passage of health-care reform in 2010 showed that Democrats --
and the nation -- can still accomplish difficult, important
things. Even so, health-care reform was a long-belated capstone
to the New Deal, a decidedly 20th-century venture. Barring a
foolish repeal,  Franklin Roosevelt  may now rest in peace. His
party can afford no such luxury.  This year’s Democratic campaigns rest mostly on a promise
to resist Republican threats to the way things are. Being the
party of the status quo is no great recommendation at a time
when the  U.S. economy  is producing  inequality , stagnation and a
paucity of middle-class jobs. Under such circumstances, a vow to
mend but not end the web of government social spending that
consumes an ever greater share of the  federal budget , and a
willingness to raise taxes to Clinton-era rates -- but only on
the wealthy -- sounds like a plan for treading floodwaters.  The party shows strength in pluralism, its ability to
enfold different races and classes. That is also its weakness.
Once the party of the working class and the union rank-and-file,
the Democratic identity and mission are no longer so clear. What
political agenda ties the aspirations of a poor Hispanic family
in Tucson,  Arizona , to those of a white college professor in  New
Haven ,  Connecticut ? Tolerance and compassion are essential
values. But Democratic candidates must offer more than a
sensibility; what the nation needs is a program.  Globalization has been as much a Democratic project as a
Republican one. Unfortunately, neither party can claim success
in managing its ill effects, including relentless pressure on
the wages of low- and middle-skilled workers. Democrats have
proved no more capable than Republicans in preparing the
nation’s schools and workforce for the upheavals fomented by
technology and unbounded global capital. The stimulus, health-
care overhaul and re-regulation of  Wall Street  were all
necessary. But they don’t add up to a compelling vision of the
future or the means for shaping it to American purposes.  This is a difficult political moment, marked by fear and
conflict. It is no place to idle. This week in Charlotte, North
Carolina, President Obama and his party must show that they
aren’t stuck in place -- that they can both see beyond the
present fog and lead us to a better place.  The goal is plain, if elusive: a social contract that
supports opportunity for all and an education system that can
deliver it, an economy that provides meaningful work and
tangible rewards, and a federal government that fulfills vital
duties at home and abroad while gradually paying down its
extravagant debt.  This means the Democrats must be open to reforms they’ve
previously resisted, such as raising the  retirement age  and
means-testing some cherished benefits. They must also offer more
than higher taxes on the rich as a solution to budget deficits,
and commit to reining in excessive public-sector union benefits.
Above all, the party must focus less on expanding benefits for
those left behind and more on helping such workers gain skills
for a globalized economy.  Americans have seen just enough of this new century to
understand there are no easy answers, but not enough to know
where the nation is heading or the price of the voyage. The
 Republican National Convention  promised hard truths and offered
sly evasions. Will Democrats do better?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on addressing  West Nile virus
and dengue fever in the U.S. ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on confronting
 potential genocides ; William Pesek on this weekend’s  Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation Conference ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  how
hard an Obama second term would be ; Cass R. Sunstein on how
 voters can escape from their political cocoons ; John H. Cochrane
on  Keynesian assumptions  at the  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 