-- Actress Woodard Joins Podesta’s Art to Divert Democrats
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-03T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/actress-woodard-joins-podesta-s-art-to-divert-democrats.html
Lobbyist Tony Podesta is so attached
to his art collection that he’s sharing a piece with friends
while he attends the Democratic National Convention.  During luncheons he’s hosting at the Mint Museum Uptown’s
Halcyon restaurant, guests will be able to view “Woman Ironing
(Isis)” a 2008 mixed-media work by Brazilian-born artist Vik
Muniz from Podesta’s extensive personal gallery of modern art.  Many Democrats are taking their passions -- political,
artistic as well as musical -- to the convention in Charlotte.  The  Young Democrats of America  will huddle with a National
Football League party where guests can watch the season-opening
game Sept. 5 between the Dallas Cowboys and  New York  Giants.  The North Carolina Democratic Party hosted a welcoming
party at the  Nascar Hall of Fame  with its counterparts in  South
Carolina , Virginia, Georgia and Tennessee.  And who doesn’t like sex, politics and cocktails? That’s
the theme of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund’s event as part
of its “Women are Watching” campaign.  The quadrennial convention is a cross between a trade show
and a class reunion, says Democratic consultant John Edgell, who
has attended nominating events since 1980.  The parties also offer businesses a chance to promote their
brands, in front of local and national policy makers and the
media. Expect to see logos from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 AT&T Inc. (T)  all around Charlotte.  Wonk Fix  Hometown financial giant  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  will sponsor
Politico’s breakfast series with political leaders and
journalists. Foodies can drop by the “CNN Grill” to sample a
menu rich in Southern culture and get access to maps, data and
videos displayed on an eight-foot touch screen.  Techies can get a wonk fix at  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s “Apps &
Drinks” party, where developers will showcase their wares.
Facebook also will partner with companies such as Microsoft’s
 TechNet  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  for “Innovation Nation,” where pro-
technology legislators will be honored.  The Democrats tapped Hollywood and the music industry for
performers. The Recording Industry Association of America lined
up rapper Common, the 40-year-old Lonnie Rashid Lynn Jr., for a
Sept. 4 benefit sponsored by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of Comedy
Central and MTV cable channels, and the Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers, representing U.S. carmakers.  The convention attracts actors and musicians because it
gets them out of their habitats and into contact with average
Americans, said Robin Bronk, chief executive officer of the
 Creative Coalition . The group is sending “Wings” star and
coalition President Tim Daly, Emmy Award winner Alfre Woodard,
“Monk’s” Tony Shalhoub and Patricia Arquette of “Medium.”  ‘Love Shack’  The  B-52s  will bring a hint of retro (they’ve been around
for 35 years) to the coalition’s gala led by Los Angeles Mayor
 Antonio Villaraigosa . Visitors might see Senators  John Kerry  of
Massachusetts and  Barbara Boxer  of California boogying to “Love
Shack.” Rapper Flo Rida will perform at the  Got Your 6 
military-veterans benefit and the Roots will headline  StartUp
RockOn ’s Music Extravaganza.  The founder of DJs for Obama, DJ Cassidy, will work the
mixers and turntables at the benefit. Asked to name some songs
that might be anthems for the convention, he said Jackie
Wilson’s “(Your Love Keeps Lifting Me) Higher and Higher” and
McFadden and Whitehead’s “Ain’t No Stoppin’ Us Now.”  After a night of rock ‘n’ roll, guests can chill at the
Huffington Post’s Oasis, where yoga classes, facials, massages
and reflexology will bring some Zen to their chaotic schedule.
The yoga will come courtesy of  YogaVotes , a nonpartisan campaign
to get more flexible voters to the polls.  Young Voters  Folk rocker Jack Johnson will headline Rock the Vote’s bus-
tour stop in Charlotte, as he did at the Republican convention
last week, to engage young people. Former first daughter  Chelsea Clinton , who posed for Vogue’s September issue, will moderate a
Microsoft-sponsored panel on the concerns of youth.  For the Democratic bon vivant, Third Way, the pro-private
sector think tank, will host a get-together at the uptown
restaurant and lounge Mez, where the cocktails include the New
York Sour and Old Thymer.  In the end, conventions are about savoring historic moments
and making memories.  “If you can remember the party a couple days later, it was
a good party,” said Edgell. “They all tend to blur together.”  Unless he runs into Eva Longoria, one of Obama’s 35
national re-election comittee leaders. Then he’ll be “hovering
around the water cooler a week later talking about it,” he
said.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at 
 sgreen57@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  