-- Argentine Orders Arrest of Credit Suisse’s Mulford, Telam Says
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-03T21:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/argentine-orders-arrest-of-credit-suisse-s-mulford-telam-says.html
An Argentine judge has ordered the
international arrest of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  executive David Mulford for failing to testify in a probe on the events leading
to the country’s 2001 debt default, state-run news agency Telam
said.  Federal Judge Marcelo Martinez de Giorgi has requested that
Interpol assist in locating and requesting the extradition of
Mulford in connection to the probe, Telam reported, citing
judicial sources it didn’t identify.  A press official for Credit Suisse in New York who said he
can’t be named because he’s not responsible for covering  Latin
America  declined to comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News  on
U.S. Labor Day.  A former U.S. Treasury undersecretary, Mulford was chairman
of Credit Suisse First Boston International when he was tapped
by then Economy Minister Domingo Cavalloin 2001 to engineer a
debt exchange amid the country’s financial crisis.  The swap stretching out payment terms on  Argentina ’s debt
didn’t provide enough financial relief to prevent Argentina from
defaulting on $95 billion in bonds that same year.  Today, Mulford serves as international vice-chairman of
Credit Suisse.  The Buenos Aires court has been investigating for a decade
former government officials, including Cavallo, for possible
crimes committed during the so-called “mega exchange” with
Credit Suisse and other banks.  Telam said that Mulford was unable to testify in the case
the first time he was called before the court because he was
serving as U.S. ambassador to India. Since stepping down from
the diplomatic post, he has refused the court’s request to
testify, Telam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  