-- European Stocks Advance With Metals on Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-09-03T20:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/asian-stocks-fall-with-aussie-copper-on-china-economy-concern.html
European  stocks  rose for a second
day and copper advanced on speculation central banks will take
more steps to boost growth as reports signaled the economic
slowdown is deepening. Spain’s bonds gained and emerging-market
shares climbed the most in two weeks.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.8 percent at 4:30 p.m.
in New York, and the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index jumped 0.6
percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.3 percent
and Brazil’s Bovespa Index snapped three days of declines. The
U.S. market is closed for the Labor Day holiday. Spain’s two-
year note yield fell 15 basis points to 3.51 percent. Sweden’s
krona weakened against its 16 major peers. Copper gained 0.8
percent and nickel jumped 1.7 percent.  Euro-area manufacturing contracted more than initially
estimated in August and  China ’s factory output unexpectedly
shrank for the first time in nine months, according to reports
from London-based Markit Economics today and a government survey
in Beijing Sept. 1. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said Aug. 31 that he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may unveil details of his
bond-purchase program after a policy meeting Sept. 6.  “The door for further quantitative easing is clearly not
shut and is very much dependent on what the near-term data tells
us about the labor market trend,”  Jim Reid , a strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a research note. “Draghi’s
press conference will likely be the highlight of the week with
markets hoping for further guidance around the ECB’s bond
purchasing program.”  Stocks Rebound  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  rebounded from two weeks of losses, the first
back-to-back declines since May. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto
Group led a rally in mining companies. Rhoen-Klinikum AG plunged
21 percent as Fresenius SE decided against reviving its bid for
the German hospital operator.  “Bernanke did say if more is needed, the Fed stands by to
do more, which is good for the economy, it’s good for markets,”
 Markus Rosgen , chief Asian strategist at Citigroup Inc., said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “In terms of China, there is
certainly more room to ease.”  China’s Purchasing Managers Index fell to 49.2 in August
from 50.1 in July, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said.  Emerging Markets  Emerging-market stocks gained for a second day. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.6 percent, rebounding from the
lowest close last week since February 2009. Russia’s Micex Index
rose 1.2 percent and benchmark gauges in  Hungary ,  Indonesia  and
 South Korea  advanced at least 0.4 percent.  The Bovespa gained 0.4 percent on bets policy makers will
cut borrowing costs after a central bank survey showed a lower
growth forecast for  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Consumer-goods maker Hypermarcas SA rose the most in two
weeks, leading gains by companies that sell in the local market
while Marfrig Alimentos SA, Brazil’s second-biggest food
company, sank 3.6 percent.  The zloty was the second-worst performer among 25 emerging-
market currencies, weakening 0.5 percent versus the euro, after
a report showed contraction in Polish manufacturing deepened in
August more than estimated, adding to slowdown concern.  Metals Gain  Copper rose to $7,679 a metric ton and nickel climbed to
$16,220 a ton. China is the world’s largest consumer of both
metals. Natural gas declined 0.5 percent.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year  bond  fell eight basis points
to 5.77 percent. The yield on German 10-year  government bonds 
rose 4 basis points to 1.38 percent and yields on similar-
maturity U.K. gilts were at 1.65 percent.  The Swedish krona depreciated 1.1 percent to 8.4300 per
euro, the weakest level since July 27, after an unexpected drop
in manufacturing. Australia’s dollar dropped as low as $1.0240,
the least since July 25, after a report showed retail sales
declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  