-- Asian Currencies Advance, Led by Baht, on Fed Easing Optimism
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-03T08:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/asian-currencies-advance-led-by-baht-on-fed-easing-optimism.html
Asian currencies gained, led by
Thailand’s baht, on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will unveil
a third round of quantitative easing, a policy that boosts the
supply of dollars and spurs demand for emerging-market assets.  The baht and South Korea’s won rose the most in a week
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 that U.S.
joblessness was a “grave concern” and further monetary easing
can’t be ruled out. Chinese factory output unexpectedly shrank
for the first time in nine months in August, a government survey
showed Sept. 1.  “Weak employment data may lead to further easing by the
Fed as Bernanke showed a great concern about the labor market,”
said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at  Bangkok
Bank Pcl. (BBL)  “That supports Asian currencies as the easing may
boost capital inflows to Asia. But gains in the regional
currencies may be limited amid concern about  China’s economy .”  The baht rose 0.4 percent to 31.24 per dollar as of 3:05
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
won appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,131.05, Taiwan’s dollar climbed
0.2 percent to NT$29.92 and China’s  yuan  gained 0.1 percent to
6.3413. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks
the region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, was
headed for its best close since Aug. 9.  Unemployment Concern  Bernanke said “the  unemployment rate  is likely to remain
far above levels consistent with maximum employment for some
time” unless the economy begins to grow rapidly. U.S. central
bankers meet Sept. 12-13 and will work up a fresh round of
forecasts for the economy and consider what steps are needed to
reduce a jobless rate that has been stuck above 8 percent for
more than three years.  China’s Purchasing Managers Index fell to 49.2 from 50.1 in
July, below the estimates of 24 of the 25 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. The dividing line between expansion and
contraction is 50.  The  Thai baht  rose for a second day after foreign funds
bought $394 million more Thai government bonds than they sold on
Aug. 31, the biggest net purchases since Aug. 8, according to
data from the Thai Bond Market Association. Overseas investors
pumped $1 billion into the securities last week.  Relief Rally  The won gained as the prospect of monetary easing in the
U.S. offset Korean trade figures showing exports fell for a
second month. Shipments from Asia’s fourth-biggest economy
dropped 6.2 percent in August from a year earlier, the sixth
monthly decline of 2012, official data showed on Sept. 1.  “Bernanke’s comments weren’t enough to assure a drastic
pick-up in investor sentiment, but we’ll be seeing some relief
rally in the  currency market  today,” said Jude Noh, a Seoul-
based chief foreign-exchange trader at Suhyup Bank. “South
Korean exporters that have delayed currency conversion last
month may also sell the dollar.”  Elsewhere in Asian trading, the Philippine peso climbed 0.3
percent to 41.975 per dollar, Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.2
percent to 3.1103 and India’s rupee rose 0.2 percent to 55.43.
Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 9,579.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 