-- Asian Bonds Climb Amid Expectations for Global Easing
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-09-03T05:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/asian-bonds-climb-amid-expectations-for-global-easing.html
Australia ’s government bonds
extended a record rally while yields on Singapore’s debt headed
for an all-time low amid speculation global central banks will
expand monetary easing to prop up growth.  China ’s manufacturing shrank at the fastest pace since
March 2009, a private report showed today, indicating the
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy is deepening.
 Japan ’s 10-year note yield touched a three-week low after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that he
won’t rule out “nontraditional” policy tools if required to
stimulate the  U.S. economy .  “Markets kind of responded to the expectation that there
will be some quantitative easing,”  Peter Jolly , Sydney-based
head of market research for National Australia Bank Ltd. said of
the response to Bernanke’s speech. “That has flown through to
all bond markets across Asia and Australia.”  Australia’s 10-year  yield  dropped three basis points to
3.06 percent as of 3:26 p.m. in Sydney. The yield fell for a
12th day, the longest stretch of declines since at least 1990,
when Bloomberg began compiling daily data.  Singapore’s 10-year rate retreated eight basis points to
1.31 percent, set for the lowest close on record going back to
1998, according to data compiled by the Monetary Authority of
 Singapore . Japan’s  benchmark yield  fell as much as 1 1/2 basis
points to 0.78 percent, a level unseen since Aug. 13. U.S.
financial markets are closed today for the Labor Day holiday.  China’s Manufacturing  The purchasing managers’ index for China released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics had a final reading of
47.6 for this month, compared with 47.8 on a preliminary basis
reported Aug. 23. The dividing line between expansion and
contraction is 50.  China’s central bank lowered  interest rates  in June for the
first time in three years and cut them again in July to support
the economy through lower borrowing costs. Even so, the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of shares declined on Aug. 30 to the lowest
level since February 2009.  “I am quite concerned about China’s PMI,” said Akira Takei, head of the international fixed-income department at
Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , which oversees about $41
billion. Chinese officials “started to cut interest rates but
that’s not going to be enough.”  U.S. Outlook  Speaking on Aug. 31 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , Bernanke said
the costs of “nontraditional policies” appear manageable when
considered carefully. That implies Fed policy makers “should
not rule out the further use of such policies if economic
conditions warrant,” he said.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of quantitative
easing, or QE. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will next
gather on Sept. 12-13, followed by the Bank of Japan’s two-day
meeting starting Sept. 18.  “Bernanke’s speech increased speculation that some form of
additional monetary easing will be introduced soon,” said Jun Fukashiro, a Tokyo-based chief fund manager at Toyota Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $24 billion. “If the U.S
eases policy for longer, Japan will have to remain accommodative
for a substantially longer period.”  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  is forecast to hold its
benchmark rate at 3.5 percent tomorrow when RBA policy makers
meet, a Bloomberg News survey of economists shows. Traders see a
50 percent chance that the central bank will cut the rate to at
least 2.5 percent by March 2013, according to data on overnight-
index swaps compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve already had a very discounted yield curve in the
sense where it’s nearly 100 basis points of rate cuts priced for
the year ahead, which is quite a deep discount,” said NAB’s
Jolly. “It’s going to be hard for the yield to keep rallying
with such a deep discount when the RBA is not moving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  