-- Atom’s Tsuchiya Starts Advising New Japan-Focused Hedge Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-03T01:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/atom-s-tsuchiya-starts-advising-new-japan-focused-hedge-fund.html
Atsuko Tsuchiya, a former Citadel
Investment Group LLC fund manager, started advising a hedge fund
that bets on  Japan ’s rising and falling stocks after ending a
contract with a similar fund last year.  Tsuchiya, chief executive officer of Tokyo-based  Atom
Capital Management Co. , is targeting to raise about $100 million
in the first year for the Atom Japan Fund, which got $10 million
in  seed capital  from an investor she declined to identify in a
telephone interview. The Atom fund will stop taking money from
investors when it reaches about $300 million, she said.  Atom is making a comeback for a third time after
terminating advisory agreements with similar funds that employ
long-short and event-driven strategies seeking to capitalize on
corporate events. Japanese hedge funds have been out of favor
with investors amid covered-up losses at AIJ Investment Advisors
Co. and insider-trading scandals, leading to a more than 50
percent drop in their assets from a 2006 peak.  “Competition has declined for Japan-focused  hedge funds ,
so I’m taking this as an opportunity to deliver the alpha
investors want,” Tsuchiya said, referring to the premium an
investment portfolio earns above a certain market benchmark.
“Some interest is returning now. Now I just have to focus on my
performance.”  The new fund returned 19 percent from September last year,
based on an unaudited paper portfolio, by capitalizing on
companies that bought affiliates such as Promise Co. as well as
investing in drugmakers such as  Tsuruha Holdings Inc. (3391)  that are
seen as the winners as the industry consolidates, Tsuchiya said.  Penjing Asset  In 2008, she returned 18 percent with the Atom Japan Equity
Fund, which was owned by Sumisho Capital Management ( Singapore )
Pte, a unit of Japanese trading company Sumitomo Corp. Last
year, the Atom Japan Alpha Fund closed as it ended the advisory
contract with Hong Kong-based  Penjing Asset Management Ltd. ,
which was the anchor investor, Tsuchiya said.  The new Atom Japan Fund will be owned by Hong Kong-based
investment manager PFC International Co., Tsuchiya said.  Startup funds in Japan typically register as investment
advisory firms that give investment advice to a fund first,
while investment managers overseas manage the funds. They then
apply for a discretionary investment management license to run
their own funds after expanding their businesses.  The Eurekahedge Japan Index, which tracks 92 funds, has
returned 0.1 percent through July, underperforming the 2.5
percent return by a global benchmark. Assets managed by Japanese
funds declined to about $16 billion as of June from the peak of
$39 billion in 2006, according to Singapore-based data provider
Eurekahedge Pte.  This time, Tsuchiya says she has lowered risks to make sure
she delivers performance by focusing on more liquid stocks as
well as cutting down on gross exposure.  Event Driven  Atom will initially invest in about 40 to 50 stocks both on
the long and short side, and will target about 15 percent to 20
percent annual return, Tsuchiya said. In a short sale, a manager
borrows stocks and sells them, betting they can be bought back
later at a cheaper price. Event-driven investors seize on
changes including, mergers and acquisitions, share buybacks and
earnings announcements to make profits.  Tsuchiya, one of the nation’s few female hedge-fund
advisers, founded Atom Capital in 2008 after leaving Merrill
Lynch & Co., where she worked as a managing director. Prior to
Merrill Lynch, she worked as a hedge-fund manager at  Kenneth Griffin ’s Citadel and as an investment analyst at Sparx Group
Co., a Japanese hedge fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  