-- Aussie Rallies From 6-Week Low After RBA Holds Rates
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-04T07:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/aussie-approaches-5-week-low-before-rba-policy-decision.html
Australia ’s dollar rallied from its
weakest level in almost six weeks after central bank officials
refrained from cutting the developed world’s highest benchmark
rate, even amid signs the global economy is struggling.  The so-called Aussie rose versus the yen after  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said monetary policy
“remained appropriate.” Demand for Australia’s currency and
its New Zealand counterpart was tempered before reports tomorrow
that may show retail sales in the euro area declined and
services contracted, adding to evidence that global growth is
slowing.  “The RBA is waiting and is on pause for now, which could
be one of the reasons why market players are buying back the
Aussie a bit,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in Singapore. “It’s a bit of a knee-jerk reaction.
But I think it’s still a sell on rallies and the risks are still
to the downside.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0266 at 5:15 p.m.
in Sydney after earlier touching $1.0224, the lowest since July
25. It gained 0.5 percent to 80.50 yen after falling to as low
as 80.07 yesterday, also the weakest since July 25.  New Zealand ’s currency earlier dropped to 79.56 U.S. cents,
the least since July 26, before trading at 79.81, 0.1 percent
above yesterday’s close. It fetched 62.59 yen from 62.42.  Australia’s  10-year bond yield  rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to close at 3.09 percent. The rate
completed a 12-day drop yesterday, the longest stretch of
declines since at least 1990, when Bloomberg began compiling
daily data. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, climbed three basis points to
2.67 percent.  Rates Unchanged  RBA officials kept the  overnight cash-rate target  at 3.5
percent for a third meeting today, matching the estimate of all
24 economists surveyed Aug. 31 by  Bloomberg News .  “With inflation expected to be consistent with the target
and growth close to trend, but with a more subdued international
outlook than was the case a few months ago, the stance of
monetary policy remained appropriate,” the RBA’s Stevens said
in a statement explaining today’s decision.  The South Pacific nation’s  current-account deficit  narrowed
to A$11.8 billion ($12.1 billion) in the three months through
June from a revised A$13 billion in the first quarter, the
Bureau of Statistics said today. The figure compares with a
forecast shortfall of A$12.2 billion in a Bloomberg poll.  The Aussie has fallen 4 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  New
Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, posted the second-biggest
decline, dropping 3.6 percent over the same period.  Aussie Higher  “The  exchange rate  has declined over the past month or
two, though it has remained higher than might have been
expected, given the observed decline in export prices and the
weaker global outlook,” Stevens said.  Retail sales  in the euro region probably fell 0.2 percent
in July after advancing 0.2 percent the previous month,
economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted before the European
Union’s statistics office releases the figures tomorrow. A final
reading due tomorrow of an index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in  services industries  in the currency bloc may confirm
a drop to 47.5 in August from 47.9 in July.  Standard Chartered Plc lowered its end-2013 estimate for
the Australian dollar to 95 U.S. cents from a previous
prediction of $1.07. The London-based bank also cut its medium-
term weighting for the Aussie to “underweight” from
“overweight” and maintained its short-term “neutral”
weighting, it said in an e-mailed note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  