-- Aussie Drops to 5-Week Low on Retail Sales, China Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-03T03:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/aussie-drops-to-5-week-low-on-retail-sales-china-data.html
Australia’s dollar touched its
lowest level in five weeks and government bonds extended record
gains after domestic retail sales dropped and manufacturing
shrank in  China , the nation’s biggest trading partner.  The so-called Aussie slid to its weakest in more than a
month against the yen after the statistics bureau said July
sales fell by the most in almost two years and following a Sept.
1 report that showed Chinese manufacturing unexpectedly shrank
for the first time in nine months. New Zealand’s currency,
nicknamed the kiwi, weakened versus most of its peers after the
country’s second-quarter terms of trade declined.  “You have both domestic and external hits to the Aussie,”
said Callum Henderson, global head of currency research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “Domestically, the retail
sales number was much worse than expected. The Chinese data is
obviously bad for Australian exports, so data is weak across the
board.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.6 percent to $1.0266 at 1:15
p.m. in Sydney after earlier touching $1.0240, the lowest level
since July 25. It fell 0.7 percent to 80.33 yen after earlier
declining to 80.12, also the weakest since July 25.  New Zealand ’s currency slid 0.3 percent to 80.07 U.S.
cents. It earlier reached 62.48 yen, the least since July 26,
before trading at 62.66 yen, 0.5 percent lower than the close in
 New York  on Aug. 31.  Yields Fall  Australian  10-year yields  fell as much as nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3 percent, the lowest since
July 27. The bonds were advancing for a 12th day, the longest
stretch of gains since at least 1990, when Bloomberg began
compiling daily data. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed
payment made to receive floating rates, dropped four basis
points to 2.63 percent.  Australian  retail sales  fell 0.8 percent in July, according
to figures released today by the Bureau of Statistics. That’s
the biggest decline since October 2010 and compares with
economist forecasts for a 0.2 percent advance.  RBA Meeting  The data comes before Reserve Bank officials gather for a
policy decision tomorrow. They are expected to keep the
 overnight cash-rate target  at 3.5 percent for a third meeting,
according to all 24 economists surveyed Aug. 31 by  Bloomberg
News .  A  manufacturing gauge  by the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers showed a contraction for a sixth-straight
month, according to a separate report today.  China’s manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index fell to
49.2 last month from 50.1 in July, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
at the weekend. A final reading released today for a similar
gauge by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics indicated that
China’s factory output shrank in August by the most since March
2009. For both gauges, 50 is the dividing line between
contraction and expansion.  “Concerns about the extent to which China is slowing and
is not meeting an aggressive policy response is clearly on the
negative side of the ledger as far as the Aussie dollar is
concerned,” said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head
of foreign-exchange strategy at National  Australia  Bank Ltd.  New Zealand’s currency extended its loss after the
country’s Terms of Trade Index fell by 2.6 percent in the the
three months ended June 30 as weak markets curbed returns from
dairy and meat exports. That was more than the 2 percent
forecast by economists and the fourth consecutive drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  