-- Australian Stock Futures Rise as Oil Gains on Stimulus
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-03T23:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/australian-stock-futures-rise-as-oil-gains-on-stimulus.html
Australian  stock futures  rose as oil
gained on speculation central banks will take more steps to
counter a slowdown in the global economy.  Shares of BHP Billiton Ltd., Australia’s biggest oil
producer, may be active today.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
Australia’s No. 2 lender by market value, may be active as the
nation’s central bank holds a policy meeting today.  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
the world’s largest camera maker that gets 31 percent of its
revenue in Europe, may be active two days before the European
Central Bank convenes.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent
today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 0.3 percent in
Wellington. Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring
in September weren’t traded in Chicago yesterday with U.S.
equity markets closed for a holiday.  “The  market sentiment  continues to be portrayed by the
possibility for more central-bank stimulus, and it takes away
investors’ focus from some pretty disappointing sets of economic
data,” said Matthew Sherwood, Perpetual Investments’ head of
investment markets research in Sydney. Perpetual manages about
$25 billion. “Overall, investors believe that the impact of the
stimulus measures central banks can provide can improve the
economic outlook.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.4 percent this quarter
as of yesterday as expectations for further stimulus measures
countered signs of a global economic slowdown. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 12.3 times estimated earnings on
average as of last week, compared with 13.6 times for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 11.7 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Bernanke Comments  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug.
31 that a third round of asset purchases, known as quantitative
easing, is an option to fight unemployment.  Crude oil for October delivery advanced 58 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $97.05 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today as the European Union’s outlook was cut to
negative from stable by Moody’s Investors Service.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.8 percent yesterday,
when an August gauge of manufacturing in the euro area based on
a survey of purchasing managers was revised to 45.1 from an
earlier estimate of 45.3, Markit Economics said. The index has
held below 50, which indicates a contraction, for 13 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 