-- Australian Company Profits Unexpectedly Declined Last Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-03T01:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/australian-company-profits-unexpectedly-declined-last-quarter.html
Australian  business profits 
unexpectedly dropped in the three months through June, the third
straight quarterly decline, as  earnings  weakened in mining,
manufacturing and retailing.  Gross operating profits fell 0.7 percent from the first
three months of this year, when they slid a revised 3.7 percent,
the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The result
compares with the median forecast for a 1 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey of 18 economists. Inventories rose 0.6 percent.
Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent gain.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 3.5 percent tomorrow,
according to all 24 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The
nation’s currency has remained elevated even as prices for
Australian raw-materials exports that generate wealth and power
the economy have declined.  “Australia’s terms of trade are expected to have declined
in the June quarter and weighed on company profits, which have
tracked the terms of trade lower in recent quarters,” Justin
Fabo, a senior economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in a research report before today’s release.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
nation’s currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for all but 23 days this year, remaining stronger than
the average 75 U.S. cents since the currency was freely floated
in December 1983.  The so-called Aussie traded near a five-week low today,
buying $1.0247 at 11:47 a.m. in Sydney.  Commodity Slump  From a year earlier, profits declined 6.5 percent, today’s
report showed.  Profits at mining companies fell 1 percent in the second
quarter, manufacturers dropped 8 percent and retail declined 3.8
percent, according to today’s report. Profits at construction
companies rose 6.6 percent, the report showed.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  Prices for Australian raw-materials exports slid in July to
the lowest since 2010, and the commodity price index has fallen
10.8 percent over the past year, the RBA said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  