-- Australia Retail Sales Drop by Most Since ’10, Profits Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-03T06:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/australian-retail-sales-drop-in-july-by-most-since-october-2010.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
declined in July by the most in almost two years and company
profits dropped for a third straight quarter, sending the local
currency to a five-week low.  Sales dropped 0.8 percent to A$21.4 billion ($22 billion)
from June, when they rose a revised 1.2 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That was the first fall this
year and steepest since October 2010. Gross operating profit
declined 0.7 percent last quarter from the January-March period,
when they slid a revised 3.7 percent, another report showed.  The retail figures reflect the worst month for department-
store sales in seven years and increasing concern about  job
security  as  Europe  darkens the global outlook.  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens , who economists predict will
keep the nation’s benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow
after cutting by 1.25 percentage points from November to June,
has said the economy is growing near its average pace.  “Sentiment is pretty fragile given everything that’s going
on in the euro area,” said  James McIntyre , a senior economist
in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “If this weak
retail outcome is something that consumers latch onto, then that
could be something that starts to swing broader sentiment in
favor of another rate cut, despite what the RBA has been saying
over the last few months.”  Today’s decline in retail sales was greater than any of the
22 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted. The median
 forecast  had been for a 0.2 percent gain.  Department Stores  Spending at department stores plunged 10.2 percent, the
biggest drop since April 2005, and consumers spent 2.8 percent
less on other retailing, a category that includes pharmacies,
newspaper shops and book stores, today’s report showed. They
spent 2.4 percent more on household goods retailing, it showed.  The local dollar, which has risen 5.5 percent since the
start of June, has helped contain import prices and costs for
consumers. It traded at $1.0266 at 4:38 p.m. in Sydney, after
touching $1.0240, the lowest level since July 25.  Woolworths Ltd., Australia’s largest retailer, last month
posted its first annual profit drop in 13 years after taking a
A$420 million charge for the Dick Smith electronics chain it’s
put up for sale.  Australia’s largest supermarket operator is closing Dick
Smith outlets since announcing plans to sell the business in
January to focus on groceries, where it’s engaged in a price war
with  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s second-ranked Coles chain.  Surfwear Slump  Billabong (BBG)  International Ltd., the surfwear maker facing a
takeover approach by TPG International LLC, last month posted
its first loss since its initial public offering after taking
writedowns amid falling sales and store closings.  Today’s profits data showed a 6.5 percent decline in the
second quarter from a year earlier.  Earnings at mining companies fell 1 percent in the second
quarter from the prior three months, utilities slumped 10
percent, manufacturers dropped 8 percent and retail declined 3.8
percent, according to today’s report. Profits at construction
companies rose 6.6 percent, the report showed.  Australian  help-wanted  notices dropped for a fifth straight
month in August as slumping business confidence delays hiring
plans in mining states, a private report showed.  Labor Market  Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the Internet declined
2.3 percent last month after a 0.8 percent fall in July,
according to an  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
report released today. National vacancies advertised in
newspapers slumped 6.1 percent last month, and Internet notices
were down 2.1 percent, the report showed.  The central bank today released its  commodity  price index
for August showing the lowest reading since April 2010.  Commodity prices declined 4.3 percent on the month and 18.5
percent from a year earlier in Australian dollar terms, the RBA
said in a statement on its website. The biggest contributors to
the fall were lower prices for  iron ore  and coking coal, it
said.  Australia’s unemployment rate probably rose to 5.3 percent
in August, from 5.2 percent, economists said in a separate
Bloomberg News survey before a Sept. 6 government report.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points in May
and June to help shield the economy from Europe’s debt crisis
and slower growth in  China . It held the key rate at 3.5 percent,
the highest among major developed economies, at the past two
meetings.  Traders are pricing in an 81 percent chance that the RBA
will lower borrowing costs by another 50 basis points by year
end to 3 percent, matching the 50-year low the benchmark reached
at the height of the global financial crisis that started in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  