-- Global Chemical Plans Dollar Debt; Australian Bond Risk Rises
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-03T04:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/australia-bond-risk-increases-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
PTT Global Chemical PCL (PTTGC)  and  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  plan to sell dollar-denominated bonds even as a
manufacturing contraction in  China  highlights slowing growth in
 Asia . Bond risk in Australia rose to a five-week high.  Global Chemical, a Thai petrochemicals company, hired four
banks to arrange investor meetings from Sept. 5 and a dollar
bond sale may follow the talks, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Seoul-based Hyundai Motor hired Citigroup Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley to help sell as much as
$1 billion of bonds in October, Korea’s Maeil Business Newspaper
said, citing an unidentified official at the company.  Chinese manufacturing unexpectedly shrank for the first
time in nine months in August, government data showed on Sept.
1.  Australia ’s retail sales declined in July by the most in
almost two years, the Bureau of Statistics said today, missing
analysts’ expectations of a rise. The  Markit iTraxx Australia 
index rose 1 basis point to 171 as of 10:28 a.m. in Sydney,
National Australia Bank Ltd. prices show. The gauge is set for
its highest close since July 27, according to data provider CMA.  “Macro risks emanating from China and elsewhere and a
backlog of supply will probably cap credit spreads,” said
Brayan Lai, a Singapore-based desk analyst in emerging market
credit trading at Jefferies Group Inc. “But it’s still pretty
conducive for companies to sell debt because investors have cash
to put to work.”  Louis Dreyfus  Louis Dreyfus Commodities BV is talking to investors about
pricing a perpetual bond at about 8.5 percent, a person with
knowledge of that sale said today.  Hyundai doesn’t disclose details of any planned bond
issuance, it said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg queries
about the Maeil Business Newspaper report.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 1 basis point to 151.5 as of 8:28
a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The measure is headed for its lowest close since Aug. 29,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  