-- Baidu Unveils Faster Android Mobile Browser for Web Games
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-03T02:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/baidu-unveils-faster-android-mobile-browser-for-web-games.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s most-
used search-engine, released a new Internet browser for mobile
devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system that allows users
to play Web games and watch videos without a media player.  The Baidu Explorer was announced by Li Mingyuan, general
manager of the company’s Mobile & Cloud Computing division, at
its annual developer conference in Beijing today. The program is
about 20 percent faster, on average, than previously available
mobile browsers, he said.  Li is counting on the software to help make the company the
gateway for people in China accessing the Internet on handsets
as it is for desktop users. Baidu overcame competition from
Google to win almost 80 percent of the nation’s search-engine
market by sales. Now the company’s core business is under threat
from  Qihoo 360 Technology (QIHU)  Co., maker of China’s most-used
browser, which started its own search engine last month.  In the second quarter, Baidu accounted for 78.6 percent of
China’s search-engine market by revenue, compared with 15.7
percent for Google, according to estimates by researcher
Analysys International in Beijing.  Having control of the browser will help Baidu drive more
traffic through its own search engine, while also offering more
control over the quality of the user experience, Li said.  There are now about 100,000 Web applications that can be
run through the mobile browser without installing additional
software, allowing users greater choice of programs without
consuming memory on the handset, according to Baidu.  The new browser is available for download in both English
and Chinese. It’s compatible with Android 2.2 and higher
versions, and isn’t currently available for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS
system used on the iPhone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  