-- Biggest Airline Debt Spurs Gol Asset Sale Talk
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-09-03T21:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/biggest-airline-debt-spurs-gol-asset-sale-talk-corporate-brazil.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ’s
$1.6 billion debt load, the most of any major airline worldwide
relative to profit, is fueling speculation it will sell assets
to raise cash or merge with another carrier.  Net debt equaled 25 times Gol’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, in the 12
months ended June 30, the highest ratio among 31 carriers with a
market value above $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with a ratio of 3.4 for Santiago-based  Latam
Airlines Group SA (LAN) , 1.3 for United Continental Holdings Inc. and
0.2 for European discount carrier  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , the
world’s least indebted airline.  Gol has named a new chief executive officer, cut jobs and
eliminated flights this year after posting  losses  in four of the
past five quarters and surrendering market share to Latam
Airlines’ Tam SA. Gol plans to take its Smiles mileage-program
unit public in the second half of 2013, a person familiar with
the transaction told  Bloomberg News  on Aug. 15.  “I wouldn’t like to be in their shoes,” Eric Conrads, who
helps manage $1 billion in stocks at ING Groep NV in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “They could raise ticket prices,
but they are not market leaders and it means they would
sacrifice more market share. They are not in a position to
sacrifice market share right now.”  A decision on a Smiles IPO will be made by the end of the
year, Gol Chief Financial Officer Edmar Prado Lopes Neto said in
a telephone interview on Aug. 28. Lopes Neto became CFO and
investor relations director after Leonardo Pereira resigned from
the post on Aug. 15 to become the head of  Brazil ’s securities
regulator.  Smiles IPO  Gol fell 4 percent to close at 9.31 reais in  Sao Paulo 
trading, while the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index gained 0.4
percent. The stock lost 25 percent this  year , compared with a
0.9 percent gain for Bovespa index. Gol, Brazil’s second-largest
airline by market share, trades at 1.7 times its book value,
compared with 2.2 times for Latam Airlines and 1.2 times for the
Bovespa index.  The Sao Paulo-based company is seeking to turn Smiles into
a separate business unit by the end of this year before starting
the IPO process, said the person familiar with the plan, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Gol announced in December that Delta Air Lines Inc., the
world’s second-biggest airline by traffic, agreed to buy a $100
million stake and that the carriers would begin booking
passengers on each other’s jets.  ‘Positive Step’  The Brazilian airline reported a loss of 715 million reais
($352 million) in the second quarter, the biggest among major
airlines after  Air France-KLM . Gol posted an Ebitda loss of
222.6 million reais, more than twice the median forecast for a
loss of 82 million from five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Gol has reported some pretty weak earnings in the past
quarters, with a weaker currency pushing the company’s debt
higher and higher,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380
million reais at Legan Administracao de Recursos, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “They need to make some big
move to turn things around. Selling the Smiles unit would be a
positive step.”  The airline’s net debt reached 3.27 billion reais in June,
of which 70 percent is linked to the  U.S. dollar . The real has
dropped 8.1 percent this year, the worst performing currency
among 25  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  “The bulk of our debt is due in four years from now,” Gol
CFO Lopes Neto said. “By then margins will have recovered.”  Recent cost-cutting measures may be enough to ease pressure
to sell assets or merge, said Henrique Florentino, an analyst at
UM Investimentos.  Improving Margins  “Operational margins should improve in coming quarters,”
he said in an interview from Sao Paulo. He has a hold
recommendation on the stock.  Gol sees no room to cut fares even as Tam wins more
passengers, Paulo Kakinoff, who took over as CEO in July, said
in a telephone interview on Aug. 16.  “The cost pressure is so high now, we can’t think of a
reduction of yield,” he said. Yield is the average fare for
each seat flown a kilometer, an industry benchmark that reflects
both revenue and air-travel demand.  Gol’s market share in Brazil fell to about 33 percent in
July from 38 percent a year earlier, while Tam’s rose to 42
percent from 41 percent, according to the civil aviation
regulator.  The loss in market share may boost pressure to merge as the
domestic industry consolidates, said Laurence Balter, who
oversees $100 million for Oracle Investment Research, based in
Fox Island,  Washington . Cost-cutting measures may not be enough,
he said.  Choking on Debt  Chile’s Lan Airlines SA completed the acquisition of Tam in
July, creating Latam Airlines, while closely held  Azul Linhas
Aereas Brasileiras SA  bought Trip Linhas Aereas SA in May.  “With a negative  cash flow , they have two choices: look to
merge with another carrier or receive a massive equity
injection,” Balter said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Aircraft depreciate and require buckets of money to maintain,
and unless an airline leases or pays cash for its equipment,
debt will always choke them to death.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  