-- Brazilian Raw Sugar Discount Widens on Slowdown in Global Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-03T16:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/brazilian-raw-sugar-discount-widens-on-slowdown-in-global-demand.html
Buyers of raw sugar from Brazil, the
world’s largest producer, are getting a bigger discount for the
sweetener as demand slows, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for loading this month at the port of Santos, the
country’s biggest, was at a discount of 0.2 cent a pound to the
price of the October contract on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
the Rolle, Switzerland-based broker said in a report e-mailed
Sept. 1. That compares with a discount of 0.1 cent on Aug. 26.  “The physical values have been eroding with the time
span,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the company, wrote in the
report. “The market is still not fully convinced that there is
enough demand.”  Sugar cane processing in Brazil’s center south, the main
growing region, jumped 14 percent to 44.2 million metric tons in
the first half of August, helped by dry weather, according to
industry group Unica. Harvesting will accelerate with dry
weather forecast for the next three weeks, said Celso Oliveira,
a weather forecaster at Sao Paulo-based Somar Meteorologia.  In  Thailand , the world’s second-biggest shipper, raw sugar
from the new season that starts in November was offered at a
premium, Swiss Sugar Brokers data showed. The raw sweetener for
loading from Jan. 15 to Feb. 15 was at a premium of 0.8 cent a
pound to the price of the March contract on ICE, unchanged from
last week.  Sugar futures fell 13 percent last month to 19.78 cents a
pound as a forecast surplus became available to the market, with
the harvest accelerating in  Brazil . Option bets on a “counter-
trend rally” next year provided some of the support to futures
prices, broker and researcher Kingsman SA said in a report e-
mailed today.  “The market looks confined to a range of 19.5 cents a pound
to 20.5 cents a pound,” Beydoun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 