-- Brazil Car Sales Jump to Record on Tax Breaks, Interest Rate Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-09-04T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/brazil-car-sales-jump-to-record-on-tax-breaks-interest-rate-cut.html
Brazil  car sales rose to a record 
400,000 units in August as tax cuts and lower borrowing costs 
spur  consumer spending , helping the world’s second-biggest 
developing economy emerge from yearlong stagnation.  Fiat SpA, the country’s biggest automaker, said yesterday
that tax cuts that took effect in May and were extended last
week through October spurred industry sales of more than 400,000
cars and light vehicles last month. The Italian automaker,
citing preliminary figures, said in a statement that it sold
about 100,000 units in August as its production in Brazil
reached the highest level in 36 years.  A rebound in car sales, after inventories accumulated at
the start of the year while consumers held back on purchases, is
boosting the outlook for Brazil’s industry. A government report
today will show that  output  expanded 0.2 percent in July, after
three straight months of declines, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 38 analysts.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government last week extended
for several months tax breaks on cars and appliances, and the
central bank reduced borrowing costs to a record low, in a bid
to boost flagging growth that was an annualized 1.64 percent in
the second quarter. The government has also sought to shield
manufacturers from cheaper imports by weakening the real, which
has declined 8.1 percent this year, more than any major currency
tracked by Bloomberg.  Transmitting Optimism  “This package of measures transmitted optimism to the
Brazilian consumer, who reacted positively,” Cledorvino Belini,
Fiat’s president in  Latin America  and current head of the
Brazilian carmakers association, known as Anfavea, said in the
statement.  Anfavea declined to comment ahead of its Sept. 6 press
conference to disclose August sales figures, though Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week that he too expected a
record month for car sales.  Car sales surged to 364,196 in July from 257,887 in April,
after the tax cuts allowed companies including Ford Motor Co.
and Fiat to exhaust inventories. The previous monthly record for
car sales was set in December 2010, when the industry licensed
381,552 vehicles.  “In the automobile industry, results in the first two
quarters were weak, growth was negative,” Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia on Aug. 31. “But in the third quarter we
are going to have very favorable results, very strong growth.”  Slow Growth  Gross domestic product expanded 0.4 percent in the second
quarter, the statistics agency reported last week. While that’s
the fastest pace in a year, economists say there’s little
evidence that Latin America’s biggest economy is recovering
strongly. Growth in Brazil this year trails that of Russia,
India and  China , its peers among the BRIC group of the world’s
biggest  emerging markets .  Economists reduced their forecast for growth this year for
the fifth straight week, to 1.64 percent, in the last survey
taken by the central bank on Aug. 31.  Even as growth remains weak, the inflation outlook is
worsening as a result of bad weather that destroyed crops in the
U.S. and Brazil and strong demand being spurred on by low
unemployment and the government stimulus.  Analysts raised their forecast for year-end inflation for
the eighth straight week in the latest central bank survey, to
5.2 percent. Price pressures are limiting the space policy
makers have to lower borrowing costs after they reduced the
benchmark Selic rate last week to 7.50 percent.  Asian automakers have been targeting the world’s biggest
emerging market after China for investment after Rousseff last
year raised import levies on foreign-made vehicles, making it
harder to tap into rising demand for cars by the country’s
expanding middle class.  Hyundai Motor Co. is set to open this month its first South
American assembly line outside  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  