-- Brazilian Stocks Rebound as Hypermarcas Rises on Rates Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-09-03T20:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/brazilian-stocks-rebound-as-hypermarcas-rises-on-rates-outlook.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  snapped a three-day
losing streak after a central bank survey showing a lower growth
forecast for  Brazil ’s economy spurred bets that policy makers
will cut borrowing costs further to boost the recovery.  Consumer-goods maker  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  rose the most in two
weeks, leading gains of companies that sell in the local market.
 Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  was the best performer among homebuilders as the
 BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV)  increased for a third day. Card-
payment processor  Cielo SA (CIEL3)  advanced after saying it completed
the acquisition of U.S.-based Merchant e-Solutions.  The Bovespa added 0.4 percent to 57,281.45 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-nine stocks increased on the gauge
while 28 fell. The real weakened 0.1 percent to 2.0316 per  U.S.
dollar . Brazilian swap rates dropped after the median forecast
for economic growth this year according to about 100 analysts
surveyed by the central bank fell to 1.64 percent, from 1.73
percent the previous week.  “Even at a record low, the benchmark Selic rate at current
levels won’t be enough to make the economy grow as fast as the
government expects next year,” Clodoir Vieira, an economist at
Sao Paulo-based brokerage Souza Barros Corretora, said in a
phone interview. “There’ll probably be more stimulus in the
coming months.”  Brazil’s central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
has cut the benchmark Selic lending rate by 5 percentage points
since August 2011 to a record 7.5 percent in an attempt to shore
up growth in Latin America’s largest economy.  Gafisa advanced 2 percent to 4.13 reais. Hypermarcas jumped
3.2 percent to 13.44 reais. Cielo climbed 2.3 percent to 61.40
reais.  Global Growth Concern  The Bovespa  earlier fell  as much as 0.2 percent after signs
of a deeper slowdown in  China  and Europe added to concern that a
worsening global outlook will curb demand for Brazilian
equities.  A gauge of manufacturing in the euro area based on a survey
of  purchasing managers  was revised lower to 45.1 in August from
the reading of 45.3 estimated earlier, London-based Markit
Economics said today. In China, manufacturing slowed further in
August, surveys of purchasing managers showed Sept. 1 and today,
with one gauge at the lowest level since March 2009.  “Problems in Europe persist, China is growing at a slower
pace, all these issues are deepening and there’s no solution in
sight,” Marcio Cardoso, a partner at brokerage Titulo Corretora
de Valores in Sao Paulo, said by phone.  Index Valuation  The Bovespa has climbed 9.1 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as concerns eased about Europe’s debt crisis and
borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil boosted demand for
equities. The index trades at 11.6 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, which compares with the
ratio of 10.8 times for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing
nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 3.9 billion reais ($1.9 billion) in
stocks in  Sao Paulo , data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a daily average of 7.19 billion reais this year
through Aug. 31, according to data compiled by the  exchange .
Trading volume today was lower than usual in Sao Paulo because
U.S. markets are closed for a holiday, Souza Barros’ Vieira
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  