-- British Airways Clerk Joins Nurse Challenging Cross Rulings
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/british-airways-clerk-joins-nurse-challenging-cross-rulings.html
A British Airways clerk and a nurse
who wore crosses to work are among a group of workers asking a
 European court  to find that U.K. judges failed to protect their
religious freedoms.  The British Christians have appealed cases to the  European
Court of Human Rights , saying U.K. judges wrongly backed
disciplinary measures penalizing the crucifixes. Two other cases
at the court in Strasbourg,  France , today involve people who
refused to perform duties they said contradicted religious
opposition to homosexuality.  “This is about the relative weighting of freedom of
religion and other discrimination issues,” said Keith Porteous
Wood, executive director of the  National Secular Society , which
filed a brief backing the government position. “Freedom of
religion isn’t a kind of trump card; it isn’t at the top of the
hierarchy of rights and there are other considerations.”  Today’s hearing follows months of increasing tensions
between the  human rights  court and the U.K., where politicians
have railed against what they see as European interference in
domestic matters.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has sought to balance calls
from his Conservative Party to defend religious rights and
deference to U.K. courts, saying in July he’ll change British
law if the ECHR rules against the U.K.  The Justice Ministry declined to comment and Cameron’s
press office didn’t immediately return requests for comment.  Visible Jewelry  Two cases concern wearing crosses. A British Airways check-
in staff member decided in 2006 that “as a sign of her
commitment to her faith,” she would stop complying with the
uniform code that barred visible jewelry and wear a cross
outside her uniform. The airline sent her home without pay, then
offered her a job that wouldn’t require a uniform.  She refused, but returned to work in 2007 when the airline
changed its policy after protests from Christian groups.  British
Airways (IAG) , now part of International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA, declined to comment.  The second case is brought by a geriatrics nurse. Her
hospital banned necklaces and, when it changed to a V-neck
uniform, refused her request for special permission to wear a
crucifix “on the ground that it could cause injury if a patient
pulled on it,” the European court said.  The Equality and Human Rights Commission filed submissions
supporting the flight attendant and nurse, saying the courts
didn’t “rigorously assess the question of proportionality.”  “There is a difference between being permitted to wear a
religious symbol that does not have an adverse effect on doing a
job, and not being permitted to wear a religious symbol that
doesn’t have such an adverse effect,” the group wrote in its
court filing.  U.K. courts upheld the employers’ handling of the cases,
saying that, in the British Airways case, “the visible wearing
of a cross was not a requirement of the Christian faith.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  