-- Cameron Set to Revamp Ministerial Team as Tories Demand Tax Cuts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-03T10:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/cameron-set-to-revamp-ministerial-team-as-tories-demand-tax-cuts.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
set to overhaul his government team this week as his own Tory
lawmakers challenge his economic strategy, calling for tax cuts.  Cameron will announce changes to ministerial positions as
early as tomorrow, in a set-piece event that seeks to stamp the
premier’s authority on his party. More traditionalist
Conservative lawmakers demanded today that he change course and
cut taxes rather than increase spending on projects to boost the
faltering economy. Their Liberal Democrat coalition partners are
seeking to increase the tax burden on the better-off.  While stopping short of saying he will fund new
infrastructure, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told
BBC television yesterday that the government will announce
proposals this week to guarantee investment finance and overhaul
planning laws to accelerate the approval of projects.  “My view is that high taxes are the enemy of growth, not
the answer,” Conservative lawmaker Mark Pritchard told BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program this morning. “The government needs
to reward success, not penalize it.”  Senior Tory lawmaker  David Davis , who challenged Cameron
for the leadership of the party in 2005, will use a speech today
to back Osborne’s so-called “Plan A for Austerity,” but will
also call for “a Plan C for Competiveness,” according
yesterday’s Sunday Telegraph newspaper. Davis will focus on tax
simplification alongside faster spending cuts and lower rates.  ‘Age-Old Debate’  “It’s the age-old debate about favoring the supply side
through tax cuts or favoring investment expenditure,”  Stuart Thomson , a  fund manager  at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow,
 Scotland , said in an interview. “The markets are not a fan of
public-works expenditure, and will always prefer the tax-cutting
route.”  Government reshuffles are a piece of political theater in
the U.K., with ministers walking up Downing Street to the prime
minister’s  London  residence to be told of promotions, demotions
or sideways moves.  Cameron’s coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats, hold
five Cabinet positions and 18 other ministerial roles, a fifth
of all government positions. While Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg , the deputy prime minister, recommends who should fill the
jobs, it is ultimately for the premier to decide who serves
under him.  Dissent among rank-and-file Tories has been getting more
vocal as lawmakers prepared to return to Westminster today after
their summer break.  Heathrow Demand  Last week,  Tim Yeo , the chairman of Parliament’s Energy and
Climate Change Committee, used an Daily Telegraph article to
call on Cameron to decide whether he is a “man or a mouse,”
and stop blocking a new runway at London’s Heathrow airport,
 Europe ’s busiest hub.  Brian Binley, the treasurer of the 1922 committee of
Conservative lawmakers,  criticized Cameron in a blog post  a day
later for agreeing to the “self-indulgent lunacy” of the
Liberal Democrats and said he needed to show he was the
“leading partner” in the coalition.  “The country needs a full-time prime minister and not a
chambermaid for a marginal, irrelevant pressure group who have
got him in a virtual arm-lock with a constant stream of threats
to abandon ship,” Binley wrote.  “The warning I would give about reshuffles is that while
they can be advantageous to a prime minister in sorting a
department that’s lost a sense of direction or in promoting
people that deserve a chance, they are not a substitute for a
wider sense of purpose,” opposition Labour lawmaker Pat McFadden told the  BBC ’s “Westminster Hour” radio program late
last night.  “The government’s essential purpose, they said when they
came into office, was to cut the deficit, get the economy
moving. Neither of those things is happening,” McFadden said.
“The reshuffle will not answer the bigger question about the
government’s sense of purpose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  