-- Campari Adds Appleton Rum With Lascelles DeMercado Purchase
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-09-03T15:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/campari-buys-rum-maker-lascelles-demercado-in-third-largest-deal.html
Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR)  said it
will purchase  Lascelles deMercado & Co. , the Jamaican maker of
Appleton rum, in a deal worth $414.8 million to hasten the
Italian distiller’s push into overseas markets.  Campari agreed to buy a controlling 81.4 percent stake and
will make a formal tender offer for all the shares, the Milan-
based company said today in a statement.  The acquisition is the third-largest by Campari, and marks
the company’s entry into the rum category. The distiller said
the deal will give it a market-leading position in Jamaica and
provide growth potential in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico .
 Lascelles deMercado’s  brands include Wray & Nephew and Coruba.  “The acquisition of a family of premium rum brands will
allow Campari to leverage its growing portfolio of premium
vodka, bourbon and tequila, while allowing it to boost sales and
efficiencies of its network,” Mauro Baragiola, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in Milan, wrote today in a note.  Campari rose 8 percent to 5.90 euros in Milan trading, the
stock’s steepest gain since Oct. 30, 2008.  Campari, which also sells drinks including Aperol and Skyy
vodka, is among European distillers seeking expansion outside of
home markets as they chase sales in faster-growing economies.  The purchase of LdM is expected to take place in the fourth
quarter, Campari said. The deal does not include  Lascelles
deMercado (LAS) ’s other assets in insurance, transportation and other
securities, which are being divested.  Acquisition Funding  The business being acquired had total so-called pro-forma
sales of $265.4 million in the year ended Sept. 30. Campari said
it will fund the purchase through credit facilities underwritten
by Bank of America, Banca Intesa and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The acquisition represents a deal multiple of 15 times 2012
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
according to Citigroup, and will leave the company with a net
debt-to-ebitda ratio of 2.7 times, Campari said.  Campari has further headroom for acquisitions, and will be
looking to “strengthen our critical mass in key markets,”
according to Chief Executive Officer Bob Kunze-Concewitz. About
half of LdM’s sales are outside  Jamaica , he said, with the
ability to grow in new markets including in  Europe .  Bank of America Merrill Lynch acted as financial advisers
to Campari, while Morrison & Foerster acted as legal adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  