-- Cargill Sees China ‘Mega-Trend’ of Rising Meat, Milk Demand
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-09-03T08:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/cargill-sees-china-mega-trend-of-rising-meat-milk-demand-1-.html
Meat consumption in  China , the
world’s largest, will continue to expand even as the economy
slows, sustaining demand for feeds made from corn and soybeans,
according to Cargill Inc., the biggest U.S. agricultural company.  “We are looking at a mega-trend of increasing consumption
of meat, milk, eggs,” Christopher Langholz, president of
Cargill Animal Protein China, said in an interview, without
giving specific forecasts.  Rising incomes in China, the second-largest economy, have
increased demand for meat including  pork , making the nation the
largest buyer of soybeans, which are crushed to feed pigs and
chicken. Soybeans and corn surged to records in  Chicago  last
month as the worst U.S. drought in half a century cut supplies.  “China has been very transparent in soybeans, so the
market can respond,” Langholz said. The transparency allows
exporters to increase their ability to produce, reducing price
volatility over time, he said.  While  slower economic  growth in China has hurt commodities
from copper to  iron ore , prospects for sustained soybean export
demand have helped the oilseed to rally. China may increase
soybean imports in 2012-2013 even amid record prices, Rabobank
International said in July.  Soybeans rallied 45 percent this year on the Chicago Board
of Trade, reaching a record $17.7125 a bushel on Aug. 30, while
soybean meal in Chicago has also climbed to an all-time high.
Soybean meal for January delivery on the Dalian Commodity
Exchange jumped as much as 3 percent to 4,361  yuan  ($687) a
metric ton, the highest-ever price for the most-active contract.  USDA Outlook  China’s meat demand will rise 3.6 percent to 71.1 million
tons in 2012 from a year earlier, and 73 percent of that will be
pork, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . That may
help push up soybean  imports  3.5 percent to a record 59.5
million tons in the year from October, the USDA predicts.  The Asian nation, whose soybean imports jumped fivefold in
the past decade, increased purchases of the new U.S. crop beans
by 26 percent compared with last year, buying 11.2 million tons
as of Aug. 23 even before the oilseed is harvested.  China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace in three years. Copper in  London  has lost 14
percent over the past 12 months, while iron ore delivered to
China’s Tianjin has slumped to the lowest level since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  