-- Carlyle Hires Credit Suisse, Goldman for Medical Park
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-09-03T15:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/carlyle-hires-credit-suisse-goldman-for-medical-park.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-largest private equity firm, and its partners hired
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise on
selling a stake in Turkish hospital chain Medical Park Saglik
Hizmetleri AS.  The shares may be sold via a block sale or through an
initial public offering, Istanbul-based Medical Park said in an
emailed statement today. Proceeds will be used to finance new
projects, it said.  Medical Park, which owns 16 hospitals and employs 10,000
people in Turkey, announced a plan on Aug. 16 to invest $300
million in four hospitals under the name Liv Hospital Group in
Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir over three years. The first of the
hospitals will be opened at the end of this year, it said.  Carlyle, which has more than $156 billion in assets under
management globally, bought 40 percent of Medical Park in 2009
for $150 million. Turkish businessman Muharrem Usta, chairman of
the company, and Sancak AS of  Turkey  each hold a 30 percent
stake.  Penti Stake  Carlyle is one of three shortlisted potential buyers for a
minority stake in Turkish hosiery and swimwear maker  Penti Corap
Sanayi & Ticaret AS , Kerim Kotan, managing director of sell-side
adviser  Pragma Corporate Finance , said in an interview on Aug.
6.  “We want to complete the 30-percent stake sale in one or
two weeks,” Sami Kariyo, chairman and a major stakeholder at
Penti, said in a telephone interview today, declining to
identify the leading contender in the process.  Carlyle bought 48 percent of Istanbul-based education group
Bahcesehir Kolejleri for an undisclosed price, it said in
January. The buyout firm also acquired 50 percent of TVK Gemi
Yapim Sanayii AS, a Turkish shipbuilder, in 2008. Carlyle may
have one or two acquisitions in the country this year, Can Deldag, co-head of the firm’s operations in Turkey,  Middle East 
and the Gulf, said on Feb. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 