-- CBO Demands a Leap of Faith on the Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   J o h n   H .   C o c h r a n e
-- 2012-09-03T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/cbo-demands-a-leap-of-faith-on-the-fiscal-cliff.html
Last month, the  Congressional Budget
Office  released a report warning that the “fiscal cliff” would
cause a new recession. It came to the right conclusion for all
the wrong reasons.  Reasons matter. A policy response crafted to satisfy the
CBO’s analysis would hurt the  economy . Reports such as this one
would be much more useful if the agencies that publish them were
more transparent about the calculations, and explained the logic
of their models.  This is the cliff: Unless Congress acts, the Bush-era
income-tax cuts will expire, Social Security payroll taxes will
increase, and capital-gains and dividend tax rates will rise
sharply. Also, the estate tax will come back with a roar,
“mandatory” spending cuts will take effect, the extension of
 unemployment insurance  to 99 weeks will expire, and Medicare
payment rates to physicians are supposed to be slashed.  The CBO projects that “such fiscal tightening will lead to
economic conditions in 2013 that will probably be considered a
recession, with real GDP declining by 0.5 percent between the
fourth quarter of 2012 and the fourth quarter of 2013 and the
 unemployment rate  rising to about 9 percent in the second half
of calendar year 2013.”  Keynesian Projections  How does the CBO come up with these numbers? Its
projections are Keynesian. If the government borrows $1 billion
and spends it, the CBO will project that this action raises
gross domestic product by $1.5 billion. Government workers are
counted as “producing” what they cost, so borrowing money to
keep them employed generates the same GDP as building a bridge.
If the government just gives the money to people, this also
raises the CBO’s GDP estimate. Reducing  government spending  and
transfers has the opposite effect.  If, like me, you think that spending less money on useless
projects is good for the economy, or that taking money from A
and giving it to B has little overall effect, you would come to
much different conclusions from the CBO’s.  Similarly, the CBO says  raising tax  rates hurts the economy
because taxpayers will consume less, lowering “aggregate
demand.” If, like me, you think that taxes hurt the economy not
so much because of how much people have to pay rather than lend
to the government, but because higher (marginal) rates
discourage work, saving, investment, business formation and
growth, then the CBO’s numbers are meaningless to you.  The central distinction between Keynesian and regular
economics is the assumption that people don’t respond to
incentives. In regular economics, prices and taxes first and
foremost change incentives. Transfers, though important to the
people who pay and get them, have much smaller effects on the
overall economy. Keynesian economics and the CBO’s analysis take
the opposite view: Transfers matter, incentives don’t.  A good example: What will be the effect of curtailing 99
weeks of  unemployment  insurance? To the CBO, it will reduce GDP
because would-be beneficiaries will consume less. A standard
economic analysis predicts that it will have the opposite
effect, increasing GDP and bringing down unemployment. That’s
because unemployment insurance means some people choose to stay
unemployed rather than take lower-paying jobs, or jobs that
require them to move.  (Remember that the CBO and I aren’t opining on what’s good
or bad. The point is only to project whether GDP and
unemployment will go up or down. Some unemployment insurance can
be a good thing even though it hurts GDP and raises
unemployment.)  Tax Increases  To the CBO, tax increases and  spending cuts  have about the
same effect. In my analysis, higher tax rates are more damaging
than spending cuts. To me, a revenue-neutral  tax reform  that
took in the same amount of money at much lower marginal rates
would be a boon. It would have little effect at all in the CBO’s
analysis.  In my view, the bigger problem with the fiscal cliff is the
utter chaos it reflects. What serious country decides its tax
laws year by year, in one big crisis during the first few weeks
of the year? The  CBO’s model  doesn’t assess chaos.  Moreover, this crisis atmosphere is a fiesta for lobbyists,
tax lawyers and crony capitalists of all stripes. The CBO’s list
of expiring tax provisions gives a taste:  “Cellulosic Biofuel Credit, Credit for Past Minimum Tax
Liability, Depreciation of Certain Ethanol Plant Property,
Election to Accelerate AMT and R&E Credits in Lieu of
Electricity Production Credit for Wind Facilities, Exclusion of
Mortgage Debt Forgiveness, Indian Coal Production Credit.”  The list goes on. Lobbyists will fight for each one in the
middle of the night.  So, in my view, most of the CBO’s analysis is wrong.  This matters most as we consider alternative policies. CBO-
style analysis will encourage more ineffective “stimulus”
 spending . It won’t lead to the all-important tax reform that
stabilizes and simplifies the code and lowers marginal rates. It
won’t help reduce the vast amount of useless government
spending.  (To the CBO’s credit, it has been warning that skyrocketing
 debt  poses a long-run threat. But higher long-term  interest
rates  seem a distant worry to a still-struggling economy.)  Its analysis isn’t logically wrong. If you accept its
Keynesian logic and the absence of incentive effects, the CBO’s
assessment makes sense. It’s those ifs that are wrong.  The deeper problem is that we really don’t know how the CBO
gets its numbers. You can search its website without finding a
reproducible description of the calculation, or the computer
program that produces numbers. My characterization comes only
from talking to CBO staff.  Logical Pathways  This obscurity pervades government and its think-tank
satellites. A report opines with great precision on the effects
of policies. There is a model. But you can’t find what’s in the
model or reproduce the numbers. Even where documentation exists,
it’s buried. Most of all, the report never explains the logical
pathways, the necessary but controversial “ifs” needed to
arrive at the numbers.  Economic models aren’t engineering models. If you ask
several aeronautical engineers to project how adding flaps
affects an airplane’s takeoff speed, their models will be
complex, but they will come up with about the same, and
reliable, answers. You don’t need to know why.  But good economic models are quantitative parables, not
authoritative black boxes. They only are trustworthy if they
illustrate clearly understandable and explicitly stated
pathways.  Numbers and models are important. The CBO needed to add up
all the complex provisions of the law, and it is very good at
doing this. If we retreat from numbers and models altogether, we
cannot know, for example, that reversing the Bush-era income-tax
cuts for “the rich” won’t make a dent in the  deficit , let
alone provide  revenue  for new programs.  But economic numbers cannot stand without the logic that
produces them. Clarity and transparency are far more important
to a good quantitative parable than the illusion of
authoritative precision.  (John H. Cochrane, is a professor of finance at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business, an adjunct
scholar of the  Cato Institute  and a senior fellow of the  Hoover
Institution . He blogs as the “Grumpy Economist.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Democrats’ hard task  and
on addressing  West Nile virus and dengue fever in the U.S. ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on confronting  potential genocides ; William
Pesek on this weekend’s  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
Conference ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  how hard an Obama second term
would be ; Cass R. Sunstein on how  voters can escape from their
political cocoons .  To contact the writer of this article:
John H. Cochrane at  john.cochrane@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  