-- Cheesy Group Photos Symbolize Economic Paralysis
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-09-03T21:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/cheesy-group-photos-symbolize-economic-paralysis.html
As  Pacific-Rim (MXAP)  leaders gather for a
summit in the Russian city of Vladivostok, one thing seems
painfully clear: It will end in disappointment.  This isn’t a matter of cynicism, but frustration at the
paucity of accomplishments by the 21-member  Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation  group over the last two decades. It has
proved to be too disparate economically, geographically and
ideologically to get big things done. If its summits are
memorable at all, it is because of the wacky outfits leaders are
obliged to wear for the customary class photo. Furry hats,
anyone?  That’s a shame given the magnitude of the region’s
challenges: slowing growth, territorial disputes and over-
reliance on exports to countries that can’t consume as they once
did. More troubling is the leadership void as APEC prepares for
its Sept. 8-9 confab.  Still, here are four things I would love to see APEC tackle
this weekend.  First, attack the bubble in inequality. If anything is
clear about the last decade, it’s that the rich are getting
richer at the expense of the poor. Other than a Pacific
shoreline, the one thing countries such as Brunei,  Chile ,
Russia, the U.S. and  Vietnam  genuinely have in common is a
widening income gap. This socially corrosive development does no
one any good aside from those at the top.  Free-Trade Zone  Working jointly to eradicate  corruption  and build better
safety nets would broaden the benefits of growth. So would an
APEC-wide free-trade zone. World leaders and trade ministers
talk a good game about reducing tariffs and sign off on sweeping
communiques to that effect. We need less gabbing and more action
to stop trade deals from becoming bilateral and narrowly
focused.  The problem in today’s world isn’t too much globalization,
but not enough for those who need it most. Reinvigorating an
area that accounts for roughly 55 percent of global output
through lower barriers on goods, services and people would
create a new economic engine in a world that needs one.  Two, address climate change. APEC should join hands to
promote energy conservation. Its members burn through more than
their fair share of oil, gas, coal and trees.  That reliance on dirty energy fouls  Hong Kong ’s skies,
causes deadly floods in  Thailand  and the  Philippines , adds to
the price of Chinese goods, raises costs for American motorists
and forces  Indonesia  to offer budget-crippling fuel subsidies.
It burdens  Japan  at a time when the majority of its nuclear
reactors are offline, hurting manufacturers beset by a rising
yen. It feeds hostility between  China  and its neighbors and
distorts Australia’s resource-dependent economy.  Cutting use of fossil fuels would lower tensions in the
 South China Sea  and increase incentives for alternative green-
energy sources. That might help reduce the need for massive
public-infrastructure expenditure, cut poverty, tame inflation,
increase manufacturing productivity and slash health-care costs.  Three, overhaul territorial laws driving  Asia  toward armed
conflict. APEC should help devise a code of conduct for the
disagreements among China, Japan and  South Korea . The leaders of
three of Asia’s biggest economies can’t even get into a room
together and chat. That is an impediment to lowering trade
barriers, linking bond and stock markets and figuring out what
to do with the trillions of dollars of currency reserves Asia
has amassed over the last 15 years.  Checking Nationalism  At the very least, APEC should include the issue in its
formal communique in ways that the 10-member  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  hasn’t. The benefits of pragmatism and
free trade outweigh nationalistic tendencies. If Asia doesn’t
put these issues on the discussion table now, the result could
be clashes that imperil trade, credit ratings and markets.  Four, devise a common response to North Korea. APEC members
include five of the six parties trying to rein in that country’s
ambitions to build an arsenal of nuclear weapons. It is perhaps
the only forum in which China’s financial support of the  Kim
Dynasty  could conceivably come in for criticism. The  United
Nations , where China has a permanent Security Council seat and
veto privileges, sure hasn’t done the job.  The recent  power transfer  from the late  Kim Jong Il  to his
son, Kim Jong Un, is an opportunity for the Asia-Pacific region
to tackle one of the biggest threats to peace and stability. All
APEC leaders need to do is take it. One idea: Hold up Myanmar’s
sudden opening, and the world’s rapid embrace of its efforts, as
a blueprint for the good that may come from change in North
Korea.  There are many other things on which APEC should take the
lead -- water and food security, human trafficking, a global
approach to financial regulation, increasing literacy, seeing to
it that girls are educated as well as boys. The trouble is, the
group’s performance since its first summit in 1989 is so spotty.
APEC has to improve its record. Humanity needs more from
Vladivostok than photos of people in furry hats.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  