-- Cision Chief Seeks $5 Million Purchases as Growth Phase Starts
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-09-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/cision-chief-seeks-5-million-purchases-as-growth-phase-starts.html
Cision AB (CSN)  is looking for small,
complementary acquisitions that would add skilled sales staff
and client lists as the Swedish provider of public relations
services has completed its divestment phase and seeks growth.  Cision will focus on targets costing less than $5 million,
said Chief Executive Officer Hans Gieskes in an interview Aug.
31. Cision’s growth will mainly come from selling more services
to existing clients or adding new clients, he said.  Since taking over the Stockholm-based company in 2008
Gieskes has sold off all but one of the traditional press
clippings businesses and focused on the software platform
CisionPoint. The platform offers clients services including
media contacts, monitoring and tracking as well as analysis tool
that tracks impact and return on investment. Selling one new
subscription, including bundled services, typically results in
four renewals with a total value of about $25,000, he said.  “To be a real player in this industry what you need to
have is a really first-class software platform,” Gieskes said.
“We probably have the best software platform in the industry.”  Cision currently has about 75 percent of its sales in the
U.S. and 25 percent in  Europe , which has served Cision well due
to the strong dollar and better economic prospects in the U.S.,
Gieskes said. An expansion into  Asia  is somewhere on the agenda.
It won’t happen short-term, meaning in the coming couple of
years, he said.  The options for the only remaining clippings business, the
one in  Canada , are limited, Gieskes said. The strategy has been
to sell off before only one company remains and in Canada Cision
is probably the last one. Cision may seek to divest the business
or keep it and try to change the revenue mix, he said.  Cision on June 25 said it agreed to sell its print
monitoring business in the U.S. to BurrellesLuce for a fixed
price of $2 million plus a sum based on earnings, the eighth
such divestment since January, 2009.  “I think, by and large, we are done with transforming and
turning around and we are now in a growth phase of the
business,” Gieskes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  