-- Combat Stress Clouds Soldiers’ Power to Concentrate
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-09-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/combat-stress-clouds-soldiers-power-to-concentrate.html
Stress from combat changes activity
in soldiers’ brains, compromising their ability to focus
attention, researchers in the Netherlands said.  Dutch veterans who served with NATO in Afghanistan showed
declines in working memory and their capacity to sustain 
attention in tests done about a month and a half after they
arrived home, according to an imaging  study  reported today in 
the  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . The 
structural changes mostly disappeared 18 months after the 
soldiers ended active duty, the researchers found.  Studies have shown that chronic stress increases the
likelihood of psychiatric illness, prompting some nations to
boost post-combat evaluations. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
signed an  executive order  Aug. 31 adding suicide prevention
efforts for veterans and expanding access to mental-health care 
as returning soldiers face an unemployment rate more than 3
percentage points higher than the rest of the population.  “If you have been stressed for a long time, more or less
continuously, there are some remnants,” said Guido van Wingen,
a neuroscientist at the Brain Imaging Center in Amsterdam who
helped to write the study, in a telephone interview. “But the
brain is almost entirely capable of restoring if you give people
enough time to go on with their normal lives. This should be
optimistic for everyone returning from deployment.”  The study examined the differences between 33 healthy Dutch
soldiers sent to  Afghanistan  as part of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization and 26 peers who were never deployed. They
had matched their non-deployed peers on brain scans and memory
tests taken before they left for war.  Midbrain Region  Magnetic resonance imagining scans of the blood flow in the
brains showed those who had been deployed had significantly less
activity from the control group in the midbrain, a region
important for voluntary movement.  While the combat veterans’ brains reverted to look more
like those in the control group a year and a half later, not all
of the changes were gone. Aberrations remained in the
connections between the midbrain and the  prefrontal cortex , the
part of the brain behind the forehead that helps moderate
behavior and focus attention.  “Those people may be at increased risk for cognitive
issues when they’re stressed again, or if they’re redeployed,”
van Wingen said.  The 2.6 million people who served the U.S. in Afghanistan
and  Iraq  are struggling with an  unemployment rate  that reached
12.1 percent last year, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Non-veterans had an unemployment rate of 8.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  