-- Congo Wants UN Sanctions on Rwandan Officials Backing Rebels
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-09-03T17:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/congo-wants-un-sanctions-on-rwandan-officials-backing-rebels-1-.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo
urged the  United Nations  to sanction Rwandan officials found to
be supporting a rebellion in eastern Congo that’s forced about a
half-million people to flee, Communications Minister  Lambert Mende  said.  All Rwandan officials named in a June UN Group of Experts
report as backing the insurgency including Defense Minister
James Kabarebe should be sanctioned, he said. Congo and the UN
Group of Experts on Congo accuse  Rwanda  of providing weapons and
recruits to the insurgents, known as M23, in contravention of a
UN arms embargo. Rwanda denies the charges.  Congo “is asking with insistence that the United Nations
Sanctions Committee bring justice to the numerous Congolese
victims of this umpteenth unprovoked attack by Rwanda,” Mende
told reporters today in the capital, Kinshasa.  Congo and its neighbor Rwanda have fought directly or by
proxy since the late 1990s. The two countries improved
diplomatic relations after a 2009 peace agreement between Congo
and Rwandan-backed rebels, who were integrated into the national
army. Rwanda’s backing of the M23 rebellion, which UN says has
displaced about half a million people, threatens the alliance,
Mende said.  ‘Naked Lie’  Several countries, including the U.S.,  Germany , the U.K.,
and the Netherlands, have withheld some funding from Rwanda
because of the allegations.  Reports that 357 Rwandan special forces soldiers returned
to Rwanda from Congo over the weekend were proof its neighbor
was aiding M23, Mende said. The troops were part of a joint
battalion with Congolese soldiers, Rwanda’s government-aligned
New Times newspaper said today.  “We had no more than about 100 Rwandan Defense Force
observers in Congo” to monitor the shared border, Mende said.
Most of the soldiers were “infiltrators” helping M23, he said.  Congo was aware of the border crossing, Brigadier General
Joseph Nzabamwita, a Rwandan army spokesman, said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  “The utterances by other DRC officials to the contrary are
a naked lie they have used to hoodwink the international
community from the gross governance issues and how they are
responsible for destabilizing their country and the region,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  