-- Copper Rises as Chinese Factory Gauge Spurs Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-09-03T17:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/copper-rises-as-chinese-factory-gauge-spurs-stimulus-speculation.html
Copper rose in London as contracting
Chinese manufacturing fueled speculation about economic stimulus
in the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  China’s official Purchasing Managers Index released Sept. 1
slid to 49.2 in August, the first reading since November below
the level of 50 that divides expansion and shrinkage. The
 Federal Reserve  may engage in more stimulus as needed to fuel
growth in the U.S., the second-biggest copper user, Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  “China remains very important for industrial metals,” Nic Brown, head of commodities research at Natixis SA in London,
said today by e-mail. “Every indication of economic weakness
opens up the prospect of further new stimulus measures.”  Copper for three-month delivery settled 0.8 percent higher
at $7,679 a metric ton today on the LME, rising above its 100-
day moving average. Prices rose 0.7 percent in August.  Euro-area manufacturing contracted to 45.1 in August, more
than initially estimated, suggesting the economy may struggle to
avoid a recession in the third quarter, according to a report
from London-based Markit Economics today.  Mario Draghi ,
president of the  European Central Bank , may unveil details of a
new bond-buying plan at a regular meeting Sept. 6.  The European factory report “adds credence to those
looking for further easing/bond buyout plans from Thursday’s ECB
meeting,” Mark Newson-Smith, a metals broker at ICAP Plc in
London, said in a report today.  Copper inventories tracked by the LME fell 2 percent to
225,275 tons after shrinking for a 10th month in 11 in August,
daily exchange figures showed. They’re at the lowest level since
May 28. Orders to take metal from warehouses jumped 8.9 percent
to 40,225 tons on bookings in  New Orleans .  Funds held net-long  positions , or wagers on rising prices,
of 3,260 Comex copper futures and options as of Aug. 28,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. That
was the first net-long position since May 21.  Aluminum, lead, zinc, tin and nickel gained in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  