-- Cotton Glut Seen Extending Slump as Levi’s Costs Slide
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z ,   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-09-04T22:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/cotton-glut-seen-extending-slump-as-levi-s-costs-slide.html
Cotton warehouses from  China  to
 Australia  are bulging with the biggest-ever  glut , a year after
record prices spurred farmers to expand output.  Harvests will exceed demand for a third year, swelling
stockpiles by 10 percent to 74.67 million 480-pound bales by
August, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.
Inventories in China, the biggest user, will triple over two
years to a record as domestic demand slumps to the lowest since
2005, USDA data show. Cotton may drop 10 percent to 67.87 cents
a pound by the end of the year, according to the average of 20
analyst and merchant estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Slowing economic growth means the surplus will widen even
as China, Australia,  Brazil  and  India  produce less this season,
leading to the first global output decline in three years, the
USDA predicts. Prices already plunged 66 percent from last
year’s peak of $2.197 a pound, reducing costs for buyers from
 Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI) , the maker of Champion apparel, to San
Francisco-based  Levi Strauss  & Co.  “There’s an awful lot of cotton around,” said David Wookey, a managing director and trader at Isis Commodities Ltd.,
a cotton merchant in  Boston ,  England , founded 17 years ago.
“You’ve got a large stocks situation that’s been coupled with
weaker  global consumption .”  Surplus Widens  Prices tumbled 18 percent this year on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , exceeded only by arabica coffee’s 27 percent decline
among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index. The gauge rose 4.3 percent. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities gained 7.2 percent. Treasuries returned
2.5 percent, according to Bank of America Corp.  The world’s farmers will produce 114.1 million bales in the
year that began Aug. 1, 7 percent less than the record 122.7
million a year earlier, the USDA predicts. Demand will be 108.2
million, the second-lowest level in nine years, the agency
estimates. A bale provides enough material for 1,217 men’s  T-
shirts , according to the National Cotton Council of America.  China will import 46 percent less cotton in the 12 months
through July 31, according to USDA. Consumption in the country
may drop 11 percent this year, Zhang Hongxia, the chairman of
Hong Kong-listed  Weiqiao Textile Co. (2698) , China’s largest cotton-
textile maker, said in an interview Aug. 20. Cotlook Ltd., the
Birkenhead, England-based research company, boosted its surplus
estimate by 55 percent on Aug. 23, citing the deceleration in
Chinese demand.  Crop Switching  Smaller harvests may bolster prices that reached a 31-month
low of 64.61 cents on June 4, said Jon Devine, an economist for
Cotton Inc., an industry group in Cary,  North Carolina .  Hedge
funds  on Aug. 28 were the  most bullish  since February, holding a
net-long position of 13,047 futures and options contracts,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. The contract for
December delivery fell 2 percent to settle at 75.68 cents today
on ICE.  U.S. farmers, the largest exporters, can earn more planting
crops including corn or soybeans, which reached record prices
this year after a drought that T-Storm Weather LLC estimates was
the most-severe since 1936, based on temperature and rainfall in
June and July. A USDA  report  on May 1 showed cotton growers lost
$154.17 an acre in 2011 and corn earned $194.52. While the
agency won’t estimate this year’s returns until Oct. 1, cotton
prices are 22 percent lower and corn is up 40 percent.  Indian Monsoon  Matt Huie, a farmer in Beeville, Texas, who planted 3,600
acres of the fiber last year, said he “probably would consider
not planting cotton at all.”  “I would expect massive reductions of cotton acreage,”
said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“This should lead to a decline in supply and to rising cotton
prices next year.”  The monsoon in India, the second-largest exporter, has been
12 percent below the 50-year average, the Meteorological
Department said Aug. 30. The weather pattern accounts for about
70 percent of the country’s annual rainfall.  Plantings in Australia during the next three months may
drop more than 12 percent, according to the government. Output
in Brazil may tumble 26 percent as farmers shift to soybeans,
the USDA’S Foreign Agricultural Service said in a  report  posted
yesterday on its website.  Expectations for lower prices may spur traders to break
$600 million of contracts this year, or 5 percent of global
trade in the fiber, said Terry Townsend, the executive director
of the International Cotton Advisory Committee in  Washington .
That’s down from about 20 percent in the past two years because
prices are less volatile, he said.  Profit Margins  Hanesbrands, the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based maker
of the Wonderbra, saw cotton costs jump by $200 million in 2011,
Chief Executive Officer Rich Noll told analysts on a July 31
 conference call . Margins have since returned to “historical
levels,” he said.  Levi Strauss expects lower cotton costs in the third and
fourth quarters, former Chief Financial Officer  Blake Jorgensen 
told analysts on a conference call July 10. The company cut
prices in some markets in the second quarter to reduce
inventories and products being sold in the spring were the
“tail end of the peak cotton prices in the products we sourced
last year,” he said.  Cheaper cotton will mean improved margins at American Eagle
Outfitters Inc., a Pittsburgh-based clothing retailer, in the
second half, Chief Financial Officer Mary M. Boland told
analysts on an Aug. 22 call. J. Crew Group Inc., a clothing
retailer based in Lynchburg,  Virginia , told shareholders Aug. 30
that margins are benefiting from declining prices for the fiber.  Cheaper Polyester  While global demand is forecast by the USDA to rise 2.6
percent in the 12 months through July, after slumping 11 percent
in the previous two years, more textile makers are turning to
cheaper synthetic fibers. Polyester cost 77.6 cents a pound in
China on Aug. 24, according to Cotlook. That same day, the
Cotton China Index reported the price of grade 328 cotton
delivered to mills was $1.32, said Alejandro Plastina, an
economist at  International Cotton Advisory Committee .  China mills about one-third of the world’s cotton and is
the top producer of polyester, according to the ICAC, which has
41  member states . The group projects global synthetic-fiber
consumption at 47.2 million tons in 2012, 3.9 percent more than
last year.  Manufacturing in China unexpectedly shrank in August for
the first time in nine months, the National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on Sept. 1
in Beijing.  “Cotton-market fundamentals are just awful,” said
Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Chicago . “Demand is quite low, and the heavy supplies will
contain any rally. We will probably see a downward correction
from the recent rally as new crops start to come to market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  