-- Credit Suisse ‘On Target’ to Boost Capital, Raaflaub Says
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-09-03T08:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/credit-suisse-on-target-to-boost-capital-raaflaub-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG,
 Switzerland ’s biggest banks, are “on target” to boost equity
to conform with new capital requirements, said Patrick Raaflaub,
head of the  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority. (SMI)   “Supervised institutions must ensure that their equity
base is strong enough to absorb shocks without resorting to
government bailouts,” Raaflaub said in a speech at a conference
in Zurich today. “Some progress has been made in this respect:
banks operating in Switzerland are, generally speaking, well
capitalized.”  Credit Suisse said in July it plans to boost capital by
15.3 billion Swiss francs ($16 billion) this year after the
 Swiss National Bank  urged a “marked increase” in the annual
financial stability report. UBS should continue with its plan to
improve  capital ratios  by cutting assets, retaining earnings and
limiting dividend payments, the central bank also said.  “Our country should be an example to follow in important
areas such as equity capital and liquidity,” Raaflaub said,
adding that the current market environment is “demanding” and
“challenging times are in store” for the Swiss financial
industry.  The Swiss regulators are running ahead of international
peers in implementing stricter capital and liquidity
requirements after the government had to prop up UBS with 6
billion francs to help it spin off illiquid assets into an SNB
fund in the aftermath of the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  UBS and Credit Suisse will have to hold total capital,
equal to about 19 percent of risk-weighted assets starting in
2019. Under Basel III rules, banks worldwide will need to have
minimum capital ratios of 10.5 percent, while stricter rules can
be imposed by national regulators, and firms deemed systemically
important will need more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  