-- Cyprus Economy May Shrink More Than Forecast, Finance Chief Says
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-09-03T15:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/cyprus-economy-may-shrink-more-than-forecast-finance-chief-says.html
Cyprus’s economy, the third smallest
in the euro area, may contract 1.5 percent this year, compared
to an estimate of 0.5 percent due to budget-cutting efforts as
it negotiates an international bailout, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said.  The finance chief told reporters in Nicosia today he aims
to cut the fiscal shortfall to 3.5 percent of gross domestic
product from a forecast 4.5 percent.  The Cypriot finance minster said that the government will
need no additional financing should the fiscal deficit remain at
3.5 percent of GDP this year and added that next year’s budget
gap will widen compared to the 0.5 percent of GDP initial
forecast. In January to July, the central government’s fiscal
deficit on a cash basis was 3.4 percent.  Shiarly said that talks with the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  are
continuing. “Talks are in a very advanced stage and I believe
that at the next visit of the troika to Cyprus we will be in
position to agree the first draft of the rescue memorandum,” he
said.  On June 25, Cyprus, which assumed the EU’s rotating
presidency in July, became the fifth of the euro area’s 17
member states to seek a rescue.  Troika officials told Cypriot lawmakers on July 27 that the
country’s public finances “are in worse shape than we
expected,” signaling that the bailout may exceed the 10 billion
euros staffers first estimated. The new estimate is in the range
of 12 billion ($15 billion) to 16 billion euros, a European
official said last month on condition of anonymity.  Russian Loan  Shiarly said that Cyprus’s second bilateral loan request
from  Russia , from which it last year signed a 2.5 billion euros
loan agreement, is not an obstacle in the negotiations with the
troika.  The finance minister said that the island, which has been
shut out of markets since May last year, will face no problem
meeting its financial obligations for at least the next two
months. “According to our planning, 380 million euros will also
be settled in September without any problem,” after Cyprus
refinanced 450 million euros in maturing debt in August, the
finance minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  