-- LDK Solar Has Credit Rating Downgraded on Losses, Export Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-03T06:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/ldk-solar-has-credit-rating-downgraded-on-losses-export-outlook.html
LDK Solar Co.’s (LDK)  credit rating was
cut one level to A by Shanghai Brilliance Credit Rating &
Investors Service Co., its second downgrade since June, on the
solar-wafer maker’s operating losses and souring export outlook.  Shanghai Brilliance lowered the credit grade of Jiangxi LDK
Solar Hi-Tech Co., the manufacturer’s principal operating
subsidiary, to its sixth-highest level and kept the rating on
negative outlook after production and sales fell in 2012, the
risk assessor said in a statement on Chinabond, the nation’s
bond clearinghouse. Chinese solar makers may struggle to export
their products due to a U.S. tariff on Chinese solar cells
announced May 17 and the threat of further restrictions in
Europe, according to the statement.  “Domestic solar producers still heavily rely on  Europe  and
America and other foreign consumer markets,” Shanghai
Brilliance said. “The domestic solar equipment producer
industry’s operating environment will get worse.”  LDK Solar, which is based in the southeast province of
Jiangxi and is the world’s second-biggest maker of wafers that
convert sunlight to power,  reported  a first-quarter net loss of
$185.2 million compared with profit of $135.4 million a year
earlier, it said June 26. Solarworld AG,  Germany ’s largest
solar-panel maker, led a group of manufacturers in requesting in
July that the European Commission investigate whether Chinese
competitors dumped products at below-market rates on regional
markets.  Shanghai Brilliance also cut its rating on LDK Solar’s 500
million  yuan  ($79 million) of notes due December 2014 to A from
A+, it said. The yield on the bonds has risen 281 basis points
since the beginning of July to a record 8.38 percent, according
to Chinabond prices on Bloomberg.  Shanghai Brilliance’s latest downgrade comes after it cut
LDK Solar’s rating by two levels on June 29, according to a
statement at the time.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  