-- Dockwise Profits Aided by U.S. as Mine Sweepers Deploy: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-09-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/dockwise-profits-aided-by-u-s-as-mine-sweepers-deploy-freight.html
Dockwise Ltd. (DOCK)  shareholders can thank
the U.S. Navy for helping return the company to  profit  as the
world’s largest operator of heavy-load vessels hauls mine
sweepers to the  Persian Gulf .  Dockwise’s carriers are so big they can transport four of
the Navy’s 224-foot-long mine hunters in one 42-day voyage
across the  Pacific Ocean . The extra cargo will help Breda,
Netherlands-based Dockwise report a profit in 2012, rebounding
from the largest loss in four years in 2011, according to the
median of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares
of the company will rise 43 percent in the next 12 months, the
average of eight estimates shows.  The U.S. is deploying more vessels in case  Iran  retaliates
against international sanctions by disrupting shipping through
the  Strait of Hormuz , the transit point for about 20 percent of
the world’s oil. That’s providing Dockwise carriers with work
instead of sailing empty after delivering oil rigs from yards in
Asia to oil and natural gas fields in the Atlantic. The ships
may work at more than 80 percent of capacity next year, the most
since 2008, ABN Amro Bank NV estimates.  “There is going to be strong demand for this company as
the undisputed market leader,” said Andre Mulder, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Amsterdam whose share recommendations
returned 21 percent in the past year. “When the Navy has to
transport some ships, that’s adding to the attractiveness.”  Dockwise operates 19 heavy-load vessels capable of hauling
everything from 760-foot-long hulls for the Royal Australian
Navy’s largest-ever ships to 400-foot-high oil rigs. It acquired
four carriers when it bought Fairstar Heavy Transport NV for $90
million in July.  Persian Gulf  The company will report  net income  of $35.24 million this
year, from a $33.49 million loss in 2011, according to the mean
of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Its shares
rose 16 percent to 13.60 euros ($17.13) in Amsterdam since the
start of January and will reach 19.41 euros in 12 months, based
on the average of  eight predictions .  Tensions in the Persian Gulf are rising after the 27-nation
European Union imposed an embargo on Iranian oil in July in
response to the country’s nuclear program. The government, also
facing sanctions from the U.S. and  United Nations , says it is
developing nuclear capabilities for civilian purposes.  Iran has threatened to block the strait, which is about 21
miles wide at the narrowest point. The country may have 3,000
naval mines, 10 times more than it would need to close the
waterway, according to a 2010 report by the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East & Gulf Military Analysis. Admiral Mark Fox, commanding the U.S. 5th Fleet, said in February that laying
mines would be interpreted as an act of war.  Crossing Oceans  The Navy vessels, known as mine counter-measure ships,
arrived from  San Diego  on Dockwise’s 600-foot-long Tern. They
aren’t designed to cross oceans and would have to refuel too
often, said  Chris Johnson , a U.S. Naval Sea Systems Command
spokesman. The wooden-hulled boats use sonar, video, cable
cutters and detonators to find and destroy mines, according to
the U.S. Navy.  The four delivered in June doubled the number in the
Persian Gulf, said Greg Raelson, a spokesman for the 5th Fleet.
They accounted for 10 percent of Dockwise’s  business  in the
second quarter, according to the company’s Aug. 14 presentation.  The Defense Department said in July it would keep two
carrier strike groups in the gulf until at least March. Each
consists of an  aircraft carrier , a guided-missile cruiser, two
guided-missile destroyers, an attack submarine and a supply
ship. The U.S. and more than 20 allies plan a minesweeping
exercise in the region this month, the U.S. Central Command said
in July.  Cable Cutters  Dockwise isn’t just delivering military equipment to the
Persian Gulf. Its Blue Marlin is carrying part of a so-called
Landing Helicopter Dock, a ship with a flight deck the length of
two football fields, from  Spain  for the Royal Australian Navy.
Military cargoes typically account for 3 to 5 percent of annual
revenue, said Fons van Lith, the company’s investor relations
manager.  While the shipments boost earnings, their timing is more
difficult to predict than for transporting oil rigs and other
equipment for the  energy industry , said Jorgen Lande, an analyst
at  Nordea Markets  in Oslo.  Demand for offshore drilling and the need to transport rigs
may weaken as economic growth cools. The  International Energy
Agency , an adviser to 28 nations, cut its forecast for 2012 oil
demand on Aug. 10 and predicted slower growth next year for the
first time. Consumption will expand by 870,000 barrels a day
this year, from January’s estimate of 1.08 million, and 830,000
barrels in 2013, the Paris-based IEA said.  Offshore Drilling  Spending on exploration and production fell 15 percent in
2009 in the global recession, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries energy analysts led by Christian O’Neill.
Rates for the tallest jack-up rigs slumped 12 percent, according
to Rigzone, a Houston-based data provider.  Environmental worries also may hinder offshore exploration.
The explosion in April 2010 at BP Plc’s Macondo well in the  Gulf
of Mexico  killed 11 workers and caused the biggest offshore  oil
spill  in U.S. history. London-based BP agreed in March to pay at
least $7.8 billion to settle private claims.  Heavy-load ships range from converted  oil tankers  to
purpose-built vessels, some with hull sections removed to allow
for wider loads. They submerge partially to move underneath
their cargoes and then refloat.  Baker Hughes  Analysts are bullish because the fleet is outnumbered by
about 35 to one by oil rigs, which need moving between projects.
There are about 98 heavy-load ships, according to data from IHS
Inc., an Englewood, Colorado-based research company. That
compares with 3,516 rigs, according to Baker Hughes Inc.  Drilling companies have ordered another 147, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest builders are Keppel
Corp. in  Singapore  and South Korea’s Samsung Heavy Industries
Co. and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. By contrast, 81 percent of
all rigs operate in Europe,  Africa  or the Americas.  The outlook for heavy-load vessels contrasts with a slump
across most of the shipping industry, where a glut means owners
are failing to cover costs. The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
costs to haul iron ore and coal, plunged 60 percent this year,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in  London . Earnings for the
largest oil tankers dropped 77 percent, according to London-
based Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.  The Bloomberg Pure Play Dry Bulk Shipping Index of the
stocks of 14 shipping companies tumbled 16 percent this year as
the six-member Bloomberg Tanker Index of equities retreated 1
percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of global stocks
advanced 7.7 percent and Treasuries returned 2.6 percent, a Bank
of America Corp. index shows.  China Cosco  Carrying equipment for the oil and gas industry generates
about 70 percent of Dockwise’s revenue, said van Lith. The
vessels also haul cranes for unloading containers, mining
equipment and yachts. Other operators include China Cosco
Holdings Co., Seoul-based STX Pan Ocean Co. and NYK-Hinode Line
Ltd., a unit of Tokyo-based Nippon Yusen K.K.  “A lot of large offshore production platforms under
construction will be completed and will have to be moved to
their production location,” said Michael Roeg, an analyst at
KBC Securities in Brussels. “It’s a one-way trip, so for the
return trip Dockwise will try to get something, whether a
dredging vessel or navy ship or a small rig, just to cover costs
and boost utilization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  