-- Draghi Told Lawmakers ECB Can Buy Three-Year Bonds, MEP Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-09-03T17:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/draghi-told-lawmakers-ecb-can-buy-three-year-bonds-mep-says-1-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  told lawmakers he would be comfortable buying bonds
with maturities of up to about three years, said Jean-Paul
Gauzes, a member of the European Parliament.  Purchasing short-dated bonds doesn’t constitute state
financing, Draghi said during a closed-door parliamentary
session in Brussels today, Gauzes told reporters afterwards.
“He thinks it’s not a violation of the treaty and you can do it
under the current legal framework,” said Gauzes, a French
 Christian Democrat . “He said for example three years is ok, 15
years no.”  The euro rose against the dollar after the comments, which
indicate Draghi may be in a position to announce details of the
ECB’s new bond-purchase program after policy makers meet on
Sept. 6. The European currency jumped more than a quarter of a
cent to $1.2611 and traded at $1.2599 at 7:27 p.m. in Brussels,
up 0.2 percent on the day.  Draghi said on Aug. 2 that the ECB was working on a bond-
buying program to lower yields in countries such as Italy and
 Spain  as long as they also ask  Europe ’s rescue fund to buy their
debt.  Germany ’s Bundesbank opposes government bond purchases and
the country’s constitutional court won’t rule on the legality of
the permanent fund, the European Stability Mechanism, until
Sept. 12.  Closed-Door Meeting  Sven Giegold, a German Green member of the European
Parliament who attended the closed-door meeting with Draghi,
said he left it with the impression that the ECB will renew
intervention in bond markets to stem the debt crisis. The ECB
shelved its previous purchase program earlier this year.  “I assume after this meeting that there will continue to
be intervention on the secondary market,” Giegold told
reporters. He declined to elaborate on the talks with Draghi
about this issue, citing their confidentiality.  Giegold also said Draghi spoke out against giving the ESM a
banking license on the grounds that such a step would entail
monetary financing of governments.  Draghi hasn’t specified exactly what maturities of bonds
the ECB might buy. He said last month that the ECB’s purchases
would focus on the shorter part of the yield curve because
“this falls squarely within the range of classical monetary-
policy instruments.”  Money-Market Operations  “The shorter the spectrum, the closer it is to money-market
operations,” Draghi said then. While the ECB has provided banks
with three-year loans, “in normal operations maturities like
the ones we are operating on right now can go from six months to
nine months to a year,” he said.  In answer to a question about banking union proposals to be
unveiled on Sept. 12, Draghi raised the possibility of dividing
lenders into categories to better identify which ones might need
a higher degree of central supervision, according to Pervenche Beres, a French socialist member of the committee. Draghi
indicated such a division of oversight between the ECB and
national regulators, was one of several options for how the
future system might work, Beres said.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  told the committee in a separate session that the ECB
should have “prime responsibility” for bank oversight with
national regulators continuing with an “important role in the
system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  