-- HSBC, BNP Said to Agree on Profit-Sharing Loan for Drydocks
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-09-04T09:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/drydocks-said-to-pay-part-of-2-25-billion-loan-over-15-years.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
are among banks extending a $1.5 billion so-called profit
participating loan to Dubai-based Drydocks World LLC as it
restructures debt, a person with knowledge of the talks said.  The 15-year loan, part of a $2.25 billion debt
restructuring for the  Middle East ’s biggest shipyard, will pay
creditors profit or cash from asset sales, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because details are private. Dubai
World-controlled Drydocks also agreed on a new $800 million
five-year  term loan  paying a market interest rate, he said.  A special court in Dubai  sanctioned the  debt restructuring
on Aug. 28 after creditors approved the plan, without providing
the terms of the deal. The Dubai World Tribunal, set up in 2009
to handle claims against Dubai World and its subsidiaries,
approved the restructuring after 97.8 percent of Drydocks’s
creditors agreed. The tribunal can enforce a restructuring
proposal if at least two-thirds of the creditors agree.  A Dubai-based spokeswoman for Drydocks, who asked not to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment. A
spokesman for HSBC in Dubai and a spokeswoman for BNP Paribas in
Manama, Bahrain, both of whom also asked not to be identified
because of company policy, also declined to comment.  Other Lenders  Drydocks’ other lenders include DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,
 Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Lloyds TSB Bank Plc,
 Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  and  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  The original loan
includes a $1.29 billion facility, a S$553 million ($443
million) portion and a 1.9 billion-dirham ($517 million)
syndicated facility, according to tribunal documents.  The profit participating loan will be retired earlier than
15 years if Drydocks’ business performance exceeds expectations
or if it receives proceeds from asset disposals, such as a stake
in its Southeast Asian business, the person said.  The restructuring plan also includes the setting up of a
new holding company, based in the tax-free Dubai International
Financial Center, to hold the profit participating loan, the
person said. That company will sit between Drydocks World and
Drydocks World-Dubai LLC so that the facility won’t be a direct
liability of Drydocks World-Dubai, the person said.  BNP rose 1.1 percent in Paris to 35.23 euros and has gained
about 16 percent this year. HSBC gained 0.7 percent to 551 pence
at the close of trading yesterday in  London .  Creditor Agreement  Creditors agreed on $800 million as the appropriate level
of debt for Drydocks World Dubai given its business plan. Banks
will not need to take impairment provisions since the loan
pricing is market-determined, the person said. Jebel Ali Free
Zone FZE, a Dubai-based business park operator also controlled
by Dubai World, is paying interest of 3.75 percent to 4.75
percent above the benchmark rate on a new 4.4 billion dirham
Islamic loan it got in June to repay a bond.  Drydocks World borrowed $2.2 billion to finance two
acquisitions in  Singapore  in 2008 to gain ships and Asian
shipbuilding sites. The company borrowed $1.7 billion for three
years at 170 basis points, or 1.7 percentage points, over the
London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It borrowed another $500 million for five years at
190 basis points over Libor, the data shows.  Drydocks World, which  carries out ship repairs, vessel
conversions , ship building and offshore construction as well as
owns vessels, said in June it had signed a joint venture
agreement for its Southeast Asian business with  Malaysia ’s Kuok
Group, without disclosing the size or value of the stake sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  