-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-09-03T21:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-two-weeks-on-stimulus-bets.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
with the benchmark index posting the biggest gain in almost two
weeks, as economic data from  China  to Poland fueled speculation
central banks will take more steps to boost growth.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.6 percent to 952.83
at 4:34 p.m. in New York, advancing the most since Aug. 21.
 Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s largest gold producer by market
value, and  OAO Severstal (CHMF) , Russia’s second-biggest steel company,
increased for the first time in seven days as stimulus
speculation lifted metals. Brazil’s Bovespa Index rose 0.4
percent, snapping three days of losses.  Chinese manufacturing shrank for the first time in nine
months in August, while South Korea reported the slowest
inflation in 12 years. Poland’s central bank has scope to cut
 interest rates , Governor  Marek Belka  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
signaled on Aug. 31 another round of bond purchases to support
the world’s largest economy is possible.  “More stimulus measures by the U.S., China and other
countries will bolster investors’ sentiment in the equity
markets,” saidVattana Vongseenin, chief executive officer of
Bangkok-based Phillip Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$20 million. “Still, the long-term global growth outlook
remains very gloomy.”  ‘Room to Reduce’  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.6 percent, after
closing last week at the lowest level since February 2009.
Russia’s Micex Index increased 1.2 percent, the biggest gain
since Aug. 21. Poland’s  WIG20 (WIG20)  advanced 0.3 percent, led by a 2.7
percent gain for PKN Orlen SA.  The MSCI emerging-market index has climbed 4 percent this
year, after sliding 0.5 percent last month. That compares with a
2012 gain of 8.3 percent for the MSCI World Index of developed-
nation equities. U.S. markets were closed for the Labor Day
holiday.  The Icelandic krona led declines among emerging-market
currencies, weakening 0.5 percent against the euro. The Polish
zloty also fell 0.5 percent.  “There is a room to reduce which, if necessary, I’m sure
we’ll utilize,” Belka told Bloomberg Television during a
weekend conference of central bankers and economists in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming. “We feel the economy is slowing,” Belka said,
while adding that fluctuations in the currency are not a concern
and its current value is “good for exports.”  Manufacturing  Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, fell to 48.3 in August from 49.7 in July, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today. The median
estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 49.2. A
reading below 50 shows a contraction.  China’s Purchasing Managers Index dropped to 49.2 in August
from 50.1 in July, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. A
separate report released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed China’s manufacturing contracted last month at
the fastest pace since March 2009.  Zijin Mining jumped 3.7 percent in  Hong Kong  and Severstal
added 2.8 percent in Moscow. Copper for three-month delivery
rose 0.8 percent in London.  A measure of technology companies in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  added  0.9 percent, the most among 10 industry
groups.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of electronics, surged 6.1 percent to a
four-month high in Taipei after it reversed loss provisions for
a planned investment in Sharp Corp.  Samsung  Samsung Card Co. (029780)  jumped 15 percent, the top advance in the
MSCI gauge. The credit-card company will buy back 7.1 million
shares through Nov. 30 and cancel them when the buyback is
complete, it said in a regulatory filing on Aug. 31.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest mobile-phone
maker, fell 1.2 percent in Seoul as Apple Inc. sought a ban on
U.S. sales of new Galaxy smartphones, deepening their global
patent disputes.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of east European,
Middle Eastern and African credit-default swaps slipped one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 241. The extra yield
investors demand to own emerging-market bonds over U.S.
Treasuries rose one basis point to 318, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  