-- Merkel, Monti Step Up Diplomacy as ECB Comes in Focus
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-09-04T13:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/merkel-says-bailouts-here-to-stay-as-schaeuble-warns-on-ecb.html
European leaders are stepping up
shuttle diplomacy this week as details of a bond-buying plan
emerged from the  central bank , fueling a surge in some Spanish
and Italian debt.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  traveled to
Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel today as
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti hosts French President
 Francois Hollande  in Rome. They were given a hint about what may
be in store when European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said yesterday he would be comfortable buying three-year
 government bonds  to aid nations struggling to fund themselves.  The stewards of the single currency, who have sparred as
borrowing costs diverged in the 17 nation-euro area, have a
chance to fall in line behind Draghi. Merkel, whose country
shoulders the largest cost of bailing out weaker governments,
has indicated she would back a more active crisis-fighting role
at the ECB and yesterday told a crowd of beer drinkers in
Bavaria that Germany must show solidarity with  Europe .  “I think there is broad agreement among these people,”
said  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Many
people are realizing that monetary policy is broken in Europe,
badly broken.”  Outlook Cut  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2574 at 15:15 in Berlin,
paring earlier gains when it traded near a two-month high.
Italian and Spanish two-year yields dropped the most in about a
month. In both countries, the two-year yield fell to the least
on record relative to 10-year bonds.  Leaders are back from summer vacation and facing what
Merkel called a “very ambitious agenda” this month to quell
what has been a three-year sovereign debt crisis. Talks haven’t
always gone smoothly, as Merkel and Monti clashed last week in
Berlin over details while agreeing on the broad principles of
collective action. Monti has pushed for flexibility on market
intervention, while Merkel has focused on budget rigor.  “We have to press for reforms in other countries even if
they sometimes say we’re hard-line,” Merkel said to a packed
beer tent in the town of Abensberg, northeast of Munich. “It’s
not enough just to keep muddling through. But I also say that in
such a difficult phase these countries deserve our solidarity
and that we root for them to overcome their difficulties.”  Bond Yields  Draghi told lawmakers in a closed-door meeting that
purchasing short-dated bonds doesn’t constitute state financing,
according to  France ’s Jean-Paul Gauzes, a member of the European
Parliament from the European  People’s Party . “He thinks it’s
not a violation of the treaty and you can do it under the
current legal framework,” Gauzes said. “He said for example
three years is OK, 15 years no.”  Italian two-year yields fell 25 basis points to 2.38
percent, the lowest since March, while the yield on similar
maturity Spanish debt declined 36 basis points to 3.15 percent.
Italian 10-year bond yields declined 11 basis points to 5.67
percent, or 329 basis points more than the two-year note. German
10-year bond yields rose 3 basis points to 1.4 percent.  Draghi may give more details on the bank’s bond buying
plans when he holds his first press conference after the summer
break on Sept. 6. That day Monti will meet with European
Commission President  Jose Barroso , and Merkel will travel to
 Madrid  to talk with Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy .
Leaders are also awaiting a German court ruling on the
constitutionality of the European Stability Mechanism, the
region’s permanent bailout fund. That court case has delayed the
start of the ESM, initially set for July.  Greek Report  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
he was “completely sure” the ESM will come into force.  Greece  will also be on the agenda as policy makers await
a bailout progress report due next month from the country’s
creditors -- the European Commission, the European Central bank
and the  International Monetary Fund . Greece is trying to show
that it’s making enough progress meeting conditions on the loans
to keep the aid spigot open.  “The central point is that Greece implements its
obligations completely,” the German Finance Ministry said in a
statement after Schaeuble met with his Greek counterpart, Yannis Stournaras, in Berlin today.  German Support  On the bond buying, Draghi still faces challenges in
winning support among the German public for market intervention.
 Germany  reiterated its backing yesterday for Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann yesterday, following reports last week
that he had considered resigning over his opposition to ECB bond
purchases. Schaeuble warned investors not to expect too much
from the ECB plan.  “We have to be very careful that we don’t raise false
expectations,” Schaeuble told Deutschlandfunk radio yesterday.
“It has to remain very clear, state debt can’t be financed
through monetary policy. Therefore we can’t have a decision --we
would think it very wrong -- that’s not covered by the ECB
mandate.”  Monti, who raised taxes and cut spending to improve Italy’s
finances, has shifted his focus to stimulating the stagnant
economy and found an ally in Hollande. The French president is
facing pressure at home following a summer break in which,
according to a Viavoice poll, unemployment rose and his
popularity fell seven points to 55 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  