-- Merkel Attacks Markets in Call for Voter Support to Cut Debt
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-09-03T12:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/merkel-attacks-markets-in-call-for-voter-support-to-cut-debt.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
renewed her attack on markets for their role in stoking  Europe ’s
financial crisis, saying the challenge for policy makers is to
woo voters to support cutting debt levels to escape the sights
of investors.  Merkel made her comments at an event in the Bavarian town
of Abensberg today after her finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , warned against heaping “false expectations” on the
 European Central Bank  to end the debt crisis, now almost three 
years old.  Merkel, speaking at an event organised by the Bavarian
Christian Social Union party, said that in the last five years,
markets “haven’t served the people,” allowing a few to get
rich at the expense of the many. Markets can’t be allowed to
destroy the fruits of people’s labor and governments can’t be
put at their mercy through excess debt, she said.  “The real question about our democracy is: Can we in
 Germany  and in Europe win elections when we jointly stand up for
solid finances, when we don’t always spend more than we take
in?” Merkel said in a beer tent packed with local party
officials dressed in traditional Bavarian lederhosen and
dirndls.  Merkel’s comments are the most explicit yet on her campaign
themes for federal elections in the fall of 2013, to be held at
the same time as a Bavarian regional vote that will determine
the CSU’s fate. Sharing the podium with the party’s general
secretary, Alexander Dobrindt, Merkel’s tone contrasted with his
warning last month that Greece would no longer be in the euro
region in 2013.  Effort Required  The chancellor reiterated that  Greece  must fulfil the terms
of its bailouts in return for “solidarity,” while those
programs undertaken in Spain and  Portugal  “require an effort.”  “We have to press for reforms in other countries even if
they sometimes say we’re hard-line,” Merkel said. “It’s not
enough just to keep muddling though. But I also say that in such
a difficult phase these countries deserve our solidarity and
that we root for them to overcome their difficulties.”  The CSU, which is the Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , has in recent weeks stepped up its
anti-Greek rhetoric and criticized the European Union, while
Merkel has insisted she wants the country at the origin of the
debt crisis to remain in the 17-nation currency union.  “We need Europe, but we need a Europe that’s strong in the
world,” said Merkel, who is due to host EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  for talks in Berlin tomorrow. Europe has to reform to
become strong, with an end to the “debt union” as its
leitmotiv and Germany leading from the front.  “We can’t sit still,” said Merkel. “We can’t take up so
much debt that tomorrow we won’t have anything left and we’ll be
at the mercy of the financial markets.”  Merkel has previously criticized the power of financial
markets, saying that the primacy of politics must be preserved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Bavaria via 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  