-- EU Outlook Cut by Moody’s on Germany, France, U.K. Risks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-09-04T09:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/eu-outlook-cut-by-moody-s-to-reflect-germany-france-u-k-risks.html
The European Union’s rating outlook
was cut to negative by Moody’s Investors Service, reflecting the
risks to  Germany ,  France , the U.K. and the Netherlands that
account for about 45 percent of the group’s budget revenue.  The ratings company lowered the outlook on the EU’s Aaa
long-term bond rating from stable, according to a statement
released in  Frankfurt  late yesterday. It also changed to
negative from stable its outlook on the provisional Aaa rating
for the EU’s medium-term note program.  The change “reflects the negative outlook on the Aaa
ratings of the member states with large contributions to the EU
budget,” Moody’s said. “The creditworthiness of these member
states is highly correlated, as they are all exposed, albeit to
varying degrees, to the euro-area debt crisis.”  Ratings of European nations have declined under the
sovereign debt crisis and  Spain , which held the top Aaa rating
from Moody’s between 2001 and 2010, is now on the cusp of junk
at Baa3. Those same stresses have hurt the creditworthiness of
EU member states that still have top ratings, thanks to their
stronger economies or, as in the case of the U.K., being outside
the euro region.  Risks of a downgrade to the EU’s sovereign debt rating come
from a “deterioration in the creditworthiness of EU member
states,” Moody’s said. “Additionally, a weakening of the
commitment of the member states to the EU and changes to the
EU’s fiscal framework that led to less conservative budget
management would be credit negative.”  Draghi’s Plan  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told a crowd of beer drinkers in
Bavaria yesterday that Germany must show solidarity with  Europe ,
and indicated she would back a more active crisis-fighting role
at the  European Central Bank . Her nation shoulders the largest
cost of bailing out weaker governments.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  told officials yesterday he
intends buying  government bonds  with maturities as much as three
years away to bring down borrowing costs for nations in
financial distress.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, borrows on
behalf of the EU, which has 52.7 billion euros of bonds
outstanding, data compiled by Bloomberg show. About 10.7 billion
euros of notes come due before the end of 2015, the data show.  The yield premium investors demand to hold the EU’s 4.75
billion euros of 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016 rather than
similar-maturity German bonds narrowed 5.2 basis points to 30.4
basis points, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ratings Outlook  “The outlook for the EU’s ratings could return to stable
if the outlooks on the ratings of the key Aaa countries with
contributions to the EU budget also returned to stable,”
Moody’s said of the 27-member group.  European leaders are stepping up shuttle diplomacy this
week as they brace for Draghi’s plan to defend the euro from
bond-market turmoil. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  is traveling
to Berlin for talks with Merkel today as Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  welcomes French President  Francois Hollande  to  Rome .  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds declined 5 basis points
today to 5.72 percent. That was still 431 basis points more than
the yield on similar maturity German bunds. Reports of Draghi’s
plan to buy bonds due in as much as three years helped push down
yields on Italian two-year notes to the least on record relative
to rates on the 10-year notes.  Wider Spread  The  spread  between the two securities increased more than
20 basis points to 337 basis points today, the most since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1993.  The  spread  between Spain’s two- and 10-year bonds also
climbed, rising to a record 351 basis points, the data show. The
country’s 10-year notes yield 6.72 percent.  Draghi faces challenges in winning support among the German
public for market intervention. Germany reiterated its support
yesterday for Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, following
reports last week that he had considered resigning over his
opposition to ECB bond purchases.  “Moody’s believes that it is reasonable to assume the same
probability of default by the EU on its debt obligations as the
highest rated key members states’ probability of default,”
according to the statement. “Whereas Moody’s acknowledges that
there are structural features in place that enhance the EU’s
creditworthiness, they are in Moody’s view not sufficient to
delink the EU’s ratings from the ratings of its strongest key
member states.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  