-- EU Parliament Risks ECB Spat Over Draghi Briefing Leaks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/european-parliament-risks-ecb-spat-over-draghi-briefing-leaks.html
European Union lawmakers risked a
breach of confidence with the  European Central Bank  after
revealing details from a confidential briefing with ECB
President  Mario Draghi .  Members of the EU assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee were chastised yesterday by the group’s chairwoman,
 Sharon Bowles , over the disclosures, which occurred shortly
after the briefing with Draghi at the European Parliament in
Brussels. Draghi was taking part in a hearing organized by the
committee on the future of the euro and plans to build a so-
called banking union.  The leaks were “a complete breach of confidence,” Bowles
told lawmakers at a later, public, part of the session. “I
think it has brought this house into disrepute.”  The euro rose against the dollar following comments from
Jean-Paul Gauzes, a French member of the panel, that Draghi had
told the lawmakers that he ECB president was comfortable with
the central bank buying bonds with maturities up to about three
years.  The euro jumped a quarter of a cent to $1.2611 and traded
at $1.2595 at 10:40 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Gauzes released a statement later saying that Draghi hadn’t
set out any future ECB operation on bond markets.  Draghi declined to comment to reporters on arriving and
leaving the parliament.  ECB Officials  While it had originally been intended that Draghi’s hearing
with lawmakers would be public, that plan was changed because of
the convention that senior ECB officials don’t comment publicly
on policy in the week before an ECB Governing Council meeting,
according to a parliament spokesman. The ECB holds its next
rate-setting meeting on Sept. 6.  Sven Giegold, a German Green member of the European
Parliament who attended the closed-door meeting with Draghi,
said following the hearing that he left it with the impression
that the ECB will renew intervention in bond markets to stem the
debt crisis.  The leaks ”have probably jeopardized” the possibility of
having officials attend the committee’s hearings on an in camera
basis, Bowles said. ”And we know who to hold responsible,
because your names are in the press.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  