-- Euro-Area Manufacturing Output Contracts More Than Estimated
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-09-03T08:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/euro-area-manufacturing-output-contracts-more-than-estimated-1-.html
Euro-area  manufacturing  contracted
more than initially estimated in August, suggesting the economy
may struggle to  avoid  a recession in the third quarter.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area based
on a survey of purchasing managers was revised lower to 45.1
from the reading of 45.3 estimated earlier, London-based Markit
Economics said today. The index, which stood at 44 in July, has
held for 13 months below 50, indicating contraction.  European manufacturers are feeling the impact of the
sovereign-debt crisis and tougher austerity measures that have
undermined export and consumer demand. Euro-area  economic
confidence  fell to a three-year low and  inflation  accelerated to
2.6 percent in August. The  jobless rate  held at a record 11.3
percent in July.  “The euro-zone manufacturing sector remains firmly in
contraction territory,” Rob Dobson, senior economist at Markit,
said in the report. “The sector is on course to act as a drag
on gross domestic product in the third quarter.”  The euro fell against the dollar on the purchasing-managers
data and traded at $1.2569 at 10:44 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1
percent on the day. The European currency has declined more than
11 percent in the past year.  Economic Projections  The euro-area economy may shrink 0.1 percent this year,
according to European Central Bank forecasts. The ECB will
publish updated  economic projections  next week.  “The uncertainty and cost-caution resulting from the
currency union’s ongoing political and debt crises are now being
reinforced by softer global economic growth,” Dobson said.
“The euro-zone product and  labor markets  are unlikely to show
any real sustained improvement until regional structural issues
are addressed and the broader global backdrop brightens.”  In  China , manufacturing slowed further in August, surveys
of purchasing managers showed on Sept. 1 and today, with one
gauge at the lowest level since March 2009. A manufacturing PMI
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was at
47.6, indicating the  fastest contraction  in more than three
years.  Markit will release its composite index based on a survey
of euro-area purchasing managers in the manufacturing and
services industries on Sept. 5. It said on Aug. 23 that the
 services gauge  dropped to 47.5 in August from 47.9.  The ECB, which in July cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a
record low of  0.75 percent , is working out details of a plan to
purchase government bonds of distressed nations along with
 Europe ’s rescue funds. So far, neither Italy nor  Spain , strained
by high borrowing costs, has asked for help from the funds.  The central bank, led by  Mario Draghi , will hold its next
meeting on Sept. 5-6 in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  