-- European Stocks Advance Amid China Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-03T16:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/europe-stock-futures-are-little-changed-bankia-may-move.html
European stocks  rose the most in a
month as an unexpected decline in Chinese manufacturing boosted
speculation the government will announce further stimulus.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
climbed 1 percent as copper gained.  Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR) 
surged 8 percent after agreeing to buy Lascelles deMercado &
Co., the Jamaican maker of Appleton rum. U.K. homebuilders
advanced as analysts recommended  Bovis Homes Group Plc. (BVS)   The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.8 percent to 268.47 at
the close of trading, the largest gain since Aug. 3. The
benchmark gauge has risen 15 percent from this year’s low on
June 4 amid speculation central banks will undertake further so-
called quantitative easing, or QE, to support the economy.  “We are waiting anxiously for the U.S. to see whether they
are going to do QE3, to see what the  European Central Bank  is
going to do and what China is going to do,” Nick Maroutsos, who
oversees about $2.9 billion as managing director and co-founder
of Sydney-based Kapstream Capital, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “’Tis the season for stimulus, in terms
of monetary policy as well as fiscal policy.”  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 35 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. markets were closed for the Labor
Day holiday.  FTSE, DAX  National benchmark indexes gained in all western European
markets, except for Greece and Iceland. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX) 
increased 0.8 percent. France’s CAC 40 rose 1.2 percent, while
Germany’s DAX climbed 0.6 percent.  A Chinese government survey released on Sept. 1. showed
factory output unexpectedly shrank for the first time in nine
months in August, fueling speculation policy makers will
announce more measures to drive growth. Separate data from the
 Australian Bureau of Statistics  today showed retail sales fell
in July by the most in almost two years.  In the euro area, an August  gauge of manufacturing  based on
a survey of purchasing managers was revised to 45.1 from the
reading of 45.3 estimated earlier, Markit Economics said today.
The index has held for 13 months below 50, indicating
contraction.  Euro-region nations are this week asking investors to stake
more than 20 billion euros ($25 billion) on second-guessing the
ECB, selling the most debt in two months before the central
bank’s meeting on Sept. 6.  Debt Auctions  Spain, France, Austria and Belgium return to the market
after a monthlong pause, with Germany also selling debt. The
auctions take place before the ECB’s meeting in Frankfurt, where
President  Mario Draghi  may reveal details of a new bond-buying
program.  “Yet more weak manufacturing data from the euro zone was
shrugged off, as investors look toward Thursday’s ECB meeting,
when Mario Draghi is expected to unveil something impressive to
stem the euro-zone crisis,” said Yusuf Heusen, a sales trader
at IG Index in London.  A gauge of mining companies was among the biggest gainers
on the benchmark Stoxx 600, climbing 1.3 percent, as base metals
advanced on the London Metal Exchange.  BHP Billiton  gained 1 percent to 1,855 pence.  Boliden AB (BOL) ,
Scandinavia’s only copper producer, rose 2.3 percent to 99.55
kronor and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  increased 2.9 percent to 610 pence.  Campari rallied 8 percent to 5.90 euros, the biggest gain
since October 2008. The Italian distiller said it will purchase
Lascelles deMercado in a deal worth $414.8 million to hasten its
push into overseas markets.  Homebuilders Rise  U.K. homebuilders advanced as Panmure Gordon & Co. upgraded
Bovis to buy from hold, citing “relative stability” in the
housing market over the summer.  “We believe this stability will continue into the
important autumn selling season,”  Mark Hughes , a London-based
analyst at Panmure Gordon, wrote in a note to clients.  Bovis climbed 4.1 percent to 492.6 pence,  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) 
increased 3.9 percent to 53.3 pence,  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) 
advanced 5.7 percent to 158.6 pence and  Persimmon Plc (PSN)  increased
5.2 percent to 734 pence.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which competes with Samsung Electronics Co. in
making smartphones that run Microsoft Corp.’s mobile operating
system, advanced 4.7 percent to 2.37 euros. Samsung fell in
Seoul as Apple Inc. sought a ban on U.S. sales of Galaxy
smartphones, deepening their global patent dispute.  ARM Holdings Plc, (ARM)  whose chip designs power Apple’s iPhone,
declined 2.5 percent to 559.5 pence after Deutsche Bank AG
lowered its recommendation to sell from hold, saying the company
is likely to face increased competition.  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  sank 21 percent to 14.99 euros, the
largest drop since at least October 1998. The company said
Fresenius SE decided against reviving its takeover bid, capping
more than four months of jockeying over the top spot in the
German hospital market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  