-- Mexico’s Calderon Calls Pena Nieto’s Bluff on Labor Legislation
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-09-03T18:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/mexico-s-calderon-calls-pena-nieto-s-bluff-on-labor-legislation.html
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon ’s
move to make Congress vote on an overhaul of the nation’s labor
code is calling the bluff of president-elect Enrique Pena Nieto,
who campaigned on a promise to pursue similar changes even after
his party blocked prior proposals.  In his final  state of the union  address today, Calderon
said he would push through legislation to make it easier to hire
and fire people in a country where one in three workers is in
the informal sector. The bill will be fast-tracked, giving the
two chambers 30 days each to approve it prior to Pena Nieto’s
inauguration on Dec. 1.  Calderon’s  National Action Party  has pushed for similar
changes during his six-year term, only to be blocked by Pena
Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI. Pena Nieto
then made a labor overhaul one of the three economic pillars of
his campaign, and Calderon’s move co-opts that agenda.  “The proposal will make it possible for millions of people
who don’t have jobs to have access to work, particularly women
and young people,” Calderon said. The bill will also increase
transparency of unions and guarantee “a secret and direct
vote” of its leaders, he said.  Calderon sent Congress his longer annual written message
two days ago along with two pieces of legislation; the labor
bill and a measure to increase local government transparency.  “This is a play by Calderon to say ‘we’ll approve it, but
under my government,’” Jose Antonio Crespo, a political
scientist at the  Mexico  City-based Center for Economic Research
and Teaching, said by phone. “He’s robbing some of the credit.
And if the PRI doesn’t want to approve it, it will be proof that
they are just out to gain credit themselves.”  Labor Laws  Factions within the PRI have rejected opening labor unions
to more transparency, making those clauses within the bill a
hard sell for the party, which holds the most seats in Congress,
Crespo said.  Pena Nieto’s press office didn’t have an immediate comment
when contacted by phone today.  Mexican law makes it difficult for companies to fire
workers and to hire them part-time or on a trial basis, which
leads firms to delay hiring decisions.  The country’s electoral tribunal on Aug. 31 named Pena
Nieto as president elect, rejecting a challenge by  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Democratic Revolution Party, the runner-up
in Mexico’s July 1 vote.  Economic Growth  Calderon has lobbied Congress to pass the labor changes,
overhaul the tax system to increase government revenue and open
the oil industry to more private investment, priorities shared
by Pena Nieto. Mexico’s gross domestic product has expanded an
average 1.9 percent a year under Calderon, about half the pace
of  Brazil , though Mexico’s growth rate has overtaken that of
 Latin America ’s largest economy in the past two years.  “I know well that growth is still insufficient,” Calderon
said in his speech today, “but that is clearly explained by the
lack of reforms, which have been denied to the country either
for ideological reasons or political calculations. I hope that
the new Congress can overcome these differences and give Mexico
the reforms that it urgently needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 