-- Fed Moves Toward Open-Ended Bond Purchases to Satisfy Bernanke
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/fed-moves-toward-open-ended-bond-purchases-to-satisfy-bernanke.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  says the  U.S. economy  is “far from satisfactory.” His
colleagues are moving to embrace policies that will stay in
place until he’s satisfied.  Four Fed presidents have come out in favor of an open-ended
strategy for bond buying, with three calling for the program to
begin now. Rather than specify a fixed amount of bonds to
purchase by a certain date, such a strategy would leave the Fed
able to announce a pace of purchases that it could adjust as the
economy gets closer to Bernanke’s goals.  “You would be able to react to the incoming data in an
incremental way and not be in a situation where you have to
either drop the bomb or do nothing,” St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  said in an interview last week during the Fed’s
annual monetary policy symposium in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  Bernanke used the forum to defend unorthodox policies such
as bond purchases and made the case for further action to reduce
an  unemployment rate  that he called a “grave concern.” Stocks
and Treasuries jumped after the speech as investors increased
bets the Fed will opt for further easing as soon as its next
meeting Sept. 12-13.  “It is important to achieve further progress, particularly
in the labor market,” Bernanke said last week. San Francisco
Fed President  John Williams , Chicago’s  Charles Evans  and
Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  have joined Bullard in endorsing open-
ended bond-buying to push down an  unemployment rate  stuck above
8 percent for 42 consecutive months.  Flow of Purchases  “That might take the form of announcing a flow of
purchases of securities per month” that would continue “for as
long as appropriate,” Williams said in an interview at Jackson
Hole. The Fed would then “adjust this program as time goes on,
either to increase it or decrease it, end it sooner or later,
depending on how economic conditions develop.”  “There has been more talk among members of the FOMC of an
open-ended program,”  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview at Jackson Hole. Such a
program would be more effective because it “would emphasize the
unlimited nature of the Fed’s balance sheet and that they’re
willing to do as much as necessary.”  The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-
Aug. 1 meeting showed that many policy makers said a new bond-
buying program should “be sufficiently flexible to allow
adjustments, as needed, in response to economic developments or
to changes in the committee’s assessment of the efficacy and
costs of the program.”  ‘Even Larger’  Williams said the purchases could consist of both
Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. He said the
appropriate program may need to wind up being “at least as
large as QE2 or arguably even larger again.”  The Fed bought a total of $2.3 trillion of securities from
2008 through June 2011. The first round of so-called
quantitative easing consisted of mortgage-backed securities,
federal agency debt and Treasuries, while the second round was
limited to $600 billion of Treasuries.  The Fed is also considering a strategy of emphasizing
economic conditions as it explains how long it’s likely to hold
its  target interest rate  near zero, as it has done since
December 2008. The FOMC has said since January that it expects
economic conditions to warrant keeping the rate “exceptionally
low” until at least late 2014.  A few participants at the FOMC’s most recent meeting
suggested “replacing the calendar date with guidance that was
linked more directly to the economic factors that the committee
would consider in deciding to raise its target for the federal
funds rate, or omit the forward guidance language entirely.”  Communications Strategy  Such a strategy came up for discussion in Jackson Hole,
when Columbia University Professor  Michael Woodford  presented a
paper in front of Bernanke and a group of about 120 central
bankers, academics and journalists. In it, he argued that the
Fed’s current communications strategy may be counterproductive.  Pledging to hold  interest rates  lower for longer could
“reflect pessimism about the speed of the economy’s recovery,”
Woodford wrote. “A more useful form of forward guidance, I
believe, would be one that emphasizes the target criterion that
will be used to determine when it is appropriate to raise the
federal funds rate target above its current level, rather than
estimates of the ‘lift-off’ date.”  The Chicago Fed’s Evans, who does not vote on monetary
policy this year, has favored making both bond purchases and the
benchmark interest rate contingent on a better labor-market
outlook.  ‘Clear Evidence’  The strategy for more bond-buying “could be open-ended
purchases, meaning that they would continue at a certain rate
until there was clear evidence of improvement in economic
conditions,” Evans said in an Aug. 27 speech in  Hong Kong . “To
me, one example of clear evidence would be a resumption of
relatively steady monthly declines in unemployment for two or
three quarters.”  Evans has also argued that the Fed should hold interest
rates near zero until the jobless rate falls below 7 percent, so
long as inflation does not breach 3 percent.  The unemployment rate probably held at 8.3 percent in
August, according to the median forecast of economists  surveyed 
by  Bloomberg News  ahead of Labor Department figures Sept. 7.
Payrolls may have grown by 125,000 following a gain of 163,000
in July.  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York, said the Fed may be unable to reach
consensus on such strategies. LaVorgna said his baseline
forecast doesn’t include more asset purchases in any form
because the economy isn’t at risk of deflation.  Unable to Agree  While it would “make more sense for the Fed to say we’re
not going to raise rates until we get a certain set of economic
conditions,” policy makers may be unable to agree on terms,
LaVorgna said. “The problem you have is very different
scenarios. Unemployment could come down more slowly while
inflation picks up more quickly or vice-versa.”  The debate has international resonance.  Adam Posen , whose
three-year term as a policy maker at the  Bank of England  ended
last week, said setting thresholds acknowledges economies are in
a special set of circumstances and gives the public something
they can understand and monitor.  He once studied a commitment from the  Bank of Japan  not to
raise interest rates before inflation rose above zero and found
it “seemed to have a meaningful impact on long rates.”  “Talking is good, but it’s got to be action-oriented
talking,” he said. “Better to say and do than to just say.”  Strong Commitments  Still, Deputy Bank of England Governor  Charles Bean  told
the conference that changes in the membership of policy-setting
committees undermine the ability to give strong commitments
about future decisions.  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in
 Jersey City , New Jersey, said the Fed’s statement at the
conclusion of next week’s meeting may take a step in better
describing what economic conditions would prompt the Fed to
begin raising interest rates.  The minutes suggested that the committee could signal it
would keep rates low “even as the recovery progressed,”
Crandall said.  “They are likely to have a very strong preference of
having a way to bolster that guidance without taking the brute
force solution of extending it even farther into a nebulous
future,” Crandall said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  