-- Murray Beats Raonic, Rain to Join Federer in U.S. Open Final 8
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-04T04:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/federer-advances-at-u-s-open-as-fish-withdraws-williams-wins.html
Andy Murray  advanced to his eighth
quarterfinal in a row at a major tennis tournament, completing a
straight set victory over Milos Raonic at the U.S. Open minutes
before rain started to fall in  New York .  Murray, the men’s No. 3 seed from Britain, took exactly two
hours to complete a 6-4, 6-4, 6-2 win over the 15th-seeded
Canadian last night at the National Tennis Center. Murray didn’t
face a break point in the match, which tournament organizers
moved to an earlier start time with the weather forecast calling
for patches of rain throughout the night.  “It was perfect timing to finish,” Murray said at a news
conference. “When we got told the match was getting moved a bit
earlier, it was tough knowing there could be showers and stops
that could disrupt the rhythm. I was glad that I was able to get
the match done before the rain came.”  Murray’s win put an early end to matches on the U.S. Labor
Day holiday. The previous day’s action stretched until 2:26 a.m.
yesterday as  John Isner  lost to Philipp Kohlschreiber in a five-
setter that matched the latest finish in U.S. Open history.  Five-time men’s champion  Roger Federer  and three-time
women’s champion  Serena Williams  had an easier time than Murray
in reaching the quarterfinals yesterday.  Federer moved into the final eight when American Mardy Fish
withdrew from the tournament for unspecified health reasons.
Fish, 30, was sidelined for more than two months this year while
being treated for an accelerated heartbeat.  Serena’s Shutout  Serena Williams, the women’s No. 4 seed, cruised to a 6-0,
6-0 victory against unseeded Andrea Hlavackova of the  Czech
Republic . It was the first shutout in a U.S. Open match since
 Maria Sharapova  won 6-0, 6-0 against American Beatrice Capra in
2010. Williams later returned to court and lost a doubles match
with older sister Venus. The Williams sisters were beaten 6-1,
6-4 by Russian pair  Maria Kirilenko  and  Nadia Petrova .  Fish said he was following medical advice in pulling out of
the year’s final major, a withdrawal that leaves  Andy Roddick  as
the only remaining American in the men’s singles.  The 20th-seeded Roddick, who has said he’ll retire after
the tournament, returns to action today in Arthur Ashe Stadium
against No. 7 seed Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina, the 2009
champion. Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic, the No. 2
seed from  Serbia , faces No. 18 Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland
for a spot in the quarterfinals.  In today’s other men’s fourth-round matches in New York,
No. 4  David Ferrer  of Spain meets No. 13 Richard Gasquet of
 France , and No. 8 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia plays
Kohlschreiber, the 19th seed from Germany.  Azarenka-Stosur  Women’s No. 1 seed Victoria Azarenka of  Belarus  faces
defending champion Samantha Stosur of Australia, the No. 7 seed,
for a semifinal spot in today’s first singles match. Sharapova,
the 2006 champion and No. 3 seed, plays No. 11  Marion Bartoli  of
France in today’s other women’s quarterfinal.  Murray, 25, said he played his best match of the tournament
in advancing to a quarterfinal against No. 12 Marin Cilic of
Croatia, a 7-5, 6-4, 6-0 winner yesterday against unseeded
Martin Klizan of Slovakia. Murray, who won the Olympic gold
medal last month in London, has won six of their seven  career
meetings , with the loss coming at the 2009 U.S. Open.  “Hopefully I’ll get a good rest, get pumped and ready for
the quarterfinals because you’re only a few sets away from
competing for a Grand Slam,” Murray said.  34 Straight  While Murray has reached the final eight of all four majors
each of the past two years, Switzerland’s Federer, 31, has now
made at least the quarterfinals in 34 straight Grand Slams.  Federer will next meet 26-year-old Tomas Berdych, the sixth
seed from the Czech Republic, who won 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, 6-1
yesterday against No. 11 Nicolas Almagro of Spain. Berdych is in
the U.S. Open quarterfinals for the first time in 10 tries.  Women’s No. 2 seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland was upset
6-1, 6-4 by 20th-seeded Roberta Vinci of Italy. Vinci’s
quarterfinal will be against her doubles partner  Sara Errani ,
the 10th seed, who won her fourth-round match 7-6 (7-5), 6-3
against Angelique Kerber, the No. 6 seed from Germany.  The winner of the Vinci-Errani match will become the first
Italian woman to reach the semifinals of the U.S. Open since
1930, when Baroness Maude Giacomo Levi made the final four.
Levi, who grew up in Chicago as Maude Rosenbaum, competed for
Italy after marrying Baron Giacomo Giorgio Levi.  Ana Ivanovic advanced to the quarterfinals for the first
time in her career with a straight set win against Tsvetana Pironkova of  Bulgaria . Ivanovic, the women’s 12th seed from
Serbia, next faces Serena Williams, against whom she’s 0-3,
including a straight-set loss at last year’s  U.S. Open .  “I honestly don’t feel like I started out strong in the
tournament,” said Williams, who’s lost a total of 12 games in
four matches. “I’m getting back to more my game, which is good.
I like to play better during the second week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  