-- France Seeks to Save Mortgage Bank Without Spending Cash
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-09-03T16:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/france-seeks-to-save-credit-immobilier-without-spending-money.html
The French government, which rescued
 Dexia (DEXB)  SA, now faces the challenge of saving real estate lender
Credit Immobilier de  France  without spending taxpayers’ money.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said yesterday on radio
station France Inter that a guarantee the state agreed to
provide CIF won’t hurt the government’s budget. The state has so
far been unsuccessful in finding a buyer for CIF, a Paris-based
mortgage bank owned by 56 local cooperative lenders.  “The state has taken its responsibilities in providing a
guarantee, but as this bank has its own capital, the money of
taxpayers won’t be called upon,” Ayrault, 62, said in the
interview on France Inter.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said in a statement on
Sept. 1 that the government would provide a guarantee for CIF.
The backing is worth 20 billion euros ($26 billion),  Les Echos 
reported today, without saying where it got the information. The
rescue follows the state bailout of Franco-Belgian lender Dexia,
which needed aid in 2008 and in 2011.  Bonds of CIF, which doesn’t have traded stock, jumped
today. The 3.75 percent notes due March 2014 rose 2.85 cents on
the euro to 97.9 cents, the most since June, Bloomberg generic
prices show. The yield fell 2.09 percentage points to 5.22
percent from 7.31 percent, the prices show.  Stop-Gap Measure  “Bond buyers always like a guarantee,” said  John Raymond ,
an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London . “The real news was
back in May, when it was downgraded and the government started
looking for someone to take it over. I assume they’re still
looking for a longer-term solution, and this guarantee is a
stop-gap.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut the lender’s standalone
financial strength rating on May 17 to E/caa1, from C/a3, saying
the lender’s business model was “currently unviable.” That
came after regulators on May 8 suspended trading in the
company’s debt securities, sending prices plunging.  The 3.75 percent notes fell 5.22 cents to 96.04 from 101.26
cents on May 9, Bloomberg generic prices show.  The standalone financial strength rating is a measure that
attempts to filter out the effects a government backing.  Moody’s downgraded its long-term debt ratings on CIF on
Aug. 28 to Baa1 from A1, saying the bank no longer had access to
 capital markets , and said it expected French authorities would
“orchestrate an orderly resolution.” The rating is nine levels
higher than it would be without government support.  The company’s CIF Euromortgage funding unit has a 1.75
billion-euro covered bond maturing on Oct. 11, Bloomberg data
show. The bond was little changed at 100.36 cents.  Market Funding  CIF has a market share of about 4 percent in the French
housing loan market, according to a January 2012  presentation .
The same slideshow claimed a 14.7 percent core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a key measure of financial strength, and “efficient
funding on wholesale markets.” The bank said in January it had
33 billion euros of real estate loans.  CIF confirmed that it requested a guarantee from the French
government, according to a  statement  on its website. CIF and all
its subsidiaries have about 19 billion euros of bonds maturing
by the end of 2016, including a peak of 5.3 billion euros in
2014, according to Bloomberg data. CCCIF, one of its two
refinancing units, got 3.1 billion euros in European Central
Bank 1 percent three-year loans in February, according to its
website.  While not a systemic bank, CIF had about 7.5 billion euros
of interbank debt at the end of 2011, according to its website.  “The bank’s business model relies on financing that comes
almost exclusively from the market,” Moscovici, 54, said in the
statement on CIF. “This model, made fragile by the crisis, is
put further into doubt by the new norms of Basel III.”  Rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
known as Basel III, will toughen capital standards for banks
starting next year.  La Banque Postale, the banking unit of the French post
office, said in June that it was examining CIF.  Fitch Ratings 
said in a statement Aug. 31 that an acquisition of CIF by La
Banque Postale would be “broadly neutral” to the financial
strength of the postal bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  