-- Gallup Polls Show No Sign of Republican Bounce After Convention
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-09-03T18:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/gallup-polls-show-no-sign-of-republican-bounce-after-convention.html
A series of Gallup polls finds no
sign yet that the  Republican National Convention  provided a
bounce in support for presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .  The contest between President  Barack Obama  and Romney
remained stuck in the days following the convention, according
to Gallup daily tracking polls running through Sept. 1.  Party nominees usually receive a bounce in support after
national political conventions and the extended case for their
campaigns made in the televised proceedings.  Romney’s speech at his party’s convention also received low
marks from the public. Only 38 percent rated his speech good or
excellent, the lowest favorable response to any of the eight
acceptance speeches that Gallup has tested since Republican  Bob Dole  was nominated in 1996, according to a poll that the
research group released this morning.  Fewer Americans than in previous years said the convention
overall made them more likely to support Republican. The
convention had a “net impact” of 2 percentage points, which
Gallup calculates by subtracting those who say the proceedings
made them more likely to vote for the party nominee versus those
who said it made them less likely to do so.  The “net impact” for the Republican convention, held last
week in Tampa,  Florida , was the lowest for any convention of
either party on a question Gallup has asked since 1988.  The combined poll results back “the tentative conclusion
that the Republican convention did not change the race,”  Frank Newport , Gallup’s editor-in-chief, wrote in a blog post.  Unchanged Race  Gallup’s Sept. 1 daily tracking poll shows the presidential
race unchanged at 48 percent for Obama to 47 percent for Romney,
the same place it has stood since Aug. 28. Before Aug. 28,
Romney had been 1 percentage point ahead.  Gallup’s tracking polls are based on an average of seven
days of polling data.  Still, an online poll Ipsos conducted for Reuters showed
movement toward Romney following the Republican convention. The
Ipsos poll, released Sept. 2, showed the race tied at 45 percent
each versus a 4 percentage point advantage for Obama a week
earlier.  A  Charlotte  Observer/Elon University poll conducted during
the Republican convention also shows Romney ahead in  North
Carolina , leading Obama 47 percent to 43 percent. Democrats
begin their convention in the state tomorrow. Obama carried
North Carolina in the 2008 election.  The Republican convention in Tampa captured less public
attention than most recent predecessors. Fifty-one percent of
Americans said they watched “a great deal” or “some” of the
convention, the second-lowest portion for eight party
conventions Gallup has tested since 1996.  The Gallup poll on impressions of the convention was taken
Aug. 31 through Sept. 1 and has a margin of plus or minus 4
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 