-- Gaza’s Contaminated Water Worsens Health for Palestinians
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-09-03T16:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/gaza-s-contaminated-water-worsens-health-for-palestinians.html
The aquifer that provides water to
the  Gaza Strip  may become unusable within four years and
irreversibly damaged by 2020 unless pumping stops and major
infrastructure upgrades are made, the  United Nations  said.  “Today, 90 percent of the water from the aquifer isn’t
safe for drinking without treatment,” the UN report said about
the seaside enclave between  Egypt  and Israel where 1.6 million
people live amid a blockade restricting the movement of goods.  Availability of clean water is “limited for most Gazans”
and if desalination and wastewater treatment investments aren’t
stepped up, the UN expects Gaza’s power, living and sanitation
conditions to worsen, it said in an Aug. 27 report.  While Gaza water has shown high saline levels for decades,
it’s grown more contaminated the past five years due to
overpumping of part of the coastal aquifer that runs beneath
Gaza. Three times more water is extracted from the aquifer each
year than it recharges, the Palestinian Water Authority said.  Sharing scarce water resources has been one of the
knottiest issues between Israelis and Palestinians over 19 years
of peace talks.  At the Shati refugee camp in Gaza, the water from Khalil
Awad’s kitchen sink is contaminated with encroaching seawater
and traces of sewage that leak into the aquifer.  “There’s no healthy water in all of Shati and I can’t
afford to buy bottled water for all my children,” Awad, 55,
said last month, pointing to his rusty faucet. “Everyone knows
drinking this water makes you sick.”  Trucks circulate daily in Gaza offering desalinated water
for one-fifth the 4 shekels ($1) a cubic meter that it costs
when bought from state-owned Mekorot Water Authority, which
supplies 80 percent of Israel’s drinking water.  Water Contamination  “Microbiological water contamination, mainly from sewage
seeping into the aquifer, is pervasive and responsible for high
incidents of diarrhea and other water-associated diseases in
Gaza’s children under five in particular,” the charity group
Oxfam said in a July report.  Israel sells the  Palestinian Authority  5 million cubic
meters of water a year for Gaza, ruled by the Islamic group
Hamas since 2007. Negotiations to double that have bogged down
amid the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Efforts to build desalination plants that create potable
water from the sea are slowed by Israeli and Egyptian blockades,
imposed after Hamas ousted forces loyal to the Palestinian
Authority. Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., European Union and Israel.  One plant is proposed, and a smaller desalination plant in
Gaza has been built. Blocking agreements are arguments over
“price, quality and quantity,” said Monther Shublaq, director
of Gaza’s water utility.  ‘Numerous Obstacles’  While the blockade makes exceptions for projects run by UN
and aid groups, Oxfam said it encountered “numerous obstacles”
getting raw material and equipment through Israeli crossings
while building a newly opened water treatment plant for brackish
water in the Gaza town of Rafah.  Israel  says it restricts construction material imports
because they can be used to build rockets or bombs.  Gaza’s Hamas-run health ministry blames Israel for blocking
equipment from being brought in to repair water and sewage
networks, pushing the Gaza deeper into poverty.  “Israel is responsible because it keeps a siege imposed on
Gaza and controls most of our water resources,” said Zeyad
Nonat, director of the health ministry’s water and sewage
department.  Guy Inbar, a spokesman for Israel’s  military coordination
office for Gaza , said equipment to fix water works was allowed
into Gaza though he acknowledged delays. Those were largely due
to difficulties dealing with the Palestinian Authority in Gaza,
he said. “We’re trying to help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  