-- Germany’s Talanx Plans to Raise 700 Million Euros in IPO
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-09-03T17:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/germany-s-talanx-plans-to-raise-700-million-euros-in-ipo.html
Talanx AG,  Germany ’s third-biggest
insurer, plans an initial public offering of shares for about
700 million euros ($882 million) in what would be  Europe ’s
biggest IPO since February.  The insurer is scheduled to price the IPO by the end of
September and will seek a listing in Frankfurt and Hanover, the
location of its headquarters, according to terms for the sale
obtained by Bloomberg. All stock being sold will be primary
shares, according to the document.  “The market environment has improved and Talanx is very
well prepared,” Chief Executive Officer Herbert Haas said in a
 statement  on its website today. “If the conditions remain
stable we plan to seek a stock exchange listing this autumn.”  Proceeds of the sale will be used to fund international
expansion and strengthen the company’s capital base, the company
said.  Talanx is owned by German mutual insurer HDI
Haftpflichtverband der Deutschen Industrie VaG. It has been
considering a share sale for more than a decade to finance
international growth for its retail business and to expand
industrial insurance. The company postponed a plan to sell
shares earlier this year amid market volatility resulting from
the European sovereign debt crisis.  As part of the IPO, Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. will
convert a 300 million-euro ($378 million) convertible bond it
held since Nov. 2010 into Talanx shares at the offered price,
the insurer said.  Growth  To speed up growth, Talanx acquired  Poland ’s Towarzystwo
Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA earlier this year from KBC
Group NV for 770 million euros, beating rivals in eastern
Europe’s largest insurance market. When the purchase is
completed in the second half of 2012, Meiji Yasuda will take
over 30 percent of Warta, Poland’s second-largest insurer.  The insurer, which owns a 50.2 percent stake in Hannover
Re, the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, said on Aug. 14 that
second-quarter net income rose 4 percent to 143 million euros.  HDI, which is based in Hanover and owned by its insurance
customers, has said it will keep a majority stake should Talanx
sell shares to the public. Talanx’s IPO is being managed by
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as
well as Rothschild, which acts as an adviser.  So far, the 110 biggest publicly listed companies in
Germany included three insurance companies -- Allianz, Europe’s
biggest insurer,  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, and
 Hannover Re . Talanx’s IPO would be the first big share sale by
an insurer in Germany since Hannover Re ’s initial public
offering in 1994.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  