-- German Stocks Advance; Investors Await Stimulus Measures
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-03T15:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/german-stocks-advance-investors-await-stimulus-measures.html
German stocks  advanced amid investor
speculation of further central bank stimulus measures to boost
the global economy as a report in  China  added to signs of an
economic slowdown.  Fresenius SE rose 2.4 percent after it decided against
reviving a bid for  Rhoen-Klinikum AG. (RHK)   SAP AG (SAP)  added 1.2 percent.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  dropped 2.1 percent after saying the coming months
will be more difficult.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.6 percent to 7,014.83 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The measure has rallied 18 percent from
this year’s low on June 5 as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said he would do everything possible to preserve
the euro. The broader HDAX Index also added 0.6 percent today.  “China data weaker yet again boosts anticipation that we
will see more action from Beijing to boost the economy,” said
Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in  London .
“People are still broadly positive about the ECB meeting this
week and believe Draghi will look to take measures to ease the
crisis.”  The ECB holds its regular policy meeting on Sept. 6, where
Draghi may also unveil details of a new bond-purchase program.  A Chinese government survey released on Sept. 1. showed
factory output unexpectedly shrank for the first time in nine
months in August while separate data from the  Australian Bureau
of Statistics  today showed retail sales fell in July by the most
in almost two years.  Euro-area  manufacturing  contracted more than initially
estimated in August, suggesting the economy may struggle to
 avoid  a recession in the third quarter.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area rose to
45.1 last month from 44 in July, London-based Markit Economics
said today. It had previously reported a reading of 45.3 for
August, with a level below 50 indicating a contraction.  Schaeuble Warning  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned against
placing too much faith in the ECB’s bond-buying plans as
pressure grows on Spain and Italy to decide whether to seek
assistance to lower borrowing costs.  Whatever proposals Draghi announces on Sept. 6 must fall
within the Frankfurt-based central bank’s mandate, Schaeuble
said in an interview today on Deutschlandfunk radio. Germany
won’t accept ECB financing of state budgets, he said.  “We have to be very careful that we don’t raise false
expectations,” Schaeuble told the broadcaster in Berlin. “It
has to remain very clear, state debt can’t be financed through
monetary policy. Therefore we can’t have a decision -- we would
think it very wrong -- that’s not covered by the ECB mandate.”  Fresenius Gains  Fresenius added 2.4 percent to 86.87 euros after  Germany ’s
biggest operator of private hospitals decided against reviving
its bid for its German competitor, capping more than four months
of jockeying over the top spot in Germany’s hospital market.  Fresenius informed Rhoen-Klinikum that it doesn’t intend to
submit a renewed offer “for the time being,” Bad Neustadt an
der Saale-based Rhoen-Klinikum said in a statement to the stock
exchange today. Rhoen-Klinikum plunged 21 percent to 14.99
euros, its biggest drop since at least 1998.  SAP, the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, advanced 1.2 percent to 53.03 euros.  BASF SE, the world’s biggest chemical maker, climbed 1
percent to 62.44 euros. A gauge of companies in the chemical
sector was among the best performers of the 19 industry groups
on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  gained 2 percent to 75 euros as Morgan Stanley
reiterated an overweight rating on the stock.  Solarworld AG, the world’s fourth-largest solar-panel
maker, jumped 7.4 percent to 1.17 euros.  Volkswagen fell 2.1 percent to 137.50 euros. Europe’s
largest carmaker said a report in Automobilwoche saying it may
cut production by about 10 percent this fall was “factually not
correct” and the carmaker was “on track.” Still, a spokesman
said the coming months will be more difficult.  According to the report, which didn’t say where it got the
information, Volkswagen cited a possible economic slowdown as a
reason for the cut-back.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker, slipped 1.7 percent to 5.40 euros after the
stock was cut to reduce from neutral by Nomura Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  