-- Spain, Italy Notes Rise on ECB Bond-Plan Bets; French Debt Falls
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-09-03T15:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/german-yields-within-4-basis-points-of-1-month-low-before-pmi.html
Spanish and Italian notes rose amid
speculation European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will
unveil a bond-purchase program to cap borrowing costs after
policy makers meet this week.  German two-year note yields stayed below zero as a report
showed euro-area manufacturing contracted more than economists
predicted in August. French 10-year bonds fell for a sixth day
as the country sold bills, and Belgian securities slipped amid a
debt offering today.  Spain , whose Catalonia region had its
 credit rating  cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  last week, is
scheduled to auction notes on Sept. 6.  “We are strong believers that the euro region will take
the right measures,” Stefan Keitel, global chief investment
officer at Credit Suisse Asset Management Ltd. in Zurich, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with
 Maryam Nemazee . “Given the levels that the bonds of Spain and
 Italy  still are, this can be a short-to-medium term buying
opportunity.”  Spain’s two-year note yield decreased 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 3.51 percent at 4:42 p.m. London time.
The 4.75 percent security due July 2014 advanced 0.265, or 2.65
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,260) face amount, to 102.23. Spanish
10-year yields were little changed at 6.86 percent. Italy’s two-
year rate dropped 17 basis points to 2.63 percent.  The extra yield, or  spread , that investors get for holding
Spain’s 10-year bonds instead of two-year notes widened as much
as 16 basis points to 340 basis points, the most since Aug. 6.
The equivalent Italian spread rose 10 basis points to 317.  Spanish  government bonds  have returned 2.4 percent since
July 26, when Draghi said he would do whatever is needed to
safeguard the euro, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Italy’s rose 3 percent and  Germany ’s gained 0.2 percent.  Bond Purchases  Draghi said on Aug. 2 that the ECB is working on a bond-
purchase program to lower yields, and would focus on shorter-
term maturities. The next announcement on  interest rates  from
the central bank is scheduled for Sept. 6.  The ECB knows what the problems are in the euro region and
will act accordingly, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said today in an interview on radio Onda Cero in  Madrid .  Demand for German bonds, perceived to be among the safest
securities in the region, has kept two-year note yields below
zero as reports showed the economic slowdown is worsening and as
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann opposed plans for ECB bond
purchases.  The German two-year yield was little changed at minus 0.04
percent today, after dropping on Aug. 2 to minus 0.097 percent.
A negative yield means investors who hold the security until it
matures will receive less than they paid to buy it. The 10-year
bund rate added four basis points to 1.38 percent.  Contracting Manufacturing  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area was
45.1 last month, from 44 in July, London-based Markit Economics
said today. It previously reported a reading of 45.3 for August.
A level below 50 indicates a contraction.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency bloc fell
0.2 percent in the second quarter compared with the first three
months, when it stagnated, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said on Aug. 14. For 2012 as a whole, the
economy will shrink 0.4 percent, underperforming all the Group
of 10 nations, according to economists’ predictions compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Bund yields will stay at low levels,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “Every time they have tried to sell off and the
yields have moved higher, you have seen buyers because of the
bad economic news.”  French Guarantee  French 10-year bond yields climbed five basis points to
2.20 percent, after reaching 2.21 percent, the highest since
July 30. French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said yesterday
on radio station  France  Inter that a guarantee the state agreed
to provide to mortgage bank Credit Immobilier de France won’t
hurt the government’s budget.  The nation sold 4 billion euros of three-month bills at an
average yield of minus 0.014 percent. It also auctioned
securities maturing in 168 and 350 days.  Belgium  sold 3.195 billion euros of bonds with maturities
ranging from seven to 29 years, near its maximum target for the
auction, as borrowing costs dropped to euro-era lows. The yield
on the nation’s 10-year securities rose six basis points to 2.62
percent.  Volatility on Belgian government debt was the highest in
the euro area today, followed by the Netherlands, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities, and credit default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  