-- If You Think Obama’s First Term Was Bad, Imagine a Second
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-09-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/if-you-think-obama-s-first-term-was-bad-imagine-a-second.html
Ben Feller of the  Associated
Press  asked President  Barack Obama  a good question
recently. If Obama wins re-election, Feller said,
Republicans are still likely to have a majority in the
House. “How is that any different from what we have now?
Why wouldn’t a voter look at that and say that’s a recipe
for stalemate? How would you do anything differently?”  Obama responded , “Well, there are a couple things that
I think would change. No. 1, the American people will have
voted. They will have cast a decisive view on how we should
move the country forward, and I would hope that the
Republican Party, after a fulsome debate, would say to
itself, we need to listen to the American people.”  In  another recent interview , Obama likened the
Republican opposition to him to a “blister” that will be
“popped” by the election (an image for which I will not
soon forgive him).  If the president believes anything like this would
happen in his second term, he is kidding himself. If Obama
wins re-election, the  Republican Party  will react by moving
right, not left. It will become less likely to compromise
with Obama, not more.  If Obama wins, he will almost certainly win with a
smaller majority of the vote than he got in 2008, in
defiance of the usual trend: Incumbents who win re-election
usually do better the second time around. Republicans will
almost certainly add to their ranks in the Senate, and may
take a majority. No way would they see this set of election
results as a “decisive” statement of support for Obama’s
views.  No Mandate  The kind of campaign Obama is running militates
against his credibly claiming a mandate after getting re-
elected. He is, for the most part, banking on getting
reelected by tearing down Romney rather than attracting
voters with his own second-term agenda. Sure, an Obama
victory would reasonably be interpreted as a sign that the
public isn’t wild about restructuring Medicare the way
Republicans want. But Republicans wouldn’t make any serious
effort to act on that idea without an ally in the White
House anyway. Obama will have fulfilled most of his mandate
-- not to “end Medicare as we know it,” not to let a job-
outsourcer become president -- the minute he wins. He won’t
get extra leverage on live legislative issues before the
Congress, because his campaign isn’t even asking the public
for it.  Republicans, especially at the grassroots level, would
react to Obama’s re-election by assuming that Romney failed
because he was too moderate. That’s a very widespread view
among Republicans about why Senator  John McCain  lost in
2008. During the primaries, many of Romney’s opponents
argued that he would lose because he would fail to energize
conservatives. This interpretation of 2008 is  probably
wrong , and it will probably be the wrong explanation for a
Romney defeat, if it happens. It will nonetheless be an
appealing theory for conservatives.  In the same AP interview, Obama suggested that
Republicans would feel pressure “to cooperate on a balanced
package” on the budget: that is, one with tax increases.
Republicans famously failed to react to their drubbing in
2008 -- after which, let’s recall, Time magazine was
running cover stories on their impending extinction -- by
softening their line on anything. Why would they react that
way after an election that goes better for them? Especially
when they will be  looking forward to the gains  that the
party out of the White House typically makes in midterm
elections.  More Gridlock  The Republicans aren’t going to change. Judging from
the interview, neither will the president. He said that
after the election he would tell Republicans “you no longer
need to be focused on trying to beat me; what you need to
be focused on and what you should have been focused on from
the start is how do we advance the American economy.” He
would reiterate that he has always been open to compromise.
And he would “look at how we can work around Congress,” if
needed.  In other words, after winning he will lecture
Republicans about how their positions are insincere and
adopted purely for political reasons; he will insist that
his existing positions are already a compromise with them;
and he will try to govern unilaterally. These tactics seem
unlikely to produce the desired results. Obama has, after
all, adopted all of them, and they haven’t worked.  If the public renders a split verdict -- returning
Obama to the presidency and giving Republicans more power
in Congress -- both parties will insist that it’s the other
that needs to “listen to the American people.” The choice
before those people is looking more and more like one
between Romney and a unified Republican government, or
Obama and four more years that look a lot like the last
two.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Democrats’ hard task 
and on addressing  West Nile virus and dengue fever in the
U.S. ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on confronting  potential genocides ;
William Pesek on this weekend’s  Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Conference ; Cass R. Sunstein on how  voters can
escape from their political cocoons ; John H. Cochrane on
 Keynesian assumptions  at the  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  