-- Indonesia’s Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens on Food Costs
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-09-03T06:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/indonesia-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-after-fasting-month.html
Indonesia’s inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in August on rising food costs, limiting scope for
the central bank to cut  interest rates  even as exports slumped
for a fourth month.  Consumer prices  rose 4.58 percent from a year earlier,
after climbing 4.56 percent in July, the statistics bureau said
in Jakarta today. The  median forecast  of 27 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 4.41 percent gain.  Bank Indonesia has refrained from adding to a February rate
cut to try to support the rupiah, which is down more than 5
percent against the dollar in 2012 as exports slide and  Europe ’s
debt crisis saps demand for emerging-market assets. The central
bank is also seeking to narrow a current-account deficit that
analysts have said threatens to hurt economic stability.  “With domestic demand in  Indonesia  robust, inflationary
pressures still lie to the upside,” said Lim Su Sian, an
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore . Bank Indonesia may
“continue to gradually tighten monetary conditions at the
fringes” via the overnight deposit rate and instruments such as
the reserve requirement ratio, she said.  The rupiah advanced the most in a week after the report,
strengthening 0.1 percent to 9,569 per dollar as of 12:15 p.m.
in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It has dropped for seven months, matching the longest
losing streak since 1998, and is the worst performer this year
among the 11 most traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Shipments Decline  Exports dropped 7.3 percent in July from a year earlier,
after a 16 percent decline in June, the statistics bureau said
today. The  trade gap  was $177 million in July, compared with a
revised $1.29 billion shortfall the month before. Indonesia’s
trade deficit is passed its worst, Satwiko Darmesto, an official
at the statistics bureau told reporters today.  “We expect the  trade balance  will remain in deficit over
the coming months as soft global demand weighs on export
receipts, while the strong surge in investment boosts the demand
for capital imports, keeping the import bill elevated,” said
 Fred Gibson , an associate economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney.  Economic growth unexpectedly quickened last quarter as
rising investments countered declining exports. Investments
accounted for 32.9 percent of  gross domestic product  in the
three months through June, the highest share since the Asian
financial crisis.  Output Gains  The country’s purchasing manager’s index rose to 51.6 in
August from 51.4 the previous month, according to a report by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today.  Consumer prices rose 0.95 percent last month from July as
the world’s most populous Muslim nation celebrated the end of
the fasting month, today’s report showed. The core inflation
rate was 4.16 percent, compared with a 4.28 percent pace in July.  Indonesia’s inflation rate will probably average 4.5
percent in 2012 and 5.1 percent next year, according to the
median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank said last month that the  benchmark rate  at a
record-low 5.75 percent is still consistent with its inflation
target of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2012 and 2013.  The current-account deficit was $6.9 billion in the three
months through June, from a $3.2 billion shortfall the previous
quarter,  Bank Indonesia  said last month. The overall balance of
payments deficit was $2.8 billion in the second quarter, it said.
Bank Indonesia expects the current-account gap to narrow to 2
percent of GDP in the second half and the balance of payments to
return to surplus in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  