-- Internet Gold, B Com Jump on Bets Bezeq Is Cheap: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-09-03T11:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/internet-gold-b-com-jump-on-bets-bezeq-is-cheap-tel-aviv-mover.html
Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD)   and
 B Communications Ltd. (BCOM) , which both hold interests in  Bezeq
Israeli Telecommunication Corp (BEZQ) , advanced in Tel Aviv on bets
shares in the fixed-line provider are cheap.  Internet Gold, which owns a stake in Bezeq via B
Communications, rose 3.9 percent to 9.22 shekels, the highest
since Aug. 19, at 12:50 p.m. in Tel Aviv. B Communications
advanced 7.1 percent, the most since Aug. 7, to 12 shekels.
Bezeq declined 0.8 percent to 4.554 shekels, trimming the gain
since releasing second-quarter earnings on Aug. 2 to 12 percent.  French entrepreneur Patrick Drahi’s Cool Holding Ltd. on
Aug. 26 offered to buy the remaining shares in competitor  Hot
Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  at a premium and said it intends
to make the company closely held. Bezeq’s shares are trading at
6.3 times estimated earnings compared with 10.6 times for the
 TA-25 index  and 13.5 times for the  MSCI World/Telecommunication
Services Index. (MXWO0TC)   “Investors think that if Drahi is taking Hot private it
means the company is cheap, which may mean that Bezeq is also
cheap,” Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah
Investment House Ltd., in  Ramat Gan ,  Israel , said today by
phone. “Bezeq’s second-quarter numbers were somewhat better
than expected.”  Shares of Bezeq, whose second-quarter profit dropped 29
percent, have declined 33 percent this year after the government
moved to increase competition in the wireless, fixed-line and
television markets, in which the company is active.  The government is seeking to introduce a “wholesale”
fixed-line market and a fibre-to-the-home (FTTH) network, which
would be set up by Israel Electric and a company to be selected,
to compete with existing fixed-line operators. On July 15 a
government panel postponed the deadline for submissions to
choose an investor and controlling shareholder in the FTTH
network.  “This is a make-or-break period for Bezeq,” said Alper.
“If no investor is found for the FTTH network project, Bezeq
will soar above 5 shekels. If an investor is found, it will be a
whole new ballgame for Bezeq.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  