-- Iraq Unity at Risk Because of Maliki Leadership, Allawi Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-09-03T14:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/iraq-unity-at-risk-because-of-maliki-leadership-allawi-says-1-.html
Iraq ’s former Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi , a main opposition leader, said the country’s unity is at
risk because of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s
“individualistic” leadership.  The self-governing Kurdish region, which is locked in a
dispute over oil revenue with the Maliki government, and other
provinces are in “an almost dysfunctional state” with high
unemployment and inflation, security problems, sectarian
policies and “a frightening degree of corruption,” Allawi said
in an e-mailed response to questions. “I expect the problems
and the crisis will further escalate in the coming weeks.”  Violence and political clashes in Iraq have increased since
December when the U.S. pulled out the last of the troops it had
deployed since the 2003 invasion that ousted  Saddam Hussein .
Allawi’s Sunni Muslim-backed al-Iraqiya coalition boycotted
parliament and Cabinet sessions for several weeks earlier this
year, demanding that the Shiite premier share more powers.  Investors have been discouraged by Iraq’s failure to vote
on an energy law, a setback to the government’s efforts to
attract money and expertise to develop the world’s fifth-largest
crude oil reserves after years of conflict and sanctions.
Iraq is one of 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  Allawi, who is also a Shiite, accused the government of
blocking legislation that the country needs to regulate the oil
and gas industry and determine how revenue should be shared.  No Bids  The Oil Ministry in  Baghdad  didn’t get any bids for most of
the blocks in its latest energy auction, amid criticism of some
of the contract terms.  Iraq’s Kurds, who historically have resisted control by
Arab-dominated central governments, are charting a course to
independently develop and export oil reserves that the Kurdistan
Regional Government estimates at 45 billion barrels -- larger
than BP’s estimate for the U.S. or  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s biggest
producer.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Total SA (FP)  are flouting
warnings by the government against seeking separate deals with
the Kurds, who have frequently clashed with Maliki’s government
over who controls the northern oil and gas reserves.  Iraq ranked among the 10 least attractive out of 147
destinations for oil and gas investment, trailing Cambodia, Chad
and Yemen, according to an annual survey by the  Vancouver ,
Canada-based Fraser Institute released in June. The nation’s
public sector also ranked among the world’s 10 most corrupt,
behind Haiti and Venezuela, a Transparency International survey
showed last year.  Maliki, who has been prime minister since 2006, is
currently in his second term and has also held the ministries of
the interior, defense and national security. The premier denies
allegations that he is accumulating powers and says he is acting
in line with Iraq’s constitution.  Allawi said the prime minister’s term should be limited to
two mandates.  “We did fight dictatorship for 30 years, myself and
others, and we are not going to let go of Iraq or allow it to go
down the drain and to be dismembered,” Allawi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  