-- Liverpool Owner Henry Writes to Fans to Explain Transfer Failure
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-03T11:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/liverpool-owner-henry-writes-to-fans-to-explain-transfer-failure.html
Liverpool principal owner John W. Henry today moved to reassure supporters of the 18-time English
soccer champion following its worst start to a season for 50
years and to explain its failure in the transfer market.  Liverpool lost 2-0 at home to Arsenal in the Premier League
yesterday, leaving it with just one point from its opening three
games. The defeat came two days after the club was left with
only two senior strikers. Andy Carroll, who Liverpool signed as
the most expensive British player, left to join West Ham on loan
and the Reds failed to sign a replacement before the trade
window shut.  “I am as disappointed as anyone connected with Liverpool
Football Club that we were unable to add further to our strike
force in this summer transfer window,” Henry, whose Fenway
Sports Group also owns baseball’s  Boston Red Sox , said in open
letter to supporters published on the team’s website.  “That was not through any lack of desire or effort on the
part of all of those involved,” he said. “They pushed hard in
the final days of the transfer window on a number of forward
targets and it is unfortunate that on this occasion we were
unable to conclude acceptable deals to bring those targets in.”  Liverpool supporters have started to express concern about
FSG, which was handed control by the club’s lenders when a
previous U.S. ownership group failed to meet deadlines to repay
debt. The Reds replaced manager  Kenny Dalglish  with  Brendan Rodgers  in June after finishing 8th in the league. The owners
said at the time the former Swansea coach would be backed in the
transfer market.  Borini  Liverpool paid 25 million pounds ($39.7 million) to sign
Italian forward Fabio Borini and Wales midfielder  Joe Allen  on
permanent deals. The Reds also brought in Nuri Sahin on loan and
added youngsters Samed Yesil and Oussama Assaidi.  Yet it was the failure to replace Carroll, a U.K. record 35
million pound signing in January 2011, which led to fan
criticism on message boards and social networks. Rodgers said
he’d be “crazy” to allow the player to leave if he couldn’t be
replaced. Yesterday Rodgers said he felt “very confident” club
executives would sign a striker, and that’s why he let Carroll
leave.  The club didn’t succeed with a proposal to replace Carroll
with Chelsea’s  Daniel Sturridge , while U.S. attacker  Clint Dempsey , who the club had pursued throughout the offseason,
ended up joining Tottenham. Liverpool failed to meet Fulham’s
asking price, even though it cleared  Charlie Adam  and Jay
Spearing from the roster to raise funds for Dempsey.  “The transfer policy was not about cutting costs,” Henry
said, reminding fans that several senior players had signed
contract renewals. “It was - and will be in the future - about
getting maximum value for what is spent so that we can build
quality and depth.”  Rodgers has spent the summer trying to sell players bought
to the club by Dalglish and former Director of Football Damien Comolli. Carroll, Adam,  Stewart Downing ,  Jordan Henderson ,  Luis Suarez  and  Jose Enrique  were purchased for more than 100 million
pounds. Of those only Enrique and Suarez are regulars and while
Adam was sold for 4 million pounds to Stoke, there were no
takers for Downing and Henderson.  Technical Team  Liverpool is in the process of completing recruitment for a
technical team who will form an advisory body to discuss player
trades.  “Our ambitions do not lie in cementing a mid-table place
with expensive, short-term quick fixes that will only contribute
for a couple of years,” Henry said. “Our emphasis will be on
developing our own players using the skills of an increasingly
impressive coaching team.”  Henry said he’s trying to balance the team’s finances to
meet new break-even regulations being established by European
soccer’s governing body UEFA and also help the club recover from
its previous ownership, and correcting mistakes made after FSG
arrived in October 2010.  In May Liverpool posted a club-record loss of 49.4 million
pounds for the fiscal 2011 year. The loss was mainly related to
costs associated with the previous owners’ plan for a 70,000-
seat stadium that has since been scrapped.  “We are still in the process of reversing the errors of
previous regimes,” he said. “It will not happen overnight. It
has been compounded by our own mistakes in a difficult first two
years of ownership. It has been a harsh education, but make no
mistake, the club is healthier today than when we took over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  