-- Japan Capital Spending Rises Less-Than-Forecast 6.6% on Year
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-09-03T01:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/japan-capital-spending-rises-less-than-forecast-6-6-on-year-1-.html
Japanese companies’ capital spending
rose in the second quarter from a year earlier, boosted by the
comparison with the period immediately after the nation’s record
earthquake and tsunami.  Expenditure excluding software gained 6.6 percent, the
 Finance Ministry  said today in  Tokyo . The median estimate of six
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for an increase of 7.8
percent. A year earlier, spending declined 8.2 percent.  Today’s report may lead the government to revise down an
estimate that the economy grew an annualized 1.4 percent in
April-through-June, already weaker than the 5.5 percent gain in
the first quarter, RBS Securities Japan Ltd. said. Consumer
prices slid in July and industrial output unexpectedly fell,
underscoring the risk Japan’s recovery will peter out as
Europe’s crisis and strength in the yen curb exports.  “Today’s capital spending figures look weaker than the
business spending number in the preliminary GDP report,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo.
“Companies have slowed their business spending and will likely
continue to do so in the coming months.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.5 percent as of 10:15
a.m. in Tokyo. The yen gained 0.2 percent to 78.25 per dollar,
up about 7 percent since mid-March.  The central bank may expand its asset-purchase program at
its next meeting on Sept. 18-19, according to RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  Sales Decline  Companies’ sales dropped 2.5 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, today’s report showed. Spending
fell 0.5 percent in the April-through-June period, declining for
a second quarter.  “The most negative news from today’s report was sales
which fell for the first time in four quarters,” said  Junko
Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“The decline in sales reflected that production and exports
have weakened on slowing global demand.”  The Japanese government downgraded its assessment of the
nation’s economy last week, while the latest data from China has
added to signs of weakness in the Asian and global economies.
Chinese manufacturing unexpectedly shrank for the first time in
nine months in August, according to a government-backed
purchasing managers’ index.  “Japan’s economy may not fall into a recession, but it’s
obvious that the slowdown in global demand is taking a toll,”
Nishioka said. “Given today’s report, it will probably be
unavoidable that the GDP figures will be revised down.”  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
Aug. 31 that joblessness is a “grave concern” and further bond
purchases under so-called quantitative easing shouldn’t be ruled
out. Banks including Barclays Securities Japan Ltd. and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  forecast Japan’s economy will contract this quarter.
 Sharp Corp. (6753) , the nation’s largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, is cutting thousands of jobs and has widened an annual
loss forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  