-- Joaquin Phoenix Joins Cult, Affleck Dumps Lover: Movies
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-03T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/joaquin-phoenix-joins-cult-affleck-dumps-lover-movies.html
War is over for one young veteran,
and all he can think about is sex.  Joaquin Phoenix plays former Navy serviceman Freddie Quell
in Paul Thomas Anderson’s “The Master” (which premiered at the
 Venice  Film Festival at the weekend). Freddie can’t stifle his
animal instincts: He’s drawn to sand castles shaped like naked
women, and sees only genitals in an inkblot psychology test.  After turbulent stints as a photographer and a farm hand,
he hops on a riverboat packed with revelers who all seem to look
up to one man: Lancaster Dodd, a.k.a. the Master (Philip Seymour Hoffman). Soon, Freddie does too.  Anderson makes no secret of “The Master” being inspired
by L. Ron Hubbard’s Church of Scientology, which actor  Tom Cruise  belongs to. So reporters asked him about Cruise’s
reaction.  “We are still friends,” replied the bearded, mild-
mannered Anderson at the jam-packed news conference. “In fact,
I showed him the film -- and the rest is between us.”  Phoenix seemed as uncontainable in person as he was in the
movie. Donning a black shirt and tie, he squirmed, smoked,
stepped out for a bit, and snubbed reporters’ questions.  The plot of “The Master” is classic stuff. A 1950s
Svengali sets out to tame a maladjusted, lonely young man.  The problem is that we discover, way too soon, that the
emperor has no clothes. The Master quickly seems a buffoon, and
Freddie a mindless boor.  Oscar Winner  Anderson’s previous movie, the Oscar-winning “There Will
Be Blood,” was based on an Upton Sinclair novel. “The Master”
is the fruit of his own imagination, with flawed results.  Still, it’ll probably earn trophies for its main men. As
the feral Freddie, Phoenix delivers a one-two punch of a
performance. Seymour Hoffman cuts an avuncular figure as he
sings to congregations of besuited men and nude women.  The two offer powerful on-screen duets. In one, the Master
makes Freddie answer a barrage of questions unblinkingly: Does
he linger at bus stops? Have muscle spasms? Fret over past
failures?  In another, the two spend the night in adjacent jail cells.
Like a bull in a China shop, Phoenix smashes a porcelain toilet
inside the historic San Pedro prison where the scene was shot.  Amy Adams  deserves mention as the Master’s Lady Macbeth-
like wife. And sumptuous cinematography also comes to the
rescue.  In the end, though, “The Master” falls flat. Two
outstanding actors make the most of an uneven hand. Rating: **.  ‘To the Wonder’  There was a lot of pressure on Terrence Malick after the
global success of his 2011 “The Tree of Life.”  “To the Wonder,” unspooled in Venice and starring  Ben Affleck , is an underwhelming follow-up.  Where “Tree of Life” explored the meaning of life, “To
the Wonder” probes the meaning of love -- the dizzying ups, the
devastating downs -- in Malick’s typical style: at once starkly
realistic and philosophical, sometimes even preachy.  The movie’s first weakness is Malick’s threadbare
scripting. Actors barely speak to each other. Words are
narrated, instead, in foreign-language voiceovers.  Casting is the second problem. Talented  Rachel McAdams  gets
a supporting role; the female lead goes to ex-model and James
Bond girl  Olga Kurylenko  (“Quantum of Solace”). She often
seems to be posing for a fashion shoot -- a result of her own
inexperience, but equally, of Malick’s hazy direction.  Reclusive Malick kept away from Venice, as did Affleck.
Kurylenko, in a beaded light-blue dress, spoke to reporters.  Malick Telepathy  “The telepathy between us was amazing,” said Kurylenko of
her rapport with Malick. “On set, he didn’t really need to
speak to me that much: I just knew what he wanted me to do.”  In the opening scenes, Kurylenko’s character Marina, a
single mom, is swept off her feet by Neil (Affleck). They live
out the romantic myth on the bridges and boulevards of the City
of Lights. They then head for Mont Saint-Michel, the “wonder”
of the title, and tiptoe across the soggy sands all around, an
apparent metaphor for their soon-to-be-wobbly relationship.  When they move to  Oklahoma  with Marina’s daughter, Neil
isn’t sure anymore. Marina departs, and he takes up with
childhood friend Jane (McAdams).  Their courtship takes place on the family ranch, in a dry
landscape inhabited by a magnificent herd of buffalo. Malick’s
camera travels slowly from the beasts to the human beings in one
of Malick’s majestic natural panoramas.  Unfortunately, there aren’t enough such moments. Other
shots of plants and river stones feel repetitive. The casting of
 Javier Bardem  as a Spanish-speaking priest suffering a faith
crisis is incongruous.  It took Malick six years to release “Tree of Life.” By
comparison, “To the Wonder” seems completed in haste. Malick
has just finished another shoot, as it turns out, and is set to
embark on the next. Here’s hoping the scripts are meatier, and
the casting more consistent. Rating: **.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section 
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Greg Evans  on U.S. television and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 