-- Koch Group Brings Canadian to Charlotte to Attack Health Law
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-03T19:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/koch-group-brings-canadian-to-charlotte-to-attack-health-law.html
Blocks from where Democrats are
holding their convention, a Canadian resident is warning of the
dangers of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Shona Holmes is in Charlotte,  North Carolina , to promote an
Americans for Prosperity ad this week, Bloomberg reports in its
 Political Capital  blog. The nonprofit backs Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  and was co-founded by
billionaire industrialists David and  Charles Koch .  Its latest ad, called “Replace,” is part of a $27 million
Americans for Prosperity ad buy in swing states including North
Carolina that expressly calls for people to vote Obama out of
office. Holmes said she sought treatment for a brain tumor in
the U.S. rather than wait several months for health care in
 Canada , a delay that she said would have put her life at risk.  “To protect Americans patient-centered care, we must
replace president Obama,” an announcer says in the ad.  Holmes made a similar claim in Americans for Prosperity ads
in 2009. She has also testified before Congress and appeared at
rallies related to the health-care law.  Some groups have questioned both Holmes’s personal story
and the tie between Obama’s health-care law and the Canadian
system. One difference between them: The U.S. health-care law
doesn’t implement a single-payer system in which all Americans
are covered by the government. Canada does.  Americans for Prosperity President  Tim Phillips  said the
two plans are “not exactly alike, but they’re relatively
similar.”  “The history of greater government involvement in other
countries is that wait times do increase,” he said.  Criticism Avalanche  It is an “exaggeration” to say Holmes would have died
from her condition, a top Canadian neurosurgeon said in a July
31, 2009, report by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
Holmes was diagnosed with Rathke’s cleft cyst, a benign, slow-
growing tumor that’s not known to be fatal.  Back home, Holmes was vilified as a traitor and received
death threats, according to a July 30, 2009, report in the Globe
and Mail.  At today’s press conference, Holmes said Obama supporters
“attacked the messenger rather than listening to the message.”
She said she has endured “an avalanche of criticism” because
Canadians “are very defensive of our health-care system.”  In addition to highlighting its new ad in Charlotte,
Americans for Prosperity will hold a rally this evening outside
the convention center there. And the group is starting a bus
tour this week from Charlotte.  Holmes said she’ll be in Charlotte all week to do
interviews. The group also held events during the  Republican
National Convention  last week in Tampa,  Florida . Co-founder
 David Koch  and fellow board member Art Pope were honored by
their group for their contributions to business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  