-- Nomura Gains on Plan to Cut Additional $1 Billion in Costs
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-09-03T07:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/nomura-gains-on-plan-to-cut-additional-1-billion-in-costs-2-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  rose the most
in more than two weeks in  Tokyo  after Japan’s biggest brokerage
said it plans to cut another $1 billion of costs by March 2014.  The  shares  jumped 2.3 percent to 264 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  fell 0.4 percent.  The reductions will center on wholesale operations, which
include investment banking and equities, spokesman Eiji Miura
said at a briefing on Aug. 31. Nomura, which has posted losses
overseas for nine straight quarters, implemented a $1.2 billion
cost-cutting program last year after expenses swelled following
its acquisition of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and
European businesses in 2008.  “Investors reacted positively to seeing Nomura deepen cost
cuts and its outline for achieving the actual reduction
target,” said  Masao Muraki , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG. “It won’t be easy to turn to a profit overseas unless
the market environment improves. Also, cutting the wholesale
workforce could hurt revenue.”  Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai, appointed to the post
in July, is seeking additional expense reductions as the company
retreats from a global expansion overseen by former CEO Kenichi Watanabe. Miura spoke after Nagai told 450  managers  of the plan
in Tokyo.  Workforce Reduction  Nomura will cut jobs, mainly at overseas units including
 Europe , two people with knowledge of the matter said on Aug. 31.  The bank will strengthen its cross-border businesses
including mergers and acquisitions advisory, Nagai, 53, told the
executives, according to one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the meeting was private.  Nagai signaled in July that he will focus on business at
home and elsewhere in  Asia , describing the region as the
“mother market.”  Net income  tumbled 89 percent in the three months ended
June from a year earlier to 1.9 billion yen as investment
banking fees and brokerage commissions fell, Nomura reported on
July 26. It posted a 12.1 billion-yen pretax loss from overseas
operations, led by Europe.  The brokerage employed 3,975 people in Europe and 2,423 in
the Americas, mostly in  New York , among its 35,063 staff
globally at the end of June. Operations in Europe have taken the
brunt of efforts to trim costs over the past year, with the
region accounting for 450 of the 560  jobs  cut worldwide as the
sovereign debt crisis roiled markets and slowed economic growth.  Most of Nomura’s European employees work in its wholesale
unit, which includes investment banking and trading operations
in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  