-- Norway’s Real Estate Agents Join Calls for Higher Rates
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-09-04T06:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/norway-s-real-estate-agents-join-calls-for-higher-rates.html
Norway ’s real estate brokers are now
joining calls for the central bank to raise  interest rates  and
cap a rally in their own market to prevent a potential property
bubble from bursting.   Rates should be 1 percentage point to 2 percentage points
higher than their current level because the Norwegian economy is
running at close to full capacity, Leif Laugen, deputy leader at
the Association of Norwegian Real Estate Broking Companies, said
in an interview yesterday.  “I’m sorry to say, but I don’t think they” will raise
rates, said Laugen, whose group represents about 520 realtors.
“We’ve seen over the last year that their priority is on the
currency situation and the export industries -- and not on the
internal situation in the Norwegian economy.”  The bank lowered rates twice since December to stem inflows
as the krone emerged as a haven from  Europe ’s debt. Low rates
helped pushed  house prices  to records and stoked demand as
Europe’s second-largest oil exporter benefits from record
offshore investments and unemployment of 3 percent.  The country’s financial regulator and economists including
 Yale University ’s  Robert Shiller  have urged policy makers and
politicians to tackle the threat of a full-blown housing bubble
and the risks to financial stability.  The krone gained less than 0.1 percent to 7.3119 per euro
as of 8:48 a.m. in Oslo.  ‘Soft Landing’  A report yesterday showed house prices rose an annual 8.1
percent in August from a year earlier.  Home prices  are up 30
percent since 2008, according to data from the Norwegian
Association of Real Estate Agents.  Hopefully the increase will abate to 5 to 6 percent and
“then it is not too far from wage increases,” Laugen said,
predicting a “soft landing” for the housing market.  Policy makers warned last week that they may start raising
their benchmark as early as December amid growing concern that
the Nordic economy may be facing a property bubble. Unabated
house price gains prompted Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen to
in July call on banks to tighten their credit practices.  “What they have to do is lower the budget and maybe ask
the banks to increase the limits on how much to lend to the
public,” said Laugen.  Norway’s financial watchdog last year pushed through
guidelines for banks, urging them not to grant loans that make
up more than 85 percent of a property’s value. The stricter
lending practices did little to damp home prices.  Household credit growth rose to 7.2 percent in July from
7.1 percent in June, according to  Statistics Norway . The
country’s household debt burden will surpass 200 percent of
disposable incomes next year, according to central bank
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo at 
 Kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  