-- Norway Household Debt, House Price Surge Adds Pressure on Rates
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-09-03T11:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/norway-household-debt-house-price-surge-adds-pressure-on-rates.html
Household credit growth and house
price gains accelerated, adding to pressures on Norway’s central
bank to raise its benchmark  interest rate  to prevent a credit-
driven real estate bubble.  Household credit growth rose an annual 7.2 percent, the
highest since February, compared with 7.1 percent in June,
 Statistics Norway  said today. In a separate release, the
Association of Norwegian Real Estate Brokers, known locally as
NEF, said  home prices  rose an annual 8.1 percent in August.  “Household debt continues to rise faster than incomes
causing debt burdens to increase from an already high level,”
Ida Wolden Bache, a senior economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB
in Oslo, said in a note to clients. “This remains a concern for
Norges Bank.”  Overall credit growth  rose an annual 6.9 percent in July,
compared with 7.1 percent in June, as borrowing by non-financial
enterprises slowed to 6.7 percent from 7.1 percent, SSB said.  Norway ’s central bank stuck to a plan last week to raise
rates as soon as December as a boom in the housing market fuels
concern the world’s third-richest country per capita may be
facing a property bubble. Policy makers, who have cut the bank’s
main rate by 0.75 of a percentage point since December, left the
rates unchanged at 1.5 percent on Aug. 29.  Low rates  helped push house prices to records and stoked
demand as  Europe ’s second-largest oil exporter benefits from
record offshore investments and unemployment of 3 percent. The
surge in the  petroleum industry  will boost nationwide wages by 4
percent, according to central bank estimates.  Average Gains  So far this year  house prices  are on average 7 percent
higher than in the same period last year, NEF said in its
report. If prices remain stable for the remainder of the year,
the average price growth for 2012 will be 8.1 percent.  House price gains prompted Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen in July to call for tougher mortgage lending standards.
The country’s Financial Supervisory Authority also last year
pushed through guidelines for banks, urging them not to grant
loans that make up more than 85 percent of a property’s value.  Household debt in Norway will rise to more than 200 percent
of disposable incomes next year, according to the central bank.  The country’s FSA has said the overheated property market
is the biggest domestic threat to the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  