-- Obama Envoy Kirk Says 2013 Key for Asia-Pacific Trade Agreement
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-03T03:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/obama-envoy-kirk-says-2013-key-for-asia-pacific-trade-agreement.html
A trade agreement among about a
dozen Asia-Pacific countries that is the centerpiece of
President  Barack Obama ’s plans to increase exports will require
tough choices to be completed in 2013, his envoy said.  The  Trans-Pacific Partnership  is poised to expand to 11
nations later this year after Mexico and Canada were invited to
join, which would represent about a third of global economic
output. Leaders of the 21-member  Asia-Pacific Economic Forum ,
who have called for a wider agreement that would include both
the U.S. and  China , meet later this week in Vladivostok, Russia.  “All of us want to get this agreement done because all of
our economies are operating in a world now in which we realize
there are just very few bright lights in terms of economic
activity,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said in an
interview in Hanoi yesterday. “If we can work as smart as we
have worked hard, and we are willing to make some of these
difficult decisions, 2013 could be a pivotal year for us.”  The U.S. and China are pushing separate regional trade
talks that exclude each other as they compete for political and
economic influence in one of the world’s fastest-growing
regions. Obama last year called on negotiators to complete the
agreement by November, when he faces re-election against
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , who has also
signaled his support for the deal.  “If you skip over his statement about a timeline that
could never be met, the talks are actually proceeding at a
decent pace,” Deborah K. Elms, head of the Temasek Foundation
Centre for Trade & Negotiations in  Singapore , said of Obama.
“The big political decisions have all been postponed until
early next year.”  Sensitive Issues  Trade negotiators will meet this week for the 14th round of
talks since March 2010 in Leesburg,  Virginia , while the
Democratic National Convention is taking place. The APEC
meetings will occur at the same time, with Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  the highest-ranking U.S. official in attendance.  Besides Canada and Mexico, which have yet to formally join,
the agreement includes Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,  New
Zealand , Peru, Singapore, the U.S. and Vietnam. The U.S.’s
ability to compromise on sensitive areas is limited because the
deal must be approved by Congress, Kirk said.  “We are willing to show some flexibility, but for the
United States it would be difficult for me to go back and sell
to Congress and the American public a Trans-Pacific Partnership
agreement that wasn’t at least as forward-leaning as some of the
agreements we have recently concluded,” he said, referring to
deals with Panama, Colombia and South Korea that were completed
under President  George W. Bush  and only approved by U.S.
lawmakers last year.  Election ‘Non-Factor’  The U.S. election is a “non-factor” in the talks, Kirk
said. “There will be great political support both in our
Congress and among our business community” for the trade
agreement if it opens markets, ensures a level playing field and
contains provisions on labor and the environment, he said.  Romney will seek to complete the Pacific trade deal if he
takes office, adviser and former Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez said last month. In Romney’s speech at the  Republican
National Convention  last week, he cited expanding trade as part
of a five-step plan to create 12 million jobs.  “We will make trade work for America by forging new trade
agreements,” Romney said. “And when nations cheat in trade,
there will be unmistakable consequences.”  Vietnam Garments  Congress signaled its discontent with the TPP negotiation
process in June, with 132 lawmakers led by Representatives  Rosa DeLauro  of  Connecticut  and  George Miller  of  California  telling
Kirk in a letter they were “troubled that important policy
decisions are being made without full input from Congress.”  Fifty-two lawmakers called for negotiators to restrict
Vietnam’s ability to sell garments to the U.S., noting the
country’s “non-market economy status and the subsequent
inherent advantages provided to its textile and apparel
sector.” The country was the second-largest seller of textiles
and apparel to the U.S. in 2011 after China, according to data
from the U.S. International Trade Commission.  U.S. exports reached $2.1 trillion last year, according to
the  Department of Commerce , 14 percent more than in 2010, when
Obama pledged to double overseas sales by 2015. The biggest
gains came in agriculture sales.  China, South Korea and Japan agreed last week to start
talks on a separate preferential trade agreement that may be
expanded to include the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations . Both are possible templates for a wider Free Trade Area
of the Asia-Pacific that would include all 21 APEC economies.  Japan, China  Japan is also considering whether to join the TPP talks, a
move opposed by  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
LLC who say the country’s auto market needs to be more open to
international competition. While both trade agreements would
boost the economy, the biggest gains would come from an
agreement that includes China and the U.S., according to  Peter
A. Petri , a professor of international finance at  Brandeis
University  in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  “In the Pacific, unless you have the U.S. and China in a
large overall global system cooperating and trading intensively,
you are way short of the potential of the benefits that trade
can bring,” Petri said. “These two countries are so
interdependent and have so much to gain from cooperation that we
have to simply work through the fact that they are
competitors.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  