-- Obama’s Ban on Lobbyist Giving Doesn’t Keep Them From Charlotte
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-09-03T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/obama-s-ban-on-lobbyist-giving-doesn-t-keep-them-from-charlotte.html
Heather and Tony Podesta wore
scarlet “Ls” at the Democratic National Convention four years
ago, a reaction to then-presidential candidate Barack Obama’s
exclusion of lobbyists from his campaign.  Obama doesn’t accept lobbyists’ donations or allow them to
raise money for his campaign. That still won’t keep the Podestas,
one of Washington’s best-known power couples, away from the
Democratic conclave beginning Sept. 4 in Charlotte,  North
Carolina . They’re planning two brunches blocks away from where
the delegates will nominate Obama for a second term.  “Yum and fun,” Heather Podesta said.  From meals to cocktail receptions to batting practice at
the local minor league ballpark, the Democratic gathering --like
its Republican counterpart last week -- will offer plenty of
opportunities for special interests to mingle with officials in
a position to address their concerns.  Conventions “are just influence-peddling free-for-alls,”
said Craig Holman of Public Citizen, a Washington-based advocacy
group that favors stricter limits on lobbying. “It just
provides schmoozing times for the lobbyists and special
interests who want something.”  ‘New Acquaintances’  Heather Podesta said the brunches at Charlotte’s Mint
Museum are a “great way to host friends, colleagues, and make
new acquaintances.”  Her lobbying firm, Heather Podesta + Partners, was paid
$3.9 million in the first six months of 2012 by such clients as
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,
according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington-
based research group.  Tony Podesta, whose brother served as one of President  Bill Clinton ’s White House chiefs of staff, founded Podesta Group Inc.
and its clients include BP Plc and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  The
company earned $13.7 million through June 30, the third-highest
among lobbying firms this year, the center said.  K&L Gates LLP, with a branch in Charlotte, will be
shepherding clients to convention events and getting its name
publicized.  “Part of the reason we go to conventions is client
service: Clients want to go; we want to help them,” said Bill
Kirk, a partner in the firm that represents companies including
 Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/A)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  “Secondly, it’s a
branding exercise for us. This is a place we want to be.”  Bat Swinging  Monroe, Louisiana-based  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  and Decatur,
Illinois-based  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  are among the sponsors
of the batting practice for Democratic officials, delegates and
others on Sept. 4, the convention’s opening day.  The event -- similar to one held at the Republican
convention in Tampa, Florida -- will raise money for children’s
hospitals in Charlotte and Chicago, and the Illinois delegation
will be special guests. (The Charlotte Knights are a Chicago
White Sox farm team and Obama was a U.S. senator from Illinois.)  The Illinois delegation includes Senator  Richard Durbin ,
the chamber’s No. 2 Democratic leader, and Representative Bobby Rush, a member of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on
communications and technology.  “With operations in almost every state, we view these
events as opportunities to educate delegates from across the
country about our broadband investments in their communities,
increase brand awareness for the company and meet the next
generation of political leaders,” said Linda M. Johnson, a
CenturyLink spokeswoman.  ‘Available and Visible’  “We want to be available and visible to talk to delegates
and guests alike about our company and how it serves vital
needs,” said ADM’s Jackie Anderson.  Congress is debating a farm bill that provides agriculture
subsidies and money for  food stamps . The legislation, which
reauthorizes U.S. Agriculture Department programs, expires this
month. The Democratic-controlled Senate has passed a bill, while
the Republican-led House hasn’t acted on the measure.  The National Association of Broadcasters, whose members
include News Corp. and the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , is another co-
sponsor of the baseball event. The broadcasters oppose new
Federal Communications Commission rules requiring them to post
online who’s buying time on their stations for political
commercials and how much they’re paying. The group also is
trying to ensure that their members aren’t required to sell
airwaves coveted by mobile providers such as Verizon Wireless
and  AT&T Inc. (T)   “It’s probably smart to have a presence at these events if
you’re a lobbying organization,” said  Dennis Wharton , an NAB
spokesman.  Transportation Issues  The airlines’ Washington-based trade group, Airlines for
America, is co-sponsoring a reception Sept. 5 for
“transportation policy leaders.” Members include  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)   The Washington-based organization is concerned about $500
million in added annual costs from three proposed regulations,
including those regarding pilot training, according to an Aug.
29 briefing by John Heimlich, the group’s chief economist.  “We want to make sure they’re hearing our message,” said
Jean Medina, a spokeswoman.  Other sponsors of the transportation event at the Charlotte
City Club include trade groups for the trucking and bus
industries, and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Burlington Northern
Santa Fe LLC railroad.  At both conventions, “it’s sort of like the Super Bowl of
political influence,” said  Bill Allison , editorial director of
the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based watchdog group.
“You have anybody who’s anybody in these two cities and that’s
what draws the lobbyists and the special interests like flies to
honey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Charlotte, North Carolina,
at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 