-- Offshore Investors Lift Bets Against Chile Peso by $2.5 Billion
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-03T18:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/offshore-investors-lift-bets-against-chile-peso-by-2-5-billion.html
International investors in the
Chilean peso forwards market  increased bets  against the currency
by more than $2.5 billion in the past three weeks.  Global investors increased their short peso position to
$10.3 billion, the most since June, on Aug. 30, data published
today by the central bank show. The peso appreciated 0.1 percent
to 480.25 per dollar today.  Local investors had a $16.5 billion long peso position on
Aug. 30, up from $16.2 billion three weeks earlier. Offshore
investors have increased their bet against the peso after the
currency appreciated to 475 per dollar, fueling speculation that
the central bank may act to weaken the currency.  “They have bought more than $2 billion in three weeks and
it hasn’t much impacted the spot price,” said Eugenio Cortes,
the head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa
SA in Santiago. “Offshore investors are more prepared for
depreciation, but someone is holding the line.”  Chile ’s central bank today announced it would offer seven-
day peso deposits at the target overnight  interest rate  of 5
percent.  The central bank is due to meet on Sept. 13 to set its
benchmark  interest rate , after keeping it unchanged since
January. It will publish its quarterly monetary-policy report,
with new economic forecasts on Sept. 5.  Term Deposit  The average monthly rate on a term deposit due in 30 days
or less was 0.43 percent on Aug. 31, up from 0.42 percent a week
earlier and unchanged from 0.43 percent a month earlier,
according to the Santiago stock exchange.  The spread between 30-day interbank loan rates and the
central bank’s 5 percent benchmark rate was 0.89 percent today,
unchanged from Aug. 31 and the highest since July.  In December 2011, the central bank intervened to lower
short-term borrowing costs after they spiked because of an end-
of-year liquidity squeeze.  Data subsequently obtained by  Bloomberg News  from the
 Finance Ministry  following a freedom-of-information request
suggested that the funding squeeze had been limited to local
currency borrowing and was not related to financial conditions
in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  