-- Oil Rises to Highest in One Week on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-04T07:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/oil-rises-to-highest-in-one-week-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil climbed to the highest intraday
price in more than a week in New York on speculation central
banks will take more steps to boost economic growth, spurring
demand for raw materials.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent from the Aug. 31
close. China should “decisively” expand the strength of its
fine-tuning after changes in the economy and markets, the
official People’s Daily newspaper said in a front-page essay
yesterday. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told
officials he would be comfortable buying three-year  government
bonds  to cut borrowing costs for nations in financial distress.
The U.S. Energy Department will release its weekly report on oil
stockpiles and demand Sept. 6.  “There is a lot of talk about stimulus and that’s keeping
prices high,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive
officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney,
who predicts New York crude has resistance at $98.50 a barrel.
“I’m looking for a lift in inventories.”  Oil for October delivery increased as much as 88 cents to
$97.35 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest intraday price since Aug. 27, and was at
$97.02 at 3:06 p.m. Singapore time. There was no floor trading
yesterday because of the U.S. Labor Day holiday and transactions
since the Aug. 31 close will be booked with today’s trades for
settlement. Prices are 1.8 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 21 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $115.99 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate was at $18.92, from $18.10 on Aug. 31.  Stimulus Outlook  Oil has technical support at $95.76 a barrel, along the
bottom of an uptrend channel on the daily chart, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. This channel started from $77.28,
the 2012 intraday low traded on June 28. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Draghi may unveil details of his bond-purchase program when
he holds his first press conference after the summer break on
Sept. 6. He told lawmakers in a closed-door meeting yesterday
that purchasing short-dated bonds doesn’t constitute state
financing, according to Jean-Paul Gauzes, a member of the
European Parliament.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  is traveling to
Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel today as
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  welcomes French President
 Francois Hollande  to  Rome . U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 that he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus.  Isaac, Leslie  The U.S. Energy Department report will be released a day
late this week because of Labor Day. The holiday marks the end
of the U.S. summer driving season, the peak demand period for
gasoline. Refiners often idle processing units for maintenance
in September and October as consumption of the motor fuel drops
and before heating-oil use increases.  About 58 percent of oil output and 39 percent of natural-
gas production from the  Gulf of Mexico  remained shut because of
Hurricane Isaac, a U.S.  Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement  report yesterday showed. Daily crude capacity was
cut by as much as 95 percent as Isaac moved through the Gulf
last week.  Tropical Storm Leslie strengthened 585 miles (940
kilometers) south of  Bermuda , where it may arrive this weekend
as a hurricane, according to the National Hurricane Center. It’s
the 12th storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season , which runs from
June 1 to Nov. 30. Leslie has top winds of 65 miles per hour, up
from 60 mph earlier, and was stationary, an advisory at 11 p.m.
New York time showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  