-- Hon Hai Rises After Sharp Loss Provisions Reversed: Taipei Mover
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-09-03T03:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/hon-hai-rises-after-sharp-loss-provisions-reversed-taipei-mover.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , a
maker of iPads for Apple Inc., rose to the highest level in four
months in Taipei trading after it reversed loss provisions for a
planned investment in Sharp Corp.  Hon Hai, the flagship of Foxconn Technology Group, jumped
6.4 percent to NT$90.20 as of 10:44 a.m., headed for the highest
close since April 27.  Foxconn Technology Co. (2354) , an affiliate that
also plans to invest in Sharp, gained 2.2 percent to NT$116.50,
while Taipei’s benchmark Taiex index rose 0.7 percent.  The group, through Hon Hai and Foxconn Technology Co.,
agreed in March to buy 9.9 percent of Sharp for 67 billion yen
($856 million) in a sale of new shares. Hon Hai’s first-half
results included loss provisions of NT$4.5 billion ($151
million) for the planned investment, and as the deal wasn’t
approved by local authorities, it reversed the charge as of July
31, the Taipei-based company said Aug. 31. Foxconn Technology
Co. reversed loss provisions of NT$2.26 billion.  “We expect Hon Hai to take a 9.9 percent equity stake in
Sharp but now at a lower price,”  Kirk Yang , managing director
for technology research at Barclays Plc in  Hong Kong , wrote in a
report today. “Sharp needs Hon Hai more than the other way
around.” He maintained Hon Hai at overweight with a price
target of NT$113.  Hon Hai is the world’s largest contract manufacturer of
electronics, while Foxconn Technology Co. makes computer cases.  Alliance Talks  Sharp President Takashi Okuda met with Foxconn executives
in  Osaka  on Aug. 30 to discuss alliance terms, Hiroshi Takenami,
a spokesman for  Japan ’s biggest liquid-crystal display maker,
said last week. Okuda plans to meet with Terry Gou, Foxconn’s
founder, in  Taiwan  as early as this week, the Sankei newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  The Japanese company aims to complete talks with Foxconn
this month, the Asahi newspaper said yesterday, citing an
interview with Okuda.  Foxconn plans to proceed with its investment in Sharp “at
the most appropriate time and most appropriate price” because
it’s looking at the long-term prospects, Gou said Aug. 5.  The Sharp deal has no impact on Hon Hai’s finances as of
July 31, the Taiwanese company said in its Aug. 31 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  