-- Ouzo Makes Way for Great Greek Wines, Native Grapes
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-09-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/ouzo-makes-way-for-great-greek-wines-native-grapes.html
There are worse ways to spend time
than sitting at a taverna on the Greek island of Santorini when
the dry northern Meltemi wind blows though the Aegean in August.  Feasting on white eggplant, feta cheese and grilled
barbouni (red mullet) while sipping a white assyrtiko wine made
on the island (where a glass of orange juice can cost $12),
looking down at the yachts in the harbor below, I found it
difficult to imagine the Greek economy is in a shambles.  But as the economy worsens here, the wines only get better.
Maybe drinking helps.  On Santorini alone, which is only 28 square miles in size,
there are 13 core wineries, most notably  Boutari  in Megalochori,
which produces about 900,000 bottles a year, mostly from
imported grapes.  The indigenous grape vines were never affected by the
phylloxera plague that ruined European vineyards, but there are
not enough even to satisfy local consumption.  The story of Greek wine is ancient but, until recently, not
very illustrious; it was one reason that the ancient Greeks were
delirious about making settlements in  Italy , which they called
Oenotria, “wine land.”  Younger Drinkers  Once known primarily for its resinous wines and ouzo,
Greece has recently put a great deal of effort and capital into
capturing some of the global market, as well as planting
international varietals like chardonnay and cabernet sauvignon
aimed at  Greece ’s young wine drinkers.  According to George Athanas, manager of the All About Greek
Wine promotional campaign on behalf of the Greek government’s
New Wines of Greece bureau, between 3.5 and 4 million
hectoliters of wine are now made annually, 60 percent consumed
domestically in bulk.  Although total exports have slipped by almost half from a
high point of 787 hectoliters in 2002, exports to the U.S.
brought in 6.3 million euros last year, an increase of a million
euros over the last decade.  The reason, says Athanas, is that “Greece is making a
major effort in the U.S. market for younger wine drinkers more
willing to try new things. Greece is promoting its best wines
and isn’t sending the kind of oxidized schlock they did in the
past.”  It is increasingly easy to find a wide range of modern
Greek wines in U.S. stores, especially in Greek and Middle
Eastern neighborhoods like Queens,  New York , where Grand Wine &
Liquor stocks dozens of Greek bottlings from grapes like
moschofilero, muscat, xinomavro, agiorgitiko, roditis and
limnio, along with new blends or chardonnay, cabernet, merlot
and syrah.  New Reds  Of these last I am not much impressed: the international
varietals don’t taste much like the grape, and if blended with
Greek grapes, tend to mask the character of the indigenous
grapes.  Sampling an array of whites and reds I bought at Grand Wine
& Liquor, I found all of them clean and well made, none showing
the slightest oxidation.  I expected the whites to be good but was really delighted
with the new reds. Of the former, the Tareti 2010 from Ktima
Biblia Chora ($30) had the characteristics of modern assyrtiko,
a varietal that originated on Santorini, showing its brisk
minerality and acid that allows it to age beyond most white
wines’ peak.  For something more floral and aromatic, try the  Alpha
Estate Axia  2011 ($18) made from malagouzia grapes, an ancient
varietal now enjoying renewed interest for its full body and
richness.  Mezes Pairing  True to form, the moschofilero varietal shows its brassy-
pink color and complexity in  Domaine Spiropoulos  2010 ($15),
made from organic grapes, an excellent wine with all seafood or
Greek mezes appetizers.  Two reds were outstanding: Saint George Aghiorghitiko 2010,
which Homer might have had in mind when he wrote of the “wine
dark sea” and what Zorba the Greek meant when he said, “You
drink the red juice and, lo and behold your soul grows big...
and challenges God to a fight.” It comes from southern mountain
vineyards and has the tannins and complexity you rarely get in
$15 red wines.  As for the curiously named Red Stag 2009 ($15) from the
producer Spiropoulos, at just 13 percent alcohol it manages to
carry both power and voluptuous fruit in an ideal balance based
on the aghiorghitiko grapes grown in Nemea.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Andrew Dunn ’s  book review  and  Greg
Evans  on  television .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 