-- How Voters Can Escape From Information Cocoons
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-03T22:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/how-voters-can-escape-from-information-cocoons.html
In 2002,  New York  University
political scientist Russell Hardin  wrote  a brilliant essay
called “The Crippled Epistemology of Extremism.” Hardin
contended that many extremists, including terrorists, are not
stupid, insane or badly educated.  The real problem is that their information comes from a
sharply limited set of sources, all of which are supportive of
their extremist beliefs. Many extremists listen only to one
another. They live in self-reinforcing information cocoons.
Their “crippled epistemology” can lead to utterly baseless, but
firmly held, convictions (and sometimes even violence).  Most Democrats and most Republicans are not extremists. But
Hardin’s argument offers lessons about 21st-century  political
campaigns  in the U.S. -- and about some of the most serious
difficulties in contemporary governance.  How do you know what you know? You undoubtedly have
firsthand knowledge about many things, including your job, your
family and your possessions. But how do you know whether  George
Washington  or  James Madison  really lived, whether matter
consists of atoms, whether  Bob Dylan   wrote  “Like a Rolling
Stone,” whether Mars and Venus exist, or whether  Neil Armstrong 
was the first person to walk on the moon?  With respect to innumerable issues, including political
ones, most of what we know is what we learn from other people.
By itself, that is inevitable and nothing to lament.  Promoting Polarization  But here is the problem. When we listen mostly to people
who already agree with us, our pre-existing convictions get
fortified, and we start to think that those who disagree with us
are evil, dumb or duped. Is it any wonder that our politics are
highly polarized, so much so that it sometimes seems as if
Democrats and Republicans don’t merely disagree but live in
unfathomably different universes?  A few years ago, I participated in some  experiments 
designed to shed light on how people’s political beliefs are
formed. My co-authors and I assembled a number of people in
 Colorado  into all-liberal groups and all-conservative groups. We
asked the groups to discuss three issues: climate change,
affirmative action and civil unions for same-sex couples.  We requested group members to state their opinions at three
stages. The first occurred before they started to talk, when we
recorded their views privately and anonymously. In the second
stage, we asked them to discuss the issues with one another and
then to reach a kind of group “verdict.” In the final stage, we
asked people to record their views, after discussion, privately
and anonymously.  Our findings were simple. On all three issues, both liberal
and conservative groups became more unified and more extreme
after talking to one another. Not only in their public verdicts
but also in their private, anonymous statements of views.
Discussions with one another made conservatives more skeptical
of  climate change  and more hostile to affirmative action and
same-sex unions -- while liberals showed exactly the opposite
pattern.  It is not surprising that before discussions began, the
liberal groups were, on all three issues, somewhat more liberal
than the conservative groups. What is more striking, and more
revealing about our current problems, is that after liberals
spoke only with liberals, and conservatives only with
conservatives, the divisions between the two groups grew
dramatically.  Why do groups polarize in this way? One reason involves
people’s concern for their reputations. If you find yourself in
a group of people who hate affirmative action, you might be
reluctant to say that you like affirmative action, and your
agreement with the group in a public setting might affect what
you say privately.  Argument Echo  The more interesting reason involves the exchange of
information. In conservative groups, for example, people tend to
offer a number of arguments against affirmative action, and very
few in favor of it. Group members learn from what they hear.
Having heard the set of arguments in their group, people become
more confident, more unified and more extreme.  Can anything be done to address this problem? The most
obvious answer is to break out of information cocoons. That is a
central goal of the American constitutional system, which was
devised to ensure that diverse people would speak with one
another.  The  Anti-Federalists , opponents of the Constitution, urged
that self-government required homogeneity and that diversity
could create paralysis and chaos. By contrast, the defenders of
the Constitution, above all  Alexander Hamilton , thought that
diversity could be a creative force and that “the jarring of
parties” could be productive, because it would “promote
deliberation.”  Political conventions are occasions for group polarization.
This is inevitable and by design. But in the best cases,
political campaigns get people to escape from their information
cocoons -- not merely because competing perspectives are
available, but because citizens are really listening.  When escape proves difficult, it helps to insist on the
importance of respecting technical expertise. In dealing with
patients with diabetes, doctors don’t polarize; they consult the
latest medical evidence. In dealing with clients complaining of
breach of contract, lawyers don’t polarize; they consult the
law.  True, we can identify issues on the technical frontiers,
where doctors and lawyers may end up in information cocoons of
their own. And true, we have to be cautious here, because
specialists in some fields -- including economics -- polarize on
some issues, and because even scientists aren’t immune from the
problem. But we shouldn’t underestimate the number of cases in
which specialists really do come to consensus. In politics and
government, a healthy respect for the technical expertise of
scientists, lawyers and economists usually helps to anchor
discussion -- and to avoid a crippled epistemology.  Many of our political convictions are intensely held,
especially in an election season. Some of us are undoubtedly
right. But an appreciation of how we know what we know should
help to engender a healthy dose of humility, making political
campaigns far more productive and sensible governance far more
likely.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs and the author, most recently, of “On
Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 