-- Lloyds Said Planning to Sell $2.5 Billion of Mainly Irish Loans
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-09-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/lloyds-said-planning-to-sell-2-5-billion-of-mainly-irish-loans.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  plans to
sell about 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of mainly Irish real-
estate loans, the latest phase in extricating itself from
Western Europe’s biggest property crash, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  The U.K.’s second-biggest government-aided bank will
probably have to take discounts on the sale, said the person,
who declined to be identified because details of the sale are
private. Ian Kitts, a Lloyds spokesman, declined to comment.  Lloyds, based in  London , moved in 2010 to close and run
down the Irish unit it acquired two years earlier as part of its
takeover of HBOS Plc. The bank has taken 11.8 billion pounds of
impairment charges on Irish loans since the nation’s real-estate
market collapsed four years ago, according to data compiled by
 Bloomberg News . That equates to 40 percent of its end-2008 Irish
loan book.  Two years ago, the bank largely handed management of its
Irish portfolio to  Certus , a company set up by members of its
former Irish management team. Lloyds said in July its exposure
to Ireland is “being closely managed, with a dedicated U.K.-
based business support team in place to manage the winding down
of the book.”  Some 86 percent of Lloyds’ 16.1 billion-pound Irish
wholesale portfolio, mainly commercial real-estate loans, was
impaired, or unlikely to be repaid in full, at the end of June,
the group  said  on July 26.  Loans Sold  Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW)  and Deutsche Bank AG agreed to
acquire 360 million euros of non-performing commercial property
loans from Lloyds at an average 83 percent discount to par
value,  CoStar Group Inc. , the commercial real-estate information
company, reported in June. Lloyds said in July it sold 300
million pounds of gross Irish wholesale assets during the first
six months without giving further details.  Irish commercial real-estate prices have plunged by two-
thirds from its 2007 peak, according to Investment Property
Databank Ltd., while residential property has halved in value,
the  Central Statistics Office  said Aug. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  