-- TPC Bid Seen Rising as Options Traders Bet on $5 Boost
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-09-04T20:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/tpc-bid-seen-rising-as-options-traders-bet-on-5-boost.html
Traders are betting  TPC Group Inc. (TPCG) 
will win America’s biggest takeover price increase, spurred by
one of the chemical producer’s largest shareholders lobbying
against the current proposal.  Shares of TPC, the biggest maker of an ingredient used to
make synthetic rubber, ended last week 2.6 percent above the
$40-a-share deal from First Reserve Corp. and SK Capital
Partners LP, signaling arbitragers who wager on mergers and
acquisitions anticipate a higher offer. No other U.S. agreement
valued at $100 million or more is trading that far above the
proposed price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sandell Asset Management Corp., the third-largest
shareholder, last week called the bid “grossly suboptimal”
because demand for butadiene, the product used in synthetic
rubber, will probably rise. WallachBeth Capital LLC says $45 a
share may be fair, and TPC’s call-option  trading  surged to a
record on Aug. 30 with volume concentrated on that price.
Shareholder Eagle Asset Management Inc. said the bid for
Houston-based TPC, which reached an all-time high of $47.03 in
March, should be around $50, if not higher.  “How are we selling it at a discount to where it was back
in March?” Eric Mintz, a  St. Petersburg , Florida-based  fund
manager  who helps oversee $7 billion at Eagle Asset, said in a
telephone interview. Eagle Asset owned a 2.8 percent stake in
TPC as of June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. “It’s
trading at a premium to the takeout price, suggesting the market
is expecting a higher bid right now,” he said. “The price
should definitely be above $40.”  ‘Comprehensive Review’  Caroline Harris , a spokeswoman for Greenwich, Connecticut-
based First Reserve who works for Prosek Partners, and James Marden, a spokesman at New York-based SK Capital, declined to
comment on whether the firms are considering raising their bid.  The transaction “is the result of a comprehensive review
of the strategic and financial alternatives available to the
company and provides our stockholders with an immediate cash
premium for their valued investment,” Meaghan Repko, a TPC
spokeswoman who works for Joele Frank Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher,
said in an e-mail. “TPC Group believes this transaction
appropriately recognizes the value of the company’s business and
prospects and is in the best interests of its stockholders.”  Today, TPC shares rose 2 percent to $41.86, closing at the
highest price since May 8.  TPC, formerly known as Texas Petrochemicals Inc., produces
rubber component butadiene. The company’s origins date back to a
pair of plants built by the U.S. government to make synthetic
rubber during  World War II .  Bullish Outlook  The chemical producer, which  competes  in the market for
butadiene with LyondellBasell Industries NV, Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and Exxon Mobil Corp., is now planning to boost its output
by refurbishing a Houston plant to make the chemical from
butane, a component of gas that has increased in supply with
production from shale rock formations.  The private-equity firms that agreed to buy TPC probably
did the deal because of their bullish outlook on butadiene, said
Daniel Rizzo, a New York-based analyst with Sidoti & Co. The
takeover doesn’t have the hallmarks of a traditional private-
equity deal focused just on cash generation, he said.  “This is all about getting involved with processing
butadiene,” Rizzo said in a phone interview. “People have a
very bullish outlook on butadiene prices and demand, and TPC is
one of the few pure-play processors of butadiene.”  Exclusive Talks  The stock surged 16 percent to $38.97 on July 25 after
 Bloomberg News  reported that TPC was in exclusive talks to go
private. The company would fetch about $40 a share, people with
knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions were private, said at the time.  The negotiations followed talks earlier in the year that
collapsed after a jump in TPC’s share price, the people had
said. TPC  doubled  in the first three months of the year to a
record $47.03 on March 16.  TPC disclosed on Aug. 27 that First Reserve and SK Capital
agreed to acquire the company for $40 a share, representing just
a 1 percent premium to the prior closing price. It was 20
percent higher than TPC’s closing level on July 24, before the
shares surged.  Thomas E. Sandell, chief executive officer of  New York- 
based Sandell Asset Management, wrote a letter to TPC’s board on
Aug. 28, calling the $40 bid an “outrage” and an attempt to
steal the company at the bottom of the industry’s cycle. If the
company hadn’t received an offer, it would have climbed to $55
to $57 in the next 12 months, he wrote.  Vote Against  In an interview on Aug. 31, Sandell said he’d increased his
TPC stake to 7 percent of the company’s stock.  “We intend to vote down this deal and to run a proper
auction for TPC to maximize  shareholder value ,” he said.  Sandell’s company reiterated its opposition to the deal in
a  white paper  today, saying “we believe that several strategic
and financial parties were shut out of the process and/or
subjected to unreasonable demands and unreasonable timelines.”
TPC’s fair value in a takeover should be $62 to $71 a share,
according to Sandell’s report.  “You’ve got to think they could have done better,” said
 Louis Meyer , a New York-based special situations analyst for
Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. “It’s being sold at a price that wasn’t
reaching for the moon, that’s for sure. This thing should at
least have something in the mid-$40s.”  While TPC said on Aug. 27 that stockholders with about 22
percent of its outstanding shares support the deal, the stock
ended last week at $41.03, or $1.03 above the agreed price.  Lower Odds  “The further it trades through and the longer it trades
through will decrease the chances that they get the shareholder
vote,” Peter Lobravico, New York-based vice president of merger
arbitrage trading and sales at Wall Street Access Corp., said in
a phone interview.  The offer should have been $45 to $46 a share “right out
of the gate,” said Yemi Oshodi, New York-based managing
director of M&A and special situations at WallachBeth. That
would have been at least a 34 percent premium to TPC’s price on
July 24, before takeover speculation surfaced. At the time,
 analysts  had an average 12-month share-price estimate of $46.
The figure then increased to almost $50 before the companies
disclosed the deal terms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The price they’re paying seems to me to be a little
low,” Oshodi said in a phone interview. “It’s in their best
interest to quickly throw something out there and quell the
expected uprising of shareholders.”  The price would need to be around $50 a share or more for
Eagle Asset to be on board, Mintz said. His estimate is based on
the replacement value of TPC’s assets and its  earnings 
potential. Eagle Asset owns more than 400,000 shares.  Earnings Estimates  Earnings-per-share could approach $10 to $15 by 2015,
according to Edward Yang, an Austin, Texas-based analyst with
Oppenheimer & Co. TPC earned $2.28 a share in fiscal 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  First Reserve and SK Capital’s bid values TPC at 7.8 times
the last 12 months of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. Chemical deals larger than $100
million have gone for a median of 8.7 times trailing Ebitda, and
those announced in the past year fetched a multiple of 7.5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It wasn’t a “knockout” multiple, so “perhaps there is
room for a higher price from First Reserve and SK Capital or
another buyer,” Wall Street Access’s Lobravico said.  The private-equity firms may be less able to increase their
bid than a company operating in the chemicals industry,
Lobravico said.  Deal Math  “Private-equity firms are harder to get a price bump out
of than a strategic buyer,” he said. “Private equity strike
these deals based upon certain math.”  Still, options traders are becoming increasingly convinced
TPC will sell for more. Trading in bullish TPC options reached a
 record  on Aug. 30 when 2,162 calls to buy the stock changed
hands. That was 17 times the four-week average and compared with
435 contracts for puts to sell, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  most-traded  options were December $45 calls, which had
volume of 1,373 contracts. Almost all of them changed hands on
the ask price, indicating buyers initiated the transactions.  “Options traders are betting on a deal over $45,”  Chris Rich , head options strategist at JonesTrading Institutional
Services LLC in  Chicago , said in an interview. “Could a deal
happen above $45? The buyers of the December $45 calls think
there is a chance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  