-- Pfizer, Boehringer’s Drug Helped to Delay Asthma Attacks
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-03T11:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/pfizer-boehringer-s-drug-helped-to-delay-asthma-attacks.html
A lung drug from Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  helped delay severe episodes in
asthma patients, researchers said today in two studies that may
result in broader use of the medicine.  Spiriva, known chemically as tiotropium and delivered by
the Respimat Soft Mist inhaler, cut the risk of a severe flare-
up by 21 percent when given in addition to standard treatments,
according to a company-sponsored study presented today at the
 European Respiratory Society ’s meeting in Vienna. The research
was published simultaneously in the  New England Journal of
Medicine .  A standard treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, or COPD, Spiriva has been on the market for a decade
and had 3.15 billion euros ($3.96 billion) in sales last year.
Today’s results were a “valuable but intermediate step” toward
using drugs like Spiriva safely in asthma patients,  Elisabeth
Bel , a pulmonologist at the Academic Medical Center in
Amsterdam, wrote in an editorial published alongside the trial
results today in the NEJM.  “A word of caution seems appropriate,” Bel wrote, adding
that the medicine may be risky for patients with a history of
heart problems.  Asthma Potential  Treating asthma may boost sales significantly for drugs
like Spiriva, including those from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
 Novartis AG (NOVN) , Sam Fazeli, a London-based analyst for Bloomberg
Industries, wrote in a May report.  “Safety over longer time periods is the key question,”
Fazeli wrote.  A review of five studies published last year in the British
Medical Journal found the use of Spiriva in mist form was
associated with a 52 percent increase in mortality risk.
Boehringer has said data from those trials is already
“appropriately reflected” in Spiriva’s label.  No patients died during the trials published today, and
adverse events were similar in patients who got the drug and
those who didn’t, the investigators wrote. The two identical
studies excluded people with unstable  heart disease . They
divided a total of 912 patients into groups that got inhaled
steroid hormones and long-acting beta-agonists and groups that
took tiotropium alongside the other two types of drugs.  Already Prescribing  “I’m already prescribing tiotropium as an add-on therapy
to my patients,” said Richard Russell, one of the study’s U.K.-
based investigators and consultant chest physician at Wexham
Park Hospital. Still, “if people have a history of cardiac
disease and cardiac arrhythmia, I do not give them Spiriva using
a Respimat device.”  The results are important because tiotropium helped people
who were already getting drugs in high doses, and still had
flare-ups, said  Huib Kerstjens , a professor at the University of
Groningen in the Netherlands and one of the study’s authors.  “And still in this population where we have a problem, we
could reduce these exacerbations,” Kerstjens said. “That’s
meaningful to patients.”  Even before the study, Kerstjens had prescribed tiotropium
off-label for asthma, he told reporters in Vienna today. The
next step is to see if tiotropium works in patients with more
moderate asthma, he said.  Boehringer is conducting a total of 11 final-stage clinical
trials on tiotropium in asthma, Jennifer Haddon, the Ingelheim,
Germany-based company’s respiratory medicine adviser, said in a
telephone interview. Haddon declined to give details on how soon
Boehringer might request regulatory approval to sell tiotropium
in asthma or on its sales potential.  Closely held Boehringer markets Spiriva for COPD patients
together with New York-based Pfizer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  