-- Philippine Peso Rises to Three-Week High on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-09-03T08:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/philippine-peso-rises-to-three-week-high-on-stimulus-speculation.html
The Philippine peso climbed to a
three-week high on speculation central bankers from the U.S. to
 China  will step up efforts to boost growth, supporting demand
for riskier assets.  The currency rose for a third day as data showed Chinese
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank last month, spurring bets
policy makers in the region’s biggest economies will act to
revive consumption and investment. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 he doesn’t rule out more monetary
easing to lower a U.S. unemployment rate that is a cause for
“grave concern.” The Philippine economy grew  5.9 percent  last
quarter, after a 6.3 percent expansion in the first three months
of 2012, the government reported Aug. 30.  “The peso and local bonds are supported by hopes for more
stimulus, given the slow manufacturing data from China and
outlook for more easing in the U.S.,” said Speedy Delfino, a
fixed-income trader at East West Bank Corp. in  Manila .  The peso gained 0.3 percent to close at 41.975 per dollar
in Manila, data from Tullett Prebon Plc show. That’s the
strongest level since Aug. 14. One-month implied volatility,
which measures  exchange-rate  swings used to price options,
declined 35 basis points to 5.75 percent.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said
today that “sharp fluctuations” in the exchange rate are
inconsistent with orderly market conditions. The central bank’s
policy stance remains “appropriate,” he said. The monetary
authority lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by 0.25 percentage
point to a record-low 3.75 percent in July.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bonds due July 2031
dropped for a second day, declining by two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 5.62 percent, according to Tradition
Financial Services. .  Consumer prices probably rose 3.5 percent in August from a
year earlier, after a 3.2 percent increase in July, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before official data due on Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  