-- Putin Trumps Gold as Polyus Posts Monthly Drop: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-09-03T20:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/putin-trumps-gold-as-polyus-posts-monthly-drop-russia-overnight.html
Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY)  is
decoupling from the metal as the stock gets dragged down by
concern Russian President  Vladimir Putin  will fail to deliver on
his pledge to diversify the economy.  The 120-day correlation coefficient of Polyus and gold
futures fell to 0.16 yesterday, the lowest in a month, after the
Russian producer sank 2.3 percent in August as the metal gained
4.6 percent.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of
the metal, surged 15 percent last month. The  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies in  New York 
increased 3.3 percent to 92.93 in August. The  RTS stock-index
futures  gained 0.2 percent to 140,730 yesterday.  Gold rose 1.8 percent on Aug. 31 after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  didn’t rule out more stimulus to boost
the economy in his speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Polyus,
controlled by Russian billionaires  Mikhail Prokhorov  and
 Suleiman Kerimov , holds the world’s third-largest gold reserves
with over 90 million ounces, according to the its  website .
Russian stocks have trailed peers this year on concern Putin
won’t undertake the changes necessary to reform the economy.  “The stock has been suffering from perception of Polyus as
a Russian company, rather than a global gold producer,” Nikolay Sosnovskiy, an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone on Aug. 31
from Moscow. “It’s changing now. The outlook for Polyus is very
good and it has every chance to rise at a faster pace than
gold.”  U.S. markets were closed for the Labor Day holiday
yesterday. The stock’s 60-day correlation with gold reached
-0.02 on Aug. 30, the lowest level in a year, before rebounding
to 0.27 yesterday.  Moving to U.K.  Gold surged 70 percent from the end of December 2008 to
June 2011 as the Federal Reserves kept borrowing costs at a
record low and bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
quantitative easing. Polyus gained 39 percent over the same
period of time.  Bernanke, speaking on Aug. 31, two weeks before the next
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , emphasized that a
new round of bond purchases is an option.  Polyus moved its domicile to Jersey in the U.K. from Moscow
last year to broaden its investor base and bolster its value.
The company’s shares were admitted for premium listing on the
London Stock Exchange in June.  “Those who invest in gold producers, rather than those who
invest in Russia, should be looking at Polyus after it has moved
it domicile, that’s the idea behind the move,” Valentina Bogomolova, an analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow,
said by phone on Aug. 31. “That would increase their
correlation with gold and away from the correlation with other
Russian stocks.”  Putin’s Pledge  Putin, who returned to presidency last month after four
years as premier, spoke in favor of state assets sales to create
a “new, modern” economy at a time investors are fleeing his
nation. The government will tackle corruption and ease an energy
reliance after Russia got almost 50 percent of budget revenue
from oil and gas sales last year, he said on June 22 at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum.  Russia’s Micex Index has gained 2.6 percent this year,
lagging behind the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 4 percent jump
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 12 percent rally.  Polyus is keeping its full-year production target of 1.5
million ounces of gold, Chief Executive Officer German Pikhoya
said in an Aug. 30 interview in Moscow.  First-half adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 59 percent to $634 million,
beating the $606 million estimate of five analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . Net income more than doubled to $426 million,
Polyus said in a statement on Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  