-- Yankees’ Division Lead Is Cut to One Game With 4-3 Loss to Rays
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-04T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/rays-beat-yankees-as-new-york-s-division-lead-falls-to-one-game.html
The  New York Yankees ’ division lead
over the  Baltimore Orioles  is down to one game after a 4-3 loss
to the Tampa Bay Rays in the opener of a 10-game road trip.  It was the ninth loss in the past 13 games for the Yankees
(76-58), who had led the American League East Division by as
many as 10 games. The Rays snapped a 3-3 tie yesterday as Chris Gimenez delivered a run-scoring single in the bottom of the
eighth inning at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida.  “It’s not a good feeling,” said Yankees second baseman
 Robinson Cano , who may miss today’s game against Tampa Bay after
feeling pain in his hip while trying to glove Gimenez’s ground
ball through the right side of the infield. “You don’t want to
put your head down. We’ve just got to turn the page.”  The Orioles (75-59) beat the Toronto Blue Jays 4-0
yesterday for their 11th win in the past 15 games. Joe Saunders
took a perfect game into the sixth inning in his second start
since being acquired from the  Arizona  Diamondbacks.  “When I got traded over here, they had a great thing going
and you just want to come over here and contribute as much you
can,” Saunders told reporters. “You don’t want to mess it up.
You want to keep the team in the ballgame, give the team a
chance to win and that’s what I was able to do.”  Tampa Bay (74-61) is now 2 1/2 games behind the Yankees
with one month left in the Major League Baseball regular season.  Upton’s Homer  The Yankees and starting pitcher CC Sabathia fell behind 2-
0 after three innings as Gimenez had a run-scoring single and
B.J. Upton hit a solo home run. After New York took a 3-2 lead
with a three-run fourth inning, the Rays pushed across a run in
the fifth to tie it and won it in the eighth against Yankees
reliever  David Robertson .  The Yankees put the tying run on third base with two outs
in the top of the ninth inning before the Rays’ Fernando Rodney
struck out  Curtis Granderson  to end the game and record his 41st
save of the season.  The  Oakland Athletics  (76-58) remain in position for one of
the two AL wild card playoff berths even though they had a nine-
game winning streak broken yesterday with an 8-3 loss to the Los
Angeles Angels.  The Washington Nationals, who have the best record in the
majors, got their franchise-record 82nd win yesterday with a 2-1
victory over the  Chicago Cubs .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  