-- Record West Nile Cases Make World Diseases a U.S. Problem
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/record-west-nile-cases-make-world-diseases-a-u-s-problem.html
With increasing numbers of
mosquitoes in the U.S. carrying the  West Nile  and  dengue 
viruses, it’s getting a little scary to go outside.  West Nile is poised to break records this year. Almost
 1,600 cases  have been  reported  to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention so far, including 66 deaths. The virus
has been in the U.S. since 1999, sickening 30,000 altogether;
this year the worst outbreak has been centered around  Dallas .  West Nile’s cousin, dengue, also a sometimes fatal
infection, has been in the U.S. since 1980, with outbreaks in
Texas, Hawaii and  Florida , most recently in 2010.  These are growing public-health problems, but they can also
serve as opportunities to pull the U.S. squarely into the global
fight against these mosquito-borne viruses.  Identified only in 1937, West Nile is a disease mainly of
 Africa , the Mideast and parts of  Asia . Severe infections lead to
brain diseases such as meningitis and encephalitis. Dengue,
known as breakbone fever for the muscle and joint pain it
causes, can lead to dengue hemorraghic fever and the sometimes
fatal dengue shock syndrome. As many as 100 million people are
infected  worldwide  every year.  The two illnesses have come to the U.S. courtesy of  climate
change  and globalization. Rising temperatures promote mosquito
reproduction and survival. And infected mosquitoes easily travel
via the cross-border exchange of goods. Globe-trotting people,
for their part, carry viruses from endemic to nonendemic zones.
(Neither dengue nor West Nile spreads directly from person to
person, but a mosquito can transmit the viruses from one person
to another.)  Health authorities have few good measures to cope with
either disease, and are reduced to asking people in vulnerable
communities to avoid exposure to mosquitoes by staying indoors
in air-conditioned or well-screened quarters, wearing long pants
and sleeves in the heat of summer, and using mosquito repellant.
They counsel households to eliminate places where mosquitoes lay
eggs, notably artificial containers that hold water.  When outbreaks occur, officials apply insecticides on the
ground or by air if the affected zone is large. Yet today’s
formulas don’t pack nearly the wallop of those 50 years ago,
which contained DDT. DDT practically eliminated the dengue-
carrying Aedes aegypti mosquito from the U.S. but also savaged
bird species, which is why it is now banned.  Patients receive acetaminophen for fever and pain, fluids
if they are dehydrated, and get-well wishes. No vaccines, no
cures and no specific medicines exist to prevent or treat dengue
or West Nile.  That is not uncommon for illnesses that predominantly
affect the developing world. Companies with the know-how to
develop such products have generally lacked the profit motive to
make the necessary investments, given that sales would be mainly
in poor countries.  This failure of the market points to the need for other
mechanisms. Thankfully, they exist. The U.S. government invests
directly in neglected-disease research, principally through the
 National Institutes of Health . It also supports nonprofit
organizations called  product development partnerships  that spur
innovation and bring products for neglected diseases to market.
These groups, which work in concert with private-sector
partners, were responsible for almost half of the 45 new global
health products to treat a range of illnesses registered from
2000 to 2010.  Traditionally,  government spending  on neglected diseases
has been seen as charity or foreign assistance. Now it must
become a public-health priority for the sake of Americans, as
well.  Thanks in large part to the efforts of the Dengue Vaccine
Initiative, a product development partnership, four experimental
dengue vaccines are now undergoing trials. Yet only a few
medicines to treat dengue are in the early stages of
development. And research to address West Nile virus is
embryonic. Funding is needed to study better methods of
controlling the types of mosquitoes that spread the two viruses;
especially promising is the development of  genetically modified 
bugs that would wipe out their own species or be incapable of
carrying disease.  Although the U.S. is the  largest funder  of neglected-
disease research, its spending declined 5.1 percent in 2010,
according to an  annual survey  conducted by the research group
 Policy Cures . As the U.S. outbreaks of West Nile and dengue
show, this spending is now a vital investment in the health of
American citizens.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Democrats’ hard task ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on confronting  potential genocides ; William
Pesek on this weekend’s  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
Conference ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  how hard an Obama second term
would be ; Cass R. Sunstein on how  voters can escape from their
political cocoons ; John H. Cochrane on  Keynesian assumptions  at
the  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  