-- Rodgers Wants Owen, Drogba as Liverpool Reinforcements: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-03T06:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/rodgers-wants-owen-drogba-as-liverpool-reinforcements-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Rodgers Needs Reinforcements  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  wants to sign free agent
striker  Michael Owen  and former Chelsea forward  Didier Drogba  to
boost his attack after Andy Carroll joined West Ham United on
loan last week, the  Sun reported .  “I cannot say no to anything,” the newspaper cited
Rodgers as saying. “I have to look at ways to change the group.
We need reinforcements.”  Carroll’s Hamstring  Carroll sustained a hamstring injury in his West Ham debut
that may rule him out for a month and force him to miss
 England ’s first four qualifying matches for the 2014  World Cup ,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  “He’ll probably be on the treatment bench for a while,”
the Mirror cited West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce  as saying. “We
will just have to pray that it is not too severe.”  Falcao Fancies England  Atletico Madrid striker Radamel Falcao is keen on a move to
the Premier League and his father said it’s “very likely” that
his son will join an English club by the end of the next
transfer window in January, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Colombian striker’s preference is to play for
 Manchester City  or Chelsea, the Mail added. Falcao scored a hat
trick against the Blues three days ago to help Atletico win
European soccer’s Super Cup.  Free Agent Wanted  Swansea will have to find a free agent to replace left-back
Neil Taylor, who fractured his ankle during the 2-2 draw against
Sunderland two days ago, the  Mirror reported .  The injury, which is likely to keep Taylor out for the
season, leaves Ben Davies, 19, as the only left-back on the
roster with the transfer window having shut, the Mirror added.  “We can’t go out and buy someone but we’ll have to do
something,” the Mirror cited Swansea manager Michael Laudrup as
saying. “It wasn’t in my plans for this injury but we’ll see
what options we have.”  Ronaldo ‘Sad’  Cristiano Ronaldo  refused to celebrate after scoring his
150th goal for Real Madrid in yesterday’s 3-0 win against
Granada and is said to have cried for 20 minutes in the locker
room, the  Mail reported .  “I’m sad, when I don’t celebrate goals it’s because I’m
not happy,” the Mail cited Ronaldo as saying. “It’s a
professional thing. Real Madrid know why I’m not happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  