-- Rory McIlroy Wins PGA Tour Playoff Event for Third Title of 2012
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-04T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/rory-mcilroy-wins-pga-tour-s-second-playoff-event-by-one-stroke.html
Rory McIlroy surged into the lead at
the Deutsche Bank Championship and then held on for a one-shot
win at the U.S. PGA Tour playoff event, a victory that came
three weeks after he captured the  PGA Championship .  McIlroy, the No. 1 golfer in the Official World Ranking,
shot a 4-under-par 67 yesterday at the TPC Boston in Norton,
Massachusetts, to finish with a four-round total of 20-under par
264. South African Louis Oosthuizen, who took a three-shot lead
into the final round, finished second at 19 under par, while
 Tiger Woods  placed third at 18 under.  McIlroy receives $1.44 million for the victory, which was
his fifth on the PGA Tour and his third this year, having also
won the Honda Classic in March and then his second major title
last month at the PGA Championship on Kiawah Island, South
Carolina. The 23-year-old from Northern Ireland said his
experience after winning the 2011  U.S. Open  has taught him how
to quickly refocus after an important victory.  “I took three weeks off after the U.S. Open to sort of do
a lot of media things, commitments, celebrate a bit and try and
get ready for the Open Championship,” McIlroy said at a news
conference. “I had a lot going on at that time, and probably
didn’t handle it the best. But I learned from it, and as soon as
I won the PGA, I tried to refocus my mind and focus it on the
FedExCup Playoffs, and I’ve done that.”  McIlroy joined Woods as the only players to capture three
 PGA Tour  titles this season.  McIlroy birdied three of his first four holes yesterday and
played his first 12 holes in 5 under par, opening a three-shot
lead over Oosthuizen, who was 1 over through the same stretch.
Oosthuizen had birdies on the 13th and 15th holes to get back
within one shot of McIlroy.  Oosthuizen Misses Birdie  After both players had bogeys at the par-4 17th hole,
Oosthuizen missed a birdie putt of about 13 feet on the final
hole with a chance to force a playoff.  “Once I got into the lead, I felt very comfortable and
just tried to keep applying the pressure, hit fairways, hit
greens, and it worked for the most part,” McIlroy said. “Had a
couple wobbles coming in, but did enough in the early part of
the round to have enough of a cushion to get the job done.”  Woods had birdies on four of the first nine holes yesterday
before his challenge fell short as he ran off eight straight
pars before closing with a birdie at the par-5 18th hole. Woods
received $544,000 to become the first golfer to surpass $100
million in career earnings.  Making Progress  “My game is starting to come around,” Woods said. “I’m
pleased with the progress I made this week and really pleased
with the way I rolled it. I hit so many good putts all week
long, so that’s a positive.”  Phil Mickelson  and  Dustin Johnson  finished at 14 under, one
shot better than Brandt Snedeker.  Johnson and Snedeker are vying for a spot on the U.S. Ryder
Cup team, with captain  Davis Love III  set to announce his four
discretionary selections today.  Hunter Mahan ,  Jim Furyk ,  Steve
Stricker ,  Rickie Fowler  and  Nick Watney  are among the other top
American players who didn’t earn one of the eight automatic
spots on the U.S. squad for the biennial team competition
against Europe.  “I really want to play on the team,” Johnson said. “I
really think that I can help the team, and it’s something that I
really enjoy doing, so hopefully Captain Love will pick me.”  The Deutsche Bank Championship tournament included the top
100 players in the FedExCup point standings. The field will now
be reduced to 70 for the BMW Championship, which is scheduled
for Sept. 6-9 at Crooked Stick Golf Club in Carmel,  Indiana .  Following a one-week break, the top 30 players on the
points list will contend for the FedExCup title and the
champion’s $10 million bonus at the Tour Championship at East
Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  