-- Russian Ban on Public Smoking to Go To Parliament by Nov. 1
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-09-03T16:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/russian-bill-to-ban-public-smoking-to-go-to-parliament-by-nov-1.html
Russia will submit a law banning
smoking in public places to parliament by Nov. 1, defying
opposition from leading cigarette makers  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM)  and  British American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)   “Selling cigarettes is basically illegal if we look at it
from the point of view of protecting consumer rights,” Deputy
Health Minister Sergei Velmiaikin told reporters today in
Moscow.  Russia, the world’s largest tobacco market after China,
loses 1.5 trillion rubles ($46.3 billion) a year, or 2.5 percent
of gross domestic product, because of premature deaths caused by
smoking, Velmiaikin said. That doesn’t include the extra health
costs of treating people who suffer from tobacco-related
diseases, he said.  A  draft law  published Aug. 31 by the Health Ministry calls
for outlawing all cigarette advertising immediately, ending
retail sales at kiosks and banning smoking in public buildings
such as bars and restaurants by Jan. 1, 2015. Eastern Europe,
 Africa  and the  Middle East  generated about a third of sales
volumes at BAT and  Philip Morris , according to the companies.  ‘Big Success’  “Russia is a big success story” for cigarette makers,
 Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at Berenberg Bank, said by phone
from  London . The proposed measures “have the potential to
reduce the ability of the companies to compete for consumers.”  About 39 percent of Russia’s 143 million people are
habitual smokers, compared with 28 percent in China and 27
percent in the U.S., the World Health Organization estimates.  Smoking-related diseases kill 23 percent of Russian men and
cause economic damages equal to 6.3 percent of GDP, according to
the Health Ministry, which says its proposed law could cut
smoking by as much as half and save 200,000 lives a year.  Japan Tobacco, Asia’s largest listed cigarette producer by
market value, has lobbied against the proposed legislation.  “I have doubts that these restrictive measures can achieve
the set goals of reducing tobacco consumption given the
mentality of Russian consumers,” Anatoly Vereshchagin, a
spokesman for  Japan Tobacco (2914)  in Moscow, said by phone.  Total Ban  The Tokyo-based company, whose brands include Camel and
Winston, relies on the region encompassing Russia, the other ex-
Soviet states excluding the Baltic countries, the former
Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and Mongolia for 46
percent of global sales volumes, according to its website.  The  tobacco companies , which don’t break out Russian sales
data, say a total ban on smoking in public places and on
advertising cigarettes is too draconian, while ending kiosk
sales will only end up hurting small businesses.  They also argue that steep tax increases won’t impact
demand as much as the Health Ministry envisages because it will
lead to a flood of cheaper imports from neighboring countries
such as Belarus, Kazakhstan and  China .  “We understand that we limit someone’s economic interests
with our actions,” Velmiaikin said. “But these interests are
different from the interests of the country and society.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  