-- Samsung Says Its Chinese Assembler Didn’t Have Child Workers
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-09-04T03:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/samsung-says-its-chinese-assembler-didn-t-have-child-workers.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said it
didn’t find underage workers at a Chinese assembler accused by a
New York-based group of using child labor.  While investigators sent by Samsung found some employees
younger than 18, the student workers and interns were over 16,
and their employment is legal, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a statement yesterday. China Labor Watch  said 
last month seven children younger than 16 were working in the
factory of HEG Electronics (Huizhou) Co. that makes phones and
 DVD players  for Samsung.  Samsung asked HEG to improve its working conditions and
said it will stop doing business with the Chinese company if it
doesn’t comply with child-labor laws, the world’s top seller of
mobile phones and televisions said. Labor groups are increasing
scrutiny on workers in  Asia  after a spate of suicides at a
factory of Apple Inc. supplier Foxconn Technology Group in 2010.  “Samsung holds itself and its supplier companies to the
highest standards,” according to the statement. “If HEG fails
to meet Samsung’s zero tolerance policy on child labor, the
contract will be immediately severed.”  Some child workers use fake identifications and HEG had
transferred them before inspectors from Samsung arrived,  Li Qiang , a director at China Labor Watch in  New York , said in an
e-mailed response to queries. Samsung said on Aug. 8 it would
send an inspection team to the factory.  ID Checks  “This means that their auditing system has many
problems,” Li said.  One day before the Samsung auditors arrived, a team from
China Labor Watch saw young workers taken into several cars that
circled around the HEG factory before the labor group’s staff
lost track of them, he said.  A team of 30 Samsung investigators conducted face-to-face
ID checks, reviewed human-resources documents and interviewed
student workers individually from Aug. 9 to Aug. 31, though a
monthly staff turnover rate of about 30 percent made it harder
to track down employees, according to the statement.  In some cases, the investigators traveled hours to get
verification of the workers’ birth information,  James Chung , a
Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said by phone today in
response to the China Labor Watch statement.  “We investigated very thoroughly,” Chung said. “We made
it clear that if HEG gets caught hiring child labor, we’ll cut
them off. There will certainly be the impact CLW wants.”  More Inspections  The inspectors found some employees worked overtime and had
no access to medical clinics, according to the statement.  Calls to two phone numbers listed on the Website of HEG
Electronics weren’t answered and there was no immediate reply to
an e-mailed request for comment.  Samsung will conduct on-site inspections by the end of
September on all 105 Chinese companies that make products solely
for the company, it said in the statement. The company also
plans to have the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition
regularly check all of its suppliers in  China  from 2013.  Child workers faced the “same harsh conditions” as adults
and were paid only 70 percent of the wages of other workers,
according to China Labor Watch, which said it conducted
investigations in June and July. Working conditions at HEG were
“well below” those at Apple suppliers, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  