-- Samsung Shares Fall as Apple Eyes Ban on New Galaxy Phone
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-09-03T07:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/samsung-falls-as-apple-eyes-ban-on-new-galaxy-phone-seoul-mover.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone maker, fell in Seoul trading as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
sought a ban on U.S. sales of new Galaxy smartphones, deepening
their global patent disputes.  Samsung dropped 1.2 percent to 1,218,000 won at the close.
The stock tumbled 7.5 percent on Aug. 27, the first day of
trading after a U.S. jury verdict found the South Korean company
copied the iPhone.  Apple accused Samsung of flooding the market with “copycat
products” and added the Galaxy S III smartphone to a list of
models that the Cupertino, California-based company says
infringe its patents. The device is the latest version in
Samsung’s best-selling smartphone series and wasn’t yet on sale
in the U.S. when Apple, which won $1.05 billion in damages in
August, filed its first lawsuit last year.  “Apple’s move may not have an immediate impact on sales,
but the image for the new products is getting hurt,” Ahn Seong Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at  Hanwha Securities Co. (003530) , said by
telephone today. “The news headlines are all implying that
while Apple is leading innovations, Samsung just copied.”  Apple’s revised complaint filed on Aug. 31 in federal court
in San Jose,  California , builds on the jury verdict reached a
week earlier in the same court. In the filing, the company
sought a finding that the Suwon, South Korea-based competitor’s
products infringe its patents and an order barring Samsung from
further infringement, plus monetary damages.  Samsung will take the necessary legal measures to keep its
products available in the U.S., the Korean company said in a
statement on Sept. 1. Apple is seeking to limit consumer choice,
Samsung said.  Galaxy Phones  The  Samsung smartphones  named in the complaint are: Galaxy
S III - Verizon, Galaxy Note, Galaxy S II Skyrocket, Galaxy S II
Epic 4G Touch, Galaxy S II, Galaxy S II - T-Mobile, Galaxy S II
- AT&T, Galaxy Nexus, Illusion, Captivate Glide, Exhibit II 4G,
Stratosphere, Transform Ultra, Admire, Conquer 4G, and Dart.
Other devices covered by the filing are the Galaxy Player 4.0
and Galaxy Player 5.0 media players, and the Galaxy Note 10.1,
Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus and Galaxy Tab 8.9 tablets.  The Galaxy S III went on sale in the U.S. in June.  In the earlier  San Jose  case, Apple wanted eight Samsung
mobile devices blocked in the country. U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh ruled Aug. 28 that based on the Aug. 24 verdict, Apple’s
request for a permanent ban on U.S. sales of eight Samsung
mobile devices will be considered at a Dec. 6 hearing.  Elsewhere, Samsung and Apple, locked up in patent lawsuits
spanning four continents while keeping a commercial tie for chip
and display supplies, have exchanged legal victories. On Aug.
31, a Tokyo judge ruled that Samsung didn’t infringe on Apple
invention for synchronizing music and video data with servers,
while a week earlier in Seoul, a court found both companies
violated each other’s patents.  As the conflict deepens, uncertainty on Samsung stock will
persist, Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu
Securities Co., said in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  