-- Santander Mexico Investors Will Have to Look Past Spain
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-04T16:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/santander-s-mexico-investors-will-have-to-look-past-spain-woes.html
Investors seeking to ride a wave of
growth in  Mexico  through the share offering of  Banco Santander
SA (SAN) ’s unit in the country must look past the difficulties dogging
the bank in  Spain .  Santander said today it would seek to raise as much as 3.41
billion euros ($4.29 billion) by selling up to 24.9 percent of
its Mexican unit at 29 pesos to 33.50 pesos a share in the
country’s biggest stock sale. The offering values its Grupo
Financiero Santander Mexico unit at as much as 13.7 billion
euros, and shares will start trading on or about Sept. 26 in
Mexico and  New York , the bank said in a statement.  Potential investors must consider the future capital needs
of Santander as it absorbs mounting real estate losses in Spain
and meets tougher regulatory requirements, said Bill Rudman, who
helps manage about $250 million of emerging market shares at
Blackfriars Asset Management in  London . One risk is that
Santander will sell more shares in Mexico as it did in  Chile 
last November.  “Santander’s problems in Spain are absolutely an issue for
holders of stock in its units overseas,” said Rudman, who
already holds shares in the bank’s  Brazilian (SANB11)  unit. “The
question of when they might sell the next 10 percent is always
going to be on people’s minds.”  More Listings  Even so, Rudman said investors may welcome the sale because
of a scarcity of listed banks in Mexico since Spain’s  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  bought out shareholders of Grupo
Financiero Bancomer SA in 2004 and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
acquired Grupo Financiero Banamex Accival SA in 2001.  “From my point of view, Mexico certainly needs more bank
listings,” said Rudman, who owns shares in Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB, the No. 3 Mexican bank by outstanding loans.  Santander had been planning to sell shares in its Mexican
lender for more than two years, Botin, 77, told reporters in
Mexico City today. Santander is offering 20 percent of the
shares on sale in Mexico and the rest in the U.S. and other
markets, the bank said.  “We’re very satisfied with the trajectory of our bank in
this country,” Botin said.  Santander already has units in countries including  Brazil ,
Chile and Poland that trade on the stock market, as well as its
 Banco Espanol de Credito SA  consumer bank in Spain. The bank
plans to have all its major subsidiaries traded within five
years, Botin said today.  Spain Austerity  The performance of Santander’s Mexican bank contrasts with
Spain. In Mexico, profit jumped 14 percent in the first half to
556 million euros ($700 million) buoyed by surging loan growth,
while earnings in Spain fell by 37 percent as the economy shrank
and the sovereign-debt crisis worsened. The  International
Monetary Fund  predicts 3.9 percent economic growth in Mexico in
2012, compared with a 1.7 percent contraction in Spain.  “The industry in Mexico still has a lot of potential,”
said Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about $200 million in stocks at
Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA. “In
 consumer lending , there’s still very low penetration.”  In Spain, austerity measures that will equal 15 percent of
gross domestic product by 2014 are contributing to an economic
slump that pushed the  unemployment rate  to almost 25 percent.
Shrinking deposits and credit, rising loan losses and the
inability of most lenders to access debt markets forced the
government to seek a bailout of as much as 100 billion euros for
the financial industry in June.  Further Steps  The Mexico share sale may heighten scrutiny of Santander’s
capital position at the group level, said Benjie Creelan- Sandford, an  analyst  at  Macquarie Bank  in London. The sale will
add about half a percentage point to the group’s core capital
ratio, which was 10.1 percent at the end of June under Basel II
criteria, Santander said today.  Macquarie estimates Santander may still need as much as 15
billion euros of capital to cover Spanish real estate losses and
reach a 10 percent core Tier 1 capital ratio under the standards
of Basel III. Santander set aside 21 billion euros since the
start of last year to cover losses on souring assets, including
real estate, in its home market.  The bank’s decision to sell a chunk of the Mexican business
may herald further capital raising steps such as cutting the
dividend, said  Andrea Williams , a  fund manager  who helps oversee
about $1 billion at Royal London Asset Management.  Chile Unit  Williams said the fund had sold its shares in Santander and
BBVA, Spain’s second-biggest lender, in part on concern that
both still need to raise  capital . “They are deferring the
capital-raising,” she said in a phone interview, referring to
the Mexican plans. “It’s still going to pretty dilutive when
they do have to raise capital.”  Santander has said it’s committed to maintaining a dividend
at 60 cents a share in 2012.  There is also the risk Santander will sell more shares in
its listed units to raise money, said Rudman.  Banco Santander Chile (BSAN) , that country’s second-biggest
lender, dropped 8.6 percent on the day Santander said it would
sell 7.8 percent of the unit. The Chilean bank said at the time
it “would not receive any proceeds” from the $1 billion sale,
with all the funds going to “the selling shareholder.”  The Mexican offering would probably come with a lock-up
period, meaning Santander couldn’t sell additional shares for a
six-month period, said Rudman.  Joanne  Irvine , a fund manager who heads the  emerging
markets  team, excluding  Asia , at Aberdeen Asset Management, said
concerns about Santander’s capital position wouldn’t necessarily
affect the decision to invest in the Mexican unit.  Not ‘Showstopper’  “As long as the local subsidiary is well-capitalized, this
wouldn’t be a showstopper for us,” said Irvine, who holds stock
in Santander’s Chilean bank.  Not all Santander units performed well following share
sales. The  Brazilian unit  fell 31 percent since its initial
public offering in 2009, compared with a decline of about 10
percent for Brazil’s Itau Unibanco Holding SA and a 16 percent
gain for  Banco Bradesco SA. (BBDC4)   Investors in Santander’s Madrid-listed stock may take a dim
view of the Mexican sale because the bank will be selling off
future earnings from a high-growth market, as it did with
Brazil, said Creelan-Sandford. Santander has also said it wants
to sell shares in its U.K. and Argentine units.  Santander rose 0.4 percent to 5.70 euros in Madrid trading,
bringing its gain in the past 12 months to 6.2 percent. That
compare with a 6.8 percent gain in the 38-company Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  “They are selling off more profitable parts of the
business to backfill the holes they have elsewhere,” Creelan-
Sandford said. “While you don’t get the direct dilution that
would come from a rights issue, you are giving up earnings from
the group going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  