-- Schaeuble Warns Against Expecting too Much of Draghi’s Plans
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-09-03T10:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/schaeuble-warns-against-expecting-too-much-of-draghi-s-ecb-plans.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned against placing too much faith in the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plans as pressure grows on  Spain  and
Italy to decide whether to seek help to lower borrowing costs.  Whatever proposals ECB President  Mario Draghi  announces on
Sept. 6 must fall within the central bank’s mandate, Schaeuble
said in an interview today on  Deutschlandfunk  radio. Germany
won’t accept ECB financing of state budgets, he said.  “We have to be very careful that we don’t raise false
expectations,” Schaeuble told the broadcaster in Berlin. “It
has to remain very clear, state debt can’t be financed through
monetary policy. Therefore we can’t have a decision -- we would
think it very wrong -- that’s not covered by the ECB mandate.”  European leaders are awaiting the details of the ECB’s plan
and a German high-court decision next week that will determine
whether policy makers have the bailout funding required to
tackle the euro crisis almost three years after it emerged in
 Greece . The stakes for those countries at the heart of the
contagion were underscored last week when Spain’s government
said it will inject emergency funding into  Bankia group , its
third-largest lender, which posted a first-half loss.  ‘Robust Will’  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  reiterated over the
weekend that his government will wait to see what the Frankfurt-
based ECB unveils before seeking assistance to address rising
bond yields. Draghi said Aug. 2 that any ECB action would be
conducted in tandem with the region’s rescue funds and depend on
governments agreeing to strict conditions.  Spain’s  10-year yield  slid 2 basis points to 6.84 percent
as of 12:50 p.m. in  Madrid  after climbing 44 basis points last
week. The euro was little changed at $1.2572.  “Draghi’s announcement of intervention shows the robust
will of the ECB to solve the problem,” Rajoy told  Spain’s ABC ,
Germany’s Bild am Sonntag, France’s Le Journal du Dimanche and
 Italy ’s Corriere della Sera in a joint interview published over
the weekend. “I will await the results of the ECB and then make
a decision that’s good for Spain and for the euro.”  Germany reiterated its support for Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann, following reports last week that he’d considered
resigning over his opposition to ECB bond purchases. Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, referred to a report
in  Der Spiegel  that he’s staying on the job.  “He’s staying in office,” Seibert told reporters today in
Berlin. “That’s our position.”  ‘Unrealistic’  Finance ministers are also struggling to agree on a plan to
help integrate the banking sector of the 17-member currency
union by placing the bloc’s bank supervision in the hands of the
ECB. Schaeuble took issue with European Commissioner  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, who said last week
that he wanted the supervision to be in effect from next year.  “I think that’s a bit unrealistic,” Schaeuble told
Deutschlandfunk, saying that he was “surprised” as euro group
ministers hadn’t yet discussed the draft proposal. “It’s always
this way -- there’s an interview and the media jump on it and
then expectations are raised that can’t be met,” he said.  The so-called banking union is a condition for enabling the
euro bailout funds to finance banks directly, offering the
prospect of breaking the link between ailing credit sectors and
the sovereign-debt market that’s driving the crisis.  Court Decision  Bailout funding will be on hold until  Germany ’s Federal
Constitutional Court decides on Sept. 12 whether to suspend the
euro-area’s permanent rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism. Only with its endorsement can the legislation be
approved and the 500 billion-euro ($628 billion) ESM go into
operation.  The ECB’s bond plan would also be held up without bailout
money, since any scheme would involve central-bank intervention
working alongside joint funding to ease yields. The ECB’s
Executive Board will send a list of options to the 17 governors
tomorrow, a day before the Governing Council convenes in
 Frankfurt , three central bank officials said Aug. 31.  Options under consideration include sovereign-bond yield
caps and targets on spreads over German bunds, the officials
said. One said there has also been discussion about making
purchases in a range of asset classes and not just  government
bonds . An ECB spokesman declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  