-- Severstal Seeks to Expand U.S. Sales to BMW, Nissan by 2016
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-09-03T14:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/severstal-seeks-to-expand-u-s-sales-to-bmw-nissan-by-2016-1-.html
OAO Severstal (SVST) , Russian billionaire
Alexei Mordashov’s steelmaker, plans to expand the share of its
U.S. unit’s sales to automakers such as Nissan Motor Co. to as
much as 42 percent by 2016 to benefit from an industry revival.  “Demand in the automotive sector is recovering at a higher
pace than in any other segment, and in the next five years we
expect it to rise especially in the south of the U.S. and in
 Mexico ,” Sergei Kuznetsov, chief executive officer of Severstal
International, said in a telephone interview from  London .  The unit sold about 30 percent of its steel to automakers
including  Ford Motor Co. (F) , General Motor Co. and Chrysler Group
LLC in the first half, he said. It has already begun shipping to
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Mercedes-Benz, while talks have
started with Nissan and Toyota Motor Corp. on gaining necessary
certification to supply those companies, Kuznetsov said.  The international division, focused on  North America , had
first-half sales of $2.16 billion, after $1.57 billion a year
earlier, as output rose about 40 percent, it said  last week .
Severstal expects the U.S market to grow 6 percent this year.  Prices, up about 7 percent to 8 percent since July to $680
to $700 a metric ton, began recovering after slumping 20 percent
from the first quarter to the end of July, Kuznetsov said.  “There is a danger that some of ArcelorMittal’s facilities
may be halted for a period,” so a lot will depend on the talks
between unions and ArcelorMittal about a new contract, he said,
adding that the U.S. market is set to grow 3 percent next year.  The U.S. Department of Energy in January canceled a planned
$730 million loan for Severstal to finance construction of a new
line in Dearborn for ultra-thin steel for energy-efficient cars.  “It’s on hold and we are looking for an alternative way of
financing it, such as finding a partner,” Kuznetsov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  