-- Slowing Polish Economy May Force Tusk to Ease Budget Cuts
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-09-04T18:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/slowing-polish-economy-may-force-tusk-to-ease-budget-cuts.html
Poland ’s slowing economy is putting
pressure on Prime Minister Donald Tusk to ease deficit cuts to
avoid the fate of other European Union nations where austerity
measures to tackle the debt crisis helped suffocate growth.  Tusk’s Cabinet approved a revised 2013 budget after the
 economy  expanded at the slowest pace in 11 quarters in the three
months through June, the government’s office said in an e-mailed
statement. Growth will ease to 2.2 percent instead of a
previously forecast 2.9 percent, according to the statement,
which didn’t release a new deficit target.  While Poland will stick to a plan to cut the 2012 budget
gap within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of output, keeping its
2.2 percent goal for 2013 would “mean we end up next year with
zero growth or even a recession,” said Jakub Szulc, a member of
Tusk’s Civic Platform who sits on Parliament’s Public Finances
Commission.  “We can’t drop the long-term goal for a 1 percent deficit
in 2015, but next year’s plan obviously needs to be adjusted,”
Szulc said by phone from Warsaw today. “Foreign investors will
understand this because it’s growth that matters for the
international credibility of countries these days.”  Tusk, the first Polish premier to serve a second term since
communism ended in 1989, must weigh EU deficit demands against
concerns that further spending cuts may damp growth in the
nation of 38 million people, whose GDP-per-capita is 40 percent
below the 27-nation bloc’s average. While his Cabinet still
enjoys broad support in polls, governments across  Europe  have
collapsed after protests against austerity policies that helped
plunge economies from  Romania  to  Spain  into recession.  ‘Politically Unpopular’  “With the economy slowing, the already poor state of the
labor market is likely to get worse,”  William Jackson , London-
based economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in an e-mailed
comment. “As such, any further fiscal austerity measures to
meet  budget deficit  targets are likely to be politically
unpopular. What’s more, they could also be counterproductive.”  Gross domestic product expanded 2.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier as a tighter budget policy and
declining real wages curbed domestic demand. While the EU’s
biggest eastern economy is still expanding at the third-fastest
rate in the bloc, the slowdown is stoking concern about the
future, weakening the zloty 2.6 percent against the euro since
Aug. 27, making it the worst-performer among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  New Forecast  Tusk has said he will give a parliamentary speech, probably
next week, to outline measures aimed at tackling threats to the
economy.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Council also begins a
two-day meeting in Warsaw today and will keep the benchmark
 interest rate  at 4.75 percent, according to 24 of 25 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . “There is a room to reduce which,
if necessary, I’m sure we’ll utilize,” Governor  Marek Belka 
told Bloomberg Television in a weekend interview in  Wyoming . The
rate decision will be announced tomorrow.  Poland plans to reduce its deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP
this year, within the EU ceiling for the first time since 2007
and down from 5.1 percent last year and 7.8 percent in 2010.
Ludwik Kotecki, the chief economist at the  Finance Ministry ,
said last month that the government will continue consolidating
finances if economic growth isn’t at risk.  Next Year  The economy will slow “more or less” to 2.5 percent in
2012 from 4.3 percent last year, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told reporters last week in Warsaw.  Next year’s central budget deficit will total 35.6 billion
zloty ($10.7 billion), 600 million zloty more than initially
planned, the government said after today’s meeting. The general
government shortfall, which includes all state expenses, wasn’t
revised from 2.2 percent of gross domestic product.  “The central budget deficit at more or less the same level
as 2012 suggests the general government deficit won’t be cut to
2.2 percent,” said  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank
Zachodni WBK in Warsaw. “Still, amid a considerable
deterioration of Europe’s economic climate, we don’t think this
will diminish the assessment of Polish fiscal policy.”  Poland plans to reduce the budget gap to within the EU’s
limit of 3 percent this year, the first time since 2007.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, has given
Poland until the end of this year to cut the deficit to 3
percent. Failing to do so may cost the country access to
development grants that totaled 67 billion euros ($84 billion)
and added an average of 1 percentage point per year to gross
domestic product in the seven years through 2013.  The Brussels-based commission forecasts the economy will
grow 2.7 percent in 2012, the most in the EU. The expansion
slowing next year to less than the 1.6 percent rate posted in
2009, when Poland was the only EU member to avoid a slump,
“can’t be ruled out,”  Maja Goettig , a member of Tusk’s  Council
of Economic Advisers , said by phone on Aug. 31.  “The effects of fiscal consolidation, uncertainty over the
external environment and a weakening labor market are
increasingly visible in the data,” Magdalena Polan, an
economist at Goldman Sachs in  London , said in a note Aug. 30.
“This is likely to continue in the second half, in our view,
keeping growth below potential.”  Labor Market  Jobs growth slowed to zero in July from 3.3 percent a year
earlier, the lowest in 25 months, while the  unemployment rate 
has been stuck between 11.4 percent and 13.5 percent for two
years, even as the economy outperformed most EU peers. It will
stay at about that level through 2013, the government predicts.  Tusk, who began his second term in October, doesn’t face
any immediate political threats to his coalition, which has a
four-seat majority in parliament. The current legislature’s term
ends in three years.  Still, 64 percent of Poles are increasingly concerned about
the economy’s future, up 5 percentage points from July,
according to an Aug. 14-23 poll of 1,011 people by Warsaw-based
researcher CBOS. No margin of error was given.  Bond Yields  Tusk, 55, has credited policies aimed at narrowing the
deficit with helping to reduce borrowing costs. The yield on the
government’s five-year bond reached a record low of 4.22 percent
at 2:45 p.m. Warsaw time, down from 5.05 percent on Oct. 10
after Tusk’s re-election, according to generic data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps rose one basis point to 152,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps cost 89 basis points
less than the average for countries in eastern Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa  included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA
Index, compared with an average difference of 78 basis points in
the first half of 2012.  “In the light of weakening economy, we should definitely
keep some public investments, which may not be possible if we
continue reducing the deficit at the pace we have outlined so
far,” Jacek Wisniewski, also a member of Tusk’s Council of
Economic Advisers, said by phone yesterday.  Sticking to 3 percent in 2013 “won’t mean any loosening”
and “will avoid a further tightening of fiscal policy, which is
what’s required when an economy slows,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  