-- SNB’s Jordan Repeats Franc Pledge, Sees Property Threat
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-09-03T07:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/snb-s-jordan-repeats-franc-pledge-sees-property-threat.html
Swiss central bank President Thomas Jordan reiterated his commitment to defend the franc ceiling and
warned of signs of overheating in the residential  property
market .  “In the current situation, a further appreciation of the
Swiss franc would constitute a very substantial threat to the
Swiss economy, and would carry with it the risk of deflationary
developments,” Jordan said at a conference in Zurich today.
“With this in mind, we will continue to enforce the minimum
 exchange rate  with the utmost determination.”  The  Swiss National Bank  has purchased billions of euros to
defend the franc ceiling, which was introduced a year ago to
protect the economy from the impact of an appreciating currency.
With borrowing costs at zero, Jordan called today on banks to
use “prudent credit standards,” saying there is a risk of a
“further buildup of imbalances followed by a significant price
correction” in the real-estate market.  Jordan is turning his focus to potential threats from the
property market after the SNB said in its Financial Stability
Report in June that there is a need for “corrective measures.”
Home loans have increased by almost 300 billion francs ($314
billion) in a decade and gained 5.2 percent last year to 797.8
billion francs. That’s about 140 percent of Swiss gross domestic
product.  Lending Rules  The government toughened lending rules earlier this year,
forcing borrowers to provide at least 10 percent of the value of
the property from their own funds without using pension  assets.
Under the measures, mortgages will have to be paid down to two-
thirds of the lending value within 20 years.  In addition, the Swiss government can force lenders to hold
additional capital of as much as 2.5 percent of their domestic
risk-weighted assets to counter threats to financial stability
following a request from the SNB for activation.  The Zurich-based SNB said on Aug. 27 that given
“indications of a possible slowdown” in the second quarter of
the “exceptionally strong” momentum in the domestic
residential mortgage and real-estate markets, the so-called
countercyclical capital buffer won’t be be activated this year.
Still, the central bank is “observing closely” all
developments to see whether the buffer is necessary, Jordan told
Swiss television in an interview on the same day.  “This is far from an all-clear for the real estate
market,” Jordan said. The measure “serves two purposes --
strengthening the resilience of the banking system by increasing
its loss-absorbing capacity and helping to lean against the
buildup of excesses. It is a very flexible instrument and may be
activated for specific sectors of the credit market only.”  There are signs that residential properties are already
“overvalued” in the regions of Zurich, Geneva and Zug as well
as other parts of the country, Jordan said. Residential
mortgages account for about 70 percent of assets of domestically
oriented Swiss banks, according to the SNB.  The SNB will hold its next monetary assessment on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  