-- South Africa PMI Falls on Lower Factory Demand, Kagiso Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-09-03T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/south-africa-pmi-falls-on-lower-factory-demand-kagiso-says.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
 index  declined in August as demand for manufactured goods
weakened and  oil prices  jumped, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index fell to 50.2 from 51 in July,
Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed statement today.
An index level above 50 indicates an expansion in factory
output.  “Despite the monthly volatility, we are seeing a clear
downward trend in the demand for factory goods,” Abdul Davids,
head of research at Kagiso Asset Management in Cape Town, said
in the statement. “Supply continues to exceed demand and this
does not bode well for manufacturing sector production.”  The South African Reserve Bank lowered borrowing costs in
July for the first time since November 2010 to support the
economy as the debt crisis in  Europe  erodes demand for
manufactured exports.  Economic growth  will slow to 2.7 percent
this year from 3.1 percent last year, according to forecasts
from the government and the central bank.  The median estimate of three economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for the PMI to decline to 50 in August.  Crude oil prices in  New York  jumped 8.5 percent to as high
as $97.26 a barrel in August, adding to producers’ costs. Growth
in  factory output , which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
slowed to 0.8 percent in June from 4.4 percent in the previous
month, according to the statistics office.  The index measuring new-sales orders lost 5.3 points to
46.9 last month and the price sub-index increased 8.2 points to
70.9, Kagiso said. The employment index rose for a second month,
adding 4 points to 51.  The Bureau for  Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  