-- South Africa Mine Deaths Show Wealth Gap Inciting Tension
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-09-04T05:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/south-africa-mine-deaths-show-wealth-gap-inciting-tension.html
South Africa ’s worst mine violence
since the end of apartheid in 1994 has highlighted one of the
world’s biggest wealth gaps that senior government officials say
is stirring up social tension in Africa’s biggest economy.  Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  and Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  warned last week that  income inequality  threatens
the nation’s democracy, reflecting concern expressed by
investors and credit rating agencies. Police shot and killed 34
striking mineworkers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana operation last
month during a protest over higher wages.  While more black South Africans have been given access to
water, electricity and social welfare grants since the  African
National Congress  swept into power 18 years ago to end whites-
only rule, 60 percent, or about 23 million, still live in
poverty and 28 percent are  jobless , according to government
data. The gap between rich and poor in South Africa is worse
than  Honduras  and the Central African Republic, according to the
 World Bank .  “The dividends of development weren’t spread across the
population as a whole,” Dirk Kotze, a politics professor at the
University of South Africa, said in a phone interview from
 Pretoria , the capital, yesterday. “There is a high explosive
potential. It is just not a labor dispute anymore, it is much
more emotional. The sense of polarization is stronger than in
the past.”  White  South Africans , who make up 9 percent of the
population, earn on average eight times more than blacks. About
80 percent of the nation’s 49 million people are black.  Mineral Wealth  Discontent over wages sparked six days of violence last
month at Lonmin's platinum mine in Marikana, in North West
province, in which 10 people, including two police officers,
were killed. On Aug. 16, police opened fire as they tried to
disperse a crowd of 3,000 workers staging an illegal strike. The
police said they acted in self-defense after being shot at by
the strikers, many of whom were armed, including with fighting
sticks and machetes.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  estimated in 2010 that South Africa had the
world’s richest mineral deposits, worth $3.5 trillion. Even so,
the distribution of wealth in the economy is “unfair” and an
“ingredient for revolution,” Motlanthe, who is also deputy
president of the ANC, told reporters in  Cape Town  on Aug. 29.  Gordhan echoed those comments the next day in a speech at a
leadership conference in Johannesburg, warning of “serious
faultlines” if citizens are excluded from the economy and
political institutions.  Credit Ratings  The Gini coefficient, a measure of income inequality, was
0.63 in South Africa in 2009, the highest of 25 developing
nations surveyed by the World Bank. The index was 0.59 in 1993,
according to the Washington-based lender. A reading of zero
means society is totally equal, while a reading of 1 means the
society is completely unequal.  “Black income really hasn’t changed,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “That shows that the amount of progress
made by the ANC is clearly limited.”  Violent protests at mines may be spreading. Police used
tear gas to remove about 60 former employees from the entrance
to  Gold One International Ltd. (GDO) ’s Modder East mine yesterday. The
protesters, who had been fired for taking part in an illegal
strike, threw stones at vehicles and refused to leave the area.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have cited
South Africa’s unemployment and poverty as limits to economic
growth and the nation’s credit rating. Moody’s, Fitch and
 Standard & Poor’s  have a negative outlook on South African
government debt.  The rand rose 0.2 percent to 8.3665 at 7:19 a.m. in
Johannesburg today. The currency has dropped 3.2 percent since
Aug. 10.  Township Protests  “High unemployment is already associated with widespread
crime, which is regularly cited as one factor deterring foreign
investment,” Fitch’s sovereign analyst,  Carmen Altenkirch , said
in a statement on Aug. 24. “Over time it could also threaten
social and political stability, damaging the investment climate
further.”  Poor, mainly black, township residents staged 113 protests
against a lack of housing, sanitation and other services in the
first seven months of this year, more than in any other year
since monitoring began in 2004, according to Municipal IQ, an
independent local government research group.  The violence at Marikana shows that social instability may
be “much more of a ‘present’ risk than many had previously
thought -- that it is already serious enough to impact on
economic outcomes today,”  Razia Khan , an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in London, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Jobless Rate  Living standards for most poor South Africans have improved
since 1994: More than 95 percent have access to clean water, up
from about 62 percent; more than three-quarters of households
are electrified, from 51 percent; and the number of people
receiving welfare grants has risen more than five-fold to over
15 million.  Still, economic progress hasn’t been fast enough to make a
dent in the  unemployment rate , which hasn’t dropped below 22
percent since 2000, according to government data. President
 Jacob Zuma , who was swept to power in 2009 with the backing of
labor unions, has pledged to cut the jobless rate to 14 percent
by 2020. That requires economic growth of 7 percent compared
with average expansion of 3.5 percent a year until 2014,
according to government forecasts.  “The problem of unemployment lies with jobless young,
black males,” Piet Croucamp, a politics lecturer at the
University of Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview on
Aug. 29. “This is where the political tension lies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  