-- Spain Leads Europe’s $25 Billion Gamble Before ECB
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-03T14:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/spain-leads-europe-s-25-billion-gamble-before-ecb-euro-credit.html
Nations are asking investors to
stake at least 20 billion euros ($25 billion) on second-guessing
the  European Central Bank  this week, selling the most debt in
more than three months before  Mario Draghi  speaks on Thursday.  Spain, France,  Austria  and  Belgium  return to the market
this week after a month-long pause, with  Germany  also selling
debt. The auctions take place before the ECB’s Sept. 6 meeting
in  Frankfurt , where Draghi, the central bank’s president, may
reveal details of a new bond-buying program. That makes Spanish
debt at this week’s sale unattractive, according to Peter Allwright, head of absolute rates and currency at RWC Partners
Ltd. in  London .  “An auction this close to the ECB meeting is too risky,”
said Allwright, who helps manage $4 billion. “Investing in
Spanish bonds and getting it wrong is a career-ending trade.”  Spain will sell as much as 3.5 billion euros of debt
repayable between 2014 and 2016 just hours before Draghi’s press
conference.  Yield Volatility  The last time  Spain  sold bonds was Aug. 2, also before an
ECB meeting. That day, the nation’s 10-year rate swung between
6.61 percent and 7.20 percent, before closing at 7.17 percent.
The 1.05 billion euros of January 2022 securities it sold were
priced to yield 6.647 percent.  Spanish 10-year bonds  yielded  6.86 percent at 1:23 p.m.
London time. The rate rose 44 basis points last week.  France, which last sold bonds on July 19, also sells debt
on the day of the ECB meeting, offering as much as 8 billion
euros of securities due between 2017 and 2027, while Germany
sells 5 billion euros of 10-year notes a day earlier.  Belgium today sold 3.195 billion euros of debt maturing
between 2019 and 2041, its first sale since July 30. The bonds
due in September 2022 were sold at an average yield of 2.584
percent, down from 2.624 percent in July and the lowest for
similar-maturity debt since at least the introduction of the
euro in 1999.  Austria sells bonds at auction for the first time since
June 12 tomorrow, offering 1.21 billion euros of bonds due in
five and seven years.  “Spanish debt will be the most sensitive to the ECB
meeting,” saidAlessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “I see a smooth auction for
Germany, Austria and  France .”  Target Amounts  If all the remaining sales this week meet their maximum
targets, the five nations would issue a total of 20.905 billion
euros of debt, the most since the week starting May 14.  Draghi said at the ECB’s Aug. 2 meeting that it’s
“unacceptable” for investors to bet against the euro’s future
by elevating bond yields. He said that may spur the ECB to buy
short-dated bonds in the secondary market, albeit only in
concert with direct purchases from governments by  Europe ’s
rescue fund, with accompanying economic conditions. The
statement followed his July 26 vow to do “whatever it takes”
to defend the shared currency.  “The market will be awaiting the ECB, probably with
expectations they will announce a significant program,” said
Niels From, chief analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Copenhagen.  The euro area’s 17 national central bank governors will
have about 24 hours to digest the ECB’s bond-buying proposal
before they start debating it, three officials said last week.  The ECB Executive Board will send a list of options for the
bond-buying program to the governors on Sept. 4, a day before
the Governing Council convenes in Frankfurt before the Sept. 6
rate decision, the central bank officials said, speaking Aug. 31
on condition of anonymity because the plans aren’t public.  Court Ruling  Germany’s  Constitutional Court  is set to rule on the
legality of the European Stability Mechanism, Europe’s permanent
bailout fund, on Sept. 12. The central bank may delay detailing
its bond-buying intentions until after that, two central bank
officials said Aug. 24. They spoke on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are not public.  “We may see increased volatility running up to the
meeting,” said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist at
UBS AG in London. “The biggest hurdle is the Spanish auction
because it is so close to the ECB meeting. It could be the last
auction that goes well if the ECB doesn’t deliver and the ESM
case goes badly. The potential for disappointment is still
great.”  Investors have driven down Spanish and Italian yields in
the wake of Draghi’s comments. Spanish  government bonds  returned
2.6 percent between the Aug. 2 meeting and Aug. 31, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Italy ’s rose 3.9 percent while
German bunds fell 0.5 percent, the data show.  That optimism translated into the primary market. Italy,
auctioning bonds for the first time in more than four weeks, saw
borrowing costs fall as it sold 7.29 billion euros of five- and
10-year bonds on Aug. 30. The Rome-based Treasury priced a new
10-year bond to yield 5.82 percent, down from 5.96 percent when
a similar-maturity bond was sold on July 30.  If the ECB does unveil a substantial program, periphery
yields could tumble, according to  Peter Chatwell , a fixed income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank.  Italian two-year rates could almost halve to 1.5 percent
from current levels, Chatwell said in interview on Bloomberg
Television on Aug 29.  Conversely, if the ECB disappoints, the yields could surge,
according to ING’s Giansanti. “The market is still expecting
the ECB to buy bonds,” he said. “Any step back from Draghi
will be taken as negative and Spanish yields will jump back to
previous highs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  