-- Suncorp-Metway Plans First Foreign Currency Bond Sale Since 2009
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-03T22:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/suncorp-metway-plans-first-foreign-currency-bond-sale-since-2009.html
Suncorp-Metway Ltd. (SBKHB) , Australia’s
fifth-biggest lender, plans to sell its first foreign-currency
bonds in more than 2 1/2 years to meet demand from offshore
investors for the nation’s bank debt.  Suncorp may sell notes in Swiss francs, yen, U.S. dollars
or British pounds after receiving interest from international
asset managers following its debut domestic covered bond in May,
Simon Lewis, the lender’s head of funding, said by phone from
 Brisbane  last week. The banking unit of  Suncorp Group Ltd. (SUN)  plans
to complete a sale in at least one of the currencies by the end
of the year, he said.  Suncorp-Metway was the first regional Australian bank to
sell covered bonds, raising A$1.6 billion ($1.6 billion), after
the Australian government passed laws in October to allow the
sale of the securities. The nation’s four biggest banks have
traditionally been bigger users of debt markets, owing a
combined A$384 billion to bondholders  compared  with Suncorp-
Metway’s A$8.9 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The covered bond deal got quite a lot of attention
offshore,” Lewis said. “Any company that can do a deal that’s
more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in size raises a few
eyebrows and reminds investors that there’s another bank down
here that maybe they can look at.”  Financial Spreads  Suncorp-Metway plans to raise A$3 billion to A$4 billion of
term funding a year, Lewis said. It last sold foreign currency
debt in November 2009, issuing $300 million of floating-rate
notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
financial bonds sold worldwide compared with government debt
fell 34 basis points this quarter to 176 on Aug. 31, compared
with a global average of 234, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  The spread on Suncorp-Metway’s A$1.1 billion of 4.75
percent covered bonds due December 2016 was last at 118 basis
points more than swap rates, from a 140 basis-point premium when
the notes were sold on May 30, according to Commonwealth Bank of
 Australia  prices.  Swiss franc bonds currently offer attractive funding costs,
Lewis said, estimating that raising the equivalent of A$250
million from three-year notes would cost between 140 basis
points and 150 basis points more than the bank bill swap rate
once swapped back into Australian dollars.  Suncorp paid a 150 basis-point margin to sell three-year
debt at home in April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mortgage Bonds  The bank priced a A$1 billion sale of residential mortgage-
backed securities from its Apollo Trust last week, the data
show. RMBS aren’t guaranteed by the issuer, while covered bonds
are backed by an issuer’s guarantee and an underlying pool of
mortgages.  Suncorp-Metway doesn’t plan to offer further RMBS in the
next 12 months, focusing instead on senior unsecured debt sales,
said Lewis.  “It means that we can keep our covered bond program as a
fallback position and use it strategically,” he said. “If
there’s a change in the market and liquidity dries up, we’ve
still got a covered bond program that we can turn to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  