-- Pound Approaches 3-Month High After Factory Data; Gilts Decline
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-03T16:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/u-k-pound-snaps-gain-versus-dollar-before-manufacturing-data.html
The pound rose toward a three-month
high against the dollar after an industry report showed U.K.
manufacturing shrank less than economists forecast, damping
speculation the  Bank of England  will increase monetary stimulus.  The U.K. currency gained versus most of its major
counterparts after Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said producers of  consumer goods 
increased output last month and a “severe decline” in new
orders caused by Europe’s debt turmoil eased. U.K. government
bonds fell before the Bank of  England  meets to review interest
rates and asset purchases this week.  “The pound has rallied at the margin following this
morning’s manufacturing data,” said Michael Derks, chief
strategist at FXPro Group Ltd. in  London . “Recently, there have
been some slightly better numbers coming from the U.K. but at
best the economy is going sideways.”  The pound gained 0.1 percent to $1.5888 at 4:54 p.m. London
time after rising to $1.5912 on Aug. 23, the strongest level
since May 17. Sterling was little changed at 79.29 pence per
euro after rising as much as 0.3 percent.  An index of U.K. factory output rose to 49.5 in August from
a revised 45.2 in July, Markit said in London. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for an
increase to 46.1. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.
Markit will release its survey of the U.K. services sector on
Sept. 5.  ‘Bolster Expectations’  “It will be interesting to see if the rebound in
manufacturing is also reflected in the services index,”  David Tinsley , chief U.K. economist at BNP Paribas in London, wrote in
a note. “That would help bolster expectations that the economy
will return to growth in the second half of this year.”  The pound faces so-called resistance at its Aug. 23 high of
$1.5912, according to  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London.
Resistance refers to an area where sell orders may be clustered.  The pound has gained 1.5 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The dollar weakened 0.9 percent,
and the euro declined 4 percent.  Speculation the  Federal Reserve  will add further monetary
stimulus to support growth in the world’s largest economy has
weighed on the dollar and boosted the pound.  “The dollar is on the defensive because it appears the Fed
is on the cusp of implementing more quantitative easing,”
FXPro’s Derks said.  U.S. policy makers next meet on Sept. 12-13.  Gilts Decline  The 10-year gilt yield climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.65 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 fell 0.2, or 2 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 100.915.  Gilts returned 4.2 percent this year through Aug. 31,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
4 percent and U.S. Treasuries rose 2.7 percent.  The Bank of England will keep its key  interest rate  at a
record low 0.5 percent and hold its asset purchase target at 375
billion pounds at its monthly policy announcement on Sept. 6,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  