-- U.K. Stocks Rise After Two Weeks of Losses; Miners Climb
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-03T10:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/u-k-stocks-rise-after-two-weeks-of-losses-miners-climb.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, after two
weeks of losses, as mining shares pushed the benchmark  FTSE 100
Index (UKX)  higher.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  gained 2 percent after La Tercera
reported the world’s biggest mining company signed a 20-year
contract with Chile’s GNL Mejillones.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  added 3.5
percent after South African prosecutors suspended murder charges
against workers striking at the company’s mine.  Phoenix IT (PNX)  Group
Ltd. slumped the most since its 2004 listing after reporting
accounting irregularities at its Servo unit.  The FTSE 100 Index advanced 0.5 percent to 5,739.68 at
11:16 a.m. in London, after dropping 1.1 percent last week. The
gauge has still gained 9.1 percent since the 2012 low on June 1
as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do
all it takes to preserve the euro. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index also added 0.5 percent today. Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose
0.4 percent.  “Investors appear to have convinced themselves that
additional QE is now more likely from this month’s Fed
meeting,” said  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at CMC Markets
U.K. Plc, referring to a third round of quantitative easing in
the world’s largest economy. “Markets are speculating that
President Draghi will announce a raft of measures to push yields
lower on Spanish and Italian bonds this week.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the FTSE 100 Index
was 32 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bond Auctions  Euro-area nations are selling more than 20 billion euros
($25 billion) of debt to investors this week, amid speculation
Draghi will outline details of a new bond-purchase program at
the ECB’s regular policy meeting on Sept. 6.  Spain, France, Austria and Belgium return to the market
after a month-long pause. Germany, the region’s largest economy,
is also selling debt before the ECB’s meeting in  Frankfurt .  In China, manufacturing unexpectedly contracted for the
first time in nine months, a government survey on Sept. 1
showed. The  Purchasing Managers  Index fell to 49.2 in August
from 50.1 in July, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said.  Euro-area  manufacturing  contracted more than initially
estimated in August, suggesting the economy may struggle to
 avoid  a recession in the third quarter.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area based
on a survey of purchasing managers was revised lower to 45.1
from the reading of 45.3 estimated earlier, London-based Markit
Economics said today. The index, which stood at 44 in July, has
held below 50 for 13 months, indicating contraction.  Miners Advance  BHP gained 2 percent to 1,873 pence. La Tercera said BHP’s
agreement with the Chilean company will give it access to GNL’s
natural gas terminal and define the capacity it will be able to
use and the rate it will pay.  A gauge of mining shares listed on the FTSE 350 Index
advanced 1.8 percent.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
climbed 2 percent to 2,791 pence, and 1.6 percent to 1,778.5
pence, respectively.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  added 2.1 percent
to 6,450 pence.  Lonmin, whose South African platinum mine was shut down
last month after an illegal strike led to violent unrest, gained
3.5 percent to 593 pence. Mineworkers who were arrested on
murder charges will be released from prison and the case
postponed until a judicial commission of inquiry completes its
work, Acting National Director of Prosecutions Nomgcobo Jiba
told reporters in  Pretoria  yesterday.  Phoenix IT plummeted 34 percent to 138.5 pence, the most
since the company listed in 2004, after saying net assets will
be reduced by 14 million pounds ($22 million) after taxes,
following accounting miss-statements at its Servo unit.  Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  slipped 3.8 percent to 1,141 pence after
Canaccord Genuity told investors to sell the shares. Credit
Suisse AG cut its recommendations on Admiral’s shares to
neutral, the equivalent of hold, from outperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  