-- U.S. Shale Glut Means Gas Shortage for Mexican Industry: Energy
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-09-04T19:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/u-s-shale-glut-means-gas-shortage-for-mexican-industry-energy.html
Mexico has begun cutting natural gas
supplies to some of its largest customers by as much as 45
percent of their orders to cope with ballooning demand from
households to steelmakers such as  Ternium SA (TX)  and  ArcelorMittal. (MT)   Monopoly supplier Petroleos Mexicanos, known as Pemex,
started reductions on a case-by-case basis as the government
studies forcing the measure on all companies. Pemex has
increased imports from the U.S. to records this year as its
state-owned pipelines run at about 95 percent of capacity.  The bottleneck in  Latin America ’s second-largest economy is
the latest energy whiplash stemming from the U.S. shale gas
boom. Mexican  gas prices  are tied to rates in its northern
neighbor, where soaring supplies from shale fields drove gas to
a 10-year low and reduced Mexico’s wholesale price 32 percent in
the past year. Manufacturers can’t get enough of the energy.  “The shortage of natural gas is affecting companies
economically and technically,” Octavio Rangel, the  Mexico  Steel
Chamber chief, said without naming any, in a written response to
questions. “In some plants, gas supply has been reduced 40
percent to 45 percent of what was originally agreed.”  Pemex contacted all clients last month for the 15th time
this year to recommend they cut consumption or face incomplete
deliveries, compared with 18 times in all of 2011.  The pinch illustrates how the global supply balance was
rocked by advanced extraction techniques that have buyers in the
U.S. paying about one-eighth the price Asian nations are charged
for gas. At the same time, nations like Mexico that link prices
to the U.S. Henry Hub benchmark are seeing rapid demand growth
compared with  Europe , where most rates are tied to oil.  ‘Pricing Problem’  “The problem is about pricing, not about reserves, not
even about pipelines,” David Shields, a Mexico City-based
independent energy analyst and publisher of Energia magazine,
said in an Aug. 22 interview. “Companies want the same prices
here than those in the U.S. when the supply reality is different
in Mexico.”  On Aug. 29, Energy Minister Jordy Herrera met with
executives from Concamin, an umbrella group representing
Mexico’s multiple industrial chambers, to discuss boosting
imports of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, from  South America  and
 Africa  in exchange for higher rates to customers.  A deal wasn’t reached. The companies rejected any plan that
will pass the increased costs to the industrial customers, two
people familiar with the meeting said. They asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Officials at
the press offices of the Ministry and Concamin declined to
comment.  Largest Consumers  The  steel industry  is the largest private consumer of gas,
with ArcelorMittal, Ternium and  Altos Hornos de Mexico SA   being
the biggest producers. Officials at Ternium and ArcelorMittal,
both based in Luxembourg, declined to comment from Mexico, as
did those from Altos Hornos.  Of all the so-called  critical alerts  issued since 1998,
when customers are asked to cut usage, about a third occurred in
the past 18 months, Pemex said in an e-mailed statement.  The longer Mexico is short of supply, the more likely U.S.
companies such as  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , both
based in Houston, will benefit. Cheniere, seeking to increase
shipments to countries  with U.S. free trade agreements , in April
won federal approval to build the largest U.S. natural-gas
export plant.  While Pemex has projects to add pipelines from other points
in the U.S., they won’t come into service until at least 2014.
The bulk of its supply, from domestic gas fields, has likewise
lagged demand growth.  Idle Gas  Pemex’s monopoly for gas production is leaving fields with
as much as 1 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves to sit idle as
cheap North America prices deter investments. At the same time,
Mexico’s constitution prevents private companies from developing
such projects.  Output is restrained by decades-old equipment and a
strategy of prioritizing investments in crude oil projects.
Mexico’s domestic natural-gas sales have risen 70 percent in the
past decade, outpacing a 46 percent increase in production,
according to Energy Ministry data.  The nation, operator of the world’s ninth-longest pipeline
grid and the second-biggest importer from the U.S., is
increasing its 6,000-mile gas network 40 percent. The $10
billion of projects are largely getting financed by private
developers.  U.S. exports by pipeline to Mexico reached an all-time high
of 52.2 billion cubic feet in May as  yields  from shale
formations drove U.S. output.  Rationing Effects  Despite the gas boom in the U.S., some Mexican plants have
delayed projects “to switch their equipment to cleaner gas amid
the shortage,” Rangel said, without identifying the companies.
Any rationing of gas supplies will prompt “production losses
for the companies and for the supply chain.” Rangel said.  Gas emits about 50 percent less carbon dioxide than coal.  “There’s no uncertainty,” Deputy Energy Minister Mario
Gabriel said by telephone from Mexico City on Aug. 20. “It’s a
short-term problem, and the industrial sector knows that by
2014, 2015 and 2016 the gas will be arriving where they want it
for its new projects.”  Thirty percent of Mexico’s energy consumption is natural
gas, the U.S. Energy Department said on its  Mexico Country
Analysis Brief . Mexico produced 2.1 trillion cubic feet of gas
in 2010, while consuming 2.2 trillion, according to the
department.  LNG Imports  Gabriel said that Mexico will boost imports of LNG to
offset the shortages and will delay some projects to replace the
use of fuel oil with natural gas at its power plants and
refineries run by Pemex and Comision Federal de Electricidad,
the state-owned power company known as CFE.  Mexican companies are moving away from fuel oil, which
trades at $17.301 per million of British thermal unit, to use
natural gas, which settled at $2.850 per million Btu on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Gas fell to a 10-year low of $1.902
per million Btu on April 19.  Mexico regulates natural-gas prices by linking them to the
futures delivered to the  Henry Hub  in  Louisiana  and adding a
transportation fee.  LNG is gas chilled to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus
162 Celsius) so it can be transported by ship.  CFE and Pemex, which uses gas to boost output from aging
crude fields and to power some refineries, will need to trim
their demand in the short-term to balance the natural-gas
market, Gabriel said.  Replacing Fuel Oil  CFE, Latin America’s largest utility by revenue, planned to
be “extremely aggressive when it comes to growth capacity from
natural gas,” then Chief Executive Officer Antonio Vivanco said
May 23. CFE is upgrading four plants and building 10 power
generation terminals to replace the use of  fuel oil  with natural
gas. Pemex plans similar upgrades in most of its refineries.  Mexico’s plans to relieve shortages in the short term with
LNG imports may be hampered by  Peru ’s request to domestic
producers to halve its gas exports to Mexico to allocate gas
reserves to Peruvian industries.  Mexico’s fields aren’t the only underused gas facilities,
Shields said. Mexico’s LNG terminals are working at a low
capacity or not operating at all because South American prices
can’t compete with U.S. costs.  “In practice, the only gas coming to Mexico will be by
pipelines, and they’re at their limit,” Shields said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  