-- Valeant to Buy Medicis Pharmaceutical for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-04T13:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/valeant-to-buy-medicis-pharmaceutical-for-2-6-billion-1-.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX) ’s $2.6 billion agreement to purchase Medicis
Pharmaceutical Corp. recharges an acquisition strategy that had
stumbled with last year’s failed bid for Cephalon Inc.  Valeant,  Canada ’s largest publicly traded drugmaker, said
yesterday it will pay $44 in cash for each share of Scottsdale,
Arizona-based Medicis, 39 percent more than the Aug. 31 closing
price. Valeant rose 16 percent to $59.70 at 9:51 a.m.  New York 
time, its biggest intraday gain since January 2011.  The deal would be the largest for Valeant since it was
created in a 2010 merger of Canada’s Biovail Corp. and an  Aliso
Viejo , California-based predecessor. Valeant has made about 50
acquisitions of companies and assets since Michael Pearson took
over as chief executive officer in 2008, said Jared Levy, a
company spokesman.  Medicis (MRX) , with products such as Solodyn and
Restylane, will help Valeant expand a lineup of wrinkle and
skin-care products.  “It’s a business the CEO has talked about in the past that
they’ve found very attractive with lower government threat to
pay and generic competition,” Neil Maruoka, an analyst with
Canaccord in Toronto, said in a phone interview.  Ample Flexibility  The transaction will close in the first half of 2013,
Montreal-based Valeant said in a statement. The company still
has “ample flexibility to pursue small tuck-in acquisitions as
they arise,” Pearson said on a conference call today.  Investors are interested in the stock because of the
aggressive acquisition strategy, Maruoka said. Valeant shares
have doubled since the Biovail merger in September 2010,
outpacing the 23 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and a 10 percent gain in the NYSE Composite Index. Medicis
 fell  5.1 percent this year through August.  Medicis shares rose 38 percent to $43.62, their largest
intraday increase since March 2009.  “The acquisition of Medicis represents a significant next
step in our journey to become the leader in dermatology by
strengthening Valeant’s presence in acne, actinic keratosis,
aesthetic injectables and anti-virals, among others,” Pearson
said in the statement.  Mix Deals  Valeant’s strategy is to mix larger deals with smaller
ones, Pearson said on a May conference call, focusing on
ophthalmology and dermatology. Valeant had focused on treatments
for the central nervous system and skin diseases.  An attempt to expand last year with a $5.7 billion offer
for drugmaker Cephalon failed after Petach Tikva, Israel-based
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  topped the offer with a more
than $6 billion overture.  Valeant’s most recent successful purchase of a company was
OraPharma Inc., a maker of specialty oral health products, in
June for $312 million, from private-equity company Water Street
Healthcare Partners.  The agreement yesterday values Medicis at about 12 times
the most recent 12 months’ earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, compared with the median 14 times Ebitda in eight
other recent pharmaceuticals takeovers. Medicis had about $721
million in revenue last year, while Valeant reported $2.5
billion in sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The acquisition is subject to conditions that include
approval by Medicis stockholders and expiration of any
applicable regulatory waiting period. Valeant said it expects
the acquisition, once completed, to immediately add to cash
earnings per share.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  advised Valeant, and Deutsche Bank AG
and Roberts Mitani LLC were Medicis’s financial advisers.
Valeant used the law firms Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and  Skadden
Arps , and Medicis used Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and Latham &
Watkins LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  