-- Volvo Seeks to End Bus Unit’s Lagging Profitability
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-09-03T08:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/volvo-s-buses-seeks-to-end-unit-s-lagging-profitability-1-.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) ’s bus unit will improve its
production system to boost profitability, which has lagged
behind that of the company’s truck and construction equipment
divisions for years, the head of the business said.  “We have work ahead of us to strengthen our
profitability,” Per Carlson, 51, said Aug. 31 in a phone
interview. “It’s our conviction and our ambition” that the bus
operations will be as profitable as the other divisions, he
said.  Olof Persson, who became Volvo’s chief executive officer a
year ago, wants the Gothenburg, Sweden-based manufacturer to be
at the top of the heavy-equipment industry in terms of operating
margins, shifting focus away from sales growth. The bus unit’s
 operating income  was 4.6 percent of sales in 2011, compared with
trucks’ 9.1 percent, construction equipment’s 10.2 percent and
boat engine maker Penta’s 8.8 percent.  The bus unit continued to trail the other divisions in the
quarter ended June, when it posted a 3.4 percent operating
margin. Profitability at the division has suffered from lower
volumes than trucks, and because most communities buying
commuter buses want local versions, making standardized
production tougher, said Carlson. He now wants to make
production more efficient, including using fewer types of
components across various models.  Volvo  rose  as much as 1.4 percent and was up 0.4 percent at
84.30 kronor as of 10:40 a.m. in  Stockholm , outperforming  OMX
Stockholm 30 Index (OMX) ’s 0.2 percent gain and valuing the company at
179 billion kronor ($27 billion.)  More Synergies  “We’re working to get more synergies out of our production
system,” said the executive, who became head of the unit on
Jan. 1. He’s also trimmed the workforce to match weakening
demand. This year, the unit has cut 450 temporary workers,
mostly in  Europe , culling staffing to a global 8,000.  “It feels like we now have a balance between demand and
production,” he said. “But the market situation is still very
uncertain, and we have our ear close to the ground to see if
further adjustments are necessary.”  Swedish peer  Scania AB (SCVB) , which doesn’t divulge bus-division
profitability, said June 28 that it’s cutting 142 jobs at its
plant in Slupsk,  Poland , due to weak demand.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the
world’s biggest truckmaker, generated a 3.7 percent operating
margin in 2011 for its bus segment.  Difficult Turnaround  The economic slowdown will make a turnaround more
difficult, said Morten Imsgard, an analyst at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  with
an overweight recommendation on Volvo’s shares.  “In this macroeconomic environment there aren’t many
municipalities that want to invest in renewing their bus
fleet,” Imsgard said. “That’s one of the reasons they’re stuck
in the late cyclical wave of the financial crisis. They seem to
be struggling to reach good earnings in that division.”  Global bus demand remains roughly the same today as it did
at the end of the second quarter, Carlson said.  “We see continued strong demand in  China ,” while the
European and North American bus markets remain weak, he said.  Volvo is building out capacity at its factory in Bangalore
to about 2,500 buses per year from the current 1,000 vehicles,
Carlson said. The expansion should be completed around the end
of the year.  Diesel-electric hybrid buses, which Volvo started selling
in 2009, present a “big” growth opportunity as local
governments and other customers chase more fuel-efficient
solutions, Carlson said. So far this year, Volvo has sold 363
hybrid models, compared with 311 for all of last year, the chief
said. Volvo has started building hybrids in  Brazil  on a limited
scale and will have full production by early 2013, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  