-- VW’s Revamped Golf: It’s More About Tech Than the Look
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-09-04T19:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/vw-s-revamped-golf-it-s-more-about-tech-than-the-look.html
For almost four decades,  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Golf has largely defined the hatchback segment -- as well
as VW itself. So with its latest incarnation of the Golf, the
German automaker has played it safe, focusing more on technology
than the look so it wouldn’t alienate the car’s legions of fans.  Though the makeover is part of VW’s most extensive
technology rollout in almost 20 years, the biggest changes won’t
be visible to customers. Instead, VW has designed a lighter
steel frame that helps reduce fuel consumption by as much as 23
percent and has upgraded the electronics with features such as
equipment that can make the car a rolling Wi-Fi hotspot.  The model, which made its global debut at an event in
Berlin today, uses standardized components such as electronic
systems and axles. The platform, known internally as MQB, is
planned to underpin more than a third of the carmaker’s vehicles
as it cuts costs to bolster its bid to beat  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and  General Motors Co. (GM)  in sales and profit by 2018.  “Volkswagen wouldn’t exist today without the Golf,” said
Christoph Stuermer, an analyst with IHS Automotive in  Frankfurt .
“The new MQB architecture is built around the Golf, making the
car the backbone of VW’s market strategy.”  The upgrades should help the Golf narrow the gap with the
Toyota Corolla and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus, the world’s top
sellers. Sales of the VW hatchback are expected to jump 11
percent to 710,000 vehicles next year, while the Focus is poised
to slip 4 percent to 870,000 and the Corolla and related
variants could rise 4 percent to 1.01 million, according to IHS.  Short Cycle  “The Golf is by far the most important vehicle” for
Volkswagen, said Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  at
the model’s debut today. “The Golf sets the direction for the
future of Volkswagen, for the future of the automobile.”  VW shortened the life cycle of the previous version of the
Golf to four years from seven to tap the new technology. The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer forecasts that the new
platform will lower production costs 20 percent as it assembles
cars faster with fewer components. Savings could total 10
billion euros ($12.6 billion) over five years, according to
Juergen Pieper, a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus Metzler.  The Golf and the Audi A3, which went on sale in  Germany 
last month, are the first two cars that will use the technology.
More than 30 other models, including the Polo subcompact and the
mid-sized Passat as well as vehicles from the automaker’s Seat
and Skoda brands, will be based on the platform as it’s rolled
out over the next four to five years.  Cost Squeeze  Volkswagen, which targets annual sales of 10 million
vehicles by 2018, anticipates selling 3.5 million small and mid-
sized cars a year that share MQB parts. The initiative marks the
biggest technology overhaul since  Ferdinand Piech , VW’s chairman
and its former chief executive officer, pushed the company to
use common underpinnings in the early 1990s to stem losses.  The effort to squeeze costs out of compact models reflects
increasing competition as upscale carmakers like  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz expand their
small-car offerings to attract younger drivers and meet tighter
environmental regulations. Mercedes is targeting Golf drivers
with its revamped A-Class, which goes on sale on Sept. 15.  Like VW, Toyota is trying to share more parts among its
models, said Reto Hess, analyst at Credit Suisse Private Banking
in Zurich. “But Toyota is at the moment lagging behind
Volkswagen in this,” Hess said.  Toyota also demonstrated the risks of sharing parts in
2009, when defects involving unintended acceleration spread
across models and to the Lexus brand. The manufacturer recalled
more than 10 million vehicles worldwide and was fined $49
million by the U.S. government for its handling of some of the
issues.  Less Choice  The complexity of VW’s approach may limit the ultimate
savings from the program, as the manufacturer becomes dependent
on just a few large parts makers, IHS’s Stuermer said.  “There are not many suppliers that take the risk and sign
such a contract worth many millions of euros,” he said.
“Instead of five, VW will more likely have two suppliers to
choose from.”  VW’s play-it-safe approach to the new Golf risks opening
the door to competitors as they step up their challenge to the
German company’s bread-and-butter model.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s i30
has even caught the eye of VW’s Winterkorn. In a video posted on
YouTube, he can be seen praising the car at last year’s
Frankfurt Motor Show.  The i30 starts at 15,990 euros in Germany, 985 euros less
than the current version of the Golf. The top-of-the-line Golf
GTI version costs 32,775 euros, about 8,800 euros more than the
base price for the new Mercedes A-Class. The new Golf will cost
about the same as the current one when deliveries start in the
fourth quarter, VW said.  Loyal Clientele  “With the growing competition in the segment, the Golf
needs to react quicker to innovations from rivals,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach , Germany.
The Golf’s successful tradition “might also turn into a
handicap as it holds back more radical changes.”  Those concerns don’t bother dealers like Ernst-Robert
Nouvertne, who runs two stores in Solingen, Germany, about 25
kilometers (15 miles) northeast of Cologne. The car’s everyman
appeal and its loyal clientele means half his allotment is all
but sold, he said.  The new version also offers opportunities to lure customers
from higher-end models like the BMW 3-Series, thanks to an
extended range of options, he said. Those include massage seats,
heated steering wheels, three-dimensional navigation maps and
the Wi-Fi hotspot, which allows back-seat passengers to use the
vehicle’s Internet connection.  Beetle Beater  “The Golf accounts for most of our volume,” said
Nouvertne. “The model appeals to new drivers as well as
pensioners.”  VW will further broaden its range by making the seventh
generation of the model available with engines the burn natural
gas as well as offering plug-in hybrid and electric versions,
CEO Winterkorn said today.  The Golf is VW’s all-time best-seller, even surpassing the
Beetle. Since the hatchback’s introduction in 1974, VW has sold
more than 29 million Golfs worldwide, compared with 21.5 million
Beetles. VW says a big part of the car’s success stems from the
company’s cautious approach in its design.  “A new Golf version should never represent a revolution
compared to the previous model,” Ulrich Hackenberg, VW’s
development chief, said at a preview event in Wolfsburg last
month. “Otherwise, clients of older versions would feel lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  