-- With Iran Talking Genocide, Obama Must Show Courage
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-09-03T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/with-iran-talking-genocide-obama-must-show-courage.html
The U.S. has often been feckless in
its response to genocide. In the years leading up to World War
II, and even during the war itself, it didn’t do nearly what it
could have to offer refuge to  Europe ’s Jews and to thwart  Adolf Hitler ’s Final Solution, although much later we did build some
excellent museums commemorating the event.  Our words since then have sometimes rung hollow. “Never
again,” the slogan goes, but, as David Rieff once said, in
actual practice “never again” has meant, “Never again will
Germans kill Jews in Europe in the 1940s.”  The writer Ron Rosenbaum, in an  essay for Slate  that I
mentioned last week, asks the question: How much discussion
about the Holocaust is too much? Why does he raise this now?
Because we’re approaching a pivotal moment in the continuing
drama surrounding Iran’s nuclear progress -- and that means the
U.S. may once again find itself in a position to confront the
threat of genocide.  The rulers of  Iran , who deny the historical reality of the
Holocaust even as they dream of annihilating  Israel , may in the
very near future possess the ability to build nuclear weapons
and to immunize their nuclear program from outside intervention.
Rosenbaum argues eloquently that it isn’t neurotic or hysterical
or parochial to worry that a regime that seeks the annihilation
of Israel may be gaining the means to achieve it.  Civilized people have condemned the Iranian rhetoric, of
course, most recently Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary-
general (who nevertheless granted the Iranian regime legitimacy
by attending an international conference in Tehran last week).
But Rosenbaum is surprised, as I am, that more people don’t seem
to grasp the urgency of keeping nuclear weapons away from a
regime that openly threatens genocide.  Clear Pattern  With a few exceptions, the American response to genocide,
and to threats of genocide, has followed a clear pattern over
the years, one characterized first by indifference and timidity,
then paralysis, and ultimately regret. The pattern was set by
 Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s administration, and in particular by his
State Department, which reacted with depraved indifference to
the gathering threat in Europe.  Postwar history is strewn with similar examples. In the
late 1980s, the administrations of  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush  not only did nothing to stop  Saddam Hussein ’s attempted
genocide of the Kurds -- a slaughter that employed chemical
weapons -- but even supported Saddam in his war against Iran. It
was only when he invaded  Kuwait  that we took notice. Talk about
dispiriting: Genocide didn’t bother us, but a threat to the
smooth flow of oil did.  In 1994, President  Bill Clinton  did virtually nothing to
stop the murder of 800,000 Rwandans (although he later expressed
very feelingly his remorse at not intervening)  But it isn’t just our elected leaders who respond
inadequately to genocide. The news media play a role, too.
Here’s one recent example. Last month, the Washington Post
published a lengthy article exploring Iraqi attitudes about the
future after the final U.S. troop withdrawal from their country
earlier this year.  “In dozens of interviews this summer across  Iraq , many
people said that their lives were safer and more prosperous
under Hussein and that the U.S. invasion was not worth the price
both countries have paid,”  wrote the reporter ,  Kevin Sullivan .  This struck me as odd. Many Iraqis, particularly members of
the Sunni Arab minority that ruled the country until Saddam’s
ouster, regret the U.S. invasion, and many in the Shiite
majority certainly regret the bungling and negligence that
followed. But how do Kurds feel?  Elision of History  Kurds make up about 20 percent of the Iraqi population, and
they were the group most victimized by Saddam’s Baathist regime.
As many as 4,000 Kurdish villages were eradicated by his army;
dozens of those villages were attacked with chemical weapons.
Thousands of innocents were tortured. There is broad agreement
in the international human-rights community that the anti-
Kurdish campaign  amounted to genocide .  The American invasion meant that Iraq’s Kurds were finally
free from the threat of further slaughter. For this reason, it’s
not easy to find a Kurdish Iraqi who opposed Saddam’s overthrow.
But nowhere in the article is this mentioned. In fact, nowhere
in the article is a Kurdish Iraqi even quoted. My point is not
to pick on Sullivan, who’s an intrepid reporter. It’s to note
that this elision of history in a prominent newspaper is
symptomatic of a collective unwillingness to fully grapple with
a mass murder we could have prevented.  The U.S., under  Barack Obama ’s administration, is now in a
position to upend this unfortunate history. Yet we feel
insufficient urgency to blunt the Iranian regime’s openly stated
genocidal intentions, and we do embarrassingly little to stop
the mass slaughter of thousands of mainly Sunni Syrians by their
country’s minority Alawite rulers.  It is true that the continuing massacre in  Syria  doesn’t
yet rise to the level of genocide. It is also true that Obama’s
passive response makes it more likely that one day it will. In
Iran, Obama’s promise to use all means necessary to prevent the
regime from getting nuclear weapons -- to forestall the
possibility of a future genocide -- may also one day soon be put
to the test.  Sometimes, we turn away from issues that seem insoluble or
that raise doubts about our humanity. But turning away always --
always -- makes things worse.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Democrats’ hard task  and
on addressing  West Nile virus and dengue fever in the U.S. ;
William Pesek on this weekend’s  Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Conference ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  how hard an Obama
second term would be ; Cass R. Sunstein on how  voters can escape
from their political cocoons ; John H. Cochrane on  Keynesian
assumptions  at the  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 