-- Two Killed in Pakistan Bomb Attack on U.S. Consulate Vehicle
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-09-03T14:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-03/two-killed-in-pakistan-bomb-targeting-foreigners-vehicle-1-.html
A suicide attack on a U.S. consulate
vehicle in  Pakistan ’s northwestern city of Peshawar killed two
people and injured 19, police said.  The  U.S. embassy  in Islamabad said in a statement two
American personnel and two Pakistani staff of the Peshawar
consulate were wounded in the bombing. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  condemned the attack during a press conference
in Jakarta and confirmed the U.S. vehicle had been targeted.
Senior Peshawar police official Imtiaz Altaf, in comments made
to reporters, gave no further details of those killed.  The blast, in an area that’s also home to United Nations
offices, badly damaged two vehicles, including a black SUV, and
nearby power pylons, television footage showed. Channels
broadcast images of an overseas passport found at the site of
the attack. About 110 kilograms (242 pounds) of explosive
material were used in the attack, Altaf said.  Taliban guerrillas, who oppose the country’s alliance with
the U.S. and are fighting Pakistan’s army in tribal regions near
 Peshawar , bombed a U.S. Consulate vehicle in the city on May 20
last year killing two people and injuring 10, including two
Americans.  Today’s attack was at least the fourth in three years
against the  U.S. Consulate  in Peshawar, the main city in
Pakistan’s ethnic Pashtun zone, where the  Taliban movement  is
rooted. In April 2010, Taliban guerrillas attacked the consulate
with bombs and gunfire, battling Pakistani soldiers at defensive
posts outside the mission.  Waziristan Offensive  In 2008, militants ambushed the armored car of the
consulate’s chief officer. While the diplomat, Lynne Tracy,
escaped injury, gunmen killed a senior American aid worker in
the city three months later.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has urged Pakistan to
extend an army offensive in the country’s northwest to the North
Waziristan region, a base for Haqqani Network militants that the
Obama administration has blamed for attacks on Kabul and
international troops based in  Afghanistan .  Pakistan’s army chief, Ashfaq Pervez Kayani, said in
response that Pakistan will decide when to start an offensive
considering the readiness of its troops and the political will
in the country. He ruled out allowing U.S. troops to fight on
Pakistani soil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  