-- ‘The Artist,’ Meryl Streep Clinch Bafta Awards; Oscars Are Next
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-02-13T00:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/-the-artist-wins-bafta-for-best-film-streep-named-best-actress.html
“The Artist,” a silent black-and-
white movie about an actor past his peak, scooped seven prizes
including best picture, director and actor at the  British
Academy Film Awards , or Baftas. Oscar victory may be next.  Meryl Streep , also an Oscar nominee, collected the best-
actress trophy for her portrayal of U.K. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  in “The Iron Lady.” On her way up the stage, she lost a
high-heeled shoe. The award’s presenter  Colin Firth  chivalrously
slipped the shoe back on her foot.  Started in 1947 and honoring films produced worldwide and
shown in U.K. cinemas, the Baftas are now held before the
 Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences  awards, or Oscars,
and get more noticed than before as a gauge of the year’s
winners. The Oscars will be presented in  Los Angeles  on  Feb. 26.   Jean Dujardin , the suave French face of “The Artist,” took
to the podium after beating  George Clooney ,  Brad Pitt ,  Gary Oldman  and  Michael Fassbender  to the best-actor prize.  “I’m shocked to receive this award from the country of
 Laurence Olivier , William Webb Ellis, and Benny Hill,” said
Dujardin, referring to the Shakespearean actor, the inventor of
rugby, and the slapstick TV comedian. “C’est incroyable!”  Dujardin concluded: “And as Buster Keaton would say,” then
went completely silent and pulled a serious face.  The four runners-up for best movie were: “The Descendants,”
about a father whose adulterous wife is on life support;
“Drive,” the story of a stuntman-mechanic with a troubled past;
“The Help,” a drama about African-American maids in the 1960s;
and “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy,” adapted from the John Le Carre
spy novel about a double agent.  Charming Dog  “The Artist” is the story of a debonair silent-movie actor
at the top of his game who shares palatial quarters with a
wealthy wife and a charming dog. The advent of talkies gradually
puts him out of business, plunging him into a cycle of debt and
depression that only love could possibly cure.  The movie was directed by Michel Hazanavicius and produced
by Thomas Langmann, whose father (the late French producer-
director Claude Berri) shot “Jean de Florette” and “Manon Des 
Sources.”  Streep -- saluted by host Stephen Fry as “The Right
Honorable Baroness Meryl Thatcher” -- dressed nothing like the
ex-premier: She wore a snug black Vivienne Westwood gown with a
plunging neckline. Still, she empathized with the baroness.  “Somebody once said the fate of the well known is to be
misunderstood,” she said, uttering words that could apply as
much to herself as to the “ Iron Lady .”  Actress Rivals  Her rivals in the best-actress category were Berenice Bejo
(“The Artist”), Michelle Williams (“My Week with Marilyn”),
Tilda Swinton (“We Need to Talk About Kevin”) and Viola Davis
(“The Help”).  Best-actor nominees were Pitt for “Moneyball,” Oldman for
“Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy,” Clooney for “The Descendants” and
Fassbender for “Shame.” All showed up, leading organizers to 
beef up security, even for journalists working backstage in 
the rehearsal rooms.  The tuxedo-clad Pitt, his shoulder-length hair parted in
the middle, was mobbed on the way in, including by TV reporters
more clued up on fashion than film. They had him confess that he
was wearing Gucci, then asked that he lift up his trouser leg
and show off his footwear. Pitt smiled politely and declined.  The cooing continued inside. Fry, the show’s host, asked
Pitt to blow TV audiences a kiss. Pitt blushed, squirmed, then
obliged. “A nation’s heart flutters,” Fry bellowed on stage. “Or
is it just mine?”  The best-director nominees were Nicolas Winding Refn for
“Drive,”  Martin Scorsese  for “Hugo,” Tomas Alfredson for “Tinker
Tailor Soldier Spy” and Lynne Ramsay for “We Need to Talk About
Kevin.”  Scorsese, a best-director nominee for “Hugo,” received a
Bafta fellowship, while “Hugo” won for production design and
sound.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 