-- ‘The Vow’ Is No. 1 Movie With $41.2 Million in Ticket Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-02-13T22:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/-the-vow-captures-hearts-of-weekend-movie-fans-with-sales-of-42-million.html
The romantic drama “The Vow”
opened as the top weekend film in U.S. and Canadian theaters
ahead of Valentine’s Day, taking in $41.2 million for  Sony Corp. (6758)   The Denzel  Washington  thriller “Safe House” was second in
its debut, with sales of $40.2 million, researcher  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement. “Journey 2: The
Mysterious Island” was third with $27.3 million, and a 3-D
version of “ Star Wars : Episode 1 - The Phantom Menace” was
fourth with $22.5 million.  The weekend was only the second on record in which four
opening films grossed more than $20 million each, according to
Hollywood.com. The only other time was Christmas weekend in
2008, when “Marley and Me,” “Bedtime Stories,” “Valkyrie”
and “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button” made their debuts.  “All four films lived up to their potential and then
some,” said Phil Contrino, editor of Boxoffice.com, in a
telephone interview. “2011 had some big disappointments, and
people are hungry to go to the movies. It’s a great start for
the year.”  Revenue year to date is up 19 percent, while attendance is
up 22 percent, according to Hollywood.com.  In “The Vow,” Channing Tatum plays a man whose wife
awakens from a coma with no memory of their marriage. He must
compete with one of her old flames as he tries to rebuild their
relationship.  Rachel McAdams  and Scott Speedman co-star. The
film was expected to collect $38 million in weekend revenue, the
estimate of Boxoffice.com.  Box-Office Draws  Tatum and McAdams “are at the height of their drawing
power right now,” said Contrino. “One of the safest bets
Hollywood makes all year is putting out a romantic film right in
time for Valentine’s Day.”  “Safe House,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures ,
features Washington as a rogue CIA agent who turns himself in to
U.S. authorities with the promise of revealing an important
secret. He goes on the run again in the film, with a novice
agent played by  Ryan Reynolds , after assassins attack the
supposedly secure residence where he is being held. Sam Shepard
and Vera Farmiga co-star.  The opening was the second-best for a Washington film
behind “American Gangster,” which brought in $43.6 million,
according to Hollywood.com. The actor played the villain in both
films, Contrino said.  “People view him as a very reliable star who picks
quality, interesting projects,” said Contrino, whose site had
forecast $30 million of sales for the film. “That kind of trust
is what gets people to show up opening weekend.”  ‘Journey 2’  “Journey 2,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.,
features Dwayne Johnson in a 3-D sequel to the 2009 hit
“Journey to the Center of the Earth.”  Johnson plays a stepfather who accompanies his wife’s son
to a remote island in search of the boy’s grandfather. They
encounter giant lizards, the lost city of Atlantis and the
Nautilus, the submarine from Jules Verne’s “Twenty Thousand
Leagues Under the Sea.”  “The Phantom Menace,” director  George Lucas ’s 3-D
conversion of the 1999 “Star Wars” prequel, follows the
beginnings of the friendship between Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi and the
future Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker.  Liam Neeson  and Ewan McGregor are featured.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox is
distributing the film.  The re-release continues a Hollywood trend of converting
older films for exhibition in new three-dimensional cinemas.  Future Re-Releases  Viacom Inc.’s Paramount will release a 3-D version of  James
Cameron ’s “Titanic” in April. Last year, the 3-D version of
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “The  Lion King ” generated $94.2 million in
domestic ticket revenue, according to Box Office Mojo, another
film researcher.  Last week’s top film, “Chronicle,” fell to fifth from
first with sales of $12.1 million. The picture, from Fox,
follows three teenagers who, after acquiring remarkable powers,
must figure out how to use them ethically.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 28 percent to
$173 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. The
amounts below are based on actual tickets sales for Feb. 10
through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  