-- Egypt’s Stocks Rise to 6-Month High on Mobinil
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-02-13T15:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/abu-dhabi-shares-fall-most-in-two-weeks-as-etisalat-net-misses-estimates.html
(Corrects name of brokerage in third paragraph in the
story published yesterday.)  Egypt’s shares rose to the highest
in more than six months after a nationwide strike failed to
gather support and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  was said to be in talks to
boost its stake in a local mobile-phone company.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the biggest publicly traded Arab
investment bank, jumped 8.2 percent.  Palm Hills Developments
SAE (PHDC) , a luxury real-estate developer, soared to the highest level
since September. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index  advanced 2.9 percent
to 4,892.93, the highest since Aug. 4, at the 2:30 p.m. close in
Cairo. In the United Arab Emirates, Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
rose for a third day, advancing 0.1 percent.  A call for a general strike by pro-democracy groups,
including the April 6 Movement, demanding an immediate end to
military rule didn’t garner support after Islamist parties which
have a majority in parliament said they won’t participate. The
strike’s failure and  Orascom Telecom Media & Technology Holding
SAE ’s announcement that it was in advanced talks with  France
Telecom  about the fate of their Egyptian Co. for Mobile
Services, or Mobinil, venture helped boost the market, said
Hassan Kenawi, equities trader at Cairo-based HC Brokerage.  “People are growing more confident in the market after
lack of response from the public to the strike called for by
some activists,” said Kenawi. “The possible acquisition of
Mobinil by France Telecom also supports the positive sentiment
especially for local institutions who see cash coming back into
the market.”  Trading Suspended  France Telecom is in talks to purchase part of Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’s stake in their mobile-phone
venture, a person familiar with the situation said. Sawiris may
keep a small interest in Mobinil Telecom, the company that
controls Mobinil, while selling his stake in the operator itself
to France Telecom, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Orascom is the second-largest shareholder in Mobinil after
the Paris-based company. The Egyptian Exchange suspended trading
in Mobinil and Orascom Telecom Media.  EFG-Hermes shares rose to 12.40 Egyptian pounds, the
highest level since Nov. 14.  Palm Hills  advanced 6.5 percent to
1.64 pounds.  In Dubai,  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , the investment bank controlled
by the emirate’s ruler, surged the most since June 2009 before a
board meeting to discuss full-year financial results. The shares
soared 15 percent to 67.8 fils. There are 100 fils to the
dirham.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  declined 0.4 percent, the
most since Jan. 30, to 2,456.22 at the close after full-year
earnings at Emirates Telecommunications Corp., the telephone
operator known as Etisalat, missed estimates.  Etisalat Tumbles  Etisalat, the company with the  heaviest weighting  on the
index, tumbled 2.1 percent to 9.25 dirhams after 2011 net income
slid 23 percent to 5.84 billion dirhams ($1.6 billion). That
missed the 7 billion-dirham average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The company booked an impairment of 1.02
billion dirhams because of canceled licenses in  India .  The decline in the Abu Dhabi index is “mainly due to
Etisalat’s weight on the index,” said Chahir Hosni, equity
sales manager at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai, attributing
the drop to the telecom operator’s earnings. Five stocks in the
benchmark index retreated, 15 rose and 47 were unchanged.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.8 percent Feb. 10
as European leaders delayed a rescue package for  Greece  and
 China ’s trade data signaled growth in the world’s second-largest
economy is weakening. Oil in  New York  lost 1.2 percent to $98.67
a barrel. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the U.A.E., supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Israel Gains  Oman’s MSM30 Index declined 0.4 percent and Qatar’s
benchmark measure fell less than 0.1 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
Tadawul All Share Index slipped less than 0.1 percent, while the
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index dropped 0.2 percent. Kuwait’s gauge rose
0.7 percent and Bahrain’s measure advanced 0.2 percent.  In Israel, the  TA-25 (TA-25)  Index rose 0.4 percent as trading
resumed following the end of a general strike that had shut the
bourse since Feb. 7. The yield on the country’s 5.5 percent
notes due January 2022 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 4.58 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  