-- Ahmadinejad’s ‘Major’ Nuclear Progress Comment Follows Rhetorical Pattern
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-02-13T15:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/ahmadinejad-s-major-nuclear-progress-comment-follows-rhetorical-pattern.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s announcement that he will soon unveil a “major”
nuclear development may be part of a strategy he’s employed
since 2006 of promising breakthroughs and delivering incremental
gains.  Ahmadinejad, 55, said during a Feb. 11 ceremony marking the
33rd anniversary of the  Islamic Revolution  that he will unveil
“major nuclear accomplishments” in the coming days, the state-
run Press TV news channel reported.  Ahmadinejad, who was first elected in 2005, has repeatedly
dangled the prospect of nuclear leaps to invigorate his
followers and intimidate countries that he says threaten Iran.
The president said in April 2006 that Iran had joined the
“nuclear club” of countries with nuclear technology. In
January 2010, he promised to announce nuclear news “so sweet”
it would “please all the Iranian people.”  Iran  likes “to play games with its opponents and keep them
slightly off balance” in its foreign policy, said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.  Ahmadinejad is seeking to garner support from the part of
Iran’s population that considers the nation “a regional
superpower that deserves nuclear energy to help its economy grow
while it’s under attack from countries in the West and more and
more sanctions are piled against it,” Karasik said.  Israeli Strike?  During his two four-year terms, the Iranian government has
sought to turn the country’s nuclear program into a source of
pride for the population and a symbol of independence and
resistance in the face of pressure from abroad.  Ahmadinejad’s comment comes at a time of heightened
rhetoric over the nuclear program. Israeli leaders, who accuse
Iran of working toward a nuclear weapon, say time is running out
for a military strike that could stop the Islamic Republic from
reaching that goal. President  Barack Obama  told NBC News on Feb.
5 that “our preferred solution is diplomatic, but we’re not
going to take any actions off the table.”  In the past six years, Iran has started its first nuclear
power plant, making Iran the first country in the  Middle East  to
have a nuclear-power generating facility. Officials have said
the 1,000-megawatt plant will start operating at full capacity
during this month.  Enriched Uranium  Iran has also gone from enriching uranium from a 3.5
percent purity level to 20 percent, which it says it needs to
fuel a Tehran research reactor that produces medical isotopes.  Enriched uranium can be used to fuel a nuclear power
reactor, or it can be enriched further to a concentration of 90
percent to build nuclear weapons. Iran’s enrichment activities
have raised the concerns of the U.S. and its allies about the
true intention of the work.  Iran’s known enrichment facilities, including the Fordo
fortified nuclear site, are under surveillance from the United
Nation’s International Atomic Energy Agency, which hasn’t cited
evidence that enriched uranium has been diverted to military
use.  Western nations have tightened economic and financial
sanctions against Iran, adding to pressure on its economy and
helping prompt a run on the currency in recent weeks.  In the current economic climate in Iran, it’s unclear
whether Ahmadinejad may derive more popular support by adopting
an appeasing tone when it comes to the country’s nuclear program
or a more aggressive one, said Geneive Abdo, director of the
Iran program at The Century Foundation in Washington D.C.  His announcement “will be framed in a way to make sure he
maintains the sustainability of his faction ahead of the
parliamentary elections,” scheduled March 2, Abdo said.  Asset Freeze  European Union foreign ministers agreed on Jan. 23 to ban
Iranian oil imports starting in July and to freeze the assets of
Iran’s central bank. Obama on Feb. 6 ordered a block on property
and interests in property belonging to the Iranian government,
its central bank and all Iranian financial institutions. The
measures come on top of four rounds of United Nations sanctions
against the country of 75 million people.  Foreign minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  on Feb. 10 said threats
of a military strike against the country are “empty” and that
Iran has already made preparations for the “worst scenario,”
state-run  Mehr  news agency reported. He didn’t elaborate.  If the U.S. wanted to act against Iran, it would have
already done so, Salehi said, when asked to comment on remarks
by U.S. officials that all options are on the table, according
to Mehr.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  