-- Apple Sues Samsung Over Smartphones in Widening Patent Infringement Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-13T01:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/apple-expands-number-of-patent-claims-against-samsung-in-latest-lawsuit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s newest lawsuit against
Samsung Electronics Co., set for a hearing May 2, increases the
number of Samsung devices that Apple argues infringe its
products.  Apple seeks a court order blocking the alleged infringement
in smartphones such as Samsung’s Galaxy S II Skyrocket and
Galaxy S II Epic 4G Touch, which use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, and Samsung’s Galaxy 4.0 and 5.0 media
players.  In December, Apple lost a similar request for a court order
blocking sales of Samsung’s 4G smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet computer. Trial for that case is set for July 30.  “Despite that lawsuit, Samsung has continued to flood the
market with copycat products, including at least 18 new
infringing products released over the last eight months,”
according to the complaint filed Feb. 8 in federal court in  San
Jose ,  California .  “Samsung has systematically copied Apple’s innovative
technology and products, features, and designs, and has deluged
markets with infringing devices in an effort to usurp market
share from Apple,” according to the complaint.  Samsung’s newer products infringe patents at issue on the
previous case as well as additional patents Apple issued since
the earlier case was filed, Apple said. “Apple is filing this
suit to put an end to Samsung’s continued infringement,”
according to the complaint.  30 Lawsuits  Samsung continues to “assert our intellectual property
rights and defend against Apple’s claims,” its Seoul-based
spokesman Nam Ki Yung said today.  The two companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to Samsung. The conflict began in April,
when Apple filed the first San Jose lawsuit claiming the Suwon,
South Korean company’s Galaxy devices copied the iPhone and
iPad.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd.,12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  