-- Arab League’s El-Arabi Calls for Joint Monitoring Force With UN for Syria
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-02-13T11:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/arab-league-s-el-arabi-calls-for-joint-monitoring-force-with-un-for-syria.html
Syrian security forces pounded parts
of the restive governorate of Homs as the Arab League called for
the formation of an Arab-United Nations peacekeeping force.  The league said yesterday it will ask the UN  Security
Council  to authorize a joint mission “to supervise
implementation of a cease-fire,” according to a league
statement given to reporters in Cairo. It would replace an Arab
League observation mission that was suspended as violence
against protesters continued.  Syria  rejected the decision.  Government forces resumed shelling the city of Rastan in
Homs, using heavy artillery and machine guns, after halting
their attacks around 3 a.m., the opposition  Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights  reported. More than 20 people were killed
yesterday, the group said.  The Baba Amr neighborhood was also attacked, while clashes
took place between army defectors and government loyalists in
the southern province of Daraa, where the revolt against
President Bashar al-Assad began in March.  The  Arab League  called for ending “all forms of diplomatic
cooperation” with representatives of Assad’s government, the
22-member group said in a statement after a meeting of foreign
ministers.  Financial Support  The league urged “all countries that are keen to preserve
Syrian lives” to follow suit, and said the proposals should be
sent to the UN General Assembly. It called for an end to
violence and said it would “provide all forms of political and
financial support” to the Syrian opposition.  Syria rejected the Arab League decision, the official
Syrian Arab News Agency reported, citing a statement by the
Syrian ambassador to  Egypt , Youssef Ahmed. The Arab League last
month suspended its observer mission, citing “the grave
deterioration of the situation.”  Russia  and  China  on Feb. 4 vetoed a UN Security Council
resolution supported by the Arab League that was designed to
find a political solution to a conflict that the UN estimates
has killed more than 5,400 people. Syrian forces have
intensified their attacks since the resolution was vetoed.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday
it was up to the Security Council to take action on the Arab
League’s call for a joint peacekeeping mission.  ‘Strong Signal’  While the Arab League has sent a “strong signal” to
Syria, Western nations are unlikely to contribute troops to a UN
peacekeeping mission proposed by the Arab League, U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  told reporters in  Cape Town  today. A UN
force should be used only once peace has been established in
Syria, he said.  Russia is studying the Arab League’s proposal on sending a
peacekeeping force and would like additional details on the
plan, Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said during a televised
joint press conference with United Arab Emirates Foreign
Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan.  Al-Nahyan said the UN security council shouldn’t block
decisions by the Arab League.  “We hope that we will reach a peaceful political
resolution on this issue,” he said. Al-Nahyan pledged that
support for the opposition in Syria wouldn’t be military.  ‘Assad Says No’  “The Arab League ministerial committee wants Assad to go,
as does the EU and U.S.,” Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in response to
e-mailed questions. “What is unclear in all of this is what
happens when Assad says no?”  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi told the
foreign ministers meeting yesterday that a new mission should be
accompanied by “an agreed-upon vision for a political
solution.”  The Arab League sent observers to Syria on Dec. 26 to
ensure that Assad followed through on his pledge to withdraw
security forces from cities, release political prisoners and
allow anti-government demonstrations.  The league in November imposed sanctions on Syria and later
drafted a plan that called for the formation of a national unity
government to pave the way for elections.  The U.S. is “pursuing all avenues” against the Assad
regime and is working with allies to support the opposition,
White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew said yesterday.  U.S. Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who
is chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, said an
international “coalition of the willing” should provide
medical aid, training, communications equipment and weapons to
Syrian rebels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  