-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollar Gain on Greek Vote
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-12T23:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/aussie-kiwi-dollar-gain-on-greek-vote.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose, snapping three-day losses, as the Greek government
secured enough votes in parliament to pass austerity measures to
qualify for an international bailout, boosting demand for
riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie advanced against the yen before a
report today forecast to show Australian home-loan approvals
rose in December, adding to signs the domestic economy remains
resilient.  “On the view that Greek legislation is passed, we can see
a bit of upside for the Aussie dollar,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist in Sydney at ICAP  Australia  Ltd., a unit of the
world’s biggest interdealer broker.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to $1.0709 from the
Feb. 10 close in  New York  as of 10:18 a.m. in Sydney. The Aussie
appreciated 0.3 percent to 83.11 yen.  The New Zealand dollar, known as the kiwi, climbed 0.5
percent to 83.06 U.S. cents and advanced 0.5 percent to 64.46
yen.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won approval from
parliament for austerity measures to secure an international
bailout after at least 151 members of the chamber voted in favor
of the measure, according to a tally of votes by deputies. The
roll-call voting in  Athens  is being televised live on state-run
Vouli TV and is continuing.  In Australia, the number of loans granted to build or buy
houses and apartments gained 1.8 percent in December from the
previous month, the most since May, after rising 1.4 percent in
November, according to median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the statistics bureau releases its figures
today.  “The domestic economy is very strong,” said ICAP’s Carr.
“This will continue to support Aussie dollar risk trades in
general.  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 