-- Australia Stocks, U.S. Futures Climb as Greece Approves Austerity Measures
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-12T23:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/australia-stocks-u-s-futures-climb-as-greece-approves-austerity-measures.html
Australian stocks and U.S. futures
climbed after the Greek parliament approved austerity measures
to secure a second bailout package, helping the nation to avoid
a debt default.  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. rallied 3.3 percent in Sydney after the
retailer reported better-than-estimated earnings. Transfield
Services Ltd. climbed 2.3 percent after the company won a new
contract in  New Zealand . American depositary receipts of
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest lender,
dropped 1.6 percent from the close in  Tokyo .  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose as much as 0.4 percent
in early Sydney trading today, climbing for the first time in
three sessions, while futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
advanced 0.4 percent, rebounding from a 0.6 percent selloff on
Feb. 10.  “Asia will follow the lead from the U.S. and Europe on
Friday night, but with  Greece ’s austerity measures just being
passed, it will counteract declines,” said Simon Bonouvrie, a
Sydney-based portfolio manager who helps manage about $1 billion
at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
March closed at 8,940 in  Chicago  on Feb. 10 compared with 8,970
in  Osaka . They were bid in the pre-market at 8,930 in Osaka at
8:05 a.m. local time. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.3
percent in Wellington.  Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos today won approval
from parliament for austerity measures to secure an
international bailout after at least 151 members of the chamber
voted for the measure, according to a tally of votes. The roll-
call voting in Athens took place as police battled rioters in
Athens protesting the measures, including state jobs cuts.  Global Stocks  Global equities tumbled at the end of last week after
George Karatzaferis, who heads one of the three parties
supporting Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , said he
wouldn’t support austerity measures required for a second
bailout. He spoke hours after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin that Greece was missing
deficit targets.  The vote is tantamount to a vote on whether Greece wants to
remain in the euro and is part of a fight to save the country,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told parliament.  In  China , Premier Wen Jiabao said the nation should take
preemptive measures and start “fine-tuning” economic policies
as early as in the first quarter, according to Xinhua News
Agency. Economic conditions in January and the first quarter
deserve attention, Wen told business executives last week in
Beijing, the official  news agency  reported yesterday.  Chinese Equities  Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid on Feb. 10. as lower-than-
expected lending and falling imports boosted concern the world’s
second-largest economy is slowing. The Bloomberg China-US 55
Index of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 1.2
percent to 105.17 in  New York .  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum sank 3 percent
on Feb. 10, the biggest selloff since Dec. 14. Crude oil for
March delivery lost 1.2 percent to $98.67 a barrel in New York.  Stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index are valued at 14
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.9 times
for the S&P 500 and 10.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  