-- Wayne Swan Says Global Slowdown Affecting Australian Economy
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-02-12T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/australia-s-swan-says-global-slowdown-affecting-domestic-economy.html
Australia ’s economy, buoyed by
demand from  China  for iron ore and coal, is feeling the impact
of a global slowdown as employers defer hiring new workers on
European uncertainty, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  While Australia can still expect “solid growth,” the
global environment and gains in the nation’s currency will
affect non-mining sectors such as manufacturing, Swan said
yesterday in his e-mailed weekly economic note.  Australia’s central bank lowered its 2012 forecast for
growth on Feb. 10, three days after keeping  interest rates 
unchanged following consecutive reductions of 25 basis points
each in November and December.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and General
Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing the
currency’s strength, while  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is reviewing the future of
an aluminum smelter.  “We shouldn’t pretend that there’s a simple solution,”
Swan said. “The affected businesses will need to do more to
adapt, to improve their efficiency, to spot new opportunities,
to find new markets, and to design new products.”  Australia’s dollar has climbed 6.4 percent versus its U.S.
counterpart in the past 12 months, matching gains in the yen and
lagging behind only the New Zealand dollar among Group of 10
currencies.  Growth Downgrade  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia sees average growth of 3.5
percent in 2012, down from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent.
Consumer prices will rise 3 percent in the year through to the
fourth quarter, less than a previous prediction of 3.25 percent,
the central bank said Feb. 10.  The revision to economic growth, amid stalling  consumer
spending  and weaker property markets, would still put this
year’s growth higher than the 3 percent average in the decade
through Sept. 30.  Australian’s benchmark interest rate of 4.25 percent gives
it the highest borrowing costs among major developed nations.
Policy rates in Japan and the U.S. are near zero, while the
 European Central Bank  has its benchmark at 1 percent.  The government doesn’t expect flooding in the eastern
states of Queensland and New South Wales to have a significant
impact on the economy as key coal mining areas such as the
Hunter Valley and Bowen Basin escaped major disruption, Swan
said.  Thousands of people were stranded last week as towns were
cut off when floodwaters surged through the nation’s eastern
river systems, threatening cotton crops in the world’s third-
largest shipper of the fiber.  Flooding may have caused A$50 million ($53 million) of
damage, the federal government said last week. Natural disasters
last year cost the Australian economy A$9 billion, according to
the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  