-- Cameron to Address Racism at Soccer Meeting
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-02-12T15:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/cameron-to-address-racism-at-soccer-meeting.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will meet leading figures from the world of soccer at his London
residence in a bid to “stamp out racism” in the sport, Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said.  English soccer has been rocked by accusations of racism in
recent months. Chelsea’s  John Terry  was stripped of his
captaincy of the national team by the Football Association on
Feb. 3 while he awaits trial on charges of racially abusing
Anton Ferdinand of Queens Park Rangers in a match in October.
Liverpool’s Uruguayan striker  Luis Suarez  was suspended for
eight games for abusing Patrice Evra of Manchester United the
same month.  “The lesson of the last couple of months is that you can
never be complacent,” Hunt, whose department oversees sports,
said on BBC television today. “The prime minister is very
concerned to make sure, certainly that we don’t go back to the
bad old days, but also that we are absolutely on our mettle at
making sure that the football authorities and the government
continue to do everything we can to stamp out racism.”  Suarez refused to shake Evra’s hand before yesterday’s
match between Manchester United and Liverpool, an incident for
which he apologized in a statement today.  “This is the kind of thing that can so easily escalate,
which is why the prime minister has decided that he’s going to
take a real interest and have this meeting in Downing Street,”
Hunt said.  “It’s incredibly depressing,” the culture secretary said
of yesterday’s incident. “It was very unsporting behavior. I’m
sure the FA will look into whether any rules were broken.”  Hunt did not specify when the meeting will take place. The
Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported that it would be held this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  