-- Cameron Backs NHS Plan Opposed by Doctors
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/cameron-ministers-back-lansley-pledge-health-overhaul-to-go-on.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and other Cabinet members backed Health Secretary Andrew Lansley
and said they’d press ahead with a plan to overhaul the  National
Health Service  that’s opposed by doctors’ groups.  The state-run NHS “needs to change -- and that is why I am
at one with Andrew Lansley, the reform program and the
legislation going through Parliament,” Cameron wrote in
yesterday’s Sunday Times newspaper. “There’s too much
bureaucracy -- and too much decision-making is led by that
bureaucracy rather than clinicians.”  Lansley’s plan to hand health-service management to local
doctors and to increase competition has drawn criticism from
medical associations and upper-house lawmakers. Though the
government has amended the bill to meet concerns, the
 Conservative Home website , which reflects grassroots thinking in
Cameron’s Tory party, reported last week that three ministers
had expressed misgivings about the bill or the health secretary.  “I sit on a Cabinet that’s united in wanting to see these
reforms through; all the Cabinet voted for it, all the Cabinet
supported it,” Communities Secretary Eric Pickles said on Sky
News television yesterday. “This bill is important to improve
the health service.”  The opposition  Labour Party ’s health spokesman,  Andy Burnham , called on Cameron to abandon the overhaul.  ‘Political Pride’  “There are signs of an NHS in increasing stress and this
reorganization is only adding to that uncertainty,” Burnham
said in an interview on BBC television yesterday, citing growing
waiting lists for treatment and job losses. “It’s hard not to
conclude that Mr. Cameron is putting his political pride before
the best interests of the National Health Service.”  Lansley also got backing from Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
and Stephen Dorrell, a former Tory health secretary who heads
the House of Commons Health Committee.  “Andrew Lansley is absolutely the right person for this
job,” Hunt told the  BBC . “He will be seen as the architect of
the modern NHS in years to come, because of his tremendous
bravery in seeing this through.”  Dorrell told Sky the right approach now was for the
government to push the legislation through Parliament.  “I can think of nothing that would further undermine and
demoralize staff within the health service more than the thought
that we’re going to have another six or 12 months’ discussion
about how the health service is managed,” Dorrell said.  The deputy leader of Cameron’s coalition partners, the
Liberal Democrats, suggested that once the bill had been passed,
Lansley should be replaced.  “My political judgment is that in the second half of
Parliament it would be better to move on,”  Simon Hughes , who
doesn’t hold any ministerial post, told the BBC. “We need to be
careful about the political sensitivities of this coalition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  