-- China May Need to Fine-Tune Policy This Quarter, Wen Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-13T02:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/china-should-fine-tune-economic-policy-as-early-as-this-quarter-wen-says.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
nation needs to start “fine-tuning” economic policies this
quarter, the first indication of a timeframe for an adjustment
he has pledged since October.  Economic circumstances in January and the first quarter
deserve attention, Wen told business executives last week in
Beijing as he sought opinions on a government report, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. “We have to
make a proper judgment as early as possible when things happen
and take quick action,” Wen was cited as saying by Xinhua.  Wen’s remarks may fuel speculation that the government will
soon ease policy further to preserve  growth  in the world’s
second-biggest economy after weaker exports and slower lending
last month. The nation’s expansion may be cut almost in half if
 Europe ’s debt crisis worsens, a scenario that would warrant
“significant” fiscal stimulus from the government, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a Feb. 6 report.  “It seems like Wen is getting ready to offer some stimulus
to the economy after weaker data for January,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong . “It may suggest a high likelihood of a policy move in
February or March. We expect a reserve ratio cut to be one of
the measures announced soon.”  Kowalczyk said officials may also enact additional pro-
growth measures such as boosting lending and government spending
and lowering taxes.  Refraining from Cut  The central bank has refrained from lowering the reserve
 ratio  since a cut in December, by 50 basis points to 21 percent,
that was the first reduction in three years.  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets
in  Singapore , said he’s surprised there haven’t been any more
reserve ratio cuts this year, and he still forecasts reductions
of 200 basis points for 2012. “ Monetary policy  has turned more
accommodative at the end of 2011 and that appears to be
persisting in 2012,” he said.  The Ministry of Commerce is studying measures for
stabilizing foreign trade growth through easing funding
pressures on companies, boosting fiscal-policy support and
keeping the local currency’s exchange rate stable, Minister  Chen Deming  said during a trip to eastern Anhui province, according
to a statement on the ministry’s website yesterday. Chen said
last week in a written response to questions from Bloomberg News
that January exports “cannot make us optimistic.”  Exports, Imports Drop  China ’s exports and imports fell for the first time in two
years in January and new lending last month was the lowest for a
January in five years, government reports showed last week,
adding to signs growth is weakening.  Overseas  shipments  fell 0.5 percent and imports declined a
more-than-forecast 15.3 percent from a year earlier in a month
that had four fewer working days than January 2011 because of
the Chinese New Year holiday, the customs bureau said Feb. 10.
Banks extended a lower-than-estimated 738.1 billion yuan ($117
billion) of new yuan-denominated loans last month.  China won’t waver on its real-estate curbs, which aim to
bring  home prices  to a “reasonable level,” Wen said without
elaborating. Although market mechanisms should play a
fundamental role in the  property market , the government will
maintain restrictions to ensure fairness and stability, he said.  The eastern city of Wuhu yesterday said it will suspend a
decision to ease property curbs, three days after its
announcement. The People’s Bank of China last week pledged to
ensure first-home buyers can get loans as a crackdown on
speculation threatens to trigger a slump in the property market.  To cope with economic hardships this year, the government
will “offer support to the real economy,” especially the
development of small and micro companies, Wen said, according to
the Xinhua report. It will also relax restrictions on private
capital and support private enterprises, Wen said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  