-- Chinese City of Wuhu Retracts Property Easing as Wen Pledges Housing Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-12T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/chinese-city-of-wuhu-retracts-property-easing-as-wen-pledges-housing-curbs.html
China ’s eastern city of  Wuhu 
suspended a decision to ease property curbs three days after its
announcement, in a move that underscores the nation’s
determination to cool prices.  The mid-sized city in Anhui province will temporarily
suspend its home subsidy policy so it can study details on how
to implement the rules, according to a statement on the local
authority’s website yesterday. Wuhu will waive a deed tax and
subsidize some home purchases, it  said  Feb. 9, becoming the
first Chinese city this year to signal its intention to ease
property curbs.  China won’t waver on its real-estate controls, which aim to
bring  home prices  down to a reasonable level, to ensure fairness
and stability, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said during a meeting with
business executives last week, Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. Wuhu followed in the footsteps of the southern
Chinese city of Foshan, which in October shelved plans to ease
limits on home purchases one day after its announcement.  “We at Credit Suisse recommend selling China property
sector now,”  Jinsong Du, the bank’s Hong Kong-based analyst,
wrote in an e-mailed note. “The Wuhu reversal clearly shows
that the stock market has severely underestimated the central
government’s political will to cool the housing market
significantly further.”  China intensified measures last year with home-purchase
restrictions in 40 cities and higher mortgage requirements.  Home
prices  fell 0.18 percent in January from December, a fifth
consecutive monthly decline and the longest streak of drops
since SouFun Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest real-estate website,
began tracking prices.  Wuhu Policies  An  index  tracking Shanghai-listed real estate companies
surged 4 percent since Feb. 9, extending this year’s rally to 9
percent, amid speculation that other regions may follow Wuhu by
relaxing restrictions.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest listed developer,
said early this month that January sales fell 39 percent from a
year earlier.  Wuhu will give subsidies of 50 yuan ($7.90) a square meter
(10.76 square feet) for the purchase of homes of 70 square
meters to 90 square meters, and 150 yuan a square meter for new
homes smaller than 70 square meters, the local government said
in the Feb. 9 statement.  The measures in Wuhu were intended to meet demand from
buyers with low incomes and to attract residents with higher
education rather than to bail out the  property market , the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 11, citing comments by
Hong Jianping, Wuhu’s deputy mayor, at a media briefing a day
earlier.  Under the policies, the subsidies would apply to purchases
of first homes, Xinhua said. Home buyers with more extensive
educational backgrounds or professional qualifications would be
entitled to higher subsidies, the agency said.  “The retraction was probably done after pressure,”
Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based property analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “Their policies went too
far and were surprising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  