-- China Airlines in ‘Intolerable’ Spot on Europe Levies, IATA Says
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-02-12T16:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/china-airlines-in-intolerable-spot-on-europe-levies-iata-says.html
Chinese airlines are in an
“intolerable” position because of a spat between the country
and the European Union over emissions levies, said  Tony Tyler ,
the head of the  International Air Transport Association .  “They face the impossible choice of either obeying the law
of their own land or obeying the law of Europe,” he said in a
Bloomberg TV interview yesterday in Singapore ahead of the city-
state’s airshow. “It’s an intolerable situation to be in.”  China  last week barred carriers from taking part in an EU
emissions-trading system because of concerns it will raise costs
and impinge on non-European governments’ sovereignty. The U.S.,
 Russia  and India are also among at least 27 nations due to meet
next week in Moscow to discuss retaliatory measures against the
addition of aviation to a European carbon market.  The Chinese carriers are “almost now taking a leadership
position in the industry against this,” said Tyler, whose
organization represents about 240 carriers worldwide. “We need
a solution” to the impasse, he said.  The EU added flights to its cap-and-trade carbon program on
Jan. 1. Under the system, which is designed to pare pollution,
airlines must monitor and report their emissions on all flights
into and out of  Europe  each year, and purchase carbon permits to
cover these discharges. Carriers will be given about 85 percent
of their permits free of charge in 2012. One permit is
equivalent to one metric ton of carbon dioxide.  Global System  IATA has called for the EU to drop the airline-emissions
cap and instead wait for a global program now being worked on by
the  United Nations ’  International Civil Aviation Organization .
The dispute hasn’t so far affected flights as carriers don’t
need to hand over any permits until next year.  “If there hasn’t been a resolution by then, airlines will
be in a very difficult position,” said  Andrew Herdman , the head
of the  Association of Asia Pacific Airlines , which represents 15
Asian carriers, based outside mainland China. Its members
“aren’t happy, but we are complying” with EU rules, he said.  The China Air Transport Association asked its government to
oppose the EU levies and it is working on a legal challenge to
be filed in  Germany , Vice President Chai Haibo said Feb. 6. The
group’s members include mainland China’s big three state-
controlled carriers --  Air China Ltd. (601111) , China Eastern Airlines
Corp. and  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)   The EU hopes to resolve the issue through negotiations or
it may ultimately be ruled on by the courts, Markus Ederer, its
ambassador to China, said at a press briefing last week. Based
on current carbon prices and the free permits, the system would
increase Beijing-to-Brussels ticket prices by about 17.50 yuan
($2.80), he said. Airlines can be exempted from the EU emissions
markets if their home government introduces a similar program.  Moscow Meeting  At the Moscow meeting due to start Feb. 21, countries will
discuss new taxes and charges on European airlines, as well as
the re-opening of bilateral treaties governing flight rights, an
Indian civil aviation ministry official said last week. He
declined to be identified, citing government policy.  India  has also asked carriers to not give emissions data to
the EU, according to  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest airline. U.S. carriers backed a legal challenge to the
emissions levies last year, which was ultimately rejected by the
EU Court of Justice.  China hopes to reach an “acceptable solution” and will
consider “appropriate responses,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said on Feb. 7.  Airline Bankruptcies  Tyler also said that he “wouldn’t rule out” the
possibility of more airline failures in Europe after the
collapse of Spanair SA and Malev Zrt. A European recession could
cause the global industry to lose as much as $8.3 billion this
year, according to IATA forecasts.  That would be “a disaster,” Tyler said. Even without a
European crisis, it will still be a “difficult year,” with the
global industry probably posting a 0.6 percent margin and $3.5
billion worldwide profit, he said.  Asian carriers will probably be in a stronger position than
European ones because of economic growth in countries including
China, he said. A slump in cargo demand may also be bottoming
out, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  