-- China’s Xi Seeks Second Front for U.S. Ties in Iowa Return
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-13T10:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/china-s-xi-seeks-to-open-second-front-for-ties-with-u-s-in-return-to-iowa.html
Chinese heir-apparent Xi Jinping’s
trip to the U.S. this week will focus on building relations with
local officials clamoring for investment and export markets,
expanding a second front for bilateral ties as anti- China 
rhetoric rises in Washington and on the campaign trail.  Xi, set to arrive late today in the U.S., will travel to
Iowa and Los Angeles after meeting President Barack Obama at the
White House. The visits coincide with an explosion of city-to-
city and state-to-province ties, a surge in U.S. local
governments setting up trade offices in China and increasing
demand for foreign investment as U.S.  unemployment  remains at
historical highs.  “Strengthening local cooperation and exchanges is an
important foundation in consolidating friendly Sino-U.S. ties,”
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said in a written response to
questions. “It also is an important driving force in deepening
economic and trade relations.”  Vice President Xi, 58, in line to assume the leadership of
the ruling Communist Party later this year and the presidency in
March 2013, will likely find a more receptive audience in Iowa
and  California  than in Washington, where members of Congress and
President Barack Obama criticize China over its currency and
trade policies, human rights practices and military expansion.
Outside of the Capital Beltway, officials want to attract
investment from the world’s No. 2 economy.  Sister Cities  “Everybody is focused on jobs, everybody wants Chinese
investment,” said Bob Kapp, the former president of the U.S.-
China Business Council. “The states want the jobs and the
governors and mayors make their way to China as they have for so
many years.”  Commerce Minister Chen said there were 176 sister city
relationships between China and the U.S., 38 state-to-province
matchups and more than 30 state trade offices working in China.
The trade representative for the state of  Kentucky , for example,
inserts miniature bottles of Jim Beam bourbon into gift bags at
Beijing events to promote the brand.  Iowa  Governor Terry Branstad and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa have both traveled to Beijing within the past six
months. The governors of Washington State,  Georgia ,  Hawaii  and
 North Carolina  in October met some of their Chinese counterparts
in Beijing.  Contrast on Display  The contrast between Washington and the states was on
display last year when President Hu Jintao visited the U.S.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid called him a “dictator” and
some members of Congress, including House Speaker John Boehner,
stayed away from his state dinner. A day later in  Chicago , then-
mayor Richard Daley called Hu a “man of vision” and urged more
Chinese investment.  This year the rift is exacerbated by campaigning ahead of
the November presidential election. The 2013 budget proposal
that Obama will submit to Congress today seeks $26 million for
an Interagency Trade Enforcement Center that will monitor and
enforce trade agreements, according to an administration
official.  In his State of the Union Address last month, Obama
announced that the unit “will be charged with investigating
unfair trading practices in countries like China.”Republican
candidate  Mitt Romney  said that if elected president, he will
direct the  U.S. Treasury  to list China as a currency
manipulator.  Adding Jobs  Those statements aren’t stopping Lu Guanqiu, the
billionaire founder of auto-parts maker  Wanxiang Group (WANGPZ)  Co., from
adding hundreds of jobs in the past year to his sales and
manufacturing facilities in the U.S. The company now employs
more than 6,000 people in at least 14 states, he said in an
interview last month at the company’s headquarters in Hangzhou.  Lu accompanied Hu last January on his trip, visiting the
White House and showing off his company’s electric-vehicle
dashboards to Mayor Daley at a warehouse in the Chicago suburbs.
Lu said he plans to accompany Xi on this trip, which will
include meetings between U.S. and Chinese companies in
Washington, Iowa and  Los Angeles .  Policy Speech  Xi will make a policy speech on Feb. 15 in Washington at an
event co-sponsored by the U.S.-China Business Council. The
Washington-based group’s chairman is Coca-Cola Co. Chief
Executive Officer Muhtar Kent, and other corporate members
include Procter & Gamble Co. and General Electric Co.  Xi’s trip is an opportunity to shape the perception of
China in the eyes of Americans and also burnish his image at
home ahead of this year’s Communist Party Congress, where he is
expected to replace Hu as general secretary. The U.S. public saw
Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping don a cowboy hat at a Texas rodeo
in 1979, softening the image of a country that had only a
generation earlier fought a war with the U.S. on the Korean
peninsula.  Zhao Ziyang, who served as premier and then general
secretary in the 1980s, met President Ronald Reagan in 1984 at
the White House in a western suit, demonstrating China’s
increasing focus on business after years of Americans seeing
images of masses of Chinese wearing identical blue Mao suits.  In a written response to questions from the  Washington 
Post, Xi said China has taken steps to meet “legitimate U.S.
concerns” on intellectual property rights and trade imbalances,
and will press ahead with reforms of the yuan  exchange rate . He
said China hopes the U.S. will ease restrictions on high-tech
exports and set a “level playing field” for Chinese companies
that want to invest in the U.S., according to the Post.  Increased Imports  China’s  economic growth  is driving an increase in imports
from the U.S. China’s economy expanded 8.9 percent in the last
three months of 2011 from the year ago period. The  U.S. economy 
grew 1.6 percent during the same period.  In the first 11 months of 2011, U.S. exports to China rose
to $94.2 billion from $81.8 billion a year earlier, a 15.2
percent increase that topped the 9.7 percent rise in imports
from China, according to the U.S. Commerce Department. That
still left a trade deficit of $272.3 billion, $19.9 billion more
than a year earlier.  Farm products are driving the U.S. export growth. U.S.
exports to China of grains, including corn, wheat, barley,
sorghum and soybeans, surged 77.8 percent to 695,063 bushels
from a year earlier as of Feb. 2, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  Stronger Yuan  Another factor aiding in the export surge: a stronger yuan.
The currency reached an 18-year high on Feb. 10. The yuan
advanced 0.1 percent last week to 6.2986 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Iowa is the  biggest  corn-producing state and people there
say Xi will get a warm reception that contrasts with the tone in
Washington and on the campaign.  As a local official in northern China’s Hebei province in
1985, Xi stayed with an Iowa family in the city of Muscatine as
part of a delegation to study corn technology. He is scheduled
to return to the city on the Mississippi River for a reunion.  “We feel so honored,” said Sarah Lande, 73, who hosted a
dinner for Xi in Muscatine during the 1985 visit. “For us, to
have the vice president of China and possibly soon-to-be
president back is flattering. We want to do our country well.”  Lande remembered that about 10 people including Xi attended
the party, where she served beef, salad and corn on “good
china” with silver. During his time in Muscatine, Xi visited a
feed company and a hog farm, and the group was especially
interested in knowing how Iowa bred leaner pork, Lande said.  While there, Xi was also greeted by O. Richard Maeglin, a
74-year-old retired entrepreneur. Maeglin said his family has
hosted visitors for decades, including officials from  Europe ,
 Asia  and South America, and he sometimes takes them to visit a
hog farm or to facilities owned by  Monsanto Co. (MON)   “If you’ve had perhaps 75 people from other countries stay
in your town, you can’t tell if the person is an average priest
or a pope,” Maeglin said. “He ate cereal with you, chatted
about things, and it was a wonderful experience. In general,
when someone stays in your house, they’re not a dignitary,
they’re a person.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  