-- Consumer Confidence Increases as China and U.S. Rise, Nielsen Survey Shows
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-02-12T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/consumer-confidence-increases-as-china-and-u-s-rise-nielsen-survey-shows.html
Global  consumer confidence  rose in
the December quarter as improving sentiment in the  U.S. (CONSSENT)  and
 China (CHCSCONF) , the world’s largest economies, outweighed deterioration
in Europe, according to a survey by  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) .  Nielsen, an analytics and information company, said
yesterday its index of consumer confidence rose one point in the
period to 89. The company surveyed more than 28,000 online
consumers in 56 countries from Nov. 23 to Dec. 9 with sentiment
falling compared to the September quarter in 30 of those markets,
according to an e-mailed statement.  North America  posted the biggest regional gain, rising five
points to 84 in the period, as measures for personal finance and
employment improved. The Asia-Pacific region remains the most
optimistic, with seven of the 10 highest scores, while 24 of the
27 markets in  Europe  posted declines in the quarter.  “Europe’s challenging economic conditions in the second
half of 2011 brought renewed vulnerability and fragility to
consumers and financial markets globally,” said  Venkatesh Bala ,
chief economist at Nielsen’s Cambridge Group unit. “Some of the
most positive news last quarter came from the world’s two
largest economies.”  Europe’s debt crisis and continuing political uncertainty
were responsible for its decline in confidence, with 23 percent
of respondents in the region rating job prospects as either good
or excellent, Nielsen said.  Denmark and Romania were the only European countries to
become more optimistic and  Germany  was unchanged as the region
accounted for eight of the 10 most-pessimistic markets.  India  is the most optimistic in the world with an index
reading of 122, followed by Indonesia and the  Philippines  which
both reported a level of 117, according to Nielsen.  The survey, which was established in 2005, has a maximum
margin of error of plus or minus 0.6 percentage point, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  