-- Danish Bank Law Gets Backdoor Overhaul to Accelerate Mergers
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-02-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/danish-bank-law-gets-backdoor-overhaul-to-accelerate-mergers.html
Denmark ’s latest state-subsidized
bank merger was ushered through without parliament's approval 
as the government stretches an existing law to avoid failures
that risk pushing more losses on to private creditors.  The  Business Ministry  last month let two troubled lenders
tap state support reserved for healthy banks buying struggling
peers, broadening legislation that had failed to spur 
consolidation. The ministry will seek parliament's backing
for the amendment ``soon,'' saidHenrik Bjerre-Nielsen, the 
head of the government’s bank resolution unit, the Financial 
Stability Co.  “We have no legal basis currently for granting it, but I
understand that the government is seeking that,” Bjerre-Nielsen
said in an interview. “It will come pretty soon.”  Denmark’s government is stepping up efforts to avoid more
 bank failures  that would trigger the country’s bail-in laws. 
Two insolvencies last year pushed losses on to senior creditors, 
and left most of Denmark’s 120  banks  shut out of funding markets 
as investors balked at the specter of burden sharing. The 
financial regulator has said more banks may fail this year.   Vestjysk Bank A/S (VJBA)  and  Aarhus Lokalbank A/S (AARHUS)  said Jan. 25
they will merge and announced the same day the deal would come
under the government’s bank consolidation law, allowing them to
extend state guarantees on their debt that had been due to run
out by 2013.  “This is something we believe is fair to do,” Bjerre-
Nielsen said. “It is the prudent thing to do.”  Double Writedowns  Vestjysk a month earlier had been told by the financial
regulator to double its reported writedowns after the watchdog
found the bank had understated its risky assets. Vestjysk shares
plunged 73 percent last year, while Aarhus Lokalbank stock sank
86 percent after both banks failed to generate profits.  Allowing more troubled banks to use the government’s merger
support could help spur the consolidation wave the industry
needs, said Ulrik Noedgaard, director general of the Financial
Supervisory Authority.   The change means that more banks may be able to extend next
year’s deadline on about $30 billion in state-backed debt.
Efforts to generate the extra capital needed to honor that
target had forced many lenders to dump assets and call in loans.  The amended consolidation bill is also less likely to 
offend European regulators, who don’t want state subsidies to go 
to healthy banks.  Liquidity Lifeline  Moody’s Investors Service cited a lack of government
support for Denmark’s financial industry when it cut five bank
ratings a year ago. A three-year lending facility that the
central bank in Copenhagen announced in December may be of 
limited use in ending Denmark’s banking crisis, Noedgaard 
said, putting more pressure on the government to come up with 
support measures.  “Clearly, our impression is that, with the challenges in
terms of refinancing the state guarantee getting even closer,
there is a lot of effort being put into coming up with solutions
for this,” Noedgaard said.  Central Bank Governor Nils Bernstein has urged banks at
risk of failure to reduce lending or look for buyers rather than
risk a collapse that would worsen the funding crisis. At the
same time, the FSA is imposing more rigorous capital standards
and writedown rules, a development industry groups are warning
will exacerbate a credit crunch.  Denmark is close to unveiling extra measures to accelerate
bank mergers,  Brian Mikkelsen , a member of the parliamentary
committee that oversees banks, said Jan 25. Mikkelsen, as
economy minister until last year, was an architect of the
original consolidation legislation.  “We have to see whether more banks will actually use this
scheme now that it has proven it can actually be used in
practice,” Noedgaard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  