-- Danske Bank CEO Says Burst Housing Bubble Now Polluting Retail Portfolio
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/danske-bank-ceo-says-burst-housing-bubble-now-polluting-retail-portfolio.html
The fallout of Denmark’s house price
collapse is spreading through  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s loan book as the
country’s biggest lender watches losses grow at its retail unit,
said outgoing Chief Executive Officer  Peter Straarup .  “The bank had been sheltered by the crisis because it hit
mostly small and medium-sized businesses,” Straarup said in an
interview in Copenhagen. “We’re now seeing more retail
clients” affected, he said.  Denmark’s housing bubble, which burst in 2007, is still
wreaking havoc in Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy. The
foreclosure rate rose in December to the highest since June
2010, while  house prices  slumped an annual 8.5 percent in
November and will have collapsed 25 percent by 2013, the
government-backed Economic Council estimates.  Loan losses at Danske Bank’s mortgage unit, Realkredit
Danmark A/S, rose 8.3 percent to 1.06 billion kroner ($188
million) last year, the  bank  said Feb. 9. The share of losses
related to private mortgages jumped to 50 percent of the total,
compared with 26 percent a year earlier, the bank said.  Denmark ’s housing slump has fueled a regional banking
crisis. More than two dozen small and medium-sized Danish
lenders have either failed, received state bailouts or been
taken over since 2008, succumbing to bad loans to real estate or
farming.  More banks may collapse this year, Financial Supervisory
Authority Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said in an interview
in January. He estimates about 3 percent of the country’s
financial industry is at risk of insolvency.  Rate Dilemma  The twin housing and banking crises have also taken their
toll on Denmark’s labor market. Survey unemployment will rise to
7.4 percent this year, compared with 3.2 percent in 2008, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates.  Continued declines in property values and rising
unemployment will probably trigger wider loan losses at Danske
Bank, Straarup said.  Home owners have been spared bigger losses thanks to
record-low  interest rates . Denmark’s central bank cut its
benchmark  lending rate  to a record low 0.7 percent in December,
to maintain the krone’s peg to the euro.  Retail mortgage losses remain “very limited as rates have
been at record lows,” Straarup said. “Low rates are good for
the bank’s credit quality but not for earnings.”  Danske’s net income dropped 81 percent drop in the fourth
quarter, missing analyst estimates as loan losses swelled. It
was the last earnings report to be delivered by Straarup as he
steps down this week to be replaced by Eivind Kolding, the
former CEO of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s container unit and
Danske Bank chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  