-- Shopping Surge Gives Dubai Developers a Lifeline After Property Sales Sink
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-02-13T09:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/dubai-developers-thrown-retail-lifeline-as-property-sales-sink.html
Dubai’s developers, battered by
three years of falling prices for homes and offices, are seeking
refuge in retail assets as shopping tourism powers the economy.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  said today it’s expanding the Dubai
Mall, the world’s biggest, by 1 million square feet (92,903
square meters) as retail accounts for a growing share of the
company’s income. Nakheel PJSC, the government-owned company
that restructured $16.1 billion of debt last year, is adding to
its Dragon Mart shopping center and trying to raise funds to
build a cluster of restaurants and stores at the tip of its Palm
Jumeirah artificial island.  “Most developers are looking to build recurring revenues
because there are so few property sales happening right now,”
said Patrick Gaffney, an analyst at HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd.
“The sectors that are doing best are retail and hotels because
of strong tourist arrivals.”  Dubai’s malls and shops have become more attractive after
home values fell by more than 65 percent from their 2008 peak
while retail sales have been rising since 2009. Developers that
don’t already generate significant revenue from shopping assets
will struggle to get a foothold in the market because little is
being built or sold and banks are reluctant to finance any type
of development in the emirate, including retail, Gaffney said.  Retail revenue in the United Arab Emirates probably
increased 5.3 percent last year to 113 billion dirhams ($31
billion) Business Monitor International estimated. That will
probably rise to 120 billion dirhams this year and 157 billion
dirhams by 2015, it said.  Biggest Mall Owner  Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC (0115682D) , the operator of  Carrefour SA (CA) 
stores in the Middle East, is the largest owner of shopping
malls in Dubai. The closely held developer this month raised
$400 million selling Islamic bonds for the first time as part of
a $1 billion program. Last month the company reported an 18
percent increase in revenue in its home market and said 2011 was
its most successful year since being founded in 1992.  Majid Al Futtaim priced its $400 million, five-year Islamic
bond, or sukuk, at a rate of 5.85 percent on Jan. 31. The yield
rose 4 basis points since it started trading this month to 5.66
percent today. That compares with a yield of 7.4 percent for
Emaar’s 8.5 percent Islamic notes maturing in 2016. Emaar,
Dubai’s second-biggest retail operator, also builds housing and
offices.  Share of Income  Emaar reported that 41 percent of revenue and 68 percent of
pretax profit came from hospitality properties and leased space
including shopping malls in the first nine months of last year.
That compares with 24 percent of revenue and 27 percent of
profit a year earlier.  “The Dubai Mall is a powerful demonstration of the
competencies that Emaar has developed in retail, regarded as one
of the core sectors of Dubai’s economy,” Emaar Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar  said in today’s statement.  Owning the Dubai Mall, with rentable space equivalent to 50
football fields, also helped the company when it used the asset
as collateral to refinance 3.6 billion dirhams of debt at a
lower price. The expansion announced today will lift the total
size of the development to more than 13 million square feet.  Retailers including American Eagle Outfitters Inc., Limited
Brands Inc. and luxury watch seller Rivoli Group are opening
shops in Dubai as consumer confidence rises. Macy’s Inc., the
second-biggest U.S. department-store company, in January 2010
chose the Dubai Mall to open its first Bloomingdale’s store
outside its home market.  Left Out  Prospects aren’t as bright for developers that haven’t
built up retail assets.  Union Properties PJSC (UPP) , which is mainly
focused on homes and offices, this month reported a full-year
loss of 1.57 billion dirhams. The company in January handed over
ownership of properties including some in Limestone and The
Index to settle 1.1 billion dirhams of debt.  Deyaar Development PJSC (DEYAAR) , partly owned by Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC, has 234 million dirhams of debt coming due this year,
compared with about 37.7 million dirhams of  profit in 2011 . The
company had a loss of 2.9 billion dirhams the previous year.  “Even though retail is generally strong, especially at the
large malls, we don’t expect many developers to build new ones
because funding is tough and there is already a good amount of
supply in the market,” Gaffney said. “The areas that will do
best are smaller strip malls or supermarkets near housing
developments.”  Boost to Economy  Shopping accounted for about 30 percent of Dubai’s gross
domestic product last year, Standard Chartered Bank Plc
economist Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce estimated. The Dubai
Statistics Center said retail and wholesale trade rose by 9.3
percent and hotels and restaurants increased by 4.4 percent in
2010. It hasn’t yet released figures for last year.  Nakheel is in talks with banks to raise at least 300
million dirhams for its first new project since the debt-ridden
company received a government bailout in 2009. The Pointe at
Palm Jumeirah, across the water from the Atlantis hotel, will
include 120 restaurants, 75 shops and landscaped areas for
visitors with a view of an offshore fountain.  “The retail sector is strategic for Nakheel,” Chairman
Ali Rashed Lootah said at a press conference in January. He
added that 60 percent of an extension to Nakheel’s Dragon Mart
mall was booked by retailers within a week of its announcement.
The company plans to add 1.7 million square feet of retail space
and 5,000 parking spaces to the mall.  Fundraising Challenge  Even with a growing retail market, Nakheel may have
difficulty raising the money after it received a government
bailout and restructured debt, according to analysts including
Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of investment and asset
management at Royal Capital PJSC.  “Any issue would have to be at a very competitive yield
and probably with a structure that gives some government
guarantee,” Talhaoui said in a January interview.  The yield on Nakheel’s 3.8 billion-dirham, 10 percent sukuk
maturing in August 2016, fell 114 basis points, or 1.14
percentage points, so far this year to 16.83 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
average yield of 4.45 percent for U.A.E Islamic bonds on Feb.
10, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai UAE US Dollar Sukuk Index shows.  Emaar, which opened Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest
tower, in 2010, derived about 23 percent of its 2011 income from
retail rents and is now focusing almost exclusively in Dubai on
growing sales at its malls, HSBC’s Gaffney said. Tourists
visiting the Burj Khalifa’s  observation deck  can only get there
by going through the Dubai Mall.  Emaar’s Head Start  “Emaar was better positioned than others when the
financial crisis hit,” said Gaffney. “They had already
launched and sold so much in Dubai and didn’t have tons of
unsold inventory coming on line. They also were focused on the
construction of Burj Khalifa, Emaar Boulevard and Dubai Mall,
rather than starting new projects.”  Malls and hotels are the main value drivers for Emaar,
whose projects span the  Middle East , North Africa and  Asia ,
Ahmed Badr said in a note on Oct. 27, when he was head of Middle
East property research at Credit Suisse Group AG. He now works
as an equity sales specialist with the bank.  Dubai, the second-largest of seven sheikhdoms that make up
the United Arab Emirates, racked up $129 billion in debt
transforming itself into a tourist and trade hub. While many
developments were canceled, attractions including Burj Khalifa
and resort hotels like the Atlantis help bring in visitors who
shop for goods that aren’t available in much of the region.  Locals and Foreigners  “The local population is wealthy enough to be able to keep
buying and the tourism growth was very strong in Dubai last
year,” said David Macadam, head of retail for the Middle East
and North Africa at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. He said Dubai
shopping is bolstered by visitors from the Gulf region,  Europe ,
 China , the  Indian subcontinent  and the rest of the Arab world.  Dubai hotels reported an 11 percent increase in visitors in
the nine months through September compared with a year earlier,
according to the Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing.
Revolutions in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya  and armed conflicts in
Yemen and  Syria  mean that tourists in the region have fewer
options for vacations.  Buyers spent $114 million in the first week of Dubai’s
month-long shopping festival, a 53 percent increase over the
year earlier period, according to Karim Beg,  Visa Inc. (V) ’s head of
marketing for the Middle East and North Africa.  “Our marketing efforts have reached new markets in east
Asia such as China and  Japan  and even though this strategy
started only three years ago, we have seen its fruit already,”
said Laila Suhail, chief executive officer of festival organizer
Dubai Events & Promotions.  Little New Space  Dubai has 2.58 million square meters (27.8 million square
feet) of mall-based retail space, according to a report by
property broker Jones Lang LaSalle. About 173,000 square meters
will be completed in the next two years, mostly in small
shopping centers or strip malls, it said.  Banks wary of real-estate lending may make an exception if
the business case for a project is clear and if adequate
protection is put into place, said Raj Madha, an analyst at
Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd.  Union Properties sold a building in the Umm Suqeim
neighborhood for more than 140 million dirhams to supermarket
operator Spinneys, Chairman Khalid Bin Kalban said in June 2010.
Such transactions are rare in Dubai, where developers tend to
hold onto shopping assets.  Assets to Keep  “It doesn’t make sense for owners to relinquish well-
performing assets such as malls, which were great source of cash
even during the crisis,” said Matthew Green, head of  United
Arab Emirates  research at real-estate broker CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. “Also, when you look at mall owners they are
generally companies that don’t have a pressing need to sell.
Even if they wanted to sell, it won’t be prime assets.”  Majid Al Futtaim’s Mall of the Emirates, which contains an
indoor ski slope, has a 99.8 percent occupancy rate, while the
developer’s Deira City Center and Mirdif City Centre have rates
of 98.8 percent and 96.9 percent respectively, according to the
company’s prospectus.  Dubai’s mall vacancy rate stands at 20 percent, mainly
because of smaller malls with low visitor numbers. Most big
international brand retailers won’t open stores in small malls
as they look for the most prestigious and high profile
locations, Gaffney said.  After the sheikhdom first opened up its real-estate market
to foreigners in 2005, developers focused on selling homes as
speculation-driven investment drove up prices.  “At the time, it made more sense to sell land and
residential units because it was less risky,” HSBC’s Gaffney
said. Back then, developers couldn’t determine whether the
location would be valuable by the time a shopping center was
built, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net 
V US <Equity>
UPP UH <Equity>
DEYAAR UH <Equity>
 Z UH <Equity>
EMAAR UH <Equity> 