-- Egypt Dollar Offerings Grow on Record Local Borrowing Costs
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-02-13T12:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/egypt-dollar-offerings-grow-on-record-local-borrowing-costs.html
Egypt  will offer $2.5 billion in
dollar debt in the next two weeks and look for $10 billion from
land sales over three years to reduce record local borrowing
costs and replenish dwindling  foreign reserves .  The Arab country will sell $500 million in one-year dollar-
denominated treasury-bills in the next “week or two,” and
offer Egyptians living abroad certificates of deposit valued at
$2 billion, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said in a phone
interview yesterday. The country also will offer more than 8,600
plots of land for sale to Egyptians abroad, he said.  “The government is taking the risk on the expectation that
over the next year there will be a recovery,” Angus Blair,
chairman of Cairo-based Signet Institute, a group that studies
business and politics in the  Middle East  and North Africa, said
by phone yesterday. “But there are still some uncomfortable
decisions needed to be made on the economy such as cutting the
budget deficit, targeting subsidies and improving sentiment.”  Egypt’s local borrowing costs have surged to their highest
levels since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006, with
the average yield on  one-year treasury bills  climbing to 15.975
percent. By comparison, the  finance ministry  sold similar-
maturity dollar bills last month at 3.855 percent. Egypt’s
benchmark  EGX 30 Index  has risen 41 percent this year, making it
the world’s best performer among 93 markets tracked by
Bloomberg. It slumped 49 percent last year.  Yields Rise  The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April 2020
advanced nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.41
percent at 2:07 p.m. in Cairo, the highest level in three weeks,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The pound weakened
0.1 percent to 6.0380 a dollar.  The  Central Bank  of Egypt, which holds domestic debt
auctions on behalf of the Finance Ministry, today sold 1.5
billion pounds ($248 million) of three-year bonds at an average
yield of 16.43 percent, seven basis points more than at the Jan.
30 sale. The regulator sought to raise 2 billion pounds.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the ratings on Egypt’s long-term
foreign- and local-currency debt on Feb. 10 to B, five grades
below investment quality, from B+. The outlook was negative,
suggesting the next move may be another cut. It was the
country’s third downgrade in four months at S&P, which cited
political instability and declining foreign reserves.  Egypt’s international reserves fell to $16.4 billion in
January, the smallest total in more than seven years.  Widening Deficit  The  budget deficit , which Egypt finances mostly through bi-
weekly sales of treasury bills, will reach 9.4 percent in the
fiscal year that ends in June, el-Saieed said  in a statement 
posted on the finance ministry website. That’s the fifth
revision of the rate that reached as high as 11 percent when it
was first announced last June.  A delegation from the  World Bank  arrived in Cairo yesterday
to start talks on a $1 billion loan to Egypt. The country will
also present the  International Monetary Fund  with an 18-month
economic-reform proposal to obtain approval for a $3.2 billion
loan, according to Planning Minister Fayza Aboulnaga. The
country needs about $11 billion in external financing by June
2013, el-Saieed said Feb. 10.  “Some investors are willing to bet that the political
transition will proceed smoothly, judging by the pricing of
recent dollar debt and the increase in the stock market,” Blair
said. “You can give Egypt lots of money, but if you don’t
improve sentiment for the domestic private sector, it’s not
going to help much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  