-- Higher-Yielding Currencies Advance as Greek Austerity Vote Boosts Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-02-13T22:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/euro-gains-as-greece-approves-austerity-measures.html
Higher-yielding currencies rose
against the dollar and yen as optimism increased that the
outlook for  Europe ’s debt crisis is improving, boosting investor
demand for risk.  The euro erased gains after approaching a two-month high
against the dollar. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won
approval from parliament yesterday for austerity measures needed
to receive a second aid package, which euro-area finance
ministers must decide whether to release when they meet Feb. 15.
The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts,
including the New Zealand dollar and South Africa’s rand, as
stocks and commodities rose before reports forecast to show
strong U.S. economic growth.  “It looks like risk poured in after the austerity bill,”
said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New
York. “Better-than-expected data out of the U.S. has been
pretty supportive for risk, and if the numbers surprise to the
upside, we should see the same trend continue.”  The euro fell less than 0.1 percent to $1.3186 at 5 p.m.
New York time, after reaching $1.3322 on Feb. 9, the highest
level since Dec. 12. It dropped 0.1 percent to 102.29 yen and
declined 0.2 percent to 83.64 British pence. The European common
currency has gained 1.7 percent against the dollar this year.
The yen was little changed at 77.57 per dollar.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  added 0.8 percent and Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent. Oil increased 1.7 percent to
$100.70 per barrel.  New Zealand’s dollar, the biggest gainer against the dollar
among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, added 0.9
percent to 83.39 U.S. cents and the rand rose 0.9 percent to
7.6813 per dollar.  ‘Pretty Good Data’  “We’re going to get a week where the euro group rubber-
stamps the Greek austerity, and you’re looking at some pretty
good data,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “It’s a good
backdrop for risk appetite and not a good week for the dollar.”  Commerce Department figures tomorrow may show a 0.8 percent
gain in U.S. retail receipts in January, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would follow
a 0.1 percent advance in December.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was unchanged at 79.02.  With weeks remaining before  Greece  faces a 14.5 billion-
euro ($19.2 billion) bond payment, the austerity bill paves the
way for a 22 percent reduction in the minimum wage, smaller
pensions and job cuts.  Focus on Brussels  Euro-area finance chiefs will convene in Brussels on Feb.
15 to decide whether to ratify the 130 billion-euro package for
Greece. The nation was granted its first aid package of 110
billion euros in May 2010.  “We still have to see how the vote on Wednesday goes,”
said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “But even though there was
the Greek austerity vote, there’s still plenty of other risks
out there. There’s enough things reminding people to not get too
exuberant at this stage.”  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro against the
dollar compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts   --
was 140,593 on Feb. 7, according to figures from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. That compares with net shorts of
157,546 a week earlier.  Euro Shorts  Official euro short positions and those of Morgan Stanley
clients were “scaled back massively” and are near neutral,
Calvin Tse, a London-based currency strategist at the company,
said in a research note to clients.  The euro has gained 0.7 percent over the past month, the
fourth-best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, after the
Norwegian krone, the Swedish krona and the  New Zealand dollar .
The yen, the worst performer, dropped 4.5 percent, while the
dollar has lost 3.6 percent over the same period.  The Norwegian krone rose against the dollar and the yen
even after its financial regulator warned that the country faces
“severe” imbalances in its credit and property markets as
households continue to amass debt at unsustainable levels.  “Growth rates on  household debt  and  house prices  are not
following a sustainable path,” Morten Baltzersen, director
general of the Financial Supervisory Authority in Oslo, said in
an interview. “The longer these developments go on, the greater
the risk is of a severe imbalance evolving.”  The krone strengthened 0.4 percent to 5.7197 per dollar. It
was 0.5 percent higher against the euro at 7.5430.  BOJ Pressure  The yen fell against most of its major peers as  Japan ’s
 economy  shrank at an annualized 2.3 percent pace in the fourth
quarter amid slumping exports that undermined a recovery from
last year’s record earthquake. The contraction compared with the
median forecast for a 1.3 percent decline in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  The report underscores pressure on  Bank of Japan  officials
who conclude a two-day meeting tomorrow to consider more
monetary easing as gains in the yen worsen losses for exporting
companies such as Sony Corp. and Panasonic Corp.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  reiterated at a
parliamentary budget committee session in  Tokyo  that he’ll act
on excessive and speculative moves in the currency. Japan spent
14.3 trillion yen ($185 billion) in intervention operations last
year to stem gains in the currency as it rose to postwar records
against the dollar, hurting the nation’s exporters.  In the $4 trillion-a-day  currency market , traders calmed by
a flood of central bank money are leaving safety for riskier
bets against a background of Greece’s potential default and
threats of nuclear weapons in  Iran .  Borrowing in dollars or yen to buy high-yielding Brazilian
reais and Mexican pesos has returned 5.5 percent this year, the
best start on record, and reversing last year’s 15 percent loss,
the UBS AG V24 Carry Index shows. Market volatility dropped last
week to the lowest since August 2008, as measured by a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  