-- Lew Says Infrastructure Spending Still Needed to Aid Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-02-13T10:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/lew-says-infrastructure-spending-still-needed-to-bolster-economy.html
White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew
said hundreds of billions of dollars in spending for roads and
bridges, education and manufacturing are necessary to keep the
 U.S. economy  growing.  “Most Americans understand that a crumbling infrastructure
is not the way to build an economy that can last,” Lew, the
former White House budget director, said on CNN’s “State of the
Union” program. “We need to make sure we have a manufacturing
base in this country” and workers with appropriate skills.  Election-year sparring over the budget begins today as
President  Barack Obama  submits the fourth spending blueprint of
his presidency, a multitrillion-dollar package that calls for
$350 billion in short-term spending to create jobs and a $476
billion, six-year highway bill, while saying it will cut $4
trillion from the deficit over a decade, partly by raising taxes
on the wealthy.  The fiscal 2013 budget, for the year beginning Oct. 1
projects a $901 billion deficit. That’s down from a $1.33
trillion  deficit  projected for fiscal 2012, the fourth
consecutive year of $1 trillion-plus deficits.  The budget proposal borrows heavily from a package of tax
increases and spending cuts that Obama put forward in September,
which Republicans in Congress have either ignored or rejected as
unworkable or unnecessary.  Re-Election Campaign  Obama faces a re-election campaign, and the budget amounts
to a campaign platform reflecting his vision for the country,
while Republican rivals question its direction and cost.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said “no,” when
asked on CBS’s “Face the Nation” if Obama’s budget had any
chance of passage in that chamber.  Today’s budget proposal is loaded with “massive taxes” on
small business and families, requires “bureaucratic rationing”
of Medicare and  Medicaid (USBOMDCA) , and “hollows out” spending for
defense and national security, Republican Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman of the House Budget Committee, said on ABC‘s
“This Week.”  Ryan said he is planning an alternative budget that would
drive down deficits through an overhaul of  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  without
calling for any tax increases that may slow the economy.  Raising Taxes  “It’s clearly not the case that this is a budget that’s
based on just raising taxes,” Lew said on ABC. “We have tax
cuts that go to the wealthiest people in America who are going
to have to pay their fair share.”  Obama is pressing for a new 30 percent minimum tax on
people earning more than $1 million annually, described as the
“Buffett Rule” after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who
has said he shouldn’t pay taxes at a lower rate than his
employees.  Obama wants the Bush-era tax cuts to expire for families
taking home more than $250,000 a year, and would cap the value
of itemized deductions for top earners at 28 percent, according
to administration officials who briefed reporters Feb. 10 on
budget highlights.  Big financial institutions would face $61 billion over 10
years in a “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee” to help pay
for the bank bailout program and a home-mortgage refinance
initiative.  A dozen tax breaks for oil, natural gas and coal companies
would be abolished, for increased taxes of $41 billion over a
decade.  Career Centers  Obama plans to announce later today an $8 billion Community
College to Career Fund, a budget initiative that would link
businesses and community colleges to train as many as 2 million
workers for jobs in high-growth, high demand industries,
according to a statement issued by the White House.  Those areas include health care, advanced manufacturing,
transportation, clean energy and information technology, the
statement said. The goal is treat community colleges as “career
centers,” and train students for jobs that local businesses
need to fill now.  The president will make the announcement at an event at
Northern  Virginia  Community College in Annandale, Virginia,
outside Washington. The initiative, part of his Jan. 24 State of
the Union message, would be administered by the Departments of
Education and Labor.  Spending Cuts  Spending cuts over a decade include $278 billion in  farm
subsidies , federal workers’ retirement plans and the Pension
Benefit Guarantee Corp., which insures company pensions.  Defense
spending (USBODEFN)  would decline 5 percent from last year, and there would
be more than $360 billion in savings over a decade in  Medicare (USBOMDCR) ,
Medicaid and other health programs, according to a Feb. 10
administration fact sheet.  “There are a lot of tough cuts” in the budget, Lew said
on CNN. There’s $2.50 in cuts for each $1 in tax increases, he
said.  “We have to focus on the long term and the short term at
the same time,” the White House chief of staff said on ABC’s
“This Week” program. “Short term, we need to keep the economy
growing, and in the long term, we need to get the deficit under
control.”  Lew used his appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press” and
other Sunday talk shows to press Congress to extend the  payroll
tax  cut to the end of the year as a stimulus to the economy.
Taxes will increase for 160 million Americans if lawmakers don’t
act by the time it expires on Feb. 29.  Sustaining Growth  “We still need to pay attention to sustaining economic
growth and creating jobs,” Lew said on CNN. He declined to
predict what the economy would look like in September as the
elections draw near but said job growth has been increasing,
with employers adding 243,000 jobs in January.  “I can’t predict that each month will be as good as the
last few but we’re certainly headed in the right direction,” he
said. “The payroll tax needs to be extended, on time and
without a lot of drama” so it doesn’t create uncertainty in the
economy.  The U.S. can’t afford to “have the kind of dysfunction
that last year became part of the uncertainty that held back the
economy,” Lew said on “Fox News Sunday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  