-- France Telecom Said Near Deal to Boost Mobinil Stake
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-02-16T10:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/france-telecom-said-to-be-near-deal-to-boost-mobinil-stake.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  is in talks to
purchase part of billionaire Naguib Sawiris’s stake in their
Egyptian mobile-phone venture, increasing the French company’s
control, according to a person familiar with the situation.  While details of the deal are still being discussed,
Sawiris may keep a small interest in the company that controls
 Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services , known as Mobinil, while
selling a 20 percent direct stake in the operator to France
Telecom, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. Sawiris, Egypt’s richest man, also may
retain enhanced  voting rights , the person said.  Mobinil has a market value of about $2.3 billion and
competes with Vodafone Group Plc’s local unit. It was the
subject of an ownership dispute between Sawiris and  France
Telecom  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard’s predecessor
that was settled shortly after Richard took over in 2010.  “France Telecom has been looking to expand in the region
for a while and striking a deal now may mean a cheaper price
than if they were to wait,” Amr El-Alfy, deputy director of
research at Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.,
said in an interview.  Sawiris declined to comment, as did  Tom Wright , a spokesman
for France Telecom, which owns about 71 percent of Mobinil
Telecom Co., the holding company that controls 51 percent of
Mobinil. Sawiris’s Orascom Telecom Media & Technology Holding
SAE, which owns 29 percent of the holding company as well as a
20 percent stake in Mobinil, said yesterday it was in advanced
talks with France Telecom “regarding the future” of Mobinil.  Swiss, Austrian Disposals  The Cairo-based company will make a joint statement with
France Telecom on the issue before trading starts on the
Egyptian Exchange today, it said in a regulatory filing.  France Telecom is refocusing its business on fast-growing
 emerging markets  as mobile revenue in Europe stalls. The Paris-
based company has announced the sale of its units in  Switzerland 
and  Austria , and in the past two years struck deals to enter
Morocco,  Iraq  and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  In 2010 Richard set a goal of doubling emerging market
revenue by 2015, from about 3.3 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in
2009. Revenue in Egypt has suffered as the economy stalls
following last year’s violent ouster of former president  Hosni Mubarak  and subsequent clashes between pro-democracy activists
and the interim military government.  Put Option  Still, the country -- the Arab world’s most populous, with
more than 80 million inhabitants -- is among the largest
developing economies in which France Telecom has a presence, and
represents a key part of its Middle Eastern strategy, which
includes operations in  Jordan , Tunisia, and Bahrain.  “They are looking at the long-term potential of this
market, so current instability is a short-term factor,” El-Alfy
said.  As part of the April 2010 Mobinil settlement, Sawiris
gained an option to sell his stake in the company to France
Telecom during windows beginning in September 2012, at a price
that would increase over time from 221.7 Egyptian pounds per
share later this year to 248.5 pounds next year. The shares,
which have been suspended from trading pending an announcement,
have jumped about 76 percent in the past month.  For his part, Sawiris has become an important political
figure in post-revolution  Egypt , founding the pro-business Free
Egyptians political party and criticizing Islamist influence in
politics. He has recently pursued investments in Switzerland,
where he bid for France Telecom’s local unit, and Austria, where
he has teamed with investor Ronny Pecik to take a more than 20
percent stake in Telekom Austria AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  