-- Greece Bailout Faces European Finance Chiefs After Parliamentary Approval
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-13T09:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/german-leaders-maintain-pressure-as-greek-parliament-debates-budget-cuts.html
European finance chiefs get the
second chance in a week to pull  Greece  back from the brink of
collapse after lawmakers in Athens approved the austerity
measures demanded for a financial lifeline.  Greece “will be saved in one way or another,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told newspaper  Welt am
Sonntag  yesterday, though the country must “do its homework.”  Euro-area finance ministers will convene in Brussels on
Feb. 15 for an extraordinary meeting called after they declined
to ratify the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) package in a
special session on Feb. 9. Frustrated after two years of missed
budget targets, the European authorities demanded Greek
officials put their verbal commitments into law.  The Greek parliament passed the legislation in the early
morning hours today as rioters battled police and set fire to
buildings in downtown  Athens . Still, Schaeuble told German
lawmakers on Feb. 10 that Greece was set to miss deficit goals,
suggesting that the measures may fall short.  “I’m really wondering now whether so much damage has been
done that this marriage no longer can be rescued,”  Erik Nielsen , chief global economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in  London ,
wrote in a note to clients. He predicted that the measures would
be approved and that Greece will be able to make a 14.5 billion-
euro bond payment on March 20.  Euro Gains  Global stocks and the euro rose after the vote in Athens.
The euro gained 0.5 percent to $1.3262 at 10:21 a.m. in Berlin,
edging back up toward a two-month high against the  U.S. dollar 
that it lost on Feb. 10 after the finance ministers’ decision.  European finance ministers ended their meeting last week
with Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker saying Greece must turn
budget cuts into law, flesh out 325 million euros in reductions
and have major party leaders sign up to the program so they
don’t retreat after elections as soon as April.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to ask German lawmakers to
vote on the next bailout on Feb. 27, pending the terms for
securing aid being met by Greece. Other euro governments
including the Netherlands and  Finland  have yet to schedule a
date for parliamentary votes.  Schaeuble told legislators that current plans would leave
Greece’s debt as high as 136 percent of GDP by 2020, according
to two people in the meeting. That compares with the 120 percent
foreseen in the second bailout, down from about 160 percent last
year. Schaeuble was briefing on estimates from the so-called
troika of international creditor assessing Greece’s program.  Awaiting Troika  Germany , as the largest contributor to euro-area bailouts,
wants to see the latest report on Greece’s record of
implementing measures compiled by the troika of the European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and International Monetary
Fund before a majority can be mustered in parliament, Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler said today on ARD television.  The Greek vote “was a necessary condition but
implementation of these measures is what counts,” Roesler said.
“We’re waiting for the troika report on what progress Greece
has made.”  More than two years after the debt crisis emerged in
Greece, European leaders face international pressure to do more
to tackle the source of contagion that threatens to drag down
the global economy. Group of 20 nations have signaled they won’t
reach a consensus on crisis aid for  Europe  via the  International
Monetary Fund  at a Feb. 24-26 meeting of G-20 finance chiefs
until Europe increases the size of its firewall.  ‘Critical Juncture’  The sovereign debt crisis is at a “critical juncture,”
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said at a briefing
in Beijing today, urging Europe to move beyond contingency
measures. The European Union needs to “take active measures to
respond to the European debt issue,” Liu said.  In Athens yesterday, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos yesterday urged lawmakers to “choose the bad to avoid
the worst” after Greek party leaders over the weekend backed
the measures to secure the 130 billion-euro package and avoid a
disorderly default.  Before the final debate started, Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  appealed to Greeks to support new measures, including
a 22 percent reduction in the minimum wage, smaller pensions and
immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state workers.  “We are looking the Greek people straight in the eye with
full knowledge of our historical responsibility,” he said in a
televised address. “The social costs that come with these
measures are contained in comparison to the economic and social
catastrophe that will follow if we don’t adopt them.”  Debt-Swap Deadline  Part of the rescue included a bond swap intended to slice
Greece’s debt load. The swap for new 30-year bonds with an
average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent would cut 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately held debt.
Venizelos said the country needs to make a formal offer to
private bondholders for a debt swap by Feb. 17.  The ECB also came under pressure to extend relief.
President  Mario Draghi  last week left open the possibility of
passing up profit on Greek debt held by the central bank, though
he rejected selling it to the European bailout fund at a loss.  Greece has stumbled over the last two years in meeting
reform targets in return for aid, citing a deepening recession
now set to worsen. Unemployment climbed to 20.9 percent in
November, as industrial production falls.  Joachim Fels, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, in a note
to clients repeated his assessment that policy makers shouldn’t
rule out the “really, really bad scenario” of Greece leaving
the monetary union.  “I’m more than unhappy with the political cliffhanger
taking place in Greece over the past few weeks,” German Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told this week’s edition of Der
Spiegel magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  