-- Libra Buys AgustaWestland Helicopters to Start Leasing Business
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-02-12T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/libra-buys-agustawestland-helicopters-to-start-leasing-business.html
Libra Group , a closely held company
with interests in shipping, aviation, hotels, and energy, is
expanding into helicopter leasing with a commitment to spend as
much as $400 million on  AgustaWestland  craft.  The LCI unit of Libra has signed an agreement to buy a
fleet of AW139, AW169 and AW189 helicopters for use in oil and
gas exploration, rescues and medical transport, said George
Logothetis, chief executive officer of New York-based Libra. The
contract includes a firm order for 19 helicopters, plus 15
options, with deliveries spread over five years. Agusta Westland
is a unit of Rome-based  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   Libra was formed in 2003 as an international shipping
business. From 2004 to 2006 it sold 67 vessels to fund
diversification. Libra sees synergies between its shipping
business and helicopters, as about eight of its ships are used
to serve oil rigs and deep-water offshore supply, said
Logothetis, who is also chairman.  “We have a leasing business on the fixed-wing side already
and we want to grow, diversify,” Logothetis said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a high-demand area with strong growth -- if
you think of oil and gas, mining, even offshore  wind turbines ,
all these facilities are being built, so it’s a good area for
our leasing vision.”  The helicopters will be will be included in the  Lease Corp.
International  leasing unit, or LCI, in operation since 2004.  Airplane Leasing  LCI, which in November 2007 sold a fleet of 20 aircraft for
$1 billion, began buying planes again in 2009. Its fleet of
Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. planes are on lease to airlines,
including Singapore Airlines Ltd., Air France-KLM and Asiana
Airlines Inc.  LCI was also an early customer for the Bombardier Inc.
CSeries and has placed an order for 20 aircraft valued at $1.4
billion, with options for another 20.  Libra, with 30 businesses in 20 offices, is run by four
Logothetis brothers: George, 37, working from  New York ;
Constantine, vice chairman, in  London ; Nicholas, a board member
who is also co-founder of the  Concordia Summit ; and Leon, who
runs the company’s Los-Angeles-based film company, the former
Shankly Productions, now Principal Media.  “We’re a Greek family business,” George Logothetis said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net  