-- Tiger Woods Trails Charlie Wi By 4 Entering Final Round at Pebble Beach
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-12T05:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/tiger-woods-trails-charlie-wi-by-4-entering-final-round-at-pebble-beach.html
Tiger Woods is four strokes behind
Charlie Wi entering the final round of golf’s  Pebble Beach 
National Pro-Am, where he’s paired with  Phil Mickelson  as he
seeks his first U.S. PGA Tour win since November of 2009.  Woods is tied for third place at 11-under par, trailing Wi
and Ken Duke, who’s 12 under through three rounds at the
tournament in Pebble Beach, California. Wi and Duke are both
looking for their first win, while Woods has 71 PGA Tour titles,
one behind  Jack Nicklaus  for the third-most in history.  “That’s why I train as hard as I do and practice as hard
as I do is to put myself in those positions,” said Woods, who
overcame a five-shot final-round deficit to win the 2000 Pebble
Beach Pro-Am. “Of late, I’ve been putting myself in these
positions, and it feels good.”  Woods, 36, is making his  PGA Tour  season debut two weeks
after finishing third in his opening event of 2012 in  Abu Dhabi ,
where he entered the final round tied for the lead with winner
Robert Rock. Woods in December ended a 749-day winless drought
with a victory in the Chevron World Challenge, a limited-field
event he hosts in California.  Woods will start today in the next-to-last group with
Mickelson, a three-time Pro-Am winner who’s tied for fourth
place at 9-under par. It’s the 30th time Woods and Mickelson
will be paired together in a PGA Tour-sanctioned event.  “On this golf course, you can come out and get a quick
start, make some birdies and when that happens, it’s tough to
follow suit, a few groups behind,” said Mickelson, who won the
tournament in 1998, 2005 and 2007. “So I’m in a nice situation
where if I can get a hot hand early, I can make a run on the
leaderboard.”  Multi-Course Events  Kevin Na, Brendon Todd,  Hunter Mahan  and  Dustin Johnson ,
the 2009 and 2010 Pebble Beach Pro-Am winner, are tied with
Mickelson, whose last victory was the 2011 Houston Open.  Mickelson’s 12 wins in multi-course PGA Tour events are the
most of any active player, one more than Woods. This week, the
professionals and amateurs rotated among three courses -- Pebble
Beach Golf Links, Spyglass Hill golf course and Monterey
Peninsula Country Club’s Shore Course -- the first three days
before the pros play today’s final round at Pebble Beach.  Woods fired a 5-under-par 67 yesterday at Pebble Beach and
has an average score of 68.4 in 10 rounds at the course in the
Pro-Am, including an average of 67 in the final round. When he
last won the tournament in 2000, his victory over Matt Gogel
came four months before he went on to post a 15-shot win in the
U.S. Open at Pebble Beach.  Wi’s average score at Pebble Beach in his six previous
final rounds at the Pro-Am is 74.25.  ‘More Pressure’  “He’s won 70-some times and I’m trying to get my first, so
I have a lot more pressure on me than he does,” Wi, the winner
of the 1990  California  State Amateur at Pebble Beach, said of
Woods. Wi, 40, last won a professional event at the 2006
Malaysian Open and is winless in 162 PGA Tour starts.  “I’m sure I’ll be fighting my demons all day and it’s how
I handle myself,” said Wi, who opened the tournament with a 9-
under 61 at Monterey Peninsula Country Club and followed it up
with rounds of 69 at Pebble Beach and Spyglass. “It’s not what
other players are doing. How I handle myself is going to be the
outcome of the tournament.”  Wi and his amateur partner tied for fourth in the Pro-Am
portion of the tournament, seven shots behind winners  Padraig Harrington  fellow Irishman J.P. McManus. Woods and his partner,
Dallas Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo , tied for 15th place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Pebble Beach, California at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  