-- High-Speed DNA Scans Help Most Lung Cancer Patients, Study Finds
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-02-12T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/high-speed-dna-scans-help-most-lung-cancer-patients-study-finds.html
More than half of lung and colon
cancer patients may benefit from high-speed tests that detect
DNA flaws doctors can target with existing medicines, a study
found.  Researchers used a gene test made by closely held
 Foundation Medicine Inc . to sequence 145 cancer-associated genes
in 40 colon tumor samples and 24 lung tumors. They found that 53
percent of colon tumors and 71 percent of lung tumors had
mutations that may be attacked with cancer medicines on the
market or in human trials, according to the study published
today in Nature Medicine. In some cases, the results revealed
what drugs wouldn’t work against the tumors.  The study from researchers at Foundation Medicine and the
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in  Boston , shows the value of using
DNA sequencing machines to optimize treatment by matching drugs
against specific gene abnormalities inside a patient’s tumor,
said  Pasi Janne , a study co-author.  “It is moving closer and closer to real personalized
medicine,” Janne, a lung cancer specialist at Dana-Farber, said
in an interview. “It is fantastic as we can tailor our therapy
to the particular genetics of a patient’s cancer.”  The DNA sequencing field has drawn increased interest from
pharmaceutical makers focused on developing gene-targeted
therapies.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
medicines, last month began a $5.7 billion hostile takeover
offer for Illumina Inc., the maker of gene sequencing machines
that Foundation Medicine uses in its tests.  Pfizer’s Sutent  The researchers also spotted a previously unknown genetic
flaw in 2 percent of 561 lung tumors tested. The flaw activates
a growth-boosting protein targeted by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s kidney-
cancer drug Sutent, hinting that the treatment from the New
York-based drugmaker may also work in these lung patients, said
Janne. He wants to begin a trial of Sutent in lung-cancer
patients with the gene change by year end, he said.  Researchers in  Japan  also reported finding the same new
genetic change in a fraction of lung tumors, according to two
other studies published today in Nature Medicine. Until the
three new studies, the genetic change had never been seen in any
cancer, said Janne.  The change fuses two unrelated genes together to form
KIF5B-RET, turning on a growth-driving protein called RET that
is usually not active in lung cells. When Janne and his
collaborators treated cells with the aberrant gene using
Pfizer’s Sutent or  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s thyroid-cancer drug
 Caprelsa , the cells died. Both drugs block RET.  Finding Gene Abnormalities  Maureen Cronin, a study co-author and molecular
pharmacologist at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Foundation
Medicine, said her company was finding new gene abnormalities at
a much higher rate than they expected as it performs DNA scans
on tumors.  “We expected to find new things, but not at the frequency
we are finding them,” she said in a telephone interview. The
results “are very surprising.”  The study also suggests cancer researchers may need to
rethink the way they classify and treat the disease, Cronin
said. The particular genetic abnormality inside tumor DNA may
matter as much as what organ the tumor came from, she said.  Pfizer is aware of the new lung cancer gene finding and
“believes the data are interesting,” said Jenifer Antonacci, a
company spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Laura Woodin, a spokeswoman for London-based AstraZeneca,
said the company “is constantly alert to new developments and
research in the science of oncology and we review relevant, peer
reviewed studies for what they might mean for patients and  drug
development .”  Foundation Medicine performs a $5,800 test that takes tumor
samples and sequences DNA from 200 genes relevant to cancer. It
is funded with $33.5 million in  venture capital  from Third Rock
Ventures, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Google Ventures,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  