-- Iran Won’t Yield to Pressure, Foreign Minister Says; Nuclear News Awaited
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-02-12T10:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/iran-won-t-yield-to-pressure-foreign-minister-says-nuclear-news-awaited.html
Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said the country will never cede to international
pressure, the same day President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  promised to
announce a milestone in the country’s nuclear field.  “This nation will never ever yield to pressure from
outside,” Salehi told reporters in Tehran yesterday. “When you
can’t differentiate between people and the government, what does
pressure mean?”  Ahmadinejad, 55, yesterday announced he will unveil “major
nuclear accomplishments” in coming days, the state-run  Press TV 
news channel reported. His comments were made during a ceremony
to commemorate the country’s  Islamic Revolution .  Western nations have tightened economic sanctions against
Iran, as the U.S. and its allies seek to avert a nuclear arms
race in a region that’s home to 54 percent of global oil
reserves. At stake for the Islamic republic is the collapse of
its  $352 billion  economy, which would undermine the regime that
swept to power 33 years ago.  European Union foreign ministers agreed on Jan. 23 to ban
Iranian oil imports starting in July and to freeze the assets of
 Iran ’s central bank. President Barack Obama Feb. 6 ordered a
block on property and interests in property belonging to the
Iranian government, its central bank and all Iranian financial
institutions. The measures come on top of four rounds of United
Nations sanctions against the country of 75 million people.  ‘Empty’ Threats  Salehi on Feb. 10 said threats of a military strike against
the country are “empty” and that Iran has already made
preparations for the “worst scenario,” state-run  Mehr  news
agency reported. He didn’t elaborate.  If the U.S. was able to take action against Iran, it would
have already done so, Salehi said, when asked to comment on
remarks by U.S. officials that all options are on the table,
according to Mehr.  In a report published today, the state-run  Fars  news said
that the government’s upcoming announcement regarding Iran’s
nuclear progress may be about the finalized production of 20
percent nuclear fuel plates for the Tehran Research Reactor.
Iran’s Foreign Ministry said on Jan. 29 that the country will
install within a month its first such plates at the research
facility, which produces medical isotopes.  Iran’s government may also announce progress related to its
underground Fordo nuclear facility site, to which all uranium
enrichment activities to a 20 percent-purity level are being
transferred, according to the Fars report. The process can
generate fuel for a nuclear power reactor or, enriched to a
concentration of 90 percent, be used to build nuclear weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  