-- Iraq Opens Offshore Oil Facility to Boost Export Capacity in Persian Gulf
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-02-12T13:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/iraq-opens-offshore-oil-facility-to-boost-export-capacity-1-.html
Iraq , seeking to maximize crude oil
exports, opened the first of four planned offshore mooring
facilities in the  Persian Gulf  and intends by March to add
200,000 barrels a day to its capacity for loading tankers there.  The new single-point mooring unit, extending into the sea
from the southern oil terminal of Fao, has a potential export
capacity of 850,000 barrels a day, Falah al-Amri, chairman of
the State Oil Marketing Organization, said in an interview.  Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for energy
affairs, said in a separate interview today that Iran probably
won’t shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a waterway at the mouth of the
Gulf and a chokepoint for about a fifth of all traded crude.  “This would affect all the countries, including  Iran 
itself,” he said of that nation’s threats to close Hormuz in
response to sanctions over its nuclear program. “We are working
with other countries to contain the situation and make sure
crude exports in the region are not affected.”  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude deposits
including Canadian  oil sands , according to data from BP Plc. The
government is trying to attract foreign investment and expertise
to help boost energy exports and rebuild an economy shattered by
years of conflict, sanctions and sabotage.  Narrow Coastline  The four offshore units would increase the country’s
export capacity by a combined 3.4 million barrels a day by 2013.
Iraq, with a narrow coastline pinched between Kuwait and Iran,
plans to install an undersea pipeline to each unit and load oil
aboard tankers capable of mooring there. The nation also exports
crude overland by pipeline through neighboring  Turkey .  “We are ready to market these new capacities, particularly
in promising markets in  Asia  where our crude exports to  China 
currently average 500,000 barrels a day,” al-Amri of the
marketing organization said during a ceremony that Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki attended to inaugurate the facility.  Oil exports from southern Iraq will increase to 2.1 million
barrels a day within four months from 1.7 million barrels today,
al-Amri said. Exports from northern Iraqi oil fields will
probably rise to 450,000 barrels a day within four months from
400,000 barrels now, he said.  “The start of the new facility releases some of the
constraints on Iraq’s crude export capacity,” Robin Mills, an
analyst at Manaar Energy Consulting in Dubai, said in a
telephone interview. “The next thing to do is to add pipeline
capacity and increase production.”  Syrian Outlet  Iraq plans also to open export routes for crude through
neighboring  Syria , following Iran’s threats over Hormuz,  Thamir Ghadhban , the Iraqi prime minister’s top adviser, said Feb. 2.  Ghadhban, a former oil minister, said Iraq’s capacity to
produce crude will increase by 400,000 barrels a day this year
to exceed 3 million barrels a day by the end of December.
Production capacity will rise next year by an additional 500,000
barrels a day, and crude exports in 2013 will reach 2.6 million
barrels a day, he said.  Iraq has awarded 15 licenses to foreign companies for
drilling rights since the U.S.-led invasion that ousted
President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003. The government plans to hold a
new licensing round in May. The Arab nation is the third-largest
oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, pumping 2.75 million barrels a day in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Iraq is waiting for Exxon Mobil Corp. to “take the right
decision” and rescind a contract it signed with authorities in
the country’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region, said al-
Shahristani, the deputy prime minister. He called Exxon’s
agreement with the Kurds illegal.  “The company knows very well the position of the Iraqi
government, which remains unchanged,” al-Shahristani said.  Exxon, which has not commented publicly on the matter,
operates with Royal Dutch Shell Plc in southern Iraq at the West
Qurna field, one of the nation’s biggest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Basra, Iraq, through the Dubai newsroom at
; or
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  