-- Israel General Strike Ends After Government, Histadrut Reach Work Accord
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-02-12T10:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/israel-general-strike-ends-as-government-union-reach-contract-worker-deal.html
The Israeli government and the
country’s largest labor union reached an agreement ending a
general strike that has shut banks, government offices and the
 stock exchange  since Feb. 8.  Under the accord, crafted during all-night negotiations,
employment conditions for contract workers will be
“significantly improved,” the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement. The cost of the agreement is estimated at an
annual 800 million ($215 million) shekels, Gal Hershkovitz,
director of the state budget division, said in an interview on
 Army Radio  today.  “The correction was made possible by the  high growth  and
low unemployment in the economy,” Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said at a press conference today. “This is a day in
which we are strengthening the weak.”  The strike was called to demand better conditions and pay
for contract employees. The Histadrut labor federation estimates
that they receive on average about 30 percent less pay than
comparable workers who are hired directly. The ministry
estimates that there are about 250,000 contract workers.  “This is a very important achievement that corrects
injustices of many years,” Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
said at the start of the weekly cabinet meeting in remarks
broadcast on Army Radio.  Economic Demands  As part of the accord, the labor federation agreed not to
strike over economic demands for the next three years, the
ministry said.  “The agreement represents the necessary balance between
the need to improve the rights of cleaners and guards and the
responsibility of the government to protect the Israeli
economy,” the  Finance Ministry  said in the statement.  The strike, which involved an estimated 500,000 workers,
affected banks, the Bank of  Israel , the stock exchange, ports,
airports and most government offices. Employees were ordered
back to work and the stock exchange opened at 10:45.  The benchmark  TA-25 Index, (TA-25)  which opened for the first time
since Feb. 7, dropped 0.7 percent to 1,109.74 at 10:48 a.m. in
 Tel Aviv  led by declines in Hot Telecommunication System Ltd.,
Perrigo Co. and Elbit Systems Ltd.  While both the central bank and the Finance Ministry have
reduced their growth forecasts for this year, citing the impact
of the European debt crisis, the expected expansion is still
more than double the 1.2 percent average rate for advanced
economies forecast by the  International Monetary Fund  on January
24.  The Finance Ministry cut its growth forecast for 2012 to
3.2 percent from 4 percent, Steinitz said on Jan. 18. The  Bank
of Israel  lowered its prediction on Dec. 26 to 2.8 percent from
September’s estimate of 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  