-- Liverpool’s Suarez, Dalglish Apologize After Striker Snubs Evra Handshake
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/liverpool-s-suarez-apologizes-for-not-shaking-hands-with-united-s-evra.html
Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  and
manager  Kenny Dalglish  apologized after the Uruguayan forward
refused to shake hands with Manchester United’s Patrice Evra
before their Premier League soccer match two days ago.  In the first meeting between the two players since Suarez
was suspended for eight games for racially abusing Evra in an
October match, the Liverpool striker walked past the Frenchman
during the pre-match handshakes at Old Trafford and then
shrugged off Evra’s attempt to grab his arm.  “I have spoken with the manager since the game at Old
Trafford and I realize I got things wrong,” Suarez said in a
 statement  yesterday on Liverpool’s website. “I’ve not only let
him down, but also the club and what it stands for and I’m sorry.
I made a mistake and I regret what happened.”  In a separate statement, Liverpool Managing Director  Ian Ayre  said the club was “extremely disappointed” that Suarez
had misled officials, claiming that he had said beforehand that
he would not snub Evra.  “He was wrong to mislead us and wrong not to offer his
hand to Patrice Evra,” Ayre said. “He has not only let himself
down, but also Kenny Dalglish, his teammates and the club. It
has been made absolutely clear to Luis Suarez that his behavior
was not acceptable.”  Suarez was making his first start since returning from his
ban. He was found guilty of misconduct by an Independent
Regulatory Commission and warned about his future behavior after
using “insulting words” toward Evra, including a reference to
the player’s race, during a 1-1 tie at Anfield on Oct. 15.  Suarez scored for Liverpool in its 2-1 loss to United two
days ago after  Wayne Rooney  got both goals for the home team.  Dalglish Shocked  Dalglish said yesterday that he was “shocked to hear”
that Suarez had not shaken Evra’s hand. He also apologized for
his own conduct in a post-match television interview with  Sky
Sports , during which he said the interviewer was “bang out of
order” for asking about Suarez’s actions.  “All of us have a responsibility to represent this club in
a fit and proper manner,”  Dalglish said . “I did not conduct
myself in a way befitting of a Liverpool manager during that
interview and I’d like to apologize for that.”  Following the match, United manager  Alex Ferguson  called
Suarez “a disgrace” in a television interview and suggested he
should never play for Liverpool again.  Gordon Taylor , chief
executive of the Professional Footballers’ Association, told the
British Broadcasting Corp. that Suarez’s conduct had been
“disrespectful, inappropriate and embarrassing.”  United, which won a record 19th English league title last
season to move one ahead of Liverpool, yesterday thanked its
rival for the apologies.  “Everyone at Old Trafford wants to move on from this,”
the  statement  on United’s website read. “The history of our two
great clubs is one of success and rivalry unparalleled in
British football.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  