-- Japan Earnings Gloom Fades as Panasonic Paces Tokyo Rally
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-02-13T08:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/japan-earnings-gloom-fades-as-panasonic-paces-tokyo-rally.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  had its best week in
more than two years of  Tokyo  trading, following its forecast for
a record $10 billion loss, showing some investors are betting
Japan’s biggest exporters have hit bottom.  Sony Corp. (6758)  had its biggest weekly gain in more than three
months, after more than doubling its net loss forecast to 220
billion yen ($2.8 billion) for this fiscal year, the most since
listing in 1958.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which expects less than
half as much profit this year as last, surged 5.6 percent, the
biggest gain in more than two months.  The rally signals investors expect the nation’s exporters
of cars, televisions, phones and chips to bounce back after a
year that combined the worst earthquake in  Japan ’s history, a
months-long flood in Thailand that disrupted output and a
currency that’s surged to a postwar high. The catastrophes and
yen gains are being offset as investors bet a broader rise in
global trade will allow Japan’s exporters to revive profit, said
 Nicholas Smith , a Japan strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
Ltd.  “What they need is a recovery in global trade and that’s
precisely what they are getting at the moment,” Smith said Feb.
10. “The market has already seen that, it’s seen the inflection
point and it’s behind us.”  Japan’s benchmark  Topix index  has climbed 7.3 percent this
year as of today’s close in Tokyo, following a 19 percent slump
in 2011, partly on optimism the losses at consumer electronics
makers would accelerate job cuts and an exit from money-losing
businesses.  Beyond Gloom  The rally also shows analysts are looking beyond the gloomy
economic and earnings forecasts for the current fiscal year,
said  Mark Matthews , head of research for  Asia  at Bank Julius
Baer & Co. in Singapore. The gains by shares in Asia this year
have further to go, he said.  “Earnings forecasts tend to lag the real economy quite a
bit,” Matthews said in an e-mail. “I would not be surprised,
given the better-than-expected data in  Europe  and the U.S. to
see upward revisions.”  Still, Japan’s money-losing electronics companies are
shedding jobs and outsourcing production.  NEC Corp. (6701) , a Japanese maker of mobile phones and
telecommunications gear, announced 10,000 job cuts last month
after forecasting its third annual loss.  Production Cuts  Sharp Corp. (6753) , formerly Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-
crystal display televisions, now plans to  cut LCD production  to
about 50 percent of capacity at its biggest factory to reduce
inventory after forecasting a record 290 billion yen loss for
the year ending March 31.  Panasonic dropped 1.5 percent to 643 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo, after a 9 percent gain last week, the
biggest weekly advance since Jan. 15, 2010.  Sony declined 1.6 percent today, trimming last week’s 7
percent surge, while NEC was unchanged. Sharp fell 1.1 percent
and Toyota gained 0.2 percent. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average rose 0.6 percent.  Japanese Economy Minister Motohisa Furukawa cited the Thai
floods and a “weak overseas recovery” for the annualized 2.3
percent fourth-quarter contraction in the economy the government
reported today. Growth will “continue recovering slowly” and
is on an upward swing, Furukawa said. “We expect a steady
increase in exports on a gradual recovery in the global
economy.”  Television Losses  Panasonic, Sony,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  have also
struggled to revive earnings from TV production as South Korean
and Taiwanese rivals raised output and pushed prices down.  “Their TV business segment is the core problem,”  Naoki Fujiwara , chief  fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management Co.,
said by phone Feb. 10. “They need to change business structures
more to compete with Korean companies.”  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , a South Korean maker of
televisions, microchips and mobile phones, has eroded Japanese
rivals’ market share as a relatively weak Korean won has allowed
it to win in cost competitiveness.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung will probably have net
income of 18 trillion won ($16 billion) this year, an 80 percent
jump from 2011, according to the average of 40 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony, which hasn’t made money on its television business in
seven years, has exited its display panel venture with Samsung.  Leaner Promises  Kazuo Hirai, who takes over as chief executive officer of
Sony starting April 1, said he will close less-competitive
businesses. Sony, worth more than $100 billion in 2000, is now
valued at about $20 billion.  Panasonic President Fumio Ohtsubo on Feb. 3 reiterated a
pledge to cut jobs and shift output overseas as the company
focuses on building its business making solar panels and
rechargeable batteries.  Reform of TV and chip operations, cost cuts, buying more
parts from Asian producers and a recovery from flood damages may
boost profit at the company by about 250 billion yen in the year
starting April 1, Osaka-based Panasonic said Feb. 3.  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of  Nissan (7201)  Motor Co.,
said in October Japan faces a “hollowing out” of its
industrial base should it fail to counter the yen’s rise.  Yokohama-based Nissan, Japan’s second-biggest automaker,
shifted output of the March compact car to Thailand from Oppama,
Japan, almost two years ago to offset the effect of the
strengthening yen and to cut costs by basing production near
suppliers. The company began construction last year of a plant
in  Brazil  and has said it plans a third auto-assembly factory in
 Mexico .  The moves to shift output to countries with weaker
currencies and rising global demand for smartphones and tablet
computers will help revive earnings, said Fujiwara of Shinkin
Asset. “Japanese automakers and companies that make components
for smartphones and tablets will recover this year.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ; 