-- Economy Minister Furukawa Calls for More Clarity on BOJ Inflation Policy
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-02-12T07:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/japan-s-economy-minister-urges-greater-clarity-on-boj-s-inflation-policy.html
The  Bank of Japan  should communicate
its inflation goal more clearly, Japanese Economy Minister
Motohisa Furukawa said as the central bank comes under pressure
to halt deflation.  “It’s desirable for the BOJ to consider whether there’s a
better way for the public to understand its inflation policy,”
Furukawa said on NHK’s Sunday Debate program today.  Opposition party members last month called for  Japan ’s
central bank to emulate the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to set a
firm inflation target of 2 percent. Furukawa’s remarks indicate
the government wants the BOJ to take a more aggressive stance,
while trying not to interfere with its independence, said
Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JPMorgan and Chase & Co.  “Furukawa’s comment is signaling some frustration within
the government,” he said by phone from Tokyo. “But it doesn’t
mean that the government wants to risk the central bank’s policy
by pushing too much.”  The BOJ did not answer a call seeking a comment today.  The central bank avoids setting an explicit inflation
target and follows a policy whereby it has a so-called
understanding of  price stability  that it aims for. The current
view is for price stability to be a situation where the cost of
goods rises between more than zero and as much as 2 percent,
centered at about 1 percent.  BOJ policy makers have pledged to keep  interest rates  near
zero unless they judge that “price stability is in sight.”  Falling Prices  Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.1 percent in
December from a year earlier, the third straight year of
declines. Prices haven’t risen by at least 1 percent for any
year since 1997.  The central bank will review whether to begin referring to
the so-called understanding as a target during a meeting that
begins tomorrow, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people familiar with the central bank’s
thinking. It may announce a change in an economic report to be
released in April, the newspaper said.  Setting a target may be difficult for the BOJ, because the
central bank views itself as powerless to address many causes of
deflation, Adachi said.  “The basic understanding of the BOJ is that deflation is
not only due to the central bank, but more structural issues,”
he said. “That’s why the BOJ is very reluctant to commit to an
inflation target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  