-- Nestle Bites Into Chocolate’s $8 Billion Premium Market: Retail
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-02-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/nestle-bites-into-chocolate-s-8-billion-premium-market-retail.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , known for mass-market
chocolates like the KitKat bar, is trying to get a bigger piece
of the growing market for fancier sweets. Its idea: customized
confections.  Internet shoppers in Switzerland and Liechtenstein can
order a Maison Cailler taster pack with five kinds of chocolate.
After completing an online survey to determine a “chocolate
personality,” recipients get a bigger box with flavors and
cocoa content selected for those particular taste buds.  Luxury products can succeed even amid the economic
downturn, said Laurent Freixe, head of Nestle’s European
business. Global sales of premium chocolate are growing faster
than the overall market and may be worth about $8 billion a
year, according to market researcher Mintel.  “It may sound counter-intuitive, but what’s happening in
the crisis is a quest by consumers for value, for more-
affordable product, but also for products that overtake their
expectations,” Freixe said. “And what is squeezed in the
middle is mainstream products.”  More than 20 years after Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle
started selling the  Nespresso  capsules that helped create the
luxury home coffee market, it is applying a similar approach to
chocolate. The venture may help Nestle in the premium segment,
where rival Swiss brand  Lindt & Spruengli AG  has prevailed, with
sales rising twice as fast as the market in 2011.  While Maison Cailler is starting small, the approach has
served Nestle well in the past.  Brand Evolution  Nespresso began in only two countries in 1986, and the
strategy evolved over time, with Nestle introducing online sales
in the 1990s and stores in 2002. Now it’s a 3-billion Swiss
franc ($3.3 billion) brand, with about half its sales coming
from the Internet, and more than 250 boutiques worldwide.  The coffee unit probably helped drive a 7.1 percent
increase in so-called organic sales for 2011, according to the
average of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The measure
excludes acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts. Nestle
will release its results on Feb. 16.  Nestle has been taking its cue from Nespresso’s success
with other premium products. The company last year began selling
BabyNes formula milk capsules, a year after introducing
Special.T pods containing top-quality tea in  France .  “Consumers like to be treated as individuals rather than
as a mass market,” said  James Amoroso , a food industry
consultant based in Walchwil, Switzerland.  Not KitKat  While Nestle’s KitKat bars are the ninth-biggest chocolate
brand, according to Euromonitor International, the Swiss company
has had mixed success in the premium segment. Nestle, which
merged with Cailler in 1929, sought to revamp the brand in 2006
with packaging designed by architect Jean Nouvel and higher
prices, though the overhaul was scrapped after it failed to
boost revenue. Cailler still isn’t well-known outside of
Switzerland, with only 8 percent of sales coming from abroad.  “Nestle is a strong player in the mass-market, but in the
premium segment it doesn’t have a strong reputation,” said
Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst at Bank Sarasin & Cie. in
Zurich.  Maison Cailler may also have to contend with the impulse-
buying aspect of chocolate sales. Many consumers tend to buy
chocolate on the spur of the moment for themselves or at the
last minute as a gift, according to Marcia Mogelonsky, an
analyst at Mintel in  New York .  Chocolate Tablets  Maison Cailler customers have the option of choosing
tablets of chocolate or personalized boxes containing 16 pieces
with a range of praline fillings ranging from peppercorn and
vanilla to raspberry and verbena. Prices start at about 20
francs for a box, Freixe said.  “The big objective is to make it sustainable, make it
something which will enter into consumption habits and which
will not be just a one-off,” he said.  Maison Cailler  is starting out small. The high-end
chocolate, made by the 193-year-old Cailler brand using cocoa
sourced in  Ecuador , will only be expanded into neighboring
countries later this year or in 2013.  Chocolate producers including Lindt already sell online,
though only for standard products. Customization tends to be
limited to the packaging and bespoke chocolate is generally sold
by niche chocolatiers.  Online Sales  The online store will generate the bulk of Maison Cailler’s
revenue, though some sales will come from a boutique in Broc,
 Switzerland , where the brand is based. Temporary stalls in high-
traffic locations will also help promote the brand.  Maison Cailler also appears to be aimed at bolstering
Nestle’s know-how at selling over the Internet, said Jean- Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich.  “E-commerce is still new territory for Nestle,” he said.
“Nespresso is the best example of it so far for them and
they’re also doing some with other brands, but these are still
new experiments for them.”  In addition to selling Special.T and BabyNes capsules
online, Nestle last year rolled out a German  website  that allows
consumers to purchase from a range of 1,500 Nestle products such
as Maggi soup and Moevenpick ice cream. Wan Ling Martello, who
will become Nestle’s finance chief in April, comes from an
online retailing background, having served as vice president of
global e-commerce and  emerging markets  at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The financial impact of Maison Cailler will probably be
limited initially, with annual sales reaching 5 million francs
to 10 million francs during the first three years, according to
Bertschy. Nestle hasn’t said how much it’s investing in the
venture or how much revenue it may generate.  “Maison Cailler isn’t going to be an overnight success,
but Nestle knows this and they are long-term-oriented enough to
know that they have to stick with it,” Amoroso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  