-- Norges Bank Dilemma Pits House Debt Against Krone Headache
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-02-14T09:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/norway-faces-severe-credit-shock-as-household-debt-swells-fsa-chief-warns.html
Norway ’s overheated credit and
property markets are vying with export-eroding krone gains for
policy makers’ attentions as officials risk fueling either an
asset bubble or currency appreciation.  According to Morten Baltzersen, director general of the
Financial Supervisory Authority in Oslo, the country’s credit
markets face “severe” imbalances as households continue to
amass debt at unsustainable levels. At the same time, continued
krone gains pose a “challenge” for the government, Trade
Minister Trond Giske said this week.  Central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen is due to give a
speech on the state of monetary policy on Feb. 16. He may use
the opportunity to talk down the krone, which touched a five-
month high against the euro yesterday, according to Bjoern Roger Wilhelmsen, chief interest-rate and currency strategist at
Swedbank First Securities in Oslo and a former central bank
economist.  The currency’s continued strength is “a headache” for
policy makers, said Kjersti Haugland, a senior economist at DNB
ASA, who is also a former central bank analyst, in an interview.
“It will be a key factor for preventing further increases in
Norges Bank’s policy rate.”  High Yield  Low  interest rates  have contributed to sending  household
debt  levels to their highest since at least 1988, the central
bank estimates. Policy makers at Norges Bank in December lowered
the benchmark deposit rate by half a percentage point to 1.75
percent, their first cut since June 2009, and the first 50 basis
point reduction since May of that year.  In September last year, Olsen warned that the bank was
ready to take measures to prevent further krone appreciation,
and signaled he would use the policy interest rate to do so.  Norway’s currency has strengthened as investors turn to
higher-yielding markets. Even after easing policy, the central
bank’s main rate is higher than the 1 percent in the euro region
and a target of zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  The central bank is more likely to respond to threats to
competitiveness stemming from krone gains than credit market
imbalances, according to Erica Blomgren, chief strategist at SEB
Merchant Banking in Oslo.  “I don’t expect continued credit growth to trigger near-
term rate hikes,” she said. Regulatory controls and changes to
tax legislation would have a bigger impact on credit and
property markets, while monetary policy can do more in
“guarding against wider interest rate differentials,” she
said.  Krone Moves  The krone fell against the dollar for the first day in six
today to trade at 5.7259 as of 10:27 a.m. in Oslo. Versus the
euro, the krone was little changed at 7.5451. Even after today’s
declines, the krone remains this month’s best performing major
currency after the Mexican peso against both the dollar and the
euro.  Norway’s government boasts the biggest budget surplus of
any AAA rated nation and has no net debt thanks to a $560
billion sovereign-wealth fund. Norway’s mainland economy, which
excludes income from oil and shipping, will grow 2.2 percent
this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said Feb. 2. By
comparison, the 17-member euro area will expand just 0.5 percent
in 2012, the European Commission said on Nov. 10.  The country’s economic performance, which has helped keep
unemployment close to 3 percent, is contributing to household
debt growth as the central bank refrains from further
tightening.  Bubble Talk  “Growth rates on household debt and house prices are not
following a sustainable path,” Baltzersen said. “The longer
these developments go on, the greater the risk is of a severe
imbalance evolving.”  Robert Shiller , the co-creator of the  S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20) 
home-price index, said in January Norway is in the grip of a
house price bubble, while the International Monetary Fund on
Feb. 2 warned of real estate and credit market risks in Norway.  The central bank estimates private debt burdens will grow
to about 204 percent of disposable incomes this year. The FSA in
December turned a recommendation that credit standards be
tightened into an official guideline and told banks to cap loan-
to-value ratios at 85 percent from 90 percent. The decision has
yet to filter through to credit markets.  Norway’s  house prices  rose an annual 8.4 percent in
January, according to the Real Estate Brokers Association, while
consumer credit growth hovers at more than 7 percent. Household
debt is growing about three percentage points faster than
incomes, Baltzersen said.  Meanwhile Olsen has signaled the central bank doesn’t want
Norwegian interest rates to stray too far from official
borrowing costs in  Europe . The governor is due to speak on Feb.
16 at 6 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  