-- GOP to Continue Effort to Block Contraceptive Rule
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-12T16:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/house-opponents-to-obama-s-contraceptive-rule-would-win-vote-ryan-says.html
Republicans will try to halt
Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s plan to have insurance
companies for religious-affiliated charities and hospitals pay
for contraception coverage, House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said.  Opponents would win a vote in the House to block the
measure announced Feb. 10 by Obama, Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican, said today on ABC’s “This Week.”  “A lot of these Catholic institutions are self-insured,
and all insurers under this rule must provide these mandated
benefits,” said Ryan. “So it really is a distinction without a
difference. This should be rescinded.”  The administration sought to quiet an uproar from some
religious groups and lawmakers by adding the insurers’
requirement to an earlier plan that mandated contraception
coverage by employers. Republicans today continued to assail the
proposal, which has been denounced by U.S. Roman Catholic
bishops.  The White House defended its plan, which would compel
insurers to offer contraception coverage to employees of
religious-affiliated institutions at no charge.  The plan outlined by Obama has garnered support from
Catholic charities and the Catholic Health Association of the
 United States , White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew said on the
ABC program.  “We didn’t expect that there would be universal support,
but we do think this is the right way to go and it’s a plan that
we’re going to pursue,” said Lew.  Issue ‘Resolved’  The compromise guarantees every woman has a right to
preventive care, including contraception, he said.  The issue is “resolved,” Lew said in another interview
today on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The requirement goes against deeply held convictions,
presidential candidate  Rick Santorum , a former Pennsylvania
senator, said on “Meet the Press.”  “This is not what the government should be doing,” said
Santorum. “You’ve got a lot of liberals and Democrats who are
just aghast.”  An earlier proposal would have required employers who offer
health insurance to also provide contraceptives coverage. While
houses of worship and nonprofit religious groups that primarily
employ and serve people of the same faith were exempt, religious
hospitals and universities that employ and serve people of other
faiths were not.  The solution preserves access to contraception while at the
same time responding to objections from religious officials,
Obama said Feb. 10 at the White House.  “Religious liberty will be protected, and a law that
requires free preventive care will not discriminate against
women,” Obama said.  The requirement was part of the health-care law passed in
2010 and the initial rule was announced Jan. 20. The rule takes
effect in 2013, after the November elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  