-- Houston’s Death Changes Grammy Plans
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-12T09:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/houston-s-death-changes-grammy-plans-as-music-industry-mourns.html
Whitney Houston will be remembered
with a tribute at the annual Grammy Awards tonight as the  music
industry  mourns the death of one of its biggest pop stars.  Jennifer Hudson  will sing a selection of Houston’s songs,
the Recording Academy, which produces the Los Angeles event,
said yesterday on its  website .  Houston won six Grammy awards and her death at 48 the day
before the music industry’s biggest awards show triggered an
outpouring of grief from fans and her peers. Grammy organizers
altered the lineup to include the performance from Hudson at the
event, which will be telecast on CBS at 8 p.m. New York time.  “Heartbroken and in tears over the shocking death of my
friend,”  Mariah Carey  said on her verified Twitter account.
“She will never be forgotten as one of the greatest voices to
ever grace the earth.”  Houston died yesterday in  Beverly Hills ,  California ,
according to a police statement. She was discovered unresponsive
in her room at the Beverly Hilton Hotel at about 3:43 p.m. local
time. Last night she was scheduled to attend the annual pre-
Grammys party of her mentor, Arista Records founder Clive Davis.
News of Houston’s death hours earlier dominated the event.  First Grammy  “I am personally devastated by the loss of someone who has
meant so much to me for so many years,” Davis said in a
statement released to the New York Times. “Whitney was so full
of life. She was so looking forward to tonight even though she
wasn’t scheduled to perform.”  Houston’s first Grammy came in 1985 for her vocal
performance of “Saving All My Love for You.” She won the same
award in 1987 for “I Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who Loves
Me).”  Her soundtrack for the movie “The Bodyguard” earned her
album of the year in 1993, and two other Grammy awards: best
female pop vocal performance and record of the year for “I Will
Always Love You.”  She received a Grammy for best female R&B vocal performance
for “It’s Not Right But It’s Okay” in 1999.  “A light has been dimmed in our music community today,”
said Neil Portnow, president and chief executive officer of The
Recording Academy, in a statement. “We extend our deepest
condolences to her family, friends, fans and all who have been
touched by her beautiful voice,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  