-- Greek Parliament Backs Austerity as Rioters Burn Buildings
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-02-13T10:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/papademos-wins-sufficient-support-in-parliament-for-greek-austerity-plans.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
won parliamentary approval for austerity measures to secure an
international bailout after rioters protesting the measures
battled police and set fire to buildings in downtown Athens.  A total of 199 lawmakers voted in favor and 74 against,
Parliament Speaker Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried
live on state-run Vouli TV early today. When, on Nov. 16,
Papademos won a mandate from the Parliament to implement budget
measures and secure the bailout of 130 billion euros ($172
billion) he received the support of 255 lawmakers in the 300-
strong chamber.  “It is up to us, our vote, whether the country will remain
in the euro or be led to a disorderly default,” Papademos told
parliament. “Voting for the economic program and opening the
road for a loan accord sets the basis for the modernization and
recovery of the economy.”  Passage of the austerity bill puts the spotlight on a
meeting of euro-region finance ministers on Feb. 15 that must
decide whether to approve the second aid package. Resolution of
the negotiations, which started in July, would help contain the
threat that speculators will target other debt-saddled nations,
including Italy and  Portugal .  Emergency euro-region talks on Greece broke up on Feb. 9,
with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying the
Greek government must turn budget cuts into law, flesh out 325
million euros in reductions and have major party leaders sign up
to the program so they don’t retreat after Greek elections,
probably in April.  Euro, Stocks Rise  The euro rose 0.4 percent to 1.3257 at 11:58 a.m. in
Athens. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.6 percent to 262.90
and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in March rose
0.6 percent today. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index also added 0.6
percent. The Athens Stock Exchange gained 5.2 percent with
National Bank of  Greece  SA, the country’s largest lender, adding
10 percent.  European finance ministers and private creditors this week
will decide on a plan to shepherd Greece through a 14.5 billion-
euro bond payment bond payment next month. Still, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told German lawmakers on Feb. 10
that Greece was set to miss deficit goals, suggesting that the
measures may fall short.  ‘Significant Step’  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  lauded Greece’s
passage of the austerity measures as a “first significant step
in the right direction.”  “Now comes the actual, hard work of implementing the
negotiated reforms,” Westerwelle said in an e-mailed statement
from Berlin. “That is the decisive condition that will enable
 Germany  and other euro partners to stand by Greece with a
further aid package. Working toward implementation is now
decisive.”  Police said 45 buildings were set on fire in arson attacks
in central Athens last night by anti-austerity protesters
including a  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  cafe and a bank. The blazes were
near a bank that was set on fire in May 2010, killing three
employees during a general strike against Greece’s first bailout
package.  Tear Gas  Demonstrators tore up marble in front of parliament that
they hurled with fire-bombs at police guarding the chamber.
Officers in riot gear responded with tear-gas and flash
grenades. Fifty officers were injured in the violence, police
spokesman Takis Papapetropoulos said by telephone. The Greek
Health Ministry said in an e-mailed statement that 70 people had
been taken to local hospitals. Police said 67 rioters were
arrested.  “Vandalism, violence and repression have no place in
democracy and won’t be tolerated,” Papademos told lawmakers
before the vote. “In such critical times we have no luxuries
for such conflict.”  The measures equal about 7 percent of gross domestic
product over three years and include a debt swap that would
shave 100 billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of
privately held debt.  Greece was granted its first aid package of 110 billion
euros in May 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  