-- Retail Sales Probably Rose in January: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-12T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/retail-sales-probably-rose-in-january-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
increased in January by the most in four months, spurred by the
biggest gain in auto purchases since 2009, economists said
before a report this week.  The projected 0.8 percent gain in  retail receipts  would
follow a 0.1 percent advance in December, according to the
median forecast of 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before Commerce Department figures on Feb. 14. Industrial
production jumped and the cost of living increased in January,
other data may show.  The drop in unemployment to a three-year low is evidence of
an improving job market that’s essential to sustaining
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the world’s
largest economy. Gains in consumer and business spending and the
need to replenish inventories are bolstering production at a
time when  Europe ’s slowdown poses a risk for factories.  “As we’ve seen further gains in labor market activity,
that should lead to further gains in spending,” said  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New York .
“It’s hard to argue against the case that the  U.S. economy  is
gaining momentum.”  Employers added 1 million workers to payrolls over the past
six months, according to Labor Department data. During that same
period, the  unemployment rate  dropped by 0.8 percentage point.  Retail sales at stores open more than a year, excluding
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., increased 4.8 percent in January, compared
with a 3.5 percent advance in December, the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  said in a Feb. 2 statement.  Signs the economy is gathering momentum have propelled
share prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is up 6.8 percent
since the end of last year.  Consumer Sentiment  Job growth has helped support consumer sentiment and
Americans may be less apprehensive about making big-ticket
purchases. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose in the week
ended Feb. 5 to a one-year high.  Purchases of cars and light trucks in the U.S. climbed to
an annualized rate of  14.1 million  last month, the highest since
the so-called cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009 and the
second-strongest since May 2008, according to Autodata Corp.
Sales averaged 16.4 million in the two years before the last
recession began in December 2007.  The January gain came even as automakers reduced incentives
by 5.6 percent, or about $144 per vehicle sold, to $2,435 in
January,  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata said Jan. 31.  Older Vehicles  With the average age of cars and trucks rising to a record
10.8 years, analysts see pent-up demand boosting U.S. sales to a
third-straight annual gain in 2012, the longest streak since
sales peaked in 2000. An improving job market and available
credit may propel an increase in vehicle sales of more than 6
percent from 2011 to 13.6 million, the average of 18 analysts’
estimates.  The auto industry pickup is helping drive manufacturing.
Production at the nation’s  factories , mines and utilities
increased 0.6 percent in January, the most in three months,
according to the median estimate of economists ahead of Feb. 15
figures from the  Federal Reserve . Regional data from
Philadelphia and New York may show that production in those
districts also picked up in February.  Since November, “we’ve actually seen some improvements in
backlogs,” Thomas Kadien, senior vice president of consumer
packaging at  International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s largest pulp
and paper producer, said on a Feb. 2 conference call. “For at
least the last three weeks, we’ve felt very good about the
demand. From a North American perspective, the softness is
behind us, and we feel much better about the first quarter.”  Business Inventories  To ensure enough goods are on hand, companies are
replenishing warehouses.  Business inventories  climbed 0.4
percent in January after a 0.3 percent gain the prior month,
according to the survey median ahead of Feb. 14 figures from the
Commerce Department.  At the same time, further gains in gasoline costs pose a
risk to Americans’ spending. Prices at the pump for regular
unleaded gas have increased 22 cents since the end of 2011. The
gain in January helped boost the  consumer price index .  The cost of living climbed 0.3 percent last month, the
first increase since September, economists project a Feb. 17
report from the Labor Department will show. Prices excluding
volatile food and energy costs, the so-called core index, rose
0.2 percent last month after a 0.1 percent rise, the survey
showed.  The housing market, the industry that precipitated the last
recession, is showing signs of stabilization, a Feb. 16 report
from the Commerce Department may show. Construction of new homes
rose to a 671,000 annual pace in January from a 657,000 rate the
previous month.  Homebuilders such as Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  are
optimistic.  “Consumers are beginning to realize that housing
represents an undeniable value proposition, and accordingly
demand is growing,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer at
Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, said on a
Jan. 11 conference call.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  