-- Ronaldo Scores Three Goals as Real Madrid Opens 10-Point Lead in Spain
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-02-12T23:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/ronaldo-scores-three-goals-as-real-madrid-opens-10-point-lead-in-spain.html
Cristiano Ronaldo  scored three goals
as Real  Madrid  rallied to defeat Levante 4-2 and stretch its
lead in Spanish soccer’s La Liga to 10 points. AC Milan moved
atop  Italy ’s Serie A as Juventus’ match was postponed.  Ronaldo scored in the 45th, 50th and 57th minutes at the
Santiago Bernabeu stadium last night after Gustavo Cabral put
the visiting team ahead in the fifth minute. Arouna Kone made it
3-2 before Ronaldo set up Karim Benzema for Real’s fourth goal
in the 66th minute.  Real’s seventh straight league victory lifted it to 58
points through 22 matches as it seeks a first league
championship since 2008. Second-place Barcelona, which has won
the past three titles, has 48 points after losing 3-2 at Osasuna
two days ago.  Valencia moved to 40 points in third place with a 4-0
victory over relegation-threatened Sporting Gijon.  In the weekend’s other matches, last-place Real Zaragoza
won 2-0 at Espanyol, Malaga beat Real Mallorca 3-1, Rayo
Vallecano defeated Getafe 2-0, and Real Betis beat Athletic
Bilbao 2-1. There was a scoreless tie between  Racing Santander 
and Atletico Madrid, while Villarreal defeated Grenada 3-1. Real
Sociedad hosts Sevilla today.  AC Milan rallied two days ago with second-half goals from
Maxi Lopez and Stephan El Shaarawy to win 2-1 at Udinese and
move two points ahead of Juventus in Italy. Antonio Di Natale
had given the home team a 19th-minute lead.  Snow Postponement  Milan has played two more matches than Juventus, whose game
at Bologna yesterday was postponed because of snow. Lazio is
three points further back following a 3-2 win against Cesena on
Feb. 9, with Udinese in fourth.  Fifth-place  Inter Milan  was upset 1-0 at home yesterday by
last-place Novara.  Borussia Dortmund  maintained its two-point lead in
 Germany ’s Bundesliga following a 1-0 win against  Bayer
Leverkusen  two days ago, while second-place  Bayern Munich  beat
Kaiserslautern 2-0. Borussia Moenchengladbach climbed above
Schalke into third spot after winning their matchup 3-0.  Hertha Berlin lost 5-0 at Stuttgart and yesterday fired its
coach Michael Kibbe.  In  France , Paris Saint-Germain was held to a 0-0 draw at
Nice, though reclaimed the top spot from Montpellier. PSG has a
one point lead, with Lille, Lyon and Rennes all 10 points
further back.  Defending champion Lille, which has played one less game,
yesterday lost 5-4 at home to  Bordeaux . Montpellier beat AC
Ajaccio 3-0 two days ago.  AZ Alkmaar and PSV Eindhoven are tied on points atop Dutch
soccer’s Eredivisie after beating Excelsior and  De Graafschap ,
respectively. Heerenveen and Feyenoord had victories yesterday
and are five points back. FC Twente, which has played one game
fewer, is another point behind after losing 3-2 at home to
Heracles on Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  