-- Saab Dealers Driving to Maserati With Unfolding Bankruptcy: Cars
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-02-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/saab-dealers-driving-to-maserati-with-unfolding-bankruptcy-cars.html
The bankruptcy of  Saab Automobile 
has left the carmaker’s 900 dealers around the world scrambling
to reinvent themselves, sometimes in creative ways.  Tom Backes, general manager at Guilford Saab in
 Connecticut , is considering trading in his sensible Saab wagons
and sedans for the racier world of Maserati, the luxury brand
owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , which is expanding its U.S. dealer network.
He has also approached  Mitsubishi. (7211)   “I’ve reached out to quite a few brands,” Backes said.
“Some have said, ‘We’re not expanding,’ and others have said,
‘We’ll take a look at it.’ It’s a slow process.”  In the past two years, about 200 Saab dealers around the
world have thrown in the towel and the rest are seeking new
partners to survive. The flight of the dealers to competitors
means that any company with an interest in buying the
Trollhaettan, Sweden-based automaker may struggle to resurrect
the brand.  “Often these dealerships have a loyal clientele who might
switch brands,” said Garel Rhys, president of the University of
Cardiff’s automotive industry research center. “They’re often
in very good locations and well-established. So I’m quite
optimistic about the prospects of Saab dealerships”  Rhys cites the history of British carmaker MG Rover. When
that automaker went into liquidation in 2005, most of its
dealers were able to add brands and survive.  Saab’s uncertain future has allowed the likes of  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Seat and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. the opportunity to swoop
in and nab experienced dealers with a loyal clientele.  ‘Absolutely Interesting’  “We’re absolutely interested in talking to Saab dealers,”
said Ake Lundberg, head of Seat in  Sweden . Seat, VW’s Spanish
unit, aims to expand to 50 sales outlets in Sweden from today’s
28, Lundberg said.  In the U.S., “every one” of the country’s 188 Saab
dealers have thought about taking on another brand, said Kurt
Schirm, head of the Saab National Dealer Council.  That includes himself. Schirm, president of International
Motors Saab, an exclusive Saab store in  Falls Church , Virginia,
has considered other brands for the past couple of years, he
said. It’s been tough, not the least since  Virginia , like many
U.S. states, has a law preventing more than one dealer of the
same brand within a certain distance of each other.  Schirm, whose store also repairs and sells used Saabs, had
cut headcount by half to 28 in the last few years and the past
weeks have trimmed further to about a dozen staffers, he said.  Warranty Challenge  Saab dealers have been struggling financially since at
least December of 2009, when crisis-hit  General Motors Co. (GM) 
announced it might kill the Swedish brand as it did with Saturn,
Hummer and Pontiac. GM eventually sold it to Dutch sports-car
maker  Spyker Cars (SWAN)  NV, today called Swedish Automobile NV. With
sales once reaching 133,000 in 2006, Saab sold just 31,700
vehicles in 2010.  No sales figures have been released for 2011.  Eric Geers ,
Saab’s former spokesman who lost his job with the bankruptcy,
puts the number at 10,000 to 15,000.  “It’s a miracle they exist at all,” Geers said of the
dealers.  Dealers with new Saabs left in stock are trying to get rid
of them with discounts that often reach 30 percent or more. It’s
not always easy, not the least since new Saabs in the U.S. lack
a factory warranty. While customers can buy a separate warranty,
that costs about $2,000 and generates an uncomfortable feeling,
said Roland Gartner, who owns two Saab stores in  Illinois .  “You’d think that customers would come flooding in and
buying them because of the great prices, but they’re still not
convinced it’s a good value at this point,” Gartner said.  Potential Buyers  Of course, there’s still a chance that Saab will survive as
a brand. A half-dozen parties are considering buying the
business and restarting assembly, according to the court-
appointed Swedish attorneys handling the bankruptcy.  China ’s
Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile and Brightwell Holdings BV, a
Turkish private-equity firm, have both publicly expressed
interest.  That glimmer of hope is keeping dealers like Gary Small,
71, going. The founder and president of a Saab dealer bearing
his name in  Portland ,  Oregon  said he’s not ready to be forced
into retirement.  “I’m like an old Saab, I want to keep running forever,”
Small said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  