-- Saudi Arabia Blames ‘Elements’ for Firing on Forces in Awwamiya
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-12T13:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/saudi-arabia-blames-elements-for-firing-on-forces-in-awwamiya.html
Saudi Arabia  blamed the latest
violence in Awwamiya on “a number of elements” trying to evoke
a response by firing on security forces in the Shiite Muslim
village in the eastern oil-producing region.  Some “deliberately seek to challenge” the police by
firing live ammunition toward them and their vehicles, the
 Interior Ministry  said in a faxed statement today.  Saudi security forces killed one Shiite protester in
Awwamiya on Feb. 10 after being fired upon, the  Saudi Press
Agency  reported, citing an unidentified police spokesman. A day
earlier a Shiite protester was killed and three wounded in a gun
battle with police forces in al-Qatif, it said.  Armed clashes between Saudi forces and Shiite protesters
have occurred in the  Eastern Province  since October, when 11
Saudi security forces were injured in an orchestrated attack by
gunmen riding on motorcycles. Seven Shiite protesters have been
killed since November, according to figures provided by  Human
Rights First Society .  Predominantly Sunni Muslim Saudi Arabia has accused Shiite-
led Iran of interfering in the affairs of Arab countries in the
 Persian Gulf , home to three-fifths of the world’s oil reserves.
Iran denies the allegation and accuses Sunni rulers in  Bahrain 
and Saudi Arabia of discriminating against Shiites. Saudi Arabia
and other Gulf countries sent troops to Bahrain in March to
quell the mainly Shiite unrest.  Islamic Revolution  The latest clashes in Awwamiya and al-Qatif occurred ahead
of  Iran  marking the 33rd anniversary of the  Islamic Revolution 
on February 11. That uprising toppled the pro-western monarchy
and brought Shiite Islamic clerics to power.  Saudi Arabia’s Shiite minority is concentrated in the
Eastern Province, which lies across a 16-mile (26-kilometer)
causeway from Shiite-majority Bahrain. The U.S. State Department
noted in a human-rights report on Saudi Arabia published in 2009
that Shiites in the kingdom face “significant political,
economic, legal, social and religious discrimination condoned by
the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  