-- SingTel Third-Quarter Net Falls on Costs to Keep Customers, Bharti Airtel
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-02-13T10:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/singtel-third-quarter-profit-declines-on-costs-to-retain-customers-bharti.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, posted a 9.6 percent
fall in third-quarter earnings on costs to retain domestic
customers and a slump at its  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  unit in  India .  Net income  fell to S$902 million ($717 million), or 5.7
Singapore cents a share, in the three months ended Dec. 31 from
S$998 million, or 6.3 cents a year earlier, SingTel, as the
Singapore-based company is known, said in a statement today. The
result missed the S$951.5 million average of four analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  SingTel’s margin, which measures profit as a proportion of
sales, shrank 1.3 percentage points to 26 percent as selling and
administrative expenses in  Singapore  surged 22 percent on higher
costs to add and retain customers. Competition in  Australia  is
curbing growth for its Optus unit and sliding earnings at part-
owned Bharti are crimping  profitability .  “The big disappointment here is the change in the cost
structure and the decline in its margin,” said  Theo Maas , who
holds SingTel among the $5 billion he helps manage at Arnhem
Investment Management Pty. in Sydney. “They have been quite
aggressive in terms of handset subsidies.”  SingTel rose 2 percent to S$3.13 in Singapore trading. The
shares have gained 1.3 percent this year.  Singapore, Australia  Third-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization from Singapore operations fell 7 percent to
S$547 million. Revenue rose 3 percent.  Mobile revenue rose 6 percent to S$491 million after the
company added 61,000 customers and increased its market share to
46 percent.  Sydney-based Optus, which trails only  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  in
Australia, posted a 2 percent rise in earnings to A$562 million
($601 million) as it added 182,000 customers.  Full-year forecasts were affirmed, with the company
expecting “stable” earnings in Singapore and growth in
Australia at “low single digit levels.”  “They have affirmed things are sound with the guidance,”
said Arnhem’s Maas.  Regional Units  SingTel owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in six other mobile
operators with 434 million customers in more than 20 countries
in Asia and Africa.  Third-quarter earnings from associates, such as Bharti, PT
Telekomunikasi Selular in Indonesia and  Advanced Info Service
Pcl (ADVANC)  in Thailand, fell 7.9 percent to S$449 million.  New Delhi-based Bharti, India’s largest wireless operator,
last week posted a 22 percent decline in profit as customers
curbed mobile-phone use amid rising call rates and it incurred
costs for the for the expansion of 3G services. The contribution
to SingTel fell 30 percent to S$128 million.  The earnings contribution to SingTel from Indonesia’s  PT
Telekomunikasi (TLKM)  rose 5.6 percent to S$226 million and profit from
Advanced Info, Thailand’s largest mobile-phone operator,
advanced 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  