-- Skadden’s Roger Aaron, M&A Lawyer to GM and Mobil, Dies at 69
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-02-13T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/skadden-m-a-lawyer-aaron-adviser-to-gm-and-mobil-dies-at-69.html
Roger Aaron, a partner at Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP who represented some of America’s
largest companies on transformative acquisitions, died on
Feb. 11. He was 69.  The cause was cancer, according to a  notice  published in
the New York Times yesterday.  A protégé of Joseph Flom, a pioneer in the mergers and
acquisitions business, Aaron helped create the first so-called
tracking stock, handled major assignments for Mobil Corp. and
General Motors Corp., and helped build his New York-based firm
into one of the world’s largest.  “Skadden would not have become the firm it is today
without Roger,” said Eric Friedman, the firm’s executive
partner, in a  statement .  Aaron counseled Mobil on its $79 billion sale to Exxon
Corp. in 1999, and USX Corp., then the parent of U.S. Steel, on
a defense against activist shareholder  Carl Icahn .  Aaron helped create the first tracking stock, a security
issued by a corporation to reflect the performance of a single
division, his Skadden colleague Peter Atkins said in an
interview yesterday.  The innovation came as part of General Motors’ 1984
acquisition of H.  Ross Perot ’s Electronic Data Systems Corp.,
Atkins said. Aaron helped GM issue a special class of stock tied
to the performance of EDS, Atkins said. The technique became
popular in the 1990s.  ‘Fast Forward’  “For all of us who have lived with it and dealt with it
and seen its complexity, it was remarkable exercise in thinking
and creativity,” said Atkins, who worked with Aaron since they
started as summer associates together in 1967.  A graduate of  Dartmouth College , Aaron earned degrees from
Dartmouth’s Amos Tuck School of Business and  Yale Law School ,
Skadden said.  Aaron became a full-time associate in 1968 -- the 19th
lawyer at the firm, which now has more than 1,800, according to
the notice in the Times. He became a partner in 1975 and led the
firm’s corporate practice for more than 20 years, Skadden said.  Aaron was a downhill skier, a biker and a fitness buff,
Friedman said in an interview.  “This is someone who ran at only one speed all the time,”
Friedman said. “Fast forward.”  Aaron is survived by his wife Virginia (Ginny), two sons,
Peter and Todd, a daughter-in-law, two grandsons and his mother
and sister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  