-- Suzlon Drops as Loss Widens on Taxes, Interest: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-02-13T11:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/suzlon-third-quarter-loss-widens-on-deferred-taxes-interest.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s biggest
maker of  wind turbines , fell the most in two weeks after
reporting a wider-than-estimated loss in the third quarter as
interest costs and provision for deferred taxes increased.  Suzlon shares  fell 7.6 percent, the most since Jan. 30, to
28.45 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The benchmark  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  gained 0.1 percent.  The  loss  widened to 2.86 billion rupees ($58 million) in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from 2.54 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said in a  statement  Feb. 11. That compares
with the median estimate of a 625 million-rupee loss by six
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The manufacturer, based in Pune, may be at risk of slowing
orders in  Europe , where it gets more than 50 percent of its
contracts, Alchemy Share & Stock Brokers Pvt. said in a Feb. 2
note. Wind turbine makers are struggling with narrowing margins
after reducing prices to compete for orders as U.S. and European
governments cut clean-energy incentives to curb budget deficits.  Suzlon cut its forecast for full-year  sales  to as low as
210 billion rupees, according to the statement. Sales were 145
billion rupees in the first nine months. Third-quarter net sales
rose 12.6 percent to 49.9 billion rupees. The company has orders
worth $7.5 billion, it said.  “In spite of having our best-ever order book, we have had
lower volumes” in the third quarter, Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said
in the statement. “As a group we are extremely well positioned
in the global marketplace, and with our strong order backlog we
expect to deliver nearly 40 percent growth in revenue in the
next fiscal.”  Bond Redemption  The company’s auditors drew attention to the uncertainty
about how Suzlon would raise funds to redeem foreign currency
convertible bonds, according to the statement.  Suzlon has foreign currency convertible bonds with a total
redemption value of about $569 million due in June and October,
compared with the face value of $389 million, according to the
statement. The yield on the zero coupon bonds due in June surged
to a record 66.84 percent on Feb. 3, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The  management  is actively pursuing various options, and
given the several proposed plans of action, improving order
inflows and overall business momentum, the management is
confident that in case the FCCBs are required to be redeemed, it
will be able to generate the required funds,” Suzlon said.  Suzlon also expects to collect funds from a customer it
didn’t identify, working capital rationalization, sale of some
“non-core assets,” and through fresh debt, the company said in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  “There is still uncertainty on redemptions after the
quarterly earnings,” Raj Kothari, a London-based convertible
debt trader at Sun Global Investments Ltd., said in a telephone
interview today.  Deferred Tax  Suzlon’s taxes in the quarter rose more than fourfold to
1.34 billion rupees, while interest costs increased 21 percent,
according to the statement. “International deferred tax
liabilities” were at 1.21 billion rupees, the company said.  “The deferred tax liability is not a tax increase, it is a
result of the difference in accounting norms between Suzlon
Group and Suzlon’s German subsidiary Repower AG,” the company
said in a separate statement, without elaborating.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S of Denmark, the biggest turbine
maker, announced a loss in 2011 that was four times wider than
expected on Feb. 8. Sinovel Wind Group Co.,  China ’s biggest
supplier, said Jan. 30 it expects 2011 earnings to fall by more
than 50 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  