-- Syrian Forces Press Assault as Violence Spills Into Lebanon
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-12T17:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/syrian-forces-press-assault-on-homs-as-violence-spills-over-into-lebanon.html
Syrian forces pressed their efforts
to stamp out dissent against the rule of President Bashar al- Assad in the central city of Homs as violence spilled over into
neighboring Lebanon.  Syrian soldiers killed 10 people today in Homs, including
five in the Baba Amr neighborhood, Al Arabiya television
reported, citing the Syrian Revolution General Commission. In
the Lebanese city of Tripoli, two people were killed yesterday
in clashes between supporters of Assad and his opponents, it
reported, without saying where it got the information. Nineteen
people were injured, it said.  Syrian forces have intensified efforts to crush the 11-
month uprising against Assad since Russia and  China  vetoed a
United Nations Security Council resolution on Feb. 4. The
resolution had aimed to facilitate a political solution to a
conflict that according to UN estimates has killed more than
5,400 people since starting in mid-March.  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi called today
for a joint Arab League-United Nations monitoring mission for
 Syria  and said a new force must differ from the league’s earlier
mission that was suspended last month as violence persisted. El-
Arabi spoke in an address to a meeting of Arab League foreign
ministers in Cairo.  Imposed Sanctions  The league in November imposed sanctions on the country and
sent observers in an effort to stop the violence. The 22-member
body later drafted a plan that called for the formation of a
national unity government to pave the way for elections.  The  Arab League  may seek approval by Feb. 17 from the
 United Nations General Assembly  for its plan for al-Assad to
step aside.  The Obama administration is “pursuing all avenues”
against the Assad regime, White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew
said today in an interview on “Fox News Sunday”.  “The brutality of the Assad regime is unacceptable,” said
Lew. “It has to end. There is no question that this regime will
come to an end.”  When it comes to U.S. support, Lew said “the last thing
that is needed in Syria now is more violence.” The U.S. is
working with allies to support the opposition, he said.  U.S. Senator  Joe Lieberman  said an international coalition
of willing countries should provide medical aid, training,
communications equipment and weapons to Syrian rebels. The
coalition would include the Arab League, Gulf countries, and
 Turkey , he said.  Lieberman, a Connecticut independent who is chairman of the
Senate Homeland Security Committee, said Syria’s regime has
stepped up killing of its own citizens.  “I think it’s time to help the brave Syrian freedom
Fighters to carry out a fair fight,” Lieberman said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program. “And I think it’s time to give
them help.”  Lieberman praised the Arab League for “putting themselves
on the side of freedom and against dictatorship.”  Three gunmen killed Brigadier General Issa al-Kholi outside
his home yesterday in Damascus a day after two  suicide bombers 
attacked a military security branch and police headquarters in
the northern city of Aleppo, the Syrian Arab News Service said.
The two car bombers in the northern city of Aleppo killed 28 and
injured 235 military personal, civilians and children, it said
yesterday.  The U.S. Embassy in Damascus posted on its Facebook Inc.
page on Feb. 10 an image of artillery attacks on residential
neighborhoods in Homs. The U.S. has suspended operations of its
embassy in Syria, the State Department said on Feb. 6.
Ambassador  Robert Ford  and all American personnel have left the
country, the department said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  