-- U.S. Would Block Iran From Mining Hormuz Strait, Commander Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-12T19:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/u-s-would-block-iran-from-mining-hormuz-strait-commander-says.html
The U.S. Navy would move to stop any
Iranian attempt to lay mines in the Strait of Hormuz or  Persian
Gulf  as an “act of war” the international community wouldn’t
tolerate, the U.S. Navy’s top Gulf commander said.  Iran ’s inventory of thousands of mines “represents an
indiscriminate and very difficult maritime problem,” comparable
to the improvised roadside bombs used in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  to
kill U.S. troops, Vice Admiral Mark Fox, commander of the U.S.
5th Fleet, told reporters at his Bahrain headquarters and on a
conference call today.  Iran’s Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation may close the Strait, the passageway for about
one-fifth of globally traded oil, if the U.S. and its allies
impose stricter economic sanctions in an effort to halt his
country’s nuclear research. U.S. officials, including Pentagon
spokesman  George Little , have said since that threat that they
haven’t seen any Iranian moves to close the waterway.  “The laying of mines in international waters is an act of
war,” Fox said today. “We would, under the direction of the
national leadership, prevent that from happening. We always have
the right and obligation of self-defense and this falls in
‘self-defense.’  ‘‘If we did nothing and allowed some’’ mining, ‘‘it would
be a long and difficult process to clear them,’’ Fox said.  While Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian use,
the U.S. and allies say the country may move to develop nuclear
weapons.  Iranian’s Vow  Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  told reporters in
Tehran yesterday that his country won’t ever cede to
international pressure. President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said he
will disclose ‘‘major nuclear accomplishments” in coming days,
according to the state-run Press TV news channel.  “The Iranians have every bit as much right to operate in
international waters as we do,” Fox said, and “we are very
keen on not trying to over-pressurize the situation.”  The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps that controls Persian
Gulf operations is “capable of striking a blow, I don’t deny
that,” Fox said. “The guidance I give the commanding officers
of my ships is that ‘you have a right and obligation of self-
defense.’ ”  Still, “the oil always flowed,” even in periods of
instability such as the “Tanker War” in the 1980s, when ships
were attacked and damaged, he said.  Mine-Sweeping Ships  The U.S. has four Avenger-class mine-sweeping ships in the
Gulf -- the USS Ardent, USS Dextrous, USS Gladiator and USS
Scout. The U.K.’s Royal Navy has another four vessels -- the HMS
Pembroke, HMS Middleton, HMS Quorn and HMS Ramsey, according to
the U.S. 5th Fleet in Bahrain.  Mines in the Strait could prompt insurance companies to
raise rates on tankers utilizing the waterway, which in turn
could lead at least temporarily to higher  oil prices .  U.S. officials who follow Iran for the U.S. Central Command
estimated in 2008 that Iran possessed as many as 5,000 mines.
That compares with 1,000 mines in the 1980s during its conflict
with Iraq and the Tanker War.  These include moored mines such as a variant that damaged a
frigate, the USS Samuel Roberts, in April 1988 during the
Operation Earnest Will escort of Kuwaiti and Saudi tankers.  The inventory also includes as many as 600 advanced mines
bought from  Russia , such as the MDM-3, which can be dropped from
an aircraft. These “influence mines” can be programmed to
detonate based on a ship’s acoustic signature.  Caught ‘Red-Handed’  The Navy would detect signs of Iranian mine-laying through
surveillance aircraft and sensors, Fox said.  During the Tanker War “we caught some guys red-handed and
we stopped them,” he said.  Iran was assessed by U.S. officials in 2008 as having a
substantial inventory of mines that could be laid by three
Russian-built Kilo-class diesel submarines it bought in the
1990s. In the past 18 months, Iran also increased its inventory
of smaller, domestically made Yono-class submarines to more than
10 from 5 previously, Fox said.  The subs are similar to the vessel the U.S. assessed as
having sunk the South Korean corvette Cheonan in March 2010, Fox
said.  The Yono class is a “lethal but not very capable
submarine, he said. ‘‘It doesn’t go very far. It can’t stay
submerged very long, but the geography of the  Strait of Hormuz 
is certainly in their favor,” Fox said of the narrow waterway.  The Office of Naval Intelligence also  says  the Yono-class
subs may be used to deploy scuba divers.  Iran has increased the number of small, fast patrol
aircraft, some of which have been outfitted with a large warhead
for a suicide run at U.S. vessels, Fox said.  It also has boosted the number of coastal-defense cruise
missiles along the Strait and invested to make them mobile.  “They have a capability, and we take that capability very
seriously and are prepared for it,” Fox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  