-- Chavez Rivals Using Primary Vote to Gain Advantage in Venezuelan Campaign
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-02-12T21:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/venezuelans-vote-in-primary-to-select-chavez-challenger.html
Venezuelans vote today in the
country’s first-ever presidential primary to choose a single
candidate to face President  Hugo Chavez  in an October election.  Miranda state Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski leads
opposition candidates, according to polls. He was backed by 61
percent of those surveyed, compared with 16 percent for Pablo Perez, the governor of Zulia, and 5 percent for lawmaker Maria
Corina Machado, according to a survey by Caracas-based polling
company  Datanalisis .  Chavez opponents say the primary will demonstrate unity
after years of bickering and political blunders as they seek to
break the self-declared socialist revolutionary’s 13-year rule
in the Oct. 7 vote. The opposition has vowed to maintain
economic stability by dismantling only gradually Chavez’s
policies and promising to maintain some of the welfare benefits
of Chavez’s “21st century socialism.”  “With participation, you build a homeland and with
participation you strengthen our democracy,” Capriles said
today from his voting place in Caracas on the Globovision
television network. “Venezuelans for the first time in our
history have the opportunity to elect our candidate. That’s
history. We’re going to surpass our expectations on voter
participation.”  Voter Turnout  Observers will be looking at voter turnout and the winner’s
margin of victory as signs of how strong a challenge the
opposition can mount. The leading candidates, Capriles and
Perez, have both said participation of 10 percent of the 18
million Venezuelans registered to vote would give the opposition
momentum as it starts an eight-month campaign to return to
power.  “Today, the opposition has a different face than the old
opposition,” said Ramon Guillermo Aveledo, executive secretary
of the Democratic Unity Table, as the opposition alliance is
known. “Before, the only thing that united us was our
opposition to Chavez,” he said in an interview Feb. 6.  Chavez spoke today in Aragua state at a military parade
commemorating Youth Day and a historic battle in the country’s
war of independence, without commenting on the primary vote.  Health Clinics  Capriles, 39, whose Jewish grandfather arrived in  Venezuela 
from  Poland  after fleeing Nazi persecution and founded the local
unit of  East Hanover , New Jersey-based Nabisco Inc., has set up
more than 70 free health clinics in poor neighborhoods of
Miranda state and provided subsidized food to low-income
families. He has waged a campaign based on creating employment
through forging alliances between the public and private
sectors.  Perez, 42, a lawyer, has claimed he’s best qualified to win
the votes of the poor in a face-off against Chavez and vowed to
re-establish presidential  term limits  after Chavez won a
referendum to abolish them in 2009.  All three leading candidates are younger than 45, which the
opposition says may make it harder for the 57-year-old Chavez to
portray them as the old guard who want to return  South America ’s
largest oil producer to the cronyism and corruption of the past.  “In Venezuela, you can breathe the air of change,” Perez
said today from his voting place in Zulia state on the
Globovision television network. “This is our opportunity to
ratify the popular change that we want in Venezuela so we can
have an assured future.”  Caracas Slum  The walls surrounding the Manuel Palacios Fajardo Technical
School in 23 de Enero, a sprawling Caracas slum long considered
a pro-Chavez bastion, are filled with socialist murals depicting
 Karl Marx , the Paris Commune and Chavez. This is where Chavez
votes in general elections.  Edward Gonzalez, 40, voted for Capriles looking for a
candidate that can challenge Chavez later this year, while also
seeking a break with the opposition’s old guard.  “He’s not with the old parties that are the reason why
Chavez is in power today, they’re to blame,” said Gonzalez, who
works in insurance, after voting at the school. “Chavez has had
13 years to improve things and he hasn’t done it. He still has a
lot of people and it will be an all-out fight to beat him.”  In the last election in 2006, anti-Chavez leaders rejected
a proposal to hold a primary, instead selecting behind closed
doors Manuel Rosales, then-governor of Zulia state, as their
candidate. A supporter of the government that took power after
Chavez was briefly toppled in 2002, Rosales ended up losing to
Chavez by 63 percent to 37 percent.  Chavez Cancer  Chavez, who says he’s cured of cancer after doctors removed
a tumor from his pelvic area in June, says only he can guarantee
stability in Venezuela and that any opposition candidate would
eliminate the social programs that have been key to his
popularity among the country’s poor.  The president’s approval rating has risen since he
announced he had cancer last year and as the economy has picked
up after contracting in 2009 and 2010. Record revenue for state-
owned  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  of $128 billion in 2011, after
Venezuelan crude prices rose 40 percent to an average of $101.06
a barrel from a year earlier, allowed for a surge in public
spending that helped gross domestic product expand 4 percent.  Chavez is leading voter preferences with 47.3 percent of
support, compared with 44.9 percent for the opposition
candidate, according to a December poll by  Consultores 21  that
was published by  Barclays Capital  in a note to clients. The
report didn’t specify dates or a margin of error for the survey.  Showing that he is in physical condition necessary to mount
a full-fledged campaign, Chavez made a nine-and-a-half-hour
speech, his longest ever, in the National Assembly on Jan. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  