-- Vilsack Makes U.S. Agriculture a High-Growth Area: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-02-12T16:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/vilsack-makes-u-s-agriculture-a-high-growth-area.html
The most avid political junkies
probably couldn’t name five U.S. agriculture secretaries; Tom Vilsack, the current occupant of the post, may be about to join
that short list.  The farm sector is one of the few bright spots in a rough
 U.S. economy . Vilsack, the popular former governor of Iowa, who
has an appreciation of policy and politics, is one of the
success stories of the Obama administration.  Usually, the Agriculture Department, started under  Abraham Lincoln  and celebrating its 150th birthday this year, is a
backwater that serves to pacify disgruntled farmers. The most
memorable secretaries owe their prominence to controversy. Henry
Wallace, a creative force in President Franklin Roosevelt’s
administration before he became FDR’s vice president, later
became a left-wing challenger to President  Harry Truman  during
the  Cold War ; Earl Butz, who was secretary under  Richard Nixon 
and  Gerald Ford , was forced out after uttering racist and anti-
Catholic jokes.  Vilsack, 61, has been in office three years, and is
emerging as one of the most effective and respected agriculture
chiefs.  “He’s doing a very good job,” Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  says of his fellow Iowan. The veteran lawmaker gives
Vilsack high grades for settling civil rights issues concerning
black farmers, helping family farmers get more information and
compete better, and boosting agricultural exports. “I’ve heard
nothing negative about him,” Grassley says.  Rising Income  There isn’t much negative to say about agriculture these
days. Farm income reached an estimated $100 billion for the
first time last year. Real family income, down for most
Americans, has risen 5 percent for family farmers under the
Obama/Vilsack tenure. The value of farm lands is at a record
high and farm debt fell almost 2 percent last year.  That positive trend emerges across the board. The number of
farmers’ markets has climbed to more than 7,000, up 54 percent
from 2008. Agriculture-dependent companies such as Deere and Co.
and Monsanto Co. are posting record profit.  Agricultural exports soared to $136.3 billion last year,
producing a net trade surplus of $42 billion; this surplus was
$5 billion five years ago. The largest market is  China ; it’s no
coincidence that when Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping  visits
the U.S. this week, he’ll stop by Muscatine, Iowa.  Vilsack says his department has successfully targeted 15-20
countries to boost exports. One of those is Vietnam, which he
visited last year, and is now the 15th largest customer for U.S.
farm products.  The secretary estimates that his focus on exports and other
issues such as  food safety  and  climate change  means up to 40
percent of his time is spent on global matters.  “You can’t name a critical issue today where we don’t have
an impact,” he says; that includes work in places such as
 Afghanistan , where the U.S. is promoting crops to replace opium
poppies.  Vilsack has shown resiliency all his life. Abandoned only
days after birth, he was adopted from an orphanage. He later
went on to get a law degree, got into politics, and in 1998,
became the first Democrat elected governor of  Iowa  in 30 years.  Five years ago, he briefly entertained the idea of running
for president; he dropped out of the race and embraced the
candidacy of  Hillary Clinton . As a successful two-term Iowa
governor with deep expertise in agricultural issues, he was a
natural choice for Obama to tap as the 30th agriculture
secretary.  Skeptics Abound  Nonetheless, the appointment was greeted with skepticism by
sustainable food advocates and environmentalists, who worried he
would be too pro-farmer. Business groups, meanwhile, were
concerned he would be too pro-regulation. He has walked these
delicate lines adroitly and wins praise from diverse groups.  “We have a good working relationship,” says Bob Stallman,
the president of the conservative American Farm Bureau.  In tough fiscal times, aided by strong interest in
agricultural issues on  Capitol Hill , he’s done better in the
budget battles than most of his fellow Cabinet members. Half of
his $144 billion budget is devoted to  food stamps , which have
come under attack by Republican presidential candidates, such as
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who suggest the program
largely benefits the indolent.  Vilsack points out that 92 percent of food stamp benefits
go to recipients who don’t receive cash welfare, including the
aging, the severely disabled, the working poor and children. He
boasts that even with the higher demand for the assistance
program caused by the recession, his department has markedly
reduced fraud. “We operate under greater integrity than ever,”
he says.  Admirers say he’s versed in both politics and ideas. “He
is a sponge for details and then he spins those into big
ideas,” says Michael Gartner, a renowned former newspaper
editor in Iowa, who Vilsack appointed to run the state’s Board
of Regents. “You didn’t dare go in to argue with him on any
issue without understanding every paragraph of the policy and
every line of the balance sheet -- because he knew both,
backward and forward. On the other hand, he would listen, and if
you could make a case he would change his mind.”  In an interview in his spacious office, which features a
prominent picture of the last Iowan to serve in his post, Henry
Wallace, he rattles off encouraging statistics and describes the
vast reach of his department, with almost 100,000 employees.  Vilsack acknowledges a traditional Republican bent among
farmers but says the president will hold his own in the November
election in battleground farm states such as Iowa. “I like our
prospects in rural areas.”  That prompts mention of a much-discussed Super Bowl
commercial for Chrysler Group LLC in which the actor  Clint Eastwood  declared it to be halftime in America and says the  auto
industry  is on the way back.  Eastwood, he says, could make the same ad for American
agriculture with one difference: “It’s the fourth quarter, and
we’re winning.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at    mberley@bloomberg.net . 