-- Oil Rises From Three-Day Low on Greek Austerity Measures, Iran Sanctions
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-13T08:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/west-texas-intermediate-oil-rises-in-new-york-brent-crude-gains-in-london.html
Oil rebounded from a three-day low
in  New York  after  Greece ’s parliament approved austerity
measures to secure an international bailout, easing concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and curb fuel demand.  Futures climbed as much as 1 percent after 199 lawmakers
supported the bill in a roll-call vote shown live on state-run
Vouli TV, against 74 who opposed it. The measures were needed
for a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) aid package, Greece’s
second since May 2010. Oil may extend gains after companies
controlling more than 100 supertankers said they would stop
loading cargoes from Iran, tightening sanctions on OPEC’s
second-biggest producer.  “It’s a confidence builder in terms of Greece’s
willingness to implement reform,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. The oil market “has
made the adjustment it needed to make from being excessively
pessimistic a few months ago and has now based itself on an
assumption of moderate international growth,” he said.  Crude for March delivery rose as much as $1.01 to $99.68 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $99.60 at 4:10 p.m. Singapore time. Futures
fell 1.2 percent to $98.67 on Feb. 10, the lowest settlement
since Feb. 7, and are up 17 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up 94 cents at $118.25 a barrel. The
more-actively traded April contract was up 92 cents at $117.67.
The European benchmark crude was at a  premium  of $18.65 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, compared with a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Iran Sanctions  Overseas Shipholding Group said Feb. 10 the pool of 45
supertankers from seven owners in which its carriers trade will
no longer call at  Iran . Nova Tankers A/S and Frontline Ltd.,
with a combined 93 vessels, said Feb. 9 and Feb. 11 they won’t
ship crude from the Persian Gulf nation.  The European Union’s Jan. 23 agreement to embargo Iran’s
oil from July because of its nuclear program extended the ban to
ship insurance. With about 95 percent of the tanker fleet
insured under rules governed by European law, there will be
fewer vessels able to load in Iran.  Nuclear Claims  “Latest reports on Iran suggest that financial sanctions
are already hitting oil production, with falls in output and
exports likely to accelerate,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in a note today. “The nation is looking to
showcase its nuclear capabilities to the rest of the world in
the coming days, which we think could provide additional support
to  oil prices  in the region as tensions flare.”  Iran’s crude output dropped the most in six months by an
average 30,000 barrels a day, or 0.8 percent, to 3.55 million
barrels a day in January, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts and producers. President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Feb.
11 he will unveil “major nuclear accomplishments” in coming
days, state-run Press TV news channel reported. Iran has
threatened to block shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit route for about 20 percent of the world’s globally
traded oil.  Passage of the austerity bill in Greece puts the spotlight
on a meeting of euro-region finance ministers on Feb. 15 in
Brussels to decide whether to approve the aid package.
Resolution of the negotiations, which started in July, would
help contain the threat that speculators will target debt-
saddled countries, including Italy and  Portugal .  The 27 EU member states accounted for about 16 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased bullish
wagers on oil by 4,440 contracts, or 2.2 percent, to 205,709 in
the week ended Feb. 7, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in a weekly report Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at   manderson34@bloomberg.net  