-- Houston’s Cause of Death Won’t Be Known for Weeks Pending Toxicology Tests
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-13T20:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-12/whitney-houston-record-setting-popular-singer-film-actress-dies-at-48.html
The cause of death of Whitney Houston, the pop-soul diva whose record-setting career fell
victim to substance abuse and a turbulent marriage, won’t be
known for weeks.  Houston’s body was found in a bathtub in her Beverly Hills,
California, hotel room on the eve of yesterday’s Grammy Awards,
Beverly Hills Police Lieutenant Mark Rosen said. She was 48.
Officials declined to say anything about how she died until the
conclusion of toxicology tests.  Details from an autopsy done yesterday won’t be released at
the request of police, Los Angeles County Assistant Chief
Coroner Ed Winter told reporters, according to the  Associated
Press . Officials said there were no signs of foul play and they
weren’t ruling out any cause of death pending the toxicology
results.  The singer’s body will be taken to Newark,  New Jersey , for
a funeral later this week, AP said, citing two people it didn’t
identify who have spoken with her family.  Houston was the only artist to have seven consecutive No. 1
singles on Billboard magazine’s pop chart. The streak began with
“Saving All My Love for You,” from her  debut album  in 1985.
She also reached the top of Billboard’s rhythm-and-blues, adult-
contemporary and dance charts.  “I just want to be recognized for my music and for what it
does, and how it inspires people, and how it makes people feel,
as opposed to a talking-about-Whitney-all-the-time kind of
thing,” she told the MTV network in a 2009  interview .  Top-Selling Single  Starring roles in three movies, “The Bodyguard,”
“Waiting to Exhale” and “The Preacher’s Wife,” broadened her
resume in the 1990s. Her version of “I Will Always Love You,”
from the “Bodyguard” soundtrack, was the biggest-selling
single ever.  Houston’s personal and artistic descent coincided with a
dependence on marijuana and cocaine and turmoil in her 15-year
marriage to singer Bobby Brown, she told talk-show host  Oprah
Winfrey  in 2009. Remarks that she blurted out in other
television appearances became part of popular culture.  “Crack is whack,” she told ABC News’s  Diane Sawyer  in
2002 when  asked  about  crack cocaine , which she denied using.
“Hell to the no!” she told her then-husband on “Being Bobby
Brown,” a reality  show  that the Bravo cable network broadcast
in 2005.  Houston returned in 2009 with “I Look to You,” her first
studio album of new songs in seven years. Although the record
climbed to the top of Billboard’s pop and R&B charts, subpar
performances and health-related cancellations marred a
subsequent concert tour.  Music Heritage  Whitney Elizabeth Houston was born to John and Cissy
Houston on Aug. 9, 1963, in  Newark , New Jersey. She joined a
musical family that included an older brother, Michael, and a
half-brother, Gary, from her mother’s previous marriage.  Cissy Houston was part of the Sweet Inspirations, a vocal
group, before going solo in 1970. She backed up  Elvis Presley ,
 Aretha Franklin  and her niece, Dionne Warwick. John Houston
served as his wife’s manager and later did the same for his
daughter, nicknamed Nippy after a cartoon character.  The Houstons moved to  East Orange , New Jersey, where an
 elementary school  is now named for Whitney, after race riots
swept through Newark in 1967.  Even so, the family maintained its membership at Newark’s
New Hope Baptist Church, where her mother was choir director and
Whitney became a soloist at the age of 11.  Wilhelmina Model  Houston sang backup vocals with her mother and other
artists, including Chaka Khan, the Neville Brothers and Lou
Rawls, as a teenager. She first appeared on record in 1978’s
“Life’s a Party” by the Michael Zager Band. Zager had worked
with her mother as a producer and arranger.  Music wasn’t her only ambition at the time. She had a
modeling career with the Wilhelmina Agency and made the covers
of Cosmopolitan, Glamour and Seventeen magazines, among others.  Arista Records signed Houston in 1983 and spent two years
working on her first album. During that period, she teamed with
singer Teddy Pendergrass on a duet, “Hold Me,” which reached
the top 50 on Billboard’s pop charts as a single. She also had
roles on television’s “Gimme a Break” and “As the World
Turns.”  Houston’s self-titled  first album  was the biggest-selling
debut for a female artist at the time. After the record yielded
a top-five single, “You Give Good Love,” the No. 1 streak
began. “Saving All My Love for You” was followed by “How Will
I Know” and “The Greatest Love of All” at the top of the pop
charts.  Eight-Year Gap  The first four singles from her 1987 follow-up album,
“ Whitney ,” also got there: “I Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who
Loves Me),” “Didn’t We Almost Have It All,” “So Emotional”
and “Where Do Broken Hearts Go.”  “I’m Your Baby Tonight,” her third album, arrived in
1990. The title song and “All the Man That I Need” added to
her list of No. 1 singles. Eight years passed until she
delivered her fourth studio release, “My Love Is Your Love.”  During the hiatus, she married Brown, a former member of
the New Edition vocal group. The couple wed in 1992 and had a
daughter, Bobbi Kristina, the next year.  Movie roles and soundtracks also filled the gap between
albums. In “The Bodyguard,” from 1992, she was a pop singer
protected by a former Secret Service agent, played by  Kevin
Costner . The film’s soundtrack was the biggest album of her
career. More than 17 million copies sold in the U.S. alone.  Dolly Parton Song  “I Will Always Love You” topped Billboard’s pop, R&B and
adult-contemporary singles charts at the same time for a record
five weeks and scored U.S. sales of 4 million copies. Her feats
eclipsed the song’s success for its writer,  Dolly Parton , who
reached No. 1 on the country charts with two versions.  “Waiting to Exhale,” a 1995 release, starred Houston and
Angela Bassett in a story about four women friends. The
soundtrack album and “Exhale (Shoop Shoop),” one of only three
songs on which she appeared, both led Billboard’s pop charts.  “The Preacher’s Wife,” where she played the title role
alongside Denzel  Washington , followed in 1996. She returned to
her gospel roots on the soundtrack, featuring performances by
her mother, Shirley Caesar and the Georgia Mass Choir.  “My Love Is Your Love” was followed by a greatest-hits
collection in 2000, “Just Whitney” in 2002, and “One Wish:
The Holiday Album” in 2003. After the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks in 2001, her decade-old version of “The Star Spangled
Banner” from Super Bowl XXV was released as a single. It made
the Top Ten.  ‘Crack Is Whack’  Drugs surfaced as an issue in January 2000, when Hawaiian
authorities discovered marijuana in Houston’s luggage and filed
charges against her. While the case was later dismissed, she was
fired from an Academy Awards show two months after the incident.  “I’ll grant you, I partied,” she told Sawyer when  asked 
about her marijuana, cocaine and alcohol use. Responding to a
follow-up question about crack, a lower-grade form of cocaine,
she said: “Crack is cheap. I make too much money to ever smoke
crack. Let’s get that straight. OK? We don’t do crack. We don’t
do that. Crack is whack.”  Arista signed her to a contract that the label valued at
more than $100 million in 2001. The six-album deal triggered a
legal conflict with her father, who had guided her career since
1986 and kept the position after divorcing her mother in 1993.  John Houston Entertainment LLC, his management firm, filed
a $100 million breach-of-contract lawsuit against her in August
2002. That December, her father appeared on TV from a hospital
bed and called for her to settle. He died of cardiac arrest in
February 2003, and the case was thrown out the next year.  Marital Life  Houston also had issues with her husband, who went into
rehabilitation for alcohol abuse in 1995. The couple split for a
couple of months that year. Two years later, they broke up again
for about a month, Houston later told  Ebony  magazine.  “Emotionally, he was abusive,” she said in the  interview 
with Winfrey. Brown once spit in her face after a birthday party
she gave for him at an Atlanta nightclub, she said.  “Being Bobby Brown,” which made it to Bravo only after
Houston agreed to participate, was filmed in 2004 and broadcast
the next year. Along with “Hell to the no!” responses, the
show had references to the couple’s sex life and personal
hygiene.  In 2006, she split with Brown for the last time and filed
for divorce, which was granted the next year. She then started
working on “I Look to You,” which came out two years after its
scheduled release at the end of 2007.  Houston’s comeback tour failed to build on the album’s
success. She sang with a rasp at times, struggled to hit high
notes and took mid-show pauses for breath. She apologized to a
London audience for her singing, and postponed other European
shows because of what aides called a respiratory infection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  