-- 
Budget Impasse, Europe Hurt U.S. Jobs, Pimco’s Crescenzi Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-08T15:47:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/-uncertainty-over-budget-deters-hiring-pimco-s-crescenzi-says-tom-keene.html
Employers are reluctant to hire
because of political clashes over the U.S. budget,  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and volatile energy costs, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Anthony Crescenzi .  “Uncertainty is a risk that can’t be measured,” said
Crescenzi, executive vice president and strategist at Pimco in
 Newport Beach , California, during a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“When people face uncertainty, they disengage. They decide that
conditions aren’t sure enough that they can have workers
added.”  U.S. employers added 18,000 jobs in June, the fewest in
nine months, the Labor Department reported today. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent, the
highest level this year.  Individuals and businesses are concerned that the high
level of government debt in the U.S. will amount to a tax
increase or a cut in services, said Crescenzi, whose firm
operates the world’s biggest bond fund.  “People worry about a cut in Medicare or Social Security
payments,” he said. “What it causes them to do is self-insure,
which is to say, ‘Hey, I don’t want to spend, I have to worry
what’s going to happen to me in a few years or a few months.’”  President  Barack Obama  is summoning top congressional
Republicans and Democrats to a rare Sunday meeting at the White
House to begin “hard bargaining” on a broad debt-reduction deal.
At the July 10 session, Obama will make his latest bid to
break a partisan impasse over whether to include cuts in
entitlement programs and tax increases in an agreement.  Crescenzi on Priorities  The U.S. will struggle to cut spending, so it has to change
what it spends on, according to Crescenzi. The government needs
to focus less on things such as health care and invest more in
education, infrastructure and research and development,
Crescenzi said.  “These are the areas that power economic growth over the
long term,” Crescenzi said. “Do what  China  is doing: invest in
itself.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Portugal’s credit rating this
week to Ba2, below investment grade, making it the second euro
region nation, after Greece, to have a junk rating. Greece’s
parliament passed last week austerity measures necessary for a
final round of international aid as citizens rioted.  Crude oil declined in  New York  today after the government’s
payrolls report. Oil for August delivery fell 2.8 percent to
$95.90 a barrel after touching $99.42 yesterday, the highest
level since June 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  