-- 
BB&T, DaVita, Goldman Sachs, KKR, Wynn: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-07-08T13:09:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/aeroflex-bb-t-davita-ixia-kkr-wd-40-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 8:40 a.m. in  New York .  Aeroflex Holding Corp. (ARX)  : The designer of radio
frequency and microwave integrated circuits was lowered to
“market perform” from “outperform” at Oppenheimer & Co.  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  : The North Carolina bank that remained
profitable through the financial crisis was cut to “reduce”
from “neutral” at Nomura Securities, which said the company
may perform worse than peers as economy expands while  interest
rates  are still low and the housing market remains weak. Nomura
reduced its 12-month price estimate to $26 from $27.  Continental Resources Inc. (CLR US) rose 0.4 percent to
$68.50. Stifel Nicolaus & Co. raised the oil and gas reserves
developer to “buy” from “hold” and gave it a price forecast
of $76 a share. Stifel cited the company’s potential for
production growth for “the coming few years.”  DaVita Inc. (DVA)  : The provider of dialysis services got
an “outperform” rating in new coverage by William Blair & Co.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   fell 1.4 percent to
$133.10. Oppenheimer & Co. cut its second-quarter profit
estimate for the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets to $2.40 a
share from $3.40.  Ixia (XXIA)   plunged 20 percent to $10.45. The provider
of test equipment for high-speed networks said second-quarter
profit was 8 cents a share at most because of lower-than-
expected revenue from the Asia Pacific region and from certain
large equipment makers. Analysts had forecast a profit of 16
cents a share, according to the average of six estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  KKR & Co. (KKR US): The buyout firm got permission from the
European Union to buy German phone and Internet company Versatel
AG.  SemiLEDs Corp. (LEDS US) tumbled 15 percent to $5.30. The
manufacturer of light emitting diode chips in Hsinchu,  Taiwan ,
projected a fourth-quarter loss of at least 23 cents a share.
Analysts had estimated a loss of 4 cents a share on average.  WD-40 Co. (WDFC)   dropped 2.8 percent to $40.50. The San
Diego-based maker of lubricants and hand soap posted third-
quarter earnings of 47 cents a share, missing the 52 cent
average of four estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  : JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised
its nine-month price estimate for the owner of the Wynn and
Encore casinos to $174 from $158.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 