-- 
Malaysia to Block Roads in Bid to Stop Protesters Demanding Fair Election

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-07-08T10:02:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/malaysia-to-block-roads-in-bid-to-stop-protesters-demanding-fair-elections.html
Major roads into Malaysia’s capital
city will be  closed  and buses diverted tomorrow when a group
campaigning for fair elections plans to defy a government ban on
staging a protest rally in  Kuala Lumpur , the police said.  “Anything that is under and within the powers of the
police will be used depending on the circumstances,” Home
Minister Hishammuddin Hussein told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
today. This includes potentially using the Internal Security Act
or Emergency Ordinance which allow for detention without trial,
he said.  The lockdown comes after Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
cabinet ordered that a rally planned by the Coalition for Clean
and Fair Elections tomorrow must be held in a stadium outside of
the city. The lobby group, also known as  Bersih , still plans to
hold its rally in Kuala Lumpur’s Merdeka Stadium, its steering
committee said in an e-mailed statement today.  Merdeka Stadium has historical significance, having been
erected for Malaysia’s declaration of independence in 1957. More
than 300,000 people may attend this weekend’s assembly,
opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  told reporters on July 6.  Major roads into Kuala Lumpur will be shut from midnight
tonight until 10 p.m. tomorrow, Assistant Superintendent Zaiham
Mohd Kahar said in an interview today. “Only people with
reasons or business will be allowed to enter the city,” he said.
This is “to avoid traffic congestion in the city and any
untoward incidents.”  Organizers Barred  Police  obtained court orders yesterday barring 91 people,
including leaders of three separate planned protests, from
entering the capital tomorrow, the Malaysian Insider reported,
citing city police chief Amar Singh. The people named in the
court order included Bersih Chairman Ambiga Sreenevasan, as well
as the heads of two Malay rights groups which have threatened to
hold rival rallies.  “There is no reason whatsoever to ban anyone from entering
the city,” Bersih said. “This constitutes an unwarranted
denial of their freedom of movement.”  The coalition, comprising more than 60 non-governmental
organizations, agreed to cancel planned street demonstrations
and move their protest into a stadium after  Malaysia ’s King
intervened to express concern over potential harm to the country.  Bersih wants electoral changes, such as lengthening
campaign periods to at least 21 days and using indelible ink on
fingers to prevent people from voting more than once.  Elections Loom  Najib needs to call elections within two years. The
Election Commission is looking into extending the campaign
period and plans to use biometric fingerprinting instead of
indelible ink, Election Commission Chairman Abdul Aziz Mohd
Yusof said in a television interview with TV3 and Bernama on
July 2. Foreign observers may also be invited, he said.  More than 230 activists have been arrested over the past
two weeks with six people remaining in custody, police public
relations officer Ramli Mohamed Yoosuf told reporters. This has
drawn criticism from groups including  Amnesty International  and
 Human Rights Watch .  Similar protests by Bersih seeking changes to the electoral
system in 2007 drew 40,000 people in the capital of Kuala Lumpur
and water cannons were used to disperse crowds.  The U.S. Embassy issued an advisory today urging its
citizens to stay away. “Even demonstrations that are meant to
be peaceful can become violent and unpredictable,” it said.
“You should avoid them if at all possible.”  Rival Rallies  Two Malay rights groups have threatened rival rallies
should Bersih go ahead with street protests tomorrow, Perkasa
and UMNO Youth, which is an arm of Najib’s ruling party, the
United Malays Nasional Organisation. The authorities rejected
applications to use stadiums within Kuala Lumpur by all three
groups, Hishamuddin said.  Bersih’s rally should be held in a stadium outside of Kuala
Lumpur, Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said yesterday.
It should take up an offer by the chief minister of Selangor
state, which is controlled by Anwar’s People’s Alliance
coalition, to hold its rally in a stadium there, he said.  No temporary bus permits will be granted to ferry
protestors into the city today and tomorrow, the Land Public
Transport Commission said. Extra buses are only allowed in Kuala
Lumpur during festive seasons, commission Chairman Syed Hamid
Albar said in an interview today.  -- Editors: Barry Porter,  Patrick Harrington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Putrajaya at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 