-- 
Malaysia Breaks Ground on $16 Billion Mass Transit Rail Project

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-07-08T04:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/malaysia-breaks-ground-on-16-billion-mass-transit-rail-project.html
Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak
broke ground today on the country’s biggest infrastructure
project, a 48 billion-ringgit ($16 billion) mass rail network
aimed at easing traffic congestion in  Kuala Lumpur  and boosting
economic growth.  The 156-kilometer (97-mile) railway will carry 2 million
passengers a day with the first line scheduled for completion in
2016, the government said in a report last year. The project is
part of a nationwide $444 billion private sector-led investment
program being championed by Najib’s government to help the
Southeast Asian nation meet its long-term aim of achieving high-
income nation status by 2020.  “This much needed transport infrastructure is set to
provide long-term benefits to the nation’s economy and the
public in general,” Najib said in a speech today. Tendering and
procurement “will be open and transparent.”  The government will own the railway through Syarikat
Prasarana Negara Bhd., with  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM)  and MMC Corp., the
Malaysian builders that first proposed the railway, acting as
joint master planners. The first 51-kilometer line will have 31
stations running north to south through the center of Kuala
Lumpur from Sungai Buloh to Kajang, Syarikat Prasarana said in a
statement today.  Groundbreaking “should assure investors that execution is
on track,” Sharizan Rosely, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank
Bhd., wrote in a report yesterday. “We expect contract awards
for the MRT and other projects to be catalysts for the building
sector.”  Property Boost  The rail system should boost real estate values near
stations, spur tourism and economic growth, Syarikat Prasarana
said on its website.  The project will create 130,000 new jobs and contribute as
much as 4 billion ringgit annually to gross national income
until 2020, the prime minister said.  “We expect new projects along these lines amounting to 15
billion ringgit to be built in 10 years,” said Najib. “We
expect a 20 percent increase in value of both commercial
and residential properties along this line from Sungai Buloh to
Kajang.”  The  construction industry  is gearing up for a “super-
cycle,” Danny Goh, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote
in a report on May 25.  Financing for the project will come entirely from state
funds, Syarikat Prasarana said today.  The government plans to sell as much as 30 billion ringgit
of local-currency Islamic bonds to help finance the scheme, said
an official on April 12, who couldn’t be identified as the
information was confidential. Domestic sources, including the
Employees Provident Fund, could subscribe, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  