-- 
Talk of U.S. Social Security Cuts Meets Bipartisan Opposition in Congress

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/talk-of-u-s-social-security-cuts-meets-bipartisan-opposition-in-congress.html
A proposal to cut Social Security
costs and raise tax revenue by changing the way the government
measures inflation ran into opposition from Democrats and
Republicans.  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers, searching for ways to
reduce the deficit, are discussing using an alternative
yardstick for gauging inflation to calculate annual cost-of-
living adjustments for millions of Americans, according to
congressional aides.  The idea of switching to the “chained  consumer price
index ” has been endorsed by economists, who say the current
inflation measure exaggerates how much prices increase. Yet it’s
unpopular with many lawmakers because it could mean cutting
Social Security by $112 billion over 10 years while increasing
taxes by $60 billion, according to estimates by the
 Congressional Budget Office  and the Joint Committee on Taxation.  “We are not going to balance the budget on the backs of
America’s seniors,” House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
California said yesterday. Negotiators should “not consider
Social Security a piggy bank for giving tax cuts to the
wealthiest people in this country.”  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee, expressed concern that the change
would amount to a tax increase because the tax code is adjusted
for inflation.  “I’m not for raising taxes under any circumstances,” he
said. “We’re taxed enough.”  Still ‘Far Apart’  Obama met yesterday with congressional leaders to try to
hash out a deficit-reduction plan that would ease passage of a
debt-limit increase before Aug. 2, the date when the  U.S.
Treasury  says its borrowing authority will reach its limit.  The president called the meeting “constructive,” though
he said the two sides remain “far apart on a wide range of
issues.” He said aides would work through the weekend and
lawmakers would reconvene July 10 so “the parties will at least
know where each other’s bottom lines are and will hopefully be
in a position to then start engaging in the hard bargaining
that’s necessary.”  Representative Xavier Becerra, speaking yesterday on C-
Span, said the chained index idea may be a negotiating tactic.  Obama “has tried many ways to get our Republican
colleagues to come to some middle ground and hasn’t succeeded,”
said Becerra, a California Democrat who opposes any benefit
cuts. “I suspect he’s saying, ‘Look, I’ll put everything on the
table, let’s see what sticks.”  ‘Zero Appetite’  Representative Jared Polis, a Colorado Democrat, said
“there is zero appetite in the Democratic caucus for looking at
entitlement programs unless there is substantial revenue on the
table.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  downplayed the
significance of any changes in Social Security, saying in a
statement: “The president has always said that while Social
Security is not a major driver of the deficit, we do need to
strengthen the program.” He said Obama wants to work with both
parties to do that “in a balanced way that preserves the
promise of the program and doesn’t slash benefits.”  The idea of altering the measure of inflation -- discussed
in a series of debt talks led by Vice President Joe Biden and in
separate meetings of a bipartisan group of senators known as the
Gang of Six -- resurfaced this week during a meeting between
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and House Democrats,
according to a congressional aide. Democrats pressed Geithner on
the issue and he didn’t rule it out, according to the aide.  Overstating Price Gains  Social Security and other government benefits, as well as
much of the  tax code , are automatically adjusted for inflation
so Americans don’t fall behind as prices rise. Economists say
the government’s inflation measure overstates how quickly prices
increase, which means it’s paying too much for annual cost-of-
living gains while collecting too little tax revenue. Advocates
say the chained CPI measure would be a more accurate gauge.  “I don’t see how anybody can argue against having accurate
formulas,” said Senator Mike Crapo, an Idaho Republican who was
a member of the Gang of Six.  Democratic Representative  Jan Schakowsky  of  Illinois  said
the current inflation measure already understates cost-of-living
increases facing older Americans because they spend more on
medical care. “Seniors get the double whammy -- higher health-
care costs and deeper benefit cuts,” she said.  Some Democrats Open  The leaders of the  Congressional Progressive Caucus  lined
up against the idea yesterday, sending a letter to Obama
demanding Social Security be put off limits, while AFL-CIO
President  Richard Trumka  announced his labor federation’s
opposition.  Still, some Democrats said they were open to the idea.  “There is an appetite in the country among all groups to
stop the practice of having our children pay our bills,”
Representative Robert Andrews of  New Jersey  told reporters
yesterday. “There is a realization that we can’t achieve that
objective without real sacrifice by a lot of people, that there
is some small group of elites that can pick up the whole tab.”  Representative Tim Walz of  Minnesota  called the talk about
the chained CPI “a positive sign” that Obama “sees it as an
opportunity for a grand compromise, one that actually would do
what we all want to do, bring some type of stability.”  “It caused a lot of angst” among House Democrats, he told
reporters. Still, Walz said he “would like to think there’s a
fairly large number of us that would be willing to look” at the
idea.  Surveying Shoppers  Inflation is a general rise in the price of goods and
services, and the government measures it by surveying thousands
of Americans on what they buy and where they shop.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics each month sends 400 price
collectors to 26,000 locations in 87 cities to record the prices
of breakfast cereal, bus tickets, haircuts, toys, funerals,
dental fillings, jewelry and 80,000 other products and services.
It uses that information to devise a basket of goods the typical
family buys each month in order to track prices.  There is a “pretty widely held” consensus among
economists that the bureau’s methodology exaggerates inflation
because it doesn’t fully account for the way individuals respond
to rising prices, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  Overestimating Inflation  It accounts for those who buy cheaper varieties of wine or
steak when those prices rise, though not for those who opt
instead for beer or chicken. That means it overestimates
inflation, which leads to cost-of-living increases for Social
Security beneficiaries, veterans and federal retirees that are
bigger than necessary to maintain their purchasing power. It
also affects the number of Americans who qualify for  food stamps 
and other aid with eligibility criteria tied to federal poverty
guidelines.  In addition, it means that the thresholds at which higher
income tax rates begin to apply to individual taxpayers rise
faster than necessary to prevent so-called “bracket creep,”
which means less  tax revenue  pouring into the Treasury.  The chained index accounts for the belt-tightening chicken
eaters and beer drinkers. Over the past decade, the alternative
index has grown more slowly than the current inflation measure
by an average 0.3 percentage points a year, the CBO says.  “It’s a no-brainer,” said  Marc Goldwein , former associate
director of the administration’s  deficit commission . “We’re
measuring inflation wrong now, and it’s obvious we should
measure it right -- especially if it’s going to reduce the
deficit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  