-- 
Ambac Says Reorganization Plan Rests on July 29 Deadline

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-08T21:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ambac-says-reorganization-plan-rests-on-july-29-deadline-1-.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, provided
details on the potential outcomes of its Chapter 11 case, saying
its reorganization rests on reaching a settlement with Wisconsin
regulators by July 29.  Ambac could exchange its debt for stock in a new company,
or “deconsolidate,” breaking away from its operating unit,
depending on whether a settlement is reached, according to a
filing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . On July 6,
Ambac filed a loosely outlined plan, without an agreement with
the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance, the Wisconsin
regulator overseeing the wind-down of the company’s failed bond
insurer, Ambac Assurance Corp.  Since Ambac Financial filed for Chapter 11 protection in
November, it has clashed with constituents, including its
operating unit, over who gets $7.3 billion in net operating
losses to use for tax benefits. The  Internal Revenue Service  has
challenged tax claims by both companies.  “There is a risk that the IRS dispute may (i) not be
resolved in the debtor’s favor, (ii) substantially deplete the
debtor’s cash, and/or (iii) delay consummation of the plan,”
lawyers for Ambac wrote.  Today’s so-called disclosure statement provides details on
the two paths the company might go down. It doesn’t estimate
what recoveries for unsecured or secured creditors would be.  Net Operating Losses  Under its proposed settlement plan, Ambac Assurance would
get $4 billion in net operating losses to offset income for tax
purposes. So-called NOLs are valuable because they let taxpayers
offset income. The NOLs would be available to the operating unit
in exchange for cash payments of $60 million paid when the
company exits bankruptcy and on the first through to the fourth
anniversary of that date, according to court papers.  The plan estimates an equity value for a reorganized Ambac
Financial at $750 million.  New stock and warrants would go to general unsecured
creditors and holders of $1.25 billion in notes. If those
noteholders accept the plan, holders of $444.2 million in
subordinated notes would get 1.5 percent of the stock plus
warrants, according to the July 6 filing.  Those terms are only possible if the plan is under way by
July 29, Ambac said today.  ‘Deconsolidation’ Option  Under the “deconsolidation” option, Ambac said that it
would transfer more than 20 percent of its stock in the
operating unit to a limited liability company, named AFG Prime,
or another third party, causing the loss of any tax benefit from
the NOLs. It would then give the maximum amount of its operating
unit’s NOLs for itself, or take a loss from its holding of the
operating unit’s stock, to the “maximum extent permitted,” by
the tax law and the  U.S. Treasury , Ambac said.  Ambac Financial could convert to a Chapter 7 and liquidate
if Wisconsin regulators agree to neither option, the company
said. In the event of a deconsolidation, it will also direct
lawsuits against its operating unit to a trust, and provide
“broad releases of the debtor, the reorganized debtor, the
board of directors and board committees of the debtor,” and all
officers and directors from lawsuits.  Ambac Assurance, an operating unit of New York-based Ambac
Financial, was the second-largest bond insurer before the 2008
financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages swamped
the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256 billion of
$1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to Bloomberg
data.  Ambac Financial filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in
November, listing assets of $90.7 million and liabilities
totaling more than $1.6 billion, virtually all unsecured.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABK) , 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  