-- 
Manchester City Said to Earn $480 Million in 10-Year Etihad Stadium Pact

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-08T16:46:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/manchester-city-said-to-earn-300-million-pounds-in-10-year-etihad-pact.html
English soccer club Manchester City
will earn more than 300 million pounds ($480 million) in a 10-
year sponsorship agreement with  Etihad Airways , according to a
person familiar with the situation.  The contract with Abu Dhabi’s government-owned airline
calls for the English Premier League team’s playing facility to
be renamed Etihad Stadium, and the airline will also back City’s
plans to develop land around the site. Other sponsorships,
including an extension of the team jersey contract will push the
value past 300 million pounds, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the terms haven’t been made public.  Garry Cook, City’s chief executive officer, and Etihad CEO
John Hogan declined to reveal the price of the contract at a
press conference in Manchester.  City bought about 80 acres around its east Manchester
stadium for development. It’s hoping to relocate its training
ground there and build facilities including a sports-science
campus. Etihad will put its name on the new development,
increasing the revenue the team can use to reduce its losses to
meet new European soccer rules on fiscal responsibility, the
person said.  The amount dwarfs agreements made by other soccer clubs.
Arsenal’s shirt and stadium contract with Etihad’s rival
airline, Dubai-based Emirates, is worth 100 million pounds over
15 years. City’s contract is also worth 10 million pounds a
season more than the 80-million pound, four-season contracts
 Manchester United  and Liverpool have with AON Corp. and Standard
Chartered Plc.  ‘Progress’  “There’s no surprises the backdrop of course is  UEFA ’s
financial fair play this helps to continue to make significant
progress in that area,” Cook said.  European soccer’s governing body UEFA has told clubs they
face being banned from its  Champions League  and Europa League
competitions from 2014 if costs consistently exceed revenue.  General Secretary Gianni Infantino said the Nyon,
Switzerland-based organization will monitor sponsorship deals to
ensure agreements are based on fair value and not used by clubs
with wealthy backers to circumvent its rules. Manchester City,
which last won the English championship in 1968, was bought by
billion Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan in 2008. He’s a
member of the Abu Dhabi ruling family.  “There’s real value in that partnership,” Cook said. “It
would be very fair to say this is a real deal. Financial fair
play isn’t the driver, commercial growth is the driver.”  $1 Billion  Mansour has spent almost $1 billion since acquiring City in
September 2008. He’s bought international players including
 Carlos Tevez  and  David Silva  in an effort to win trophies and
outpace rival cross-town rival Manchester United, which last
season won a record 19th English championship. City qualified
for the Champions League and won the F.A. Cup last season, its
first major trophy since 1976.  City’s accounts for the year ended May 31, 2010, show it
lost 121.3 million pounds, 31 percent more than a year earlier.  City has been acquiring land around its stadium through a
subsidiary created by its owners. Once the developments are
finished Etihad-branded facilities may be visible from the sky,
said the person with knowledge of the accord.  City is leaving this weekend for a tour of the U.S. It will
arrive on a club-branded Airbus plane, which is part of Etihad’s
fleet.  The team, which finished third in the Premier League last
season, said revenue from sponsors and partners increased to
32.4 million pounds after contracts with Abu Dhabi-based
companies including telecommunication company Etisalat, Aaabar
Investments PJSC, the  Abu Dhabi  Tourism Authority and Etihad.
Cook conceded most of the deals are with companies from there.  Hogan said the sponsorship would be funded directly by
Etihad and not a cash infusion from its wealthy owner.  Responsible  “We’re a standalone business, owned by the Emirate,” said
the executive, whose company also sponsors a stadium in
 Melbourne ,  Australia . “But we are responsible for our own
commercial activities. So the funding of this deal is by Etihad.
It’s a long-term deal, a 10-year deal, the structure is totally
different to the types of deals we’ve done in the past.”  Etihad doesn’t disclose its sponsorship spending in its
financial reports.  City moved to the City of Manchester stadium from its Maine
Road ground in 2003. It recently re-negotiated with  Manchester
City  Council to allow it to sell naming rights.  Council leader Richard Leese said today that his
organization will receive about 20 million pounds over the next
five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  