-- 
Manhattan Apartment Rents Jump 7% as Landlord Deals a Thing of the Past

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-07-08T14:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/manhattan-apartment-rents-jump-7-as-landlords-end-concessions.html
Manhattan  apartment rents climbed 7
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier as landlords
emboldened by low vacancy rates cut concessions and tested how
far they could push price increases.  Median effective rents, what tenants pay after landlord-
sponsored incentives are calculated, rose to $2,888 a month from
$2,700 a year earlier, according to a report today by appraiser
 Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker  Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate . The number of new leases surged 52 percent to 8,572.  A stagnant sales market is leading to tighter rental supply
and greater competition for apartments, encouraging landlords to
raise rents in the busiest leasing season. The average price per
square foot for a Manhattan apartment jumped 12 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, meaning that tenants who
boosted their budgets by that much found that they couldn’t get
more space than they already had, according to  Jonathan Miller ,
president of New York-based Miller Samuel.  “A significant portion of those gains are because the
landlord is not as worried about tenant retention and vacancy,
Miller said. “There is no category that you can say that rents
are cheaper than last year. It’s just not happening.”  Landlords saw almost no need to offer concessions such as
free rent to lure tenants in the second quarter. Incentives were
included in about 3.4 percent of deals signed, compared with 60
percent a year earlier, Miller Samuel and Prudential said.  Buyers Limited  “General economic conditions here are improving very
slowly,” Miller said. ”Tight credit conditions are keeping
buyers out of the market.”  Sales of Manhattan co-ops and condos declined 3.8 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier to 2,650,  Miller
Samuel  and Prudential said on July 1. The median price of
apartments that sold dropped 5.5 percent to $850,000.  New York City ’s jobless rate was at a 25-month low of 8.6
percent in May, unchanged from the previous month and down 1
percent from a year earlier, the state Department of Labor said
on June 16. The city’s financial industry showed a net gain of
10,400 jobs in the 12 months through May.  “It’s very sobering for tenants,” said Gary Malin,
president of brokerage  Citi Habitats , which also released a
rental market report today.  ‘Delusion’ for Renters  “They have the delusion that because the economy has yet
to truly rebound, they think that market conditions here are
still weak,” Malin said. “They expect to get the type of deal
their friend or family member got when they moved here 18 to 24
months ago, and those deals are a thing of the past.”  Manhattan’s apartment vacancy rate fell to 0.72 percent in
the three months ended June 30, according to Citi Habitats, the
lowest for a quarter since the firm began tracking the measure
in 2002. The rate was 0.97 percent a year earlier. Nationwide,
the vacancy rate was 6 percent, the lowest in more than three
years, while effective rents rose in 80 of 82 surveyed
metropolitan areas,  Reis Inc.  said in a report yesterday.  Ryan Kutscher, 32, witnessed the New York rental market’s
change through his two apartment searches in one year’s time.
Last year, he began his hunt a week before relocating to
Manhattan from Boulder,  Colorado , and secured a $2,500 one-
bedroom in the Nolita neighborhood after one day of looking.  Kutscher decided to upgrade this year from his 400-square-
foot (37-square-meter) walk-up, where his outstretched hands
could touch both walls and the bedroom was so small that there
was no room to stand and make the bed. He figured an increase in
his rental budget by $1,000 would get him a more luxurious unit,
then discovered otherwise after starting his search.  Changing Requirements  “What I was willing to pay started to go up and where I
was willing to live changed,” said Kutscher, who works in
advertising as a freelance copywriter and creative director. He
increased his budget and expanded his search from Nolita and
Soho to include the downtown areas of the Lower East Side,
Gramercy, the East Village and the  West Village .  Kutscher saw about 20 apartments in a month with multiple
outings with a broker. He lost one to another would-be tenant,
after completing the paperwork and agreeing to the price.  “I was seeing places that weren’t even listed and then
they were gone at the end of the day,” he said.  His final stop was  95 Christopher St.  in the West Village,
where he found a renovated one-bedroom listed for $4,500. His
broker,  Alex Heydt  of Citi Habitats, suggested they complete the
paperwork before heading out to lunch.  Competing Bids  While waiting in line at Shake Shack, a burger joint in
Madison Square Park, Heydt got a call from the building’s
management company. Two other would-be tenants applied for the
apartment, and Kutscher needed to submit a “best offer.”  Kutscher ultimately agreed to pay $4,600 for the unit, and
moved in July 1.  “The owners aren’t being so flexible and they’re getting
away with it because the apartments are renting so fast,” Heydt
said. “Until their vacancies start to build up or they’re not
getting the rents they’re asking for, they’re going to keep
hiking up the price.”  Apartments listed for rent spent an average of 33 days on
the market, down from 53 days in the second quarter of 2010,
according to Miller Samuel and Prudential. The number of
apartments available for rent fell 11 percent to 4,427 units.  Fewer Concessions  Eleven percent of landlords offered some form of
concessions in June, compared with 28 percent in the same month
last year, according to Citi Habitats, which based its report on
the more than 3,000 transactions the firm’s brokers handled in
the second quarter.  For landlords who still offered concessions, those deal
sweeteners declined to about 1.2 months of free rent on average
in the second quarter, from 2 months a year ago, according to
Miller Samuel and Prudential. The average concession was worth
about $347 a month in savings to the tenant, compared with $618
a month last year, Miller said.  Soho and Tribeca had the lowest vacancy rates and commanded
the highest average rents in the quarter, according to Citi
Habitats. Studios in those neighborhoods averaged $2,420 a
month, while one-bedrooms rented for about $3,454, said the
brokerage, whose data don’t include concessions. The
neighborhood’s vacancy rate was 0.37 percent.  The  Upper East Side  and the Upper West Side had the highest
vacancy rates, at 1 percent each, Citi Habitats data show.
Studios on the Upper East Side averaged $1,781, and one-bedrooms
rented for about $2,320. Two bedrooms averaged $3,528 and three-
bedrooms leased for an average of $5,915.  Across Manhattan, rents at buildings with doormen started
at an average of $2,420 a month for studios and climbed as high
as $6,489 for three-bedroom units, Citi Habitats said. Studios
at buildings without elevators rented at an average of $1,826 in
the quarter, while one-bedrooms in those properties leased for
an average of $2,476.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  