-- 
Anil Ambani Said to Discuss Selling Road, Power, Subway Stakes to Cut Debt

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 
2011-07-08T07:26:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/anil-ambani-said-to-discuss-selling-road-power-subway-stakes-to-cut-debt.html
Billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  is in talks to sell stakes in its power
transmission business, road and subway projects, said two people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Mumbai-based company’s board hasn’t taken a final
decision on the sale, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because they’re not authorized to discuss the matter.
Reliance Power Transmission Ltd. is a wholly-owned unit of
 Reliance Infrastructure , according to the company’s website.  The Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group, which controls
Reliance Infrastructure, is selling stakes in assets to pare
debt in companies including its flagship  Reliance Communications
Ltd. (RCOM)  The mobile-phone company, which has 320 billion rupees
($7.2 billion) of  net debt , is in talks to sell its tower
business, three people with knowledge of the matter said on June
7. Reliance Infrastructure has 166 billion rupees of debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If they get tie-ups with foreign investors, it’s
positive,” said K.K. Mital,  fund manager  with Globe Capital
Market Ltd. in New Delhi. “It’s difficult to raise money for
infrastructure projects in  India .”  Reliance Infrastructure operates 11 road projects with an
estimated total cost of 117 billion rupees, according to its
 website . The company’s unit is building 66.2 billion rupees of
power transmission projects, according to the website.  Ravi Muthreja, a spokesman at the Mumbai-based company said
the company doesn’t comment on “speculative news.”  Phone Towers, Insurance  Reliance Infrastructure’s shares, which have declined 29
percent this year, erased losses to advance 1.4 percent to 597.6
rupees at 12:53 p.m. in Mumbai. Reliance Communications has
declined 32 percent this year making it the worst performing
stock in the benchmark Sensex Index.  In a  presentation  to investors in May, Reliance
Infrastructure said three of its road projects had started to
generate revenue and seven more start this year.  Reliance Infrastructure will also consider bringing in
investors for subway projects in Mumbai and  New Delhi , one of
the people said. It’s building the Mumbai Metro Line I project
at an estimated cost of 25 billion rupees and the Mumbai Metro
Line II, projected to cost 110 billion rupees, according to its
website.  The company has also built the 24.5-billion rupee Delhi
Airport Metro Express Link project. Reliance Infrastructure
holds a 95 percent stake in Delhi Airport Express Link Ltd. and
owns 69 percent of Mumbai Metro Line I and 49 percent of Mumbai
Metro Line II.  Highway Projects  India will award 550 billion rupees of highway construction
projects this year, J.N. Singh, finance chief of  National
Highways Authority of India , said this week. The 7,300 kilometer
(4,536 miles) project includes new expressways as well as
widening of existing roads through the year ending March 31.  Reliance Communications is in talks with TPG Capital,
 Carlyle Group ,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Apax Partners LLP to sell
its Reliance Infratel tower business, the people said.  Nippon Life Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s biggest life insurer,
agreed to buy a 26 percent stake in Reliance Life Insurance Co.
for 30.6 billion rupees, according to a joint statement from the
companies on March 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  