-- 
Aniston’s Raunchy Dentist Sprays Pants; Sad ‘Zookeeper’: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/aniston-s-raunchy-dentist-sprays-pants-sad-zookeeper-movies.html
Who knew  Jennifer Aniston  had such a
filthy mouth?  America’s perky sweetheart plays a raunchy dentist who
talks like a phone-sex operator in “ Horrible Bosses ,” a sure-
to-offend comedy about three beleaguered buddies who plot to
kill their hated supervisors.  Jason Bateman , Jason Sudeikis and Charlie Day form a funny
trio as the would-be assassins, but the biggest laughs come from
their wacky targets -- Aniston,  Kevin Spacey  as a ladder-
climbing control freak and Colin Farrell as an obnoxious
cokehead who inherits his dad’s company.  Not to mention Jamie Foxx’s jive-talking con man, who
charges the conspirators $5,000 for murder tips they could have
gotten for free from “ Law & Order .”  All the characters are over-the-top and the jokes range
from silly to sick, but that’s clearly the intention of director
Seth Gordon and screenwriters Michael Markowitz, John Francis
Daley and Jonathan Goldstein. “Horrible Bosses” is a farce,
not a film noir.  Anyone who’s ever dreamed of killing his boss can surely
relate to the frustrations of Nick (Bateman), Dale (Day) and
Kurt (Sudeikis).  Nick’s sales boss at Comnidyne Industries busts his chops
for being two minutes late to work and denies him a deserved
promotion so he can pocket the extra salary.  Bad Comb-Over  After the beloved owner of the chemical company where he
works dies, accountant Kurt finds himself taking orders from
young heir Bobby (Farrell), a party boy with a ridiculous comb-
over and no qualms about poisoning people with toxic waste.  Meanwhile, dental assistant Dale is harassed by Aniston’s
sex-crazed Dr. Harris, who exposes her breasts in the office,
sprays water on his crotch and takes advantage of him while he’s
under sedation.  Fed up, the three amigos hire MF Jones (Foxx) as their
“murder consultant” and come up with a twisted plan to
eliminate their bosses. Of course, everything goes haywire,
including spilling a mound of cocaine and getting caught
speeding while fleeing a murder scene.  When Nick tells cops he was drag racing in his Prius,
they’re incredulous.  “I don’t win a lot,” he deadpans.  “Horrible Bosses,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Zookeeper’  People often seek romantic advice from friends, family or
Dr. Phil. Griffin Keyes takes pointers from animals.  Griffin, played by teddy-bearish  Kevin James , is the title
character in “ Zookeeper ,” a juvenile comedy about a lovesick
loser who gets tips about courting from talking animals at his
Boston zoo.  The consultants include a gruff monkey (voiced by Adam Sandler), a lonely gorilla (Nick Nolte), a wise-cracking
elephant ( Judd Apatow ), a pair of bickering grizzly bears (Jon Favreau, Faizon Love) and a lion ( Sylvester Stallone ) who feels
henpecked by his lioness (Cher).  They teach Griffin how to strut his stuff and win back his
gorgeous ex-girlfriend Stephanie (Leslie Bibb), who dumped him
right after he proposed to her on the beach, accompanied by
fireworks and a mariachi band.  Griffin ends up changing jobs (he becomes a slick luxury-
car salesman) and his image to woo Stephanie, but soon regrets
it and realizes he’s better off with his zoo’s sweet
veterinarian Kate (Rosario Dawson).  Frank Coraci, who directed the  Adam Sandler  hits “The
Wedding Singer” and “The Water Boy,” makes “Zookeeper” as
cute and sugary as a kid’s cereal. If you like Fruit Loops, this
movie is for you.  “Zookeeper,” from  Columbia Pictures , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 