-- 
Arizona Medical Pot Offices Stand Empty After Brewer Sues Feds

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/arizona-medical-pot-offices-stand-empty-after-brewer-sues-feds.html
When self-described serial
entrepreneur Ian Christensen looks around the white-walled
medical office he plans to lease in Paradise Valley,  Arizona , he
sees opportunity. Now all he needs is some pot.  Like hundreds of other would-be marijuana moguls,
Christensen courted investors, hired attorneys, negotiated
leases, cleared zoning hurdles, purchased equipment and sank
tens of thousands of dollars into plans to pioneer an  industry 
Arizona voters created by referendum in November.  Then Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican who opposed the
initiative, sued the federal government and would-be dispensary
operators in a case that may have implications in  California  and
the 14 other U.S. states that have authorized medical pot. She
wants a federal judge in Phoenix to decide whether the state can
implement the law without its workers facing federal charges or
whether U.S. law trumps the statute entirely.  “They put the dispensaries out of business before we ever
started,” Christensen said last week as he toured the office.  Like other supporters, he cited the monetary boost and jobs
a new industry could bring to the state, whose unemployment rate
has been above 9 percent for more than two years. The Arizona
Medical Marijuana Association, a defendant in Brewer’s lawsuit,
estimates a medical-pot industry would generate as much as $700
million annually, according to Joe Yuhas, a spokesman.  “We want to stimulate the local economy,” said
Christensen, a 34-year-old Scottsdale resident.  Gregoire, Christie  Brewer filed suit May 27 because she shares the concerns
of other governors, including New Jersey’s  Chris Christie  and
Washington’s Christine Gregoire, that government employees might
face federal prosecution for carrying out state law, said her
spokesman, Matthew Benson.  Christie, a Republican,  said last month  he would delay New
Jersey’s medical-marijuana law until getting clarification from
U.S. authorities. The sale and possession of pot is illegal
under federal law, even for medical use.  Medical marijuana has existed in a legal gray area since
California became the first state to authorize it 15 years ago,
its precarious nature punctuated by occasional federal raids and
prosecutions. In 2009, President  Barack Obama ’s Justice
Department outlined its position in a memo to U.S. attorneys
that said federal resources shouldn’t be spent prosecuting
people complying with state medical-marijuana laws.  Risk of Prosecution  Since then, more states and localities have moved to
regulate the medical-marijuana industry and license those who
cultivate or sell it, raising questions about how the federal
government would treat commercial enterprises legal under state
law.  In April, Gregoire, a Democrat, sought federal guidance
when trying to decide whether to sign a bill to create a
licensing system in  Washington , which legalized medical
marijuana in 1998. Washington’s U.S. attorneys responded that
anyone who ran or facilitated marijuana dispensaries or
cultivation sites risked prosecution -- including state
employees. Gregoire  vetoed  the measure.  Similar letters from U.S. attorneys to officials in other
states followed, including from Arizona’s U.S. attorney, Dennis K. Burke. His May 2 letter to health officials didn’t mention
government employees. Burke has “no intention to investigate,
target or prosecute state employees,” he said in an interview
last week.  Brewer and state Attorney General Tom Horne filed their
lawsuit five days before licensing of dispensaries was set to
start. Arizonans approved the  pot referendum  by 50.1 percent to
49.9 percent, a margin of fewer than 5,000 votes.  Federal ‘Doublespeak’  Two weeks after Brewer filed her suit, Christie, who had
requested guidance from the federal government in April, cited
the same reason when he announced he would continue to delay
implementation of  New Jersey ’s medical-marijuana law that was to
start this month.  A Justice Department memo sent June 29 to federal
prosecutors was aimed at clarifying the situation. Those who
grow, sell or distribute marijuana or “facilitate” those
activities -- even if they are legal under state law -- risk
prosecution, wrote Deputy U.S. Attorney General James M. Cole.  Brewer, 66, criticized the memo in a statement for offering
only “continued confusion and doublespeak.” She and Horne said
it makes Arizona’s case even more important.  “They knew we were concerned about government employees,
and they chose not to give us reassurance,” Horne said in a
telephone interview July 1.  New Jersey officials are reviewing the  Justice Department 
memo and haven’t decided how to proceed, said Paul Loriquet, a
spokesman for Attorney General Paula Dow.  ‘Significant Ruling’  The  American Civil Liberties Union , which is defending the
Arizona Medical Marijuana Association in the case, asked the
court yesterday to dismiss Brewer’s lawsuit. Among other
arguments, the ACLU said states shouldn’t be able to challenge
the legality of their own laws in federal court.  “It will be a significant ruling that will affect how
medical-marijuana laws are implemented and how they may or may
not be challenged in the future,” said Scott Michelman, an ACLU
staff attorney.  Brewer’s suit left the state that was about to have one of
the most tightly regulated medical-marijuana systems in the
country facing a patchwork future of home-growing, caregivers
and “clubs” instead. Would-be dispensary owners have sued in
state court to force her to move forward with licensing. In the
meantime, they wait, give up or adapt.  Grow Your Own  Marla Richards, publisher of a marijuana trade magazine
called “Clinical Cannabis Today,” said she thought a plan to
open at least five dispensaries was a safe retirement
investment. Now Richards, 46, of Scottsdale, Arizona, said she
worries about wasting the $85,000 in savings she’s spent and
losing real-estate agreements she’s secured.  Tripp Keber, 43, of Colorado-based  Dixie Elixirs and
Edibles , has scrapped plans to open a marijuana food factory in
Phoenix that would have had more than a dozen full-time
employees to start. He said he put many hours and tens of
thousands of dollars into researching the Arizona market.  Ingrid Joiya, 55, whose company invested more than a
quarter-million dollars to develop vending-machine technology
for a chain of cashless dispensaries, is looking for a loophole.  The North Phoenix resident said she decided to invest in
Arizona’s dispensary system because the state did it right:
Dispensaries were to be regulated, capped at 125 and subject to
strict local zoning rules. Residents couldn’t grow their own pot
if they lived within 25 miles of a dispensary.  Pot Clubs  Without dispensaries, patients and designated caregivers
can grow their own pot without being subject to the same
regulations. More than 6,500 patients have received medical-
marijuana cards since the program started in April, according to
 Health Department statistics , with 75 percent indicating they
planned to grow their own.  Unregulated caregiver clubs are opening to fill the void
created by the Brewer suit. Caregivers, who are designated by
patients to grow pot for them, are allowed to cultivate as many
as 12 plants per patient, with a limit of five patients.  Joiya is working on a new plan to open her pot shops with
marijuana from caregivers.  “We financially committed to these things, to put money in
an economy in a state that desperately needs it,” she said. “I
think it is a nightmare, an absolute nightmare and a travesty.
Voters voted on this, and the governor is trying to stop it
under a ruse.”  The case is Arizona v.  United States of America , 11-01072,
U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
acrawford24@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 