-- 
Arsenal’s Samir Nasri Ready to Play Out Contract, Guardian Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-08T06:09:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/arsenal-s-samir-nasri-ready-to-play-out-contract-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Waiting Game  Samir Nasri is content to see out the final year of his
Arsenal contract if the Gunners don’t receive a big enough offer
to tempt manager  Arsene Wenger  into selling the French
midfielder, the Guardian  reported .  Arsenal, which risks Nasri leaving as a free agent next
year, already dismissed an opening offer from Manchester United
said to be about 20 million pounds ($32 million), reinforcing
the view at Old Trafford that Wenger won’t sell to any of
Arsenal’s Premier League rivals, the Guardian said.  Replacement Wanted  Wenger wants Nasri’s replacement in place before he
considers letting the Frenchman leave, the  Daily Mail   reported .  Valencia midfielder Juan Mata is one of the top targets and
the Gunners have already opened discussions with the Spanish
club about a possible 21 million-pound deal, the Mail said.  On the Outer  Emmanuel Adebayor consulted lawyers about bringing a case
for constructive dismissal against  Manchester City  after the
Togolese striker was ostracized from the first-team squad along
with at least six teammates, the Sun  reported .  Adebayor said he received an e-mail telling him to report
for pre-season training on July 9, the day after the first team
is scheduled to leave for a tour of the U.S., the Sun added.  “It’s clear they don’t want me here but no one even
called,” the newspaper cited Adebayor as saying. “And I heard
this was the same with at least six other players.”  Modric Confusion  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said midfielder Luka Modric has been unsettled by the interest shown in him by clubs
in the Premier League’s top five, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .
Modric was told two days ago by Spurs chairman Daniel Levy that
he wouldn’t be allowed to leave, the newspaper said.  “The kid is a bit confused at the moment and it’s not been
easy for him,” the Telegraph cited Redknapp as saying. “I’d be
telling you lies if I said he’s happy and he doesn’t want to go
and play for whoever wants him. But he signed a contract here,
we love him here and we want him here.”  Fabregas Impasse  Arsenal and Barcelona hit an impasse in negotiations for
the transfer of Cesc Fabregas because of an argument over
compensation payments for two of the Catalan club’s academy
players, the Daily Telegraph  reported .  Jon Toral and Hector Bellerin will join Arsenal from
Barcelona’s academy and the European champion claims that its
offer for Fabregas should take into account its valuations for
the two players, the newspaper added.  Leicester Lifeline  Leicester City offered Owen Hargreaves the chance to
resurrect his career if the 30-year-old midfielder can prove his
fitness, the Mail  reported .  Leicester manager Sven-Goran Eriksson, Hargreaves’s former
coach with the England national team, invited him to join the
Championship club, the Mail said. Hargreaves is a free agent
after being released by  Manchester United , where injuries
restricted him to 39 appearances, the newspaper added.  Away From Anfield  Liverpool is ready to quit Anfield for a new stadium and
will need to sell naming rights to the ground to finance the
move, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Fenway Sports Group, the club’s owner, is under pressure to
make a decision quickly with planning rights only extended until
September, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  