-- 
Asian Stocks Gain for Third Week on Economy, Easing Europe Worry

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-09T01:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/asian-stocks-gain-for-third-week-on-economy-easing-europe-worry.html
Asian stocks rose for a third week as
exporters and energy producers gained amid easing concern over
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the U.S. economic slowdown and after
 China  raised interest rates, boosting the outlook for the
country’s insurers.  Sony Corp., Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, advanced 3.9 percent in  Tokyo .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
the world’s largest carmaker, rose 3.3 percent. HSBC Holdings
Plc, Europe’s biggest lender by market value, gained 1.6 percent
in  Hong Kong . Ping An Insurance Co., China’s No. 2 insurer by
market value, climbed 2.4 percent on speculation higher interest
rates in the country will boost the company’s investment income.  “The Greek debt plans and better U.S. data have helped
markets to recover from their downbeat mood,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $150 billion. “It’s increased the appetite for risk among
investors looking for further signs of recovery in the global
economy.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2.1 percent to 138.39,
driving the regional benchmark index to its longest streak of
weekly advance since April. The gauge extended its rally for a
third week as European Union leaders hammer out details of
proposals to rollover Greek debt to help prevent Greece from
defaulting and after reports showed retail sales in the U.S.
increased in June, employers hired more workers last month and
claims for unemployment benefits declined.  Thai, Japan Stocks Rally  The Bangkok SET Index jumped 4.5 percent, the most among
the region’s benchmark gauges, after Yingluck Shinawatra, the
sister of an exiled former Thai leader, led the Pheu Thai party,
in winning a majority seats in parliament, lessening the risk of
a military intervention.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average increased 2.7 percent to
become the world’s best performing developed market benchmark
index in the last month. South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 2.6
percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 1.4 percent.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.5 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.4 percent.  Global stocks also advanced as Greece moved closer to
averting a default. Germany revived on July 6 a proposal for a
debt swap to lengthen Greek bond maturities as  Charles Dallara ,
managing director of the Institute of International Finance,
recommended buybacks of outstanding Greek securities.  ‘Changing Environment’  “The investment environment is changing as concerns ease
about a U.S. economic slowdown and Greek debt,” said Takero Inaizumi, head of equity research in Tokyo at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co.  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of the PlayStation gaming consoles
and Bravia televisions, gained 3.9 percent to 2,207 yen. Toyota,
which gets 27 percent of sales from  North America , rose 3.3
percent to 3,445 yen.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., increased 4.4 percent to HK$14.82 in Hong Kong.
 Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the Hong Kong-based clothier that counts
Europe as its largest market, climbed 3.3 percent to HK$25.  HSBC Holdings advanced 1.6 percent to HK$78.25.  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s third-biggest bank by market value,
rose 2.2 percent.  China’s biggest insurers advanced on speculation earnings
will be boosted after the central bank raised benchmark  interest
rates  for the third time this year to tame inflation in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy. Ping An gained 2.4
percent to HK$82.30. Bigger rival China Life Insurance Co.
climbed 3.4 percent to HK$27.50.  ‘Marked Cooling’  “We’ve seen a marked cooling in China’s growth recently
and the next reading on inflation should mark a peak,” said
Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management
globally. “That suggests that we’re coming close to the end of
China’s tightening cycle.”  China may limit interest-rate increases for the rest of
this year as Premier Wen Jiabao bets that a slowing economy will
help tame inflation. A quarter-point boost to one-year lending
and deposit rates announced July 6 may be the last for 2011,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  China’s inflation rate accelerated to a three-year high of
6.4 percent in June, exceeding economists’ estimates and the
government’s full-year target, a report from the statistics
bureau said today. Consumer prices had risen 5.5 percent in May.  Oil, Metals  Raw material producers advanced after crude oil and metal
futures gained for a second week.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, increased 2.7 percent to A$44.95 in
Sydney. Smaller rival Rio Tinto Group gained 1.8 percent to
A$84.35.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil and gas
producer, rose 1.9 percent to HK$18.50 in Hong Kong.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the Japanese utility at the
center of the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years, jumped 25
percent to 411 yen in Tokyo, the most among stocks in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index. The country’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said he didn’t know anything about a possible government
proposal to split up the power company and nationalize nuclear
power operations.  Among stocks that fell,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and
 Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  declined this week after Temasek Holdings Pte,
Singapore’s state-owned investment company, said July 6 it
raised HK$28.2 billion ($3.6 billion) selling stakes in the two
Chinese lenders.  China Construction Bank, the nation’s second-biggest lender
by market value, fell 2.3 percent and smaller rival Bank of
China, dropped 1.6 percent to HK$3.73. Temasek sold about HK$9.4
billion of China Construction Bank’s shares and HK$18.8 billion
of Bank of China stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 