-- 
Stocks, Commodities Sink, Treasuries Rally on Slowing Job Growth

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-08T19:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/asia-stocks-won-gain-before-u-s-data-japan-bond-risk-crude-oil-decline.html
Stocks sank, erasing most of a weekly
gain for U.S. benchmark indexes, commodities slid and Treasuries
jumped as slower-than-forecast job growth spurred concern the
economic recovery is in jeopardy. The euro weakened and Italian
bonds fell amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1 percent to 1,339.79
at 2:56 p.m. in New York, leaving it little changed for the
week. Oil tumbled 2.5 percent to $96.20 a barrel, helping drag
the S&P GSCI Index of commodities to a 0.8 percent drop even as
gold extended its biggest weekly advance since 2009 amid demand
for haven assets. Five-year Treasury yields decreased as much as
18 basis points to 1.54 percent, the biggest intraday drop in 14
months. The euro depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.4245.  The  S&P 500  retreated from within 0.8 percent of a three-
year high after U.S. payrolls increased by 18,000 in June, about
one-sixth the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, and the jobless rate rose to a 2011 high of 9.2
percent. The report damped optimism about prospects for profit
growth before the earnings season starts next week.  “It means that we’re still a ways off from getting to
where we should be,”  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman
and chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Betty Liu on the “In the Loop” program. “How fast the
recovery will come, I don’t know. I see nothing that indicates
any kind of a double dip,” or relapse into a recession. “I
would bet very heavily against that.”  Earnings Season  Bank of America Corp., General Electric Co. and Home Depot
Inc. lost at least 1.8 percent to lead declines in 27 of 30
stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which slid 101.75
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,617.74.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  sank 2.9
percent after Morgan Stanley cut the shares to “equal weight”
and said the search-engine company’s spending on social media
and other initiatives have an uncertain return on investment.  Losses in companies reliant on economic growth today
represented a reversal from the past three weeks. The Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index tracking manufacturers, commodity
producers and transportation stocks rose 10 percent between June
16 and yesterday, beating the Morgan Stanley Consumer Index of
drugmakers and grocers by 6.6 percentage points. Amid concern
the debt crisis in European nations including Greece would slow
global growth, the consumer index outperformed the cyclical
index by 9.7 points between Feb. 17 and June 16.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, will start
the second-quarter earnings season on July 11. Profits at S&P
500 companies are projected to have gained 13 percent in the
second quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Growth at that rate would mark the smallest increase
in two years, as companies from Ford Motor Co. to McDonald’s
Corp. struggled with rising oil and commodity prices and a
slowdown in  consumer confidence .  Energy and raw-material producers are forecast to post
earnings growth in excess of 40 percent, leading the increase
among 10 industries. Industrial and technology company earnings
are projected to have the next-highest growth at 13 percent
each, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  The absence of stronger job growth has spurred concern
consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy,
may slow and threaten the outlook for profits. The second-
quarter slowdown in hiring underscores a recovery that  Federal
Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said is “frustratingly slow.”  ‘Complete Whiff’  “The report is exceedingly disappointing,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion. “It
fell short of just about everyone’s expectations and it
certainly has to disappoint equity investors. It wasn’t just a
miss, it was a complete whiff.”  The data revived speculation that the Federal Reserve will
plan more stimulus efforts to bolster growth after its second
round of so-called quantitative easing, known as QE2 among
investors, ended in June.  “This raises the prospect of QE3 in the U.S. by November
and perhaps even earlier than that in the U.K.,” said  David Blanchflower , an economics professor at  Dartmouth College , in a
Bloomberg TV interview. “That’s what we’re going to see. How
else are you going to stimulate?”  Treasuries extended a weekly rally driven earlier by
concern that  Europe ’s government debt crisis will worsen. Ten-
year Treasury yields sank 13 basis points to 3.01 percent, while
30-year yields lost nine basis points to 4.28 percent.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, rose 0.3 percent to 75.181. The yen strengthened against
15 of 16 major peers and the Swiss franc appreciated versus all
16 amid increased demand for currencies considered to be a
refuge in a weakening economy.  Commodities Retreat  Oil, cocoa and zinc lost more than 2.3 percent to lead
declines in the S&P GSCI Index. Gold futures for August delivery
rose 0.8 percent to $1,543.50 an ounce on the Comex in New York.
This week, the price has gained 4.1 percent.  Bank stocks led declines in Europe, with  Italy ’s UniCredit
SpA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Banco Popolare SC dropping more
than 4.5 percent. The Stoxx 600 Banks Index slipped 2.3 percent
for the biggest decline among 19 industries, extending losses
after the U.S. jobs data.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday governments may put financial stability at risk if
they ignore his advice to avert even a partial default of
 Greece .  EU Stress Tests  Banks that fail this year’s round of European Union stress
tests may need to present plans for making up their capital
shortfall by the end of September, according to an internal EU
document.  Responding to the market turbulence,  Bank of Italy  Governor
 Mario Draghi  said he’s certain the country’s lenders will pass
European stress tests by a “significant” margin. The austerity
measures approved by the government led by Prime Minister  Silvio
Berlusconi  make balancing the country’s budget in 2014 a
“realistic” goal, he said in a statement.  Italian bonds dropped for the fifth day and the extra yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of benchmark
German bunds rose to 2.44 percentage points, the highest since
before the euro was introduced in 1999. Greek 10-year yields
advanced 17 basis points to 16.86 percent, with similar-maturity
Irish and Spanish yields also climbing.  The Markit iTraxx SovX gauge for governments in western
Europe climbed 13.8 basis points to 260. Credit-default swaps on
Italy increased 29 basis points to 246.56, the highest since
January, and  Portugal ’s rose 28.8 basis points to a record
1,017.1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  