-- 
AT&T Joins Verizon in Web-Piracy Fight to Preempt U.S. Crackdown

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/at-t-joins-verizon-in-web-piracy-fight-to-preempt-u-s-crackdown.html
A voluntary agreement by Internet-
service providers to admonish subscribers who appear to be using
pirated movies and music may stave off stiffer U.S. enforcement
of intellectual-property rights.  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
are among Internet providers that vowed yesterday to send as
many as six electronic alerts to customers whose accounts are
suspected of illegally downloading or distributing content. The
program, aimed at file-sharing networks that circulate pirated
material, was unveiled jointly with film and music industry
groups.  The alert system is part of an effort to curb digital
piracy of movies, music and software, which cost businesses from
$30 billion to $75 billion in 2008 in the Group of 20 leading
global economies, according to a February report commissioned by
the  International Chamber of Commerce  from Frontier Economics, a
London-based consulting firm.  “They probably hope that by coming up with this voluntary
arrangement they can prevent legislation in this area,”
Jonathan Band, a Washington-based copyright attorney, said in an
interview. “I could see the ISPs saying, ‘OK, if this buys us a
few months or a year of quiet, it’s worth it.’”  The agreement coincides with efforts by the Obama
administration and U.S. lawmakers to combat online piracy. In
March, the White House issued 20 recommendations that included
tougher penalties for stealing intellectual property. Members of
Congress are developing legislation to expand the government’s
ability to pursue websites that sell pirated content.  Reduced Internet Speeds  The copyright alert system “will have a significant impact
on reducing online piracy” and is “consistent” with White
House efforts to promote voluntary industry enforcement,
Victoria Espinel, the U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement
Coordinator, wrote in a White House blog  post  yesterday. She
said the administration will continue to pursue “increased  law
enforcement  and educational awareness” around Internet piracy.  The Internet-service providers’ alert system outlines
possible consequences for customers who are repeatedly warned
about content theft, including reduced Internet speeds.
Providers may also limit Web access until the subscriber in
question reviews “educational information” about copyright.  Verizon General Counsel Randal Milch said the program is
“designed to notify and educate customers, not to penalize
them” and is aimed at informing customers about copyright laws
and encouraging them to obtain content from “the many legal
sources that exist.”  ‘Propaganda Machines’  The  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a San Francisco-based
digital-rights group, is concerned that “ISPs have agreed to
serve as propaganda machines for big media” under the program,
Corynne McSherry, the group’s intellectual property director,
said in an interview.  Copyright information contained in the customer alerts may
be “skewed toward a draconian view of how copyright law works”
and not inform people about the “fair use” doctrine allowing
use of copyrighted works for limited purposes, McSherry said.  Internet subscribers can pay $35 to request an independent
review before any restrictions are imposed on their accounts,
according to the program. The filing fee may be waived by the
reviewer.  “This broad industry effort builds on existing agreements
with several copyright owners to forward their notices of
alleged infringement to ISP subscribers,” Milch said in a
statement. Other participants include Time Warner Cable and
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)   Funnel Profits  The  program  is backed by media and entertainment industry
groups including the  Motion Picture Association  of America, the
Recording Industry Association of America, and the  National
Cable & Telecommunications Association .  “This agreement will help direct consumers to legal
platforms rather than illicit sites, which often funnel profits
to criminals rather than the artists and technicians whose hard
work makes movies, television, and music possible,”  Michael O’Leary , executive vice president for government relations at
the  Motion Picture Association of America , said in a statement.  Illegal streaming of movies represents a growing threat to
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , which rents licensed movies and TV programs to
subscribers, David Hyman, the company’s general counsel, said in
a May 30 letter to the House subcommittee on intellectual
property, competition and the Internet.  “Theft of copyrighted content, euphemistically called
‘piracy,’ threatens our business,” Hyman said in the letter.
“It’s hard to compete against free.”  Google Concerns  The Senate Judiciary Committee approved a bill May 26
targeting so-called “rogue” websites, which sell or distribute
illegally copied music, movies and consumer products. The
measure would allow the U.S. attorney general to seek court
orders requiring U.S.-based Internet-service providers to block
access to infringing sites, among other things.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, has said he would
use a procedural move to block the “rogue” website measure
from reaching a vote in the full Senate.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest search engine, has said it
has “real concerns” about provisions of the “rogue website”
bill, known as the Protect IP act, including the impact that
blocking websites would have on free expression. Yahoo Inc.,
 EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  have also objected
to aspects of the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  