-- 
AT&T, Sony/ATV, Watson Pharmaceuticals, Apple, CBGB: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-08T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/at-t-sony-atv-watson-pharmaceuticals-apple-cbgb-intellectual-property.html
Internet-service providers including
 AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
promised to take a more active role in fighting online piracy in
an agreement with the entertainment industry announced
yesterday.  The ISPs, which also include Time Warner Cable and
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , will send as many as six electronic
alerts to customers whose accounts are allegedly being used to
download or distribute illegal movies, television shows or
music, according to a news release.  Customers who receive repeated alerts may have their
Internet speed temporarily reduced, or have their Web access
restricted until they discuss the matter with their Internet-
service provider or review “educational” information about
copyright, according to a fact sheet about the program.  Internet subscribers can request an independent review
before any restrictions are imposed under the agreement. The
system is aimed at pirated music, movies and other content
shared through online peer-to-peer networks.  The program, a voluntary set of industry best practices, is
backed by trade groups representing the entertainment and media
industries, including the Motion Picture Association of America,
the Recording Industry Association of America, and the National
Cable & Telecommunications Association.  The Senate Judiciary Committee approved a bill May 26
targeting so-called “rogue” websites, which sell or distribute
illegally copied music, movies and consumer products. The
measure would allow the U.S. attorney general to seek court
orders requiring U.S.-based Internet-service providers to block
access to infringing sites, among other things.  The committee on June 16 approved a measure that would make
illegal video streaming a felony offense in some cases. Obama
administration officials also have backed the idea of making
illegal video streaming a felony.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based
digital-rights group, is concerned that “ISPs have agreed to
serve as propaganda machines for big media” under the program,
Corynne McSherry, the group’s intellectual property director,
said in an interview.  Copyright information contained in the customer alerts may
be “skewed toward draconian view of how copyright law works”
and not inform people about the “fair use” doctrine allowing
use of copyrighted works for limited purposes, McSherry said.  Singapore  ‘Fun Pack Song’ May Run Afoul of Gaga Copyright  Organizers of Singapore’s National Day Parade are
negotiating with Sony/ATV Music Publishing and Universal Music
Group after they modified lyrics to one of Lady Gaga’s songs for
the celebration, the Jakarta Globe reported.  They wrote substitute lyrics for Gaga’s “Bad Romance,”
according to the newspaper. The chairman of the National Day
Parade performance segment said his group is trying to secure
rights to modify the lyrics, the newspaper reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Watson Wins Ruling Over Reckitt’s Patent Claims on Mucinex  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  won an appeals court ruling
that clears a hurdle in the company’s effort to sell a generic
version of  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ’s Mucinex cough medicine.  Watson’s version of the drug wouldn’t infringe a patent
owned by Reckitt, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington  said yesterday. The court upheld a trial
judge’s ruling, saying Reckitt’s patent requires multiple layers
of the sustained-release formula for Mucinex tablets, while
Watson’s version is made with a single layer.  Watson still needs U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval to sell a copy of Mucinex, Mucinex D and Mucinex DM.
The medicines generated about $500 million in U.S. sales last
year for Slough, England-based Reckitt, Watson said in February,
citing researcher IMS Health Inc.  “We’re pleased with the decision and are awaiting final
approval from the FDA,” said Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson.  The active ingredient in Mucinex, guaifenesin, has been on
the market since 1952. The Reckitt patent is for an extended
release formula of the chemical compound. Reckitt got Mucinex as
part of its 2008 purchase of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc.  The case is Reckitt Benckiser Inc. v. Watson Laboratories
Inc.  Florida , 2011-1231, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Reckitt Benckiser
Inc. v. Watson Laboratories Inc., 09cv60609, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of Florida (Ft. Lauderdale).  Mosaid Sues Sony Ericsson, HTC Over Phone Location Patents  Mosaid Technologies Inc. (MSD) , the Canadian semiconductor
designer, sued Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications (USA) and HTC
America Inc. in federal court in Delaware yesterday alleging
infringement of three U.S. patents for portable-telephone
location technology.  In dispute are patents 5,650,770, 6,518,889 and 6,198,390.
Mosaid acquired them from Hawthorne Heights LLC of San Diego in
April, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Hawthorne Heights acquired the patents from Zoltar
Satellite Alarm Systems Inc. of Mill Valley,  California , in
March 2010. Zoltar sued Motorola Inc., LG Electronics and nine
other telecom-related companies for infringing those patents in
June 2005 in federal court in Marshall,  Texas .  The dispute was transferred to federal court in San Jose,
California, in January 2006, and closed in February 2009.
Neither Ericsson nor HTC was a defendant in that case.  That case was Zoltar Alarm Systems Inc., v. Motorola Inc,
5:06-00044-JW, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  After that case closed, Zoltar said in September 2009  it
was auctioning  the patents that were at issue.  The new case is Mosaid Technologies Inc., v. Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications USA Inc., 1:11-cv-00598-UNA, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Denied Court Order to Stop Amazon.com ‘Appstore’ Use  A federal judge turned down  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s attempt to stop
Amazon.com Inc. from using the phrase “Appstore” to sell
software applications for mobile devices.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton denied Apple’s motion
for a preliminary injunction in the trademark-infringement case,
according to a filing July 6 in U.S. District Court in Oakland,
California. Apple said it has used the term “ App Store ” for
three years and Amazon’s use of “Appstore” would confuse
consumers.  “The court finds that Apple has not established likelihood
of success as to the infringement claims,” Hamilton wrote.
“Apple has not established a likelihood of confusion.” The
case will continue in federal court.  Apple, in a lawsuit filed in March, said Amazon began
seeking software developers last September for its proposed
mobile software download service, called the Amazon Appstore
Developer Program. The service now offers almost 4,000
applications, according to court papers. Apple said it began
selling applications for mobile devices in 2008 and had filed to
register “App Store” with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  “We’ve asked Amazon not to copy the App Store name because
it will confuse and mislead customers,” Kristin Huguet, a
spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said in a
statement on the telephone.  Amazon argued that App Store is generic and can’t be
protected by trademark law.  A call to Seattle-based Amazon’s media line wasn’t
immediately returned.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , 11-1327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  CBGB Founder’s Estate to Auction Brand Tied to N.Y. Punk Club  The CBGB brand will be sold by the estate of Hillel
“Hilly” Kristal, founder of the New York rock & roll club that
launched the Ramones and other punk acts.  Kristal died in 2007 at the age of 75.  Streambank LLC was hired to sell intellectual property
rights related to the CBGB brand, the bank said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. The assets include trademarks, domain names,
recordings and artifacts from the club, which closed in 2006.  The brand still resonates worldwide and could be used for
new opportunities in live clubs, apparel and interactive media,
Streambank said. The acronym stands for “Country Blue Grass
Blues.”  “We’re expecting it to trade well in excess of a couple
million,” said Jack Hazan, a principal in Needham,
Massachusetts-based Streambank, which specializes in intangible
asset transactions.  The club closed after it lost its lease, Hazan said.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  McCarthy Fingar Hires Transactional IP Specialist David Menken  McCarthy Fingar LLP  hired David A. Menken for its
intellectual property, commercial finance, real estate and
corporate and general business transactions group, the White
Plains, New York-based firm said in a  statement .  Menken  was previously a member of  Menken & Weingarden PLLC ,
also of White Plains.  He has mainly represented clients from  India  and Western
Europe on issues including trade secrets and information
technology. Menken has an undergraduate degree from Johns
Hopkins University and a law degree from New York University.  Morgan Lewis Brings Jones Day’s Brett Lovejoy to IP Practice  Morgan Lewis LLP hired Brett A. Lovejoy for its
intellectual-property practice, the Philadelphia-based firm said
in a  statement .  Lovejoy  joins from Washington’s Jones Day. He does
litigation and transactional work for clients in the life
sciences and information-technology industries, with an emphasis
on genomics, diagnostics and personalized medicine.  He has assisted clients in patent acquisition in the areas
of computer-implemented technology, software, renewable energy,
diagnostics, medical devices, chemistry, biochemistry and
novelty products.  Before he was a lawyer, Lovejoy was a researcher at a unit
of  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and also at the company now known as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from the
 University of California  at Santa Cruz, a doctorate in molecular
biology from the University of California at  Los Angeles , and a
law degree from Santa Clara University.  Obituary  Federal Circuit Judge Daniel Mortimer Friedman Dies at 95  Judge Daniel Mortimer Friedman , who was the last of the
original members of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, died July 6 at the age of 95.  In a  statement  posted on that court’s website, Chief Judge
Randall R. Rader called Friedman “one of the grandest and best
judges ever to grace this court.”  Before he was on the bench, Friedman served as an attorney
for the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1942 to 1951. He
then moved to the U.S. Justice Department, where he worked in
the Antitrust Division.  In 1959, he joined the Office of the Solicitor General,
serving as an assistant solicitor and first deputy solicitor
from 1959 to 1978. He twice served as acting solicitor general
and argued 80 cases at the Supreme Court.  Friedman was named to the Court of Claims by President
Jimmy Carter in March 1978 and served as chief judge until 1982.
When the Court of Claims merged with the Court of Customs and
Patent Appeals to create the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, he served there from 1982 until he took senior status
in 1989.  Afterward, he continued to serve that court and other
federal benches by assignment until his death.  According to  the
Patently O blog, Friedman’s last patent opinion was released in
January.  During his judicial career, he wrote more than 470 opinions
for the Federal Circuit, more than 70 for the Court of Claims,
and another 160 opinions while sitting by designation in other
circuit courts.  He had an undergraduate and a law degree from Columbia
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 