-- 
Bank of Ireland to Raise $2.7 Billion in Share Sale to Meet Capital Target

-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-08T20:25:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/bank-of-ireland-to-raise-2-7-billion-in-share-sale-to-meet-capital-target.html
Bank of Ireland Plc said it plans to
raise 1.91 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in a share sale, as the
nation’s largest lender seeks to raise capital and avoid state
control.  Holders of about 79 percent of eligible securities,
excluding some Canadian and British notes, agreed to swap their
securities for equity or cash at a discount, the Dublin-based
lender said today in an e-mailed statement. The bank said the
exchange will raise at least 2 billion euros of capital.  Bank of Ireland must raise 5.2 billion euros to shore up
its balance sheet against mounting bad loan losses and meet
regulatory capital targets. Already 36 percent state-owned, the
lender has been seeking to raise money from private investors to
avoid becoming the last domestic lender to fall under state
control. The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher, must raise the bulk of the capital by the end of this
month.  If Bank of Ireland succeeds in raising some of the 5.2
billion euros demanded by regulators from investors, it will be
the only Irish bank to raise money from money managers since the
financial crisis of 2008.  The government has committed to underwriting the bank’s
rights offering at 10 cents per share. The shares were unchanged
at 12 euro cents in Dublin trading today.  Depending on how many existing shareholders buy new stock
in the share sale, the government may own between 29 percent and
70 percent of the lender, Bank of Ireland said.  Private-Equity Attempts  Bank of Ireland also said that attempts to raise funds from
private-equity companies haven’t succeeded.  “The bank has had extensive discussions with a number of
private-equity firms and has received proposals for material
investments in the bank,” the lender said. “As at the date of
this announcement these proposals, which had certain conditions,
have not been brought to a successful conclusion.”  The Irish Central Bank also extended until Dec. 31 the
bank’s deadline to raise a further 510 million euros, according
to the statement. The government and the bank expect to raise
this in part through “further burden sharing with
bondholders,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Louisa Fahy in Washington at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  