-- 
Becton Gets Mixed Patent Ruling in Retractable Syringe Case

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-08T20:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/becton-gets-mixed-patent-ruling-in-retractable-syringe-case-1-.html
Becton, Dickinson & Co. won a partial
appeal of a $5 million patent-infringement verdict that favored
 Retractable Technologies Inc. (RVP)  on technology used to protect
health-care workers from accidental needle sticks.  Becton’s 3-milliliter Integra syringe doesn’t violate
Retractable’s patents, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington  said in a  decision  today that reverses
part of a 2009 jury verdict. The court upheld the remaining
portion of the jury’s finding, that  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-
based Becton’s 1-milliliter Integra product does infringe.  Becton no longer sells the smaller syringe “so there is no
impact to our customers,” said Liz Ryan Sax, a spokeswoman for
the company. Little Elm, Texas-based Retractable sued in June
2007, claiming Becton used its innovations without permission.
The patents cover Retractable’s VanishPoint-brand syringes,
which contain spring-loaded needles, according to the complaint.  Retractable said the finding will help the company in an
antitrust case against Becton that is scheduled for trial in
January. Retractable in that case has accused Becton of using a
combination of tactics to unlawfully “suppress Retractable’s
success in the market,” according to court documents.  “BD used Retractable Technology’s own patented technology
to maintain their monopoly in the syringe market,” Roy Hardin,
a lawyer for Retractable at Locke Lord in  Dallas , said today.
“If you’re monopolist in a marketplace, there are certain
things you can’t do.”  One-Piece Structure  In the patent case, the federal jury in Marshall,  Texas ,
found that both syringes infringed Retractable’s patents, and
awarded $5 million as compensation. U.S. District Judge David Folsom later told Becton to stop using the technology, an order
that was put on hold pending outcome of the appeal.  Retractable’s product has a feature in which pushing the
plunger after the injection is complete releases the needle
holder from a retaining ring so that it retracts back into the
syringe body without coming into contact with a health worker,
court papers show.  In finding the 3-milliliter Integra doesn’t infringe two
Retractable patents, the Federal Circuit said the inventions are
limited to a one-piece structure, while the Becton syringe has
multiple parts.  “I understand how a perfectly competent trial judge can be
persuaded by the siren song of litigation counsel to give the
jury wide scope regarding what is claimed,” Circuit Judge S. Jay Plager wrote. “But it is a song to which courts should turn
a deaf ear if patents are to serve the purposes for which they
exist, including the obligation to make full disclosure of what
is actually invented, and to claim that and nothing more.”  The case is Retractable Technologies Inc. v. Becton,
Dickinson & Co., 2010-1402, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Retractable Technologies Inc. v.  Becton Dickinson and Co. (BDX) ,
07cv00250, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  