-- 
Being Goldman Sachs’s Brains May Make Viniar Irreplaceable CFO

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-08T02:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/being-goldman-sachs-s-brains-may-make-cfo-viniar-irreplaceable-executive.html
David A. Viniar, the finance and
risk-management overseer who some investors deem more essential
to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  than Lloyd C. Blankfein, may not be
replaceable. At least not by one person.  The longest-serving chief financial officer of any major
Wall Street firm may find his multiple roles distributed among
two or even three deputies when he eventually steps down,
according to two people with knowledge of the firm’s internal
deliberations. While Viniar, 55, told an analyst in May that he
has no immediate plan to leave, he has held the CFO post since
March 1999, has amassed more than $254 million of Goldman Sachs
stock and has endured some of the most withering public scrutiny
the New York-based company has ever faced.  Investors are more concerned about Viniar’s eventual
successor than they are about replacing Blankfein, 56, the
chairman and chief executive officer since 2006, said Roger A. Freeman, an analyst at  Barclays Capital . Viniar has played a key
role in overseeing funding, risk, technology and relationships
with investors through Goldman Sachs’s May 1999 initial public
offering and the financial collapse of 2008.  “David’s the brains behind the operation -- the
institutional knowledge that guy has is just unmatched,” said
Freeman, who has a “neutral” rating on Goldman Sachs shares.
“It’s difficult to imagine that there are many people that can
juggle as many balls as he does seemingly effortlessly.”  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on what might happen to Viniar’s role.  Line of Succession  Some executives at the firm are skeptical that any single
successor would be as adept as Viniar in handling all those
functions, the people said. Viniar, who joined Goldman Sachs’s
investment-banking department in 1980, was promoted to CFO after
serving as deputy chief financial officer under then-CFO John A. Thain. Before that, Viniar oversaw the firm’s treasury and
controllers.  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Sarah Smith, a
British citizen who joined Goldman Sachs in 1996 from  KPMG LLP 
and has been a partner since 2002, is one of the leading
candidates to succeed Viniar, according to people familiar with
the matter. They spoke on condition of anonymity because
succession planning is private. Her duties include managing
about 1,500 controllers around the world who make sure the
firm’s business complies with financial and regulatory
requirements.  Looking for Clues  Another candidate is Treasurer Elizabeth “Liz” Beshel,
who joined in 1990 and was promoted to partner in 2006, the
people said. She is Viniar’s closest deputy and the person
trained by him to handle the firm’s financing and liquidity
needs. Beshel, 42, married  Samuel Robinson , a Goldman Sachs
managing director who works for Vice Chairman J. Michael Evans,
in June 2010.  “I’d definitely be looking to see who they put in front of
investors,” said Freeman, who hasn’t met either Beshel or
Smith. “It would be fair to assume they’re on the short list.”  Under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules, Smith
already qualifies as one of Goldman Sachs’s 12 “ executive
officers ” who are required to file reports with the SEC about
any stock purchases or sales. Beshel’s role doesn’t require her
to make similar filings.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, has
become much larger and more complicated while Viniar has been
finance chief. The firm, which went public two months after he
became CFO, has more than four times the assets it held at the
end of 1998 and has almost tripled its employees, according to
company filings.  New Status  The firm has also had to adapt to its 2008 conversion to a
 bank holding company , placing it under Federal Reserve
supervision, and is facing new regulations imposed by the Dodd-
Frank Act and  capital requirements  set by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision .  The CFO role at Goldman Sachs is already broader than at
some other companies. The entire administrative side of the firm
-- known as operations, technology and finance or by its
nickname “The Federation” -- all report to Viniar.  “When you think about both risk management and technology
rolling up to the same person, to me that seems like a strategic
advantage,” Freeman said. “If you split up his role into two
or three people, it would be essential -- for it to work the way
it has under David -- that the two or three people that replace
him have to work essentially as one person.”  Viniar played a role in Goldman Sachs’s decision to reduce
the size of its bets on subprime mortgages and related
derivatives in late 2006. While the move led politicians and
regulators to accuse the firm of misleading clients about the
risks in mortgage-related investments, it spared Goldman Sachs
from the losses suffered by competitors.  Clashing Views  “As always, the clients who bought our long positions or
other similar positions had a view that they were attractive
positions to purchase at the price they were offered,” Viniar
said in his April 27, 2010, testimony before the U.S. Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. “As with our own
views, their views sometimes proved to be correct and sometimes
incorrect.”  Documents released by the subcommittee showed that Viniar
convened a meeting with the mortgage department’s leaders on
Dec. 14, 2006, after learning that the group had lost money for
10 consecutive days. Viniar instructed the team to cut their
positions in mortgages and derivatives and to “be aggressive
distributing things,” according to  e-mails  released by the
committee.  Bigger Buffers  Viniar has said Goldman Sachs was better at managing risk
than competitors because it was more disciplined about marking
all of their holdings to market. He has also been a proponent of
requiring financial institutions to hold more cash or other
easy-to-sell investments and of making them keep more capital as
a buffer against potential losses in less-liquid assets. He said
in February that Goldman Sachs made the mistake of owning too
many hard-to-sell assets before the financial crisis.  “It was a good lesson learned,” he told investors at a
February conference sponsored by Credit Suisse Group AG. Goldman
Sachs’s problems stemmed from “our investing and buying more
illiquid assets than we probably should have.”  A Bronx native, Viniar graduated with an economics degree
from Schenectady, New York-based  Union College  in 1976 before
getting a master’s in business administration from  Harvard
Business School  four years later. His donations enabled Union
College to build the $3.2 million Viniar Athletic Center,
according to a 2005  article  on the college’s website.  Viniar’s Stake  Viniar owned 1,715,282 shares before the IPO, a company
filing showed, which were worth $120 million after the stock’s
first day of trading. As of March 7 this year, Viniar owned
1,887,329 shares, according to the firm’s  proxy . Those are worth
$254.8 million based on the July 7 closing price of $135.01.  Since 1999, Viniar received about $107 million in salary
and cash bonuses in addition to stock and options, company
filings show. He also received more than $30 million in
distributions from Goldman Sachs-managed funds, filings show.  “Mr. Viniar indicated the time for him to consider
retiring would not begin until a sense of calm has been restored
in the operating environment,” Jeffery Harte, an analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners, wrote in a note to investors on May
18 following a meeting with Viniar. “We sensed that his desire
to see Goldman through ongoing regulatory and market changes was
pervasive on the executive committee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 