-- 
Benefit Cuts Would Be Tough Sell for Democrats

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-09T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/benefit-cuts-would-be-tough-sell-for-democrats.html
Cutting benefits for entitlement
programs such as Social Security and Medicare in a deficit-
reduction deal between President  Barack Obama  and Republicans
would jeopardize Democratic support likely needed for House
approval, Democrats say.  Democratic lawmakers said House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, needs to heed their party’s concerns about
preserving Social Security and Medicare benefits to pass a
package that Republicans are demanding as a condition for
raising the government’s $14.3 trillion borrowing limit.  Obama plans to meet with congressional leaders from both
parties tomorrow. The session will help determine whether a
basis for agreement exists on a deficit-cutting plan of as much
as $4 trillion.  Republicans have insisted on no tax increases in the plan,
though some leaders have signaled a willingness to consider a
Democratic proposal to close some tax loopholes. A division
among Republicans, who control the House, would force Boehner to
rely on some Democratic votes to pass a deal in the chamber.  “As we continue to proceed down the path, the more it
seems the speaker is telegraphing that he doesn’t have the
votes, and he’s going to need the votes of the Democrats in the
minority to deliver on what he wants to do,” Representative
Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat, told reporters after a
House Democratic caucus yesterday in  Washington . “Don’t expect
that Democrats will support balancing a budget on the backs of
seniors and children and the disabled.”  ‘Very Strong’  House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, told
reporters his colleagues were “very strong that Social Security
beneficiaries not be hit in order to get any Democratic votes
for the results.”  The discussions among Obama and congressional leaders have
included a proposal to curb the growth of entitlement programs
through a change in the way the government measures inflation,
which would reduce future annual benefit increases. The
resistance from Democratic lawmakers to tampering with the
benefits adds another complication to prospects for a deal that
would lead to a debt-limit increase by Aug. 2, action the
Treasury Department says is needed to avert a default on the
nation’s financial obligations.  Boehner acknowledged the difficulties ahead even if a
deficit-reduction deal is reached with the White House.  ‘Rubik’s Cube’  “We’ve got to have a bill that can pass through the
House” and the Democratic-controlled Senate, he said yesterday.
“This is a Rubik’s Cube we haven’t quite worked out yet.”  Boehner also stressed that “serious disagreements” remain
among the negotiators. “We are this far apart,” he said,
spreading his arms wide in front of him as he spoke to
reporters.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California sought to
reassure fellow Democrats that the talks won’t result in benefit
cuts, even if cost savings in entitlement programs are obtained
through a new method of adjusting for inflation.  “There’s concern in my caucus about what would happen” in
such a case, Pelosi told reporters after the party meeting.  “Some think it would be a benefit cut, others do not,”
Pelosi said. “This falls into the category of the hypothetical
at the present time.”  ‘Overwhelming Unhappiness’  During the private caucus, there was “overwhelming
unhappiness” about the proposal to change the way the
government calculates benefit increases for Social Security,
said Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat.  With White House representatives in attendance along with
100 lawmakers, Pelosi “basically reassured the group that this
was not going to happen,” Frank told reporters.  The proposal, suggested earlier in the week by the
administration, would mean cutting Social Security by $112
billion over 10 years while increasing taxes by $60 billion,
according to estimates by the  Congressional Budget Office  and
the Joint Committee on Taxation.  Obama, in an interview yesterday with a television station
in  Seattle , said he wouldn’t accept a deal that “hurts current
beneficiaries in ways that are fundamentally unfair.”  While Obama didn’t comment about possible changes in the
calculation of future benefits, he said “anything that
strengthens Social Security and Medicare and makes sure that
it’s there for the next generation, I’m for.”  Unaffordable Programs  In an interview with a Raleigh,  North Carolina , station,
Obama said Democrats must agree that some domestic programs
aren’t affordable, and that “ones that we can afford like
Social Security and Medicare, we have to make sure are
sustainable for the next generation.”  Republicans, he said, must decide that “it doesn’t make
sense for us to have a  tax code  littered with loopholes” that
benefit the wealthy.  Representative Robert Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, said
that to get the 100 House votes from his party that he estimates
could be needed to pass a deal, Obama must “explain the
consequences for supporting and not supporting the deal.”  Winning that much Democratic support will be “very hard,”
Andrews said. Still, he said the president “transformed this
situation this week” by saying “a big deal is much better than
a little one,” and by being open to negotiate on entitlements.  Democratic Disenchantment  Some Democrats say they have become increasingly
disillusioned with Obama as the debt negotiations have unfolded.
They say he has been too willing to let Republicans dictate the
terms of the discussion, thus increasing the chance a final
product will skew too far toward large cuts in domestic spending
and entitlement benefits.  “A lot of us are just unimpressed,” Maryland
Representative Elijah Cummings said in an interview. “Maybe
it’s that I see the reality of this every day and he doesn’t.”  He said his Baltimore-area district continues to suffer
from joblessness, and that his constituents include many senior
citizens whose only income is their Social Security checks.  Cummings said that what he sees as a “lopsidedness” in
the deficit-reduction talks favoring Republican positions
doesn’t put Democrats “in the mood to vote for anything.”  Representative Jim McDermott, a Washington state Democrat,
told reporters that Obama “didn’t show me much” during
negotiations late last with Republicans that resulted in a two-
year extension of Bush-era tax cuts, including those for the
wealthiest Americans.  ‘Backing Up’  Now, McDermott said, “the guy is backing up, he’s throwing
stuff on the table” such as Social Security cuts. “You can’t
throw Social Security on the table” because “half the elderly
in this country are living on nothing but Social Security,”
McDermott said.  Andrews said he was optimistic about prospects for an
agreement because some Republicans backed off their opposition
to closing tax loopholes, which many equate with increasing
taxes.  “They no longer believe that getting rid of the ethanol
subsidy is a tax increase,” he said.  Representative Lynn Westmoreland, a Georgia Republican,
said tax breaks should “be looked at on a case-by-case basis”
to determine the economic consequences of eliminating them.  “If you look at closing some of those loopholes, sure it
would raise some revenue but how many jobs would we lose,” said
Westmoreland, whose district includes Savannah, where Gulfstream
Aerospace, a unit of General Dynamics Corp., makes private jets.  Westmoreland said he’d oppose Obama’s plan to eliminate the
tax break for corporate jets. He said he would favor eliminating
the tax subsidy for ethanol production.  A lawmaker’s attitude toward tax breaks “depends on what
state you’re from,” Westmoreland said in an interview.  Republican Fractures  Representative Jim Jordan, an Ohio Republican, took a
tougher position, illustrating the fractures within the
Republican caucus. In comments on C-SPAN’s Newsmakers, scheduled
to air tomorrow, he said he wouldn’t back a deficit-reduction
deal that included closing some tax loopholes in return for a
deadline for Congress to overhaul the tax code and lower rates.  He also said any agreement must include a cap on future
federal spending and a constitutional amendment requiring
balanced budgets. “We have an ultimatum: cut, cap and
balance,” he said.  Jordan heads the Republican Study Committee in the House, a
group whose members stress fiscal austerity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  