-- 
Berkshire Spends $4 Billion on Equities as Combs Adds Stocks

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-08T15:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/berkshire-spends-4-billion-on-equities-as-combs-adds-stocks-buffett-says.html
Warren Buffett  said his  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  spent about $4 billion acquiring stocks since
February as new portfolio manager Todd Combs added two holdings.  “We bought some equities that we probably spent $4 billion
on,” Buffett told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu on the “In
the Loop” program today, in an interview from  Sun Valley ,
 Idaho . “They’re in the space of common stocks.”  Buffett, 80, is overseeing changes in Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire’s portfolio after a switch in investment managers last
year. He’s also wagering on continued economic expansion, even
as the U.S.  unemployment rate  climbs. Buffett said he doesn’t
expect a second recession.  “I would bet very heavily against that,” Buffett. “How
fast the recovery will come, I don’t know. I see nothing that
indicates any kind of a double dip.”  Buffett’s firm bought  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  shares in the first
quarter, the only publicly disclosed addition to Berkshire’s
U.S. stock holdings. Berkshire applied to regulators for
confidential treatment in the period so he could delay
disclosure of some trades. Combs, 40, a former hedge-fund
manager, may add to the assets he oversees and doesn’t have to
check with Berkshire management before trading, Buffett said.  “He could be buying stocks as we talk,” Buffett said.
“He has designated a block of money, which he designated, and
he can increase or decrease that block at his call.”  Combs was assigned to initially manage $1 billion to
$3 billion, Buffett said in his most recent annual letter. Combs
will focus on equities and was permitted to invest in other
types of securities, according to the letter.  MasterCard  Berkshire’s MasterCard stake was valued at about
$54.4 million as of March 31. Combs oversaw stock in MasterCard,
the second-biggest consumer-payments network, at Castle Point
Capital Management LLC before joining Berkshire. Purchase, New
York-based MasterCard has gained about 40 percent this year in
New York trading as  consumer spending  advanced.  Berkshire said last year it was hiring Combs as the company
prepares for Buffett’s eventual departure. Buffett, who is chief
executive officer and chairman, oversees most of a stock
portfolio valued at more than $60 billion as of March 31. Lou Simpson, who made stock picks with funds at Berkshire’s Geico
unit, stepped down last year.  Buffett said Berkshire’s ability to fund takeovers has
diminished since February, when he told shareholders in his
annual letter that his “elephant gun has been reloaded, and my
trigger finger is itchy.” The $4 billion in stock purchases and
the $9 billion that Berkshire committed to the acquisition of
Lubrizol Corp. have reduced available cash.  “The gun doesn’t have quite as many bullets in it as it
did,” Buffett said. “But it rebuilds as it goes along.”  Berkshire had about $41.2 billion in cash as of March 31.
The company posted net income of $13 billion last year.  Coca-Cola, Wells Fargo  Berkshire is the top investor in  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the
world’s largest soft-drink maker,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest
U.S. home lender, and New York-based American Express Co., the
largest credit-card issuer by customer spending.  The unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent
in June, the highest level this year, and hiring by companies
was the weakest since May 2010, Labor Department data showed.
Berkshire added about 3,000 jobs last year after cutting more
than 20,000 positions in 2009.  Employment will gain “big time” when the housing industry
recovers, Buffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  