-- 
Bidvest Likely to List Foodservice Unit Abroad, Deutsche Securities Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-07-08T05:41:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/bidvest-likely-to-list-foodservice-unit-abroad-deutsche-securities-says.html
Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , a South African
holding company with businesses from catering to cosmetics, will
probably list its Foodservice unit in a major offshore exchange,
analysts at Deutsche Securities wrote.  The unit is the subject of unspecified interest from
unidentified third parties, Bidvest said on July 6. While
Bidvest believes that Foodservice is an “attractive business
with strong growth prospects,” it said it will explore whether
any of the unsolicited proposals would optimize value for
shareholders and undertake a strategic review of the division.  “Partial listing is in our view the highest probability
scenario,” Deutsche Bank AG’s Johannesburg-based unit said. A
listing on an exchange like  Hong Kong  has several advantages,
analyst Roy Mutooni said in a note yesterday. Mutooni has a
“buy” recommendation on Johannesburg-based Bidvest.  A listing abroad “gives the group the opportunity to
incentivize operational management within the Foodservice
business with equity in their own business,” Deutsche
Securities said. “It provides capital for further acquisitions
and provides a fair market value for this business.”  Deutsche Securities, which values the division at between
18 billion rand ($2.7 billion) and 20 billion rand, said Bidvest
may also sell its biggest revenue and earnings generator for
cash to the unnamed suitors. “We see this as the least likely
option, considering Group Chief Executive Officer Brian Joffe’s
often mentioned stance against any potential transaction
reducing the scale of the business.”  Partial Sale  A third option is a partial sale to a bigger international
entity while retaining a reduced stake. “While conceptually
elegant, this flies against Bidvest’s philosophy of controlling
the cash flows of all its key businesses,”  Mutooni wrote.  Foodservice may fetch $4 billion, a person familiar with
the transaction said July 6. Bidders may include Sysco Corp.,
the biggest North American distributor of food to restaurants;
U.S. Food Services, owned by KKR & Co. and Clayton Dubilier &
Rice Inc.; and Brakes Group, owned by Bain Capital LLC, said the
person, declining to be identified as the matter is private.
It’s unclear whether these companies have made approaches.  Bidvest spokeswoman Carol Dundas declined to comment when
contacted by telephone, saying the company has said all it can
at this stage.  “Bidvest would not be considering any deal, and would not
have made any announcement, unless it believed such a deal will
add substantial value for its shareholders,” said Wayne McCurrie, a portfolio manager at Johannesburg-based RMB Asset
Management, by phone. He added that his firm “is not selling
any” of its shares in the company.  RMB holds about 2.1 million Bidvest shares, equating to 0.7
percent of the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“It is one of our major holdings,” said McCurrie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 Kwong11@bloomberg.net  