-- 
Blackstone Wins Casino Work to Bolster Schwarzman’s LBO Hedge

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-07-08T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/blackstone-wins-casino-work-to-bolster-schwarzman-s-lbo-hedge.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the private-
equity firm known for raising the largest buyout fund ever, has
emerged from the recession with a new reputation: one of the
world’s busiest restructuring advisers.  Among casino resorts in particular, where fallout from the
financial crisis continues to hamper a recovery, New York-based
Blackstone has become a leading workout adviser. The team, led
by senior managing director Timothy Coleman, is involved with at
least three of the largest current assignments: Kerzner
International Ltd, the Mashantucket Pequot Tribe’s Foxwoods
Casino, and the Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority, which owns the
Mohegan Sun casinos. The three companies have more than $8.5
billion in combined liabilities.  “Blackstone has kept busy as restructuring activity slows
down,” said Richard Cieri, a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP
who specializes in restructuring. “The private-equity business
embraces the advisory business and they work well within one
firm. It’s a unique model.”  Restructuring assignments, which have also included  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and the Ukrainian government, made Blackstone’s
advisory unit the firm’s only profitable business at the peak of
the credit crisis in 2008. Competitors including KKR & Co. and
 Carlyle Group  have followed Blackstone’s lead in diversifying
from buyouts, entering such businesses as underwriting stock and
bond offerings and taking stakes in  hedge funds  and private-
equity fund of funds.  In-House Team  Blackstone, the largest private-equity company by assets,
is also the only major buyout firm with an in-house
restructuring team -- a distinction that cuts both ways.
Coleman’s team benefits from Blackstone’s relationships and
expertise, and helps guide those businesses with its own views.
The group may also lose business to other Blackstone units
pursuing an investment in a would-be client or miss assignments
because the troubled company is owned by a rival buyout fund.  As the recovery from the financial crisis continues,
companies are relying less on restructuring advice, making it
harder for firms to win business. Lazard Ltd., the largest
independent merger adviser, posted a decline in first-quarter
earnings after revenue from advising on bankruptcies and
restructurings slid 65 percent to $35.6 million.  Blackstone co-founders  Stephen Schwarzman  and  Peter G. Peterson , former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. colleagues,
started the company in 1985 as an advisory firm, then turned to
the nascent business of buying and selling companies that’s
become their signature product. In 1991, they added
restructuring, Schwarzman said, as “a wonderful countercyclical
business.”  Fenster, Newman  “We knew what was going to happen with the M&A business,
and we were looking for an offset,” Schwarzman said in an
interview. He called his friend and former Lehman colleague
Steven Fenster, who told him the man to hire in restructuring
was Arthur Newman, who’d recently left Ernst & Whinney for
Chemical Bank.  “I’d watched this business at Lehman provide a service,”
Schwarzman said. “It was nicely profitable and didn’t use a lot
of capital. At Blackstone, we were trying to build a very broad
and deep set of relationships with the people around the world
who really mattered.”  With Newman on board, Peterson provided a connection that
proved crucial for credibility, and recruiting. Peterson, now
85, introduced the Blackstone restructuring group to Edward
Finkelstein, who led the buyout of R. H. Macy & Co. Advising the
company on its 1992 bankruptcy, Newman and Coleman faced off
against creditors represented by Flip Huffard and Steven Zelin -
- who would both go on to join the core of Blackstone’s team and
become senior managing directors.  Dow, Xerox  That group has since advised clients including Dow Corning
Corp. in 1995 following its bankruptcy, Xerox Corp. on its 2000
restructuring and Enron Corp. on its 2001 bankruptcy. In
addition to the firm’s current gaming assignments, Blackstone
also advised creditors of Station Casinos, which emerged from
one of the largest casino bankruptcies in history last month.  Hired in January 2009, Blackstone advised Ford as it
negotiated with the United Autoworkers to modify a 2007
collective-bargaining agreement and reduced borrowings through a
debt exchange and tender offers. Ford was the only major U.S.
automaker to avoid Chapter 11 and a taxpayer bailout.  It took the credit crisis, and assignments like Ford, to
prove the value of Schwarzman and Peterson’s diversification
strategy. While Blackstone’s private-equity and real-estate
groups struggled in 2008 with a combined $1.2 billion in losses,
the advisory unit turned a profit and was the biggest
contributor to revenue, largely driven by restructuring.  ‘Fee-Driven’  “The investing business is going to be closely tied to the
equity markets,” said  Roger Freeman , an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in New York who covers Blackstone. “Here you’ve got a
fee-driven business that could be doing fine when the market is
sideways or down.”  While Blackstone has solidified its role in the world of
restructuring, it’s still a small corner in Schwarzman’s
financial empire. Last year the advisory business, which
includes restructuring and mergers advice, had a profit of $83.7
million, about a fifth of what Blackstone earned from private
equity. And with Blackstone’s stock still trading at about half
the 2007 IPO price, public shareholders see its fortunes as
closely tied to real estate and private equity.  Being part of a larger shop, while protecting the group
from downturns, also means additional baggage, including
conflicts inherent in stitching together businesses with
competing agendas and different access to information. The firm,
like most on  Wall Street , says it has policies to ensure that
material non-public information stays that way.  Culture Gap  Coleman, who sits on the executive committee and joined
Blackstone in 1992 after more than a decade at Citigroup, must
also bridge the culture gap between investment bankers and
corporate-workout experts.  “We work in a tough business, where people yell and scream
at us all the time,” said Coleman, who favors French cuffs and
Hermes ties. “In order to get a restructuring done, you have to
have a lot of personality.”  That personality derives in part from his lieutenants’
backgrounds and styles. Zelin was born and raised in  Brooklyn .
He attended high school in Coney Island before the State
University of  New York  at  Albany  as an undergraduate and  New
York University ’s Stern school of business. He worked briefly
for Newman at Ernst & Whinney. When Newman left for Blackstone,
Zelin pressed him for a job.  Birthday Cards  “After years of sending cards and flowers on their
birthdays, they finally hired me,” said Zelin, who’s worked on
deals including Enron, Ford and AbitibiBowater Inc. “While all
three of us have different backgrounds and attended different
universities, we actually have a lot in common, which makes
working together extremely enjoyable.”  Huffard grew up in  Connecticut , and after earning an
undergraduate degree from  Harvard University  and working at
 Smith Barney , he went back to run his family’s oyster and clam
processing company. Upon graduating from Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School with an MBA, he returned to Wall
Street.  Huffard has worked on deals involving Tribune Co.,
Philadelphia’s newspapers and the restructuring of truck stop
operator Flying J, where Blackstone was brought in 48 hours
before the company filed for bankruptcy and the creditors
ultimately got all of what they were owed.  “The rewards are similar to those of a doctor,” Huffard
said. “Sometimes you manage to nurse really sick patients back
to fiscal health and they go on to do great things.”  State Government  The group is focused on delivering revenue and profit from
pockets of distress like gambling, even as the economic recovery
diminishes potential restructuring business. Huffard says the
group has resisted specializing to be responsive to whatever
sector needs working out -- and the group is now making inroads
with potential clients beyond corporate workouts, such as state
and local governments.  “Any question about how restructuring fits into Blackstone
was answered in the last two years,” Coleman said. “We made a
big difference. At the end of the day we’re all shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  