-- 
BofA, JPMorgan to Submit Foreclosure Plans Next Week

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-07-08T16:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/bofa-mortgage-servicers-must-submit-foreclosure-plans-to-u-s-next-week.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and five other mortgage
servicers will have to meet a July 13 deadline to submit
remedial plans for their foreclosure practices while
federal and state officials continue working on broader
settlement terms.  “That deadline is still on track, as broader
negotiations continue,” said Jessica A. Smith, a
spokeswoman for the Department of Justice, which is
coordinating talks among lenders, U.S. housing officials
and state attorneys general. “The banks’ action plans have
been significantly shaped by the detailed negotiations that
continue to take place with federal authorities and state
attorneys general.”  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency accused
 eight banks  and two service providers of “unsafe and
unsound” practices in their mortgage servicing and
foreclosure practices. Remediation plans are due to the OCC
next week. The companies include HSBC Holdings Plc.,
MetLife Inc., PNC Financial Services Group Inc., U.S.
Bancorp and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The Department of Housing and Urban Development, the
 Justice Department  and all 50 state attorneys general have
been negotiating a separate settlement that may total more
than $20 billion with the five largest U.S. mortgage
servicers: Bank of America, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo,
Citigroup and Ally Financial Inc. A final agreement,
setting standards for servicing loans and processing
foreclosures, may serve as a template for claims against
the rest of the industry.  Changes Are Possible  Smith said regulators must review and approve the
banks’ action plans and “may require changes as a result
of developments and ongoing oversight.”  Citibank officials are “committed to working with our
regulators to further strengthen our mortgage foreclosure
practices and meeting the new requirements by the
implementation deadlines,” said  Sean Kevelighan , a
spokesman for the New York-based bank.  Rick Simon , a
spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America, said “we expect to be fully prepared to provide
our submissions next week.”  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, said
the bank intends to meet the regulators’ deadline.  Kristin Lemkau and Vickee Adams, spokeswomen for
JPMorgan in New York and Wells Fargo in  San Francisco , both
declined to comment.  HSBC, Ally  Media representatives for London-based HSBC,
Pittsburgh-based PNC and Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp
either had no immediate response or weren’t available.  The proposed accord would require banks to set up a
fund for states to resolve civil mortgage complaints as
well as a separate federal account that would require them
to provide a specified amount of mortgage relief to
borrowers, said two people close to the negotiations who
asked to remain anonymous because the talks are private.  Banks could get credit toward their relief obligation
if they reduce the amount owed by borrowers and modify
loans in their portfolio, one of the people said. The exact
mechanism to determine and award credits is still being
discussed, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  