-- 
BofA Names Legacy Asset’s Terry Laughlin as Chief Risk Officer, Memo Shows

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-08T20:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/bofa-names-legacy-asset-s-terry-laughlin-as-chief-risk-officer-memo-shows.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  named Terry Laughlin, currently the top manager overseeing soured loans and
foreclosures, as the firm’s next chief risk officer after it
earmarked another $20.4 billion to cover bad mortgages.  Laughlin, 56, head of Legacy Asset Servicing, will take the
new post late in the third quarter, according to an internal
memo obtained today by Bloomberg News. The move fills a vacancy
created after former risk chief Bruce Thompson was picked to
succeed Chief Financial Officer  Charles Noski , 58, who said in
April he was stepping aside because of an illness in his family.  Laughlin has tackled the biggest issue weighing on Bank of
America since joining the company last year by negotiating
settlements with  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , bond insurer
Assured Guaranty Ltd. and last week’s $8.5 billion deal with
institutional investors. The lender has dropped 28 percent in
the past year of New York trading on concern that mortgage
disputes will continue to reduce profits.  “Terry is steeped in the issues which represent the most
significant risk we face, and his ultimate transition into the
chief risk officer position reflects that and his deep industry
expertise,” Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said in
the memo. “While there is more work ahead, in a relatively
short period of time, Terry has helped us make significant
progress on our legacy issues.”  Dominick, Lynch  Paula Dominick, global compliance executive, will serve as
interim chief risk officer until Laughlin begins, the firm said.
 Gary Lynch , a former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
enforcement director, will begin as head of legal, compliance
and regulatory relations on July 11, the memo said.  The arrival of Lynch, whose hiring was announced in April,
may assist the bank’s negotiations with state attorneys general
and the  U.S. Department of Justice  to settle claims the industry
mishandled loan servicing.  As chief risk officer, Laughlin must help Moynihan avoid
the kinds of mistakes that led to billions of dollars in losses
after the 2008 acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp.  Bank of America said June 29 it will report its sixth
quarterly loss since the middle of 2008, citing $20.4 billion in
costs, including the settlement, provisions for future claims,
legal costs and a writedown of the mortgage unit.  “It’s our job, management’s job, to eliminate risks that
we can to allow this company to go forward,” Moynihan, 51, told
analysts the same day during a conference call.  Laughlin left his previous post as CEO of Pasadena-based
OneWest Bank last year to join Moynihan, a former FleetBoston
Financial Inc. colleague. He was named head of the firm’s Legacy
Asset Servicing unit on Feb. 4.  As chief risk officer, Thompson has had to deal with the
consequences of defective loans inherited in the Countrywide
takeover. Thompson had several management roles at the firm’s
investment bank, including head of global capital markets,
before starting as chief risk officer in January 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  