-- 
Brazil’s Gol Agrees to Buy Webjet to Gain Market Share

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-07-11T15:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/brazil-s-gol-agrees-to-buy-low-cost-carrier-webjet-to-recover-market-share.html
(Corrects to say  Brazil  is  Latin America ’s biggest economy
in the first paragraph on story published on July 8.)  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
Brazil’s second-largest airline by market share, agreed to
acquire Webjet Linhas Aereas SA for 96 million reais ($61
million), as it seeks to recover market share in Latin America’s
biggest economy.  Sao Paulo-based Gol said in a regulatory filing today that
the deal valued closely-held Webjet at 310.7 million reais,
according to a regulatory filing. Webjet, a low-cost carrier
based in  Rio de Janeiro  and controlled by Guilherme Paulus, is
Brazil’s fourth-largest airline, with 5.2 percent of the
country’s airline market.  The deal gives Gol access to Webjet’s slots at Brazil’s
main hubs and eliminates a low-cost competitor that catered to
leisure passengers. Expansion may also help offset a squeeze in
margins from higher fuel prices, said Felipe Rocha, an aviation
analyst at Banco Fator SA in  Sao Paulo .  “Gol is looking for ways to grow and increase its market
share,” Rocha said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo
today before the transaction was announced. “Consolidation is
inevitable.”  Sao Paulo-based Gol has been losing market share this year,
according to Brazil’s aviation authority, known as Anac. The
carrier’s market share fell to 35.4 percent in May from 36.5
percent in the previous month and 40.5 percent a year earlier.
Tam’s share of the Brazilian market slipped to 44.4 percent in
May from 44.5 percent in April, according to Anac.  The airline said on May 10 that rising fuel costs led it to
cut the forecast for its 2011 margin on earnings before interest
and taxes to a range of  6.5 percent to 10 percent , from 11.5
percent to 14 percent previously.  Today Gol shares rose the most since August in Sao Paulo
trading on speculation it would buy rival Webjet. Shares gained
as much as 6.4 percent, the most intraday since Aug. 27, and
closed 3.5 percent higher at 19.77 reais. O Estado de S. Paulo
reported earlier today that Gol would announce the purchase of
Webjet. After the report, the company said in a filing it was in
talks with Webjet.  In March,  Tam SA (TAMM4) , the Brazilian airline that agreed to be
bought by  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  last year, bought a stake in Trip
Linhas Aereas SA to regain domestic market leadership over Gol.
Lan, based in Santiago, agreed to buy Tam in August in a $4.1
billion takeover.  Chile’s antitrust tribunal president Tomas Menchaca told
newspaper La Tercera today that a ruling probably won’t be
delivered until August.  The court, known as TDLC, previously estimated the outcome
of its investigation would be made known by the end of this
month.  -- Editors: Francisco Marcelino, James Langford.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  