-- 
News Corp.’s BSkyB Bid Faces Delay on Review as Shares Slump

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T20:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/bskyb-tumbles-as-u-k-says-consideration-of-takeover-will-take-some-time-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5
billion) takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
faces a further delay after the U.K. government said it will
take “some time” before it will give a final ruling, sending
the broadcaster’s stock to its steepest decline since 2008.  A weeklong consultation on additional conditions imposed on
 Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. over the deal ended at noon in
London. The Department of Culture said it had received 156,000
messages of objection, as well as a written petition that it was
informed had 100,000 signatures. The public reaction coincided
with reports this week that a News Corp. newspaper hacked into
the phones of murder and terror victims.  “Given the volume of responses, we anticipate that this
will take some time,” the Department for Culture, Media and
Sport said today, without specifying a timeframe. “The
secretary of state has always been clear that he will take as
long as is needed to reach a decision.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today it is up to
regulator Ofcom to decide whether News Corp. is “fit and
proper” to take full control of BSkyB, adding that the takeover
review will take some time.  ‘Proper Way’  “There are proper organizations and procedures,” Cameron
said at a news conference in London. “It is very important that
this is done in the proper way.”  While Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  has said he is minded
to accept the proposals, U.K. lawmakers have called for the bid
to be halted pending a public inquiry. News Corp. said yesterday
it would close the 168-year-old News of the World tabloid after
allegations that its journalists tapped the voice mails of
murder victims and paid police officers for stories.  BSkyB fell 62 pence, or 7.6 percent, to 750 pence in  London 
for its steepest decline since October 2008, wiping almost 1.1
billion pounds off the stock’s value. The shares have fallen 12
percent since this week’s reports of the hacking allegations.
News Corp. offered 700 pence a share in June last year.  News Corp., also owner of the Fox TV networks and film
studios, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and book publisher
HarperCollins, closed down 68 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $16.75
at 4 p.m. in  New York  in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
New York-based News Corp. units in providing financial news and
information.  ‘Relevant Factors’  “Our priority is to continue to cooperate with the
secretary of state” in the existing regulatory process, News
Corp. said in a statement.  In deciding on the bid, Hunt will consider “all relevant
factors including whether the announcement regarding the News of
the World’s closure has any impact on the question of media
plurality,” the culture department said.  “No one ever expected this deal to go through smoothly,”
said Alexander Wisch, an equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in
London, who doesn’t own the shares. “I was expecting the deal
to go through in the second part of the year, maybe it will drag
on a bit longer.”  News Corp. wants full control of BSkyB to gain access to
the broadcaster’s increasing cash flow. BSkyB may also help
Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspaper business more profitable by
allowing him to bundle newspaper and pay-TV subscriptions and
spread content over several media platforms.  Sky News Separation  James Murdoch , the 38-year-old son of Rupert Murdoch and
deputy chief operating chief at News Corp., was CEO of BSkyB
from 2003 to 2007 before he was tapped to run News Corp.’s
European and Asian operations, including taking over as chairman
of the News International U.K. publishing arm.  News Corp. has agreed to carve out the Sky News channel as
a separate company. The just ended public consultation relates
to additional undertakings including the nomination of a
monitoring trustee to oversee the spin off process, and the
inclusion of an independent director with senior editorial or
journalistic experience for decisions on editorial issues at Sky
News board meetings.  The 156,000 complaints were from Avaaz members in Britain
calling on Hunt to block the deal, said Sam Barratt, a spokesman
for the online political campaign group.  Should the U.K. government stand by its preliminary
decision to clear the acquisition, News Corp. will start
negotiations about its bid for the 61 percent of Isleworth,
England-based BSkyB it doesn’t already own. BSkyB rejected the
initial 700 pence a share offer, saying it wants at least 800
pence.  Monitoring Closely  Ed Richards, CEO of the Ofcom regulator, wrote in a letter
to the culture committee of the House of Commons that he’s
monitoring closely the situation around the proposed takeover.  “It is not for Ofcom to investigate matters which properly
lie in the hands of other authorities, such as the police and
the criminal or civil courts, and clearly we cannot and should
not act whilst allegations are unsubstantiated,” he wrote.  The four-year-old phone-hacking scandal at the News of the
World that had so far centered on celebrities, politicians and
sports athletes widened this week to include murder and terror
victims. Former News of the World Editor  Andy Coulson , who
resigned as Cameron’s press chief in January, was arrested as
part of a probe into phone-hacking at the tabloid paper, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Responding to media reports that News International Chief
Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, a former editor of the News of
the World, had offered her resignation over the phone-hacking
scandal, Cameron said at the news conference at his office
today: “In this situation I would have taken it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  