-- 
Buffett Bets ‘Very Heavily’ Against Second Recession Even After Jobs Data

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-08T12:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/buffett-bets-very-heavily-against-second-recession-even-after-jobs-data.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said he is
wagering on continued economic expansion and doesn’t expect a
second recession.  “I would bet very heavily against that,” Buffett told
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu on the “In the Loop” program
today after data showed slowing U.S. job growth. “How fast the
recovery will come, I don’t know. I see nothing that indicates
any kind of a double dip.”  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent
in June, the highest level this year, and hiring by companies
was the weakest since May 2010, Labor Department data showed.
U.S. employers added 18,000 jobs last month, less than the
105,000 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “It means that we’re still a ways off from getting to
where we should be,” Buffett said in the interview, in  Sun
Valley ,  Idaho . “We’re seeing growth around the world, but it’s
not mushrooming.”  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  added about 3,000 jobs
last year after cutting more than 20,000 positions in 2009. The
Omaha, Nebraska-based company employed about 260,000 people at
units from insurance and shipping to consumer goods and energy,
Berkshire said in February. Employment gained last year at
Berkshire units including car insurer Geico and railroad
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe . Staffing fell at carpet-maker Shaw
Industries.  “Jobs come with demand,” Buffett, 80, said today. “We’re
seeing demand a lot of places but we’re not seeing it in the
construction field.”  Bricks, Carpet  Berkshire owns a real estate brokerage, a maker of
manufactured homes and units that construct roofs and sell
bricks and carpet. Buffett said in February that a housing
recovery would begin “within a year or so” and that he’s
preparing the company’s businesses for growth. Buffett is
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire.  Berkshire  expanded  its Acme Brick unit with a $50 million
acquisition, and Johns Manville, the roofing subsidiary, is
building a $55 million plant in  Ohio , Buffett said in his annual
letter. Shaw will spend $210 million on plant and equipment this
year, Buffett said.  “We will come back big time on employment when residential
construction comes back,” Buffett said. The unemployment rate
will drop to 6 percent “within a few years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  