-- 
Buffett Says Banks Are ‘Plenty Profitable’ After Leverage Cut

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-08T18:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/buffett-says-banks-are-plenty-profitable-after-rules-limiting-leverage.html
Warren Buffett, whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is the largest shareholder in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
said the U.S. will benefit from reduced leverage at banks and
that financial firms will be able to earn sufficient returns.  Banking can “still be plenty profitable,” Buffett told
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu today on the “In the Loop”
program in an interview from Sun Valley, Idaho.  Regulators are limiting banks’ revenue on debit card
transactions and overdraft fees and have raised  capital
requirements . Bankers including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have said rules may have gone
too far and could slow economic growth. Buffett, 80, said
financial limits may increase stability.  “Reducing leverage in the financial system was a good
idea,” Buffett said. “Leverage causes a lot of problems.”  Berkshire had about 342.6 million shares in San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo as of March 31, which is a stake of about 6.5
percent in the largest U.S. home lender. The holding is valued
at more than $9 billion, based on yesterday’s closing price.
Berkshire also owns furniture stores and jewelry shops, as well
as a stake in  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Retailers may benefit from
caps on debit-card transaction fees.  ‘The Big Picture’  Buffett is “looking at the big picture, whereas lobbyists
for the banking industry are being retained presumably to
represent the interests of that industry,” said  David Kass , a
professor at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith
School of Business. “He’s trying to take an impartial view of
the situation with concern for the overall economy.”  Dimon has criticized new capital requirements, asking
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in public last month if
he “has a fear like I do” that overzealous regulation “will
be the reason it took so long that our banks, our credit, our
businesses and most importantly  job creation  to start going
again. Is this holding us back at this point?”  The U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.2
percent in June, the highest level this year, and hiring by
companies was the weakest since May 2010, Labor Department data
showed today. JPMorgan slipped 2.6 percent on the New York Stock
Exchange this year through yesterday and Wells Fargo dropped 7.5
percent. That compares with the 7.6 percent gain of the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  “You will earn less on capital than was the case a while
back,” Buffett said. “But you can still earn pretty good
returns on capital.”  Record Profit  Wells Fargo’s first-quarter profit climbed 48 percent to a
record $3.76 billion as costs for soured real-estate and
business loans fell. JPMorgan’s net income surged 67 percent to
a record $5.56 billion.  Berkshire also has holdings in U.S. Bancorp and M&T Bank
Corp. Buffett took a preferred stake in 2008 in Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. at the depths of the financial crisis, an investment
that he previously said was a wager that Bernanke and then-
Treasury Department Secretary  Henry Paulson  would prop up the
economy. The Treasury created the Troubled Asset Relief Program
in 2008 to help bolster banks.  Buffett praised  Elizabeth Warren , 62, the Harvard
University law professor, assigned by President  Barack Obama  to
set up the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Senate
Republicans have sought changes to the new agency’s structure
before confirming anyone as its director.  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina
Republican, in a May hearing, questioned the “veracity” of
Warren’s previous statements. The two also clashed about whether
the committee pledged to a time limit on her appearance.  ‘Lot of Enemies’  “She’s made a lot of enemies,” Buffett said. “But we
needed a lot of correction. I mean, when you see what happened
in the mortgage issuance market of five years ago, a lot of
things took place that shouldn’t have taken place.  “It’s up to both the industry and the government to
correct it,” Buffett said. “It’s great if the industry does it
by itself, but it’s clear you need a policeman. And she’s a
pretty good policeman,” he said.  “Buffett shares the sense that a lot of bankers acted
badly and they got bailed out,” said  Jeff Matthews , author of
“Secrets in Plain Sight: Business and Investing Secrets of
 Warren Buffett ,” in an interview today. “I don’t think he has
any sympathy toward investment or commercial bankers in
general.”  JPMorgan supports creation of a bureau that is “effective
for both consumers and banks,” Dimon wrote in his most recent
 annual letter . Dimon, who steered the company through the
recession while posting a profit every quarter and was praised
by Buffett today as a “fabulous banker,” said in his letter
that stronger standards in the mortgage industry could have
minimized the types of loans that fueled the housing bubble.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  