-- 
Buffett Says ADM Is ‘Kind of Company We Look at’ for Deals

-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-07-08T21:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/buffett-says-adm-is-kind-of-company-we-look-at-as-he-evaluates-takeovers.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  may look
at Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest grain
processor, as his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  seeks more
acquisitions.  ADM, based in Decatur, Illinois, is the “kind of company
we look at,” Berkshire Hathaway Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Buffett said today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) 
are also the types of companies he finds attractive, Buffett
said in an interview from Sun Valley, Idaho.  Roman Blahoski, an ADM spokesman, declined to comment.  Buffett says Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, doesn’t
currently have any acquisitions in the works, but he “hopes”
to see a deal by the end of the year.  ADM rose 59 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $31.04 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The company, with
a $19.8 billion market value, has risen 3.2 percent this year.  ADM’s bullish options volume surged to a four-month high as
investors boosted wagers that the shares will extend gains. More
than 44,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands, nine times the
four-week average and quadruple the number of puts to sell. The
most-active contracts were September $31 calls, which rose 34
percent and accounted for a third of all call volume.  Acquisition Criteria  ADM is among companies that meet the acquisition criteria
listed in Buffett’s annual letter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg in March. Buffett typically prefers “simple”
businesses with pretax profit exceeding $75 million,
“consistent” earning power, and “good” returns on equity
while employing little or no debt, according to his report.  As Berkshire has grown, Buffett has shifted his takeover
strategy to focus on capital-intensive businesses, such as power
producers and railroads, which require consistent investment in
infrastructure and equipment.  Buffett’s son,  Howard Buffett , worked at ADM from 1992 to
1995, serving as a director and the company’s head of investor
relations.  ADM is expected to earn net income of $2.18 billion in
fiscal 2011, up from $1.93 billion a year earlier, according to
four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company will
report earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter, which ran through
June, on Aug. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 