-- 
Bumi Armada Said to Get About $888 Million Selling Stock Near Top of Range

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-07-08T08:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/bumi-armada-said-to-get-about-888-million-selling-stock-near-top-of-range.html
Bumi Armada Bhd., a company
controlled by Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, raised
2.66 billion ringgit ($888 million) after pricing shares at the
upper half of its indicative range in the country’s biggest
initial public offering this year, two people familiar with the
matter said.  The Kuala Lumpur-based oil and gas services company sold
shares at 3.03 ringgit each, said the people, who asked not to
be named as the information is still private. Demand exceeded
supply by 40 times, said a third person with immediate knowledge
of the sale, declining to be named for confidentiality reasons.  The offering comes as Sun Art Retail Group Ltd.,  China ’s
top hypermarket operator, bucked a recent slump in demand for
new equity in  Hong Kong  to raise $1.1 billion after selling
shares at the top end of a range. At least seven IPOs have been
canceled or postponed in Hong Kong this year, and several large
issuers including Samsonite International SA have had to accept
prices below the maximum they sought.  “At 3.03 ringgit, Bumi Armada is leaving quite a lot on
the table, probably to attract long-term investors given the
current lukewarm response to recent IPOs such as Samsonite,”
said Bharat Joshi, who helps to manage about $5 billion at
Aberdeen Asset Management in Kuala Lumpur. Aberdeen didn’t
subscribe to Bumi Armada IPO shares.  Sugar Refiner  Bumi Armada’s shares were priced at 19 times 2010 earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil and gas equipment
and service providers from emerging Asia-Pacific nations trade
at about 27 times the last twelve month’s earnings, Bloomberg
data show.  Great Eastern Life Assurance ( Malaysia ) Bhd. and Prudential
Fund Management Bhd. are among so-called cornerstone investors
who will buy a combined 10.2 percent of the shares, Bumi Armada
said on June 30.  The company declined to comment in an e-mailed reply today.
The IPO is Malaysia’s largest since  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM) 
raised a record 12.8 billion ringgit in November.  Eleven of the 18 companies debuting in Malaysia this year
have advanced from their offer price, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. MSM Malaysia Holdings Bhd., which bought billionaire
Robert Kuok’s sugar refining business two years ago, also sold
shares at the top of its range in June.  History of Relisting  Krishnan, Malaysia’s second-richest person after  Robert
Kuok , has a history of delisting and relisting companies. He
privatized cell-phone carrier Maxis Communications Bhd. 2007 and
took it public again as Maxis Bhd. in 2009 without its
international operations.  He has since delisted pay-TV broadcaster Astro All Asia
Networks Plc, satellite operator Measat Global Bhd., and power
and gaming group Tanjong Plc.  Bumi Armada’s profit in 2010 rose 26 percent from a year
earlier to 350.8 million ringgit, or 16.02 sen a share,
according to the company’s draft prospectus. Revenue climbed to
1.24 billion ringgit from 732.1 million ringgit, it said.  CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., Maybank Investment Bank Bhd.,
RHB Investment Bank Bhd., Credit Suisse Group AG, UBS AG and
CLSA arranged Bumi Armada’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  