-- 
California Budget Gets Vote of Confidence From Standard & Poor’s

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/california-budget-gets-vote-of-confidence-from-standard-poor-s.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
financial plan for the most-populous U.S. state got a vote of
confidence in the municipal  bond market  as  Standard & Poor’s 
boosted its credit outlook to stable from negative.  While S&P maintained its A- rating, the lowest for any
state, on California’s $71.7 billion of outstanding general
obligations, the revision means a downgrade is less likely. The
rating company said the state budget mitigated the potential for
a cash shortfall that weighed on the outlook.  The revision reflects a budget that’s “light on smoke-and-
mirrors and with real spending cuts and revenue increases that
are credible,” said Josh Gonze, who helps oversee about $6.5
billion in municipal-bond assets as co-portfolio manager of six
funds for  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based  Thornburg Investment
Management Inc.   Brown brokered an $85.9 billion general-fund spending plan
with fellow Democrats that filled what remained of a $26 billion
deficit with $12 billion in spending cuts and a forecast of an
equal amount in higher  tax revenue  from a recovering economy.
The plan includes $2.5 billion in automatic additional cuts if
receipts fall short of projections.  The June 30 budget clears the way for California to sell
short-term securities, with a projected $5 billion offering
expected in August. The revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, are
offered when cash is low and repaid later in the year when the
bulk of taxes are collected. Without the sale, the state would
run out of money, as it did in 2009, when the controller issued
$2.6 billion of IOUs.  Paying Off Loan  Treasurer Bill Lockyer has said he can borrow against the
spending plan because the automatic cuts, triggered if the money
doesn’t materialize, insure there’s enough money left at year-
end to pay off the loan.  “It’s nice to be out of the woodshed,”  Tom Dresslar , a
spokesman for Lockyer, said in an interview yesterday. “It
confirms our view that this budget represents a significant step
toward getting California’s fiscal house back in order. In
addition, it bodes well for our RAN deal.”  California’s RANs will go to market as yields on such debt
have plunged along with Treasuries. One-year, tax-exempt note
yields fell to 0.34 percent last week, according to a Bond Buyer
index, down from 0.64 percent a year earlier and 3.71 percent in
2007, before the recession. One- to three-year Treasury yields
also fell in the past year, to a record 0.60 percent July 5 from
about 1 percent.  “The appetite is very good for that sale,” said Kelly Wine, executive vice president of Encino, California-based  RH
Investment Corp.  “They will probably get lower yields and low
borrowing costs with that.”  Downgraded in 2010  S&P downgraded California’s credit in January 2010 as the
state faced what was then a $20 billion deficit. California’s
credit is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its fifth-
highest grade, and A-by Fitch Ratings, seventh highest.  Ten-year general obligation bonds from California issuers
yield 4.08 percent on average, or about 1.25 percentage points
more than average top-rated debt of that maturity, according to
Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. The yield difference is the
smallest in about five weeks.  “The negative outlook had been linked to the possibility
of a recurring cash deficiency that we now believe the enactment
of the fiscal 2012 budget is likely to mitigate,” a San
Francisco-based S&P analyst, Gabriel Petek, said in a statement.
“The state has improved the structural alignment between its
recurring revenues and expenditures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  