-- 
Tropical Storm Calvin Nears Hurricane Strength Off Mexico

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-08T17:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/calvin-becomes-third-tropical-storm-in-eastern-pacific-1-.html
Tropical Storm Calvin, the third
named storm of this year’s eastern Pacific hurricane season,
gained strength off  Mexico ’s west coast while the U.S.  National
Hurricane Center  monitored another system in the Atlantic.  Calvin, which formed yesterday, was about 290 miles (467
kilometers) southwest of the Mexican resort of Manzanillo and
moving west-northwest at 17 miles per hour, the Miami-based
center said in an advisory at 11 a.m. East Coast time.  The system’s maximum sustained winds strengthened to 70
mph, just below the 74 mph threshold for a hurricane.  “Calvin could become a hurricane today,” then start to
weaken tomorrow, the center said.  The storm is expected to head out to sea without
threatening mainland Mexico. The five-day forecast map shows
Calvin may hit Mexico’s sparsely populated Revillagigedo islands
southwest of Cabo San Lucas tomorrow or the next day. The
islands are about 249 miles from  Baja California  and include a
naval base.  The U.S. hurricane center is also tracking an area of
showers over Florida and surrounding waters. As of 1:45 p.m.,
the system had a near-zero chance of becoming a tropical or
subtropical storm or depression within 48 hours, down from a 30
percent chance earlier today.  Atlantic hurricanes are watched closely because they are a
threat to oil and natural gas interests in the  Gulf of Mexico 
and agriculture in the U.S. South. Florida is the second-largest
citrus producer behind  Brazil  while the Gulf accounts for 31
percent of U.S. oil output and 43 percent of refining capacity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 