-- 
Cameron Hit by Arrest of Former Aide Coulson in News of the World Scandal

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-08T15:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/cameron-tainted-by-arrest-of-former-aide-coulson-in-phone-hacking-scandal.html
The arrest of  Andy Coulson ,  David Cameron ’s head of communications until January, risks tainting
the prime minister’s government, already facing mounting
opposition over the deepest budget cuts since World War II.  Police in London arrested Coulson today, a person familiar
with the matter said, a day after the newspaper he once ran was
closed by News Corp. following allegations of widespread phone-
hacking in the pursuit of stories. Coulson, who was News of the
World editor from 2003 to 2007, has said he knew nothing of
illegal activities during his tenure and that wrongdoing was
confined to one rogue reporter.  Trailing in the opinion polls, Cameron is being forced to
defend his 2007 decision to hire Coulson just as labor unions
threaten to derail his austerity agenda with a wave of strikes.
The prime minister also faced questions today about his ties to
James Murdoch, deputy chief operating officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
and his father, Rupert, whose newspapers have shaped the
British media landscape for four decades.  “It’s a Cameron issue. This is now about him,”  Steven Fielding , director of the Centre for British Politics at
Nottingham University, said in an interview. “The danger is
that this comes to define him in the public mind. Then it
becomes the characteristic through which everything he does is
viewed.”  Takeover Review  A looming hurdle for Cameron is his government’s decision
on whether to allow News Corp. to buy the 61 percent of  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  that it doesn’t already own.  He and Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt have said that a
decision can only be made on the 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5
billion) takeover bid on the grounds of media plurality,  The Department for Culture, Media and Sport said today it
anticipates it will take “some time” to consider all the
156,000 submissions it received on the takeover bid. The
Department for Business said last month it usually receives
between 10 and 15 interventions in such cases.  Cameron’s  Conservative Party  trailed the opposition  Labour
Party  by 37 percent to 43 percent in a YouGov Plc poll conducted
July 6 and 7. YouGov questioned 2,759 people in its regular poll
for The Sun, another News Corp. newspaper. No margin of error
was given. If replicated in an election, that would give Labour
a majority in the House of Commons, according to standard
calculations.  Views on Leaders  Labour is leading in the polls even though voters think its
leader,  Ed Miliband , is doing a worse job than Cameron. The
latest YouGov data show 60 percent of respondents say Miliband
is performing badly, with 26 percent saying he’s doing a good
job. Fifty-two percent of voters have a negative view of
Cameron, though 42 percent say the premier is working well.  Politicians have long courted the support of Murdoch, 80,
an Australian-born U.S. citizen whose runs his media empire from
 New York  while owning four British national newspapers.  The Sun has backed the winner in every election since 1979,
when it supported  Margaret Thatcher . It switched its support
from Conservative Prime Minister John Major to Labour’s Tony Blair before the 1997 election, then transferred its backing to
Cameron in last year’s vote.  “The thing is that politicians don’t have the
confidence to cross him,” said  Philip Cowley , professor of
politics at Nottingham University. “Thatcher, Major, Blair,
Brown and Cameron all courted him, with varying degrees of
success.”  ‘Became a Friend’  Cameron’s immediate difficulty is his relationship with
Coulson, his highest-paid aide for 3 1/2 years.  Cameron told a press conference in  London  today that
Coulson “became a friend and is a friend,” and said they
remain in touch. Explaining his decision to hire him, he said he
believed that the initial police investigation of the  News of
the World  in 2006 had cleared Coulson of knowledge of the
affair.  “I decided to give him a second chance,” he said. “But
the second chance didn’t work out. People will judge me for
that, I understand.”  There was little public clamor over Coulson’s role when the
phone-hacking revelations were limited to the phones of
celebrities and politicians.  Milly Dowler  That changed on July 4 with the report that the News of the
World had in 2002, when Rebekah Brooks was editor and Coulson
her deputy, hacked into the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler and deleted voicemail messages, misleading her parents
into thinking she might be alive and complicating the police
inquiry into her disappearance. Brooks is now chief executive
officer of News International, News Corp.’s U.K. publishing
division.  Two days later News International confirmed it had passed
e-mails to detectives that showed evidence of payments to police
officers. The  BBC  reported that they implicated Coulson.  James Murdoch , 38, cut the entire newspaper loose
yesterday, closing it down and admitting that executives in the
company had misled Parliament and that he himself had been wrong
to approve out-of-court payments to phone-hacking victims that
included non-disclosure agreements.  Cameron said today he had sought “specific assurances”
from Coulson before he hired him and had had further
conversations with him after reports that hacking had been
widespread broke in 2009.  ‘Untouchable’  “Perhaps he thought that News International was such a
powerful organization that Coulson was untouchable,” Tim Bale,
author of “The Conservative Party From Thatcher to Cameron”
and professor of politics at Sussex University, said in an
interview. “Cameron is normally very good at damage limitation.
Now he’s just caught completely.”  Part of the appeal of Coulson to Cameron in 2007 was his
connection to Murdoch.  According to Parliament’s register of interests,  Rupert
Murdoch ’s son-in-law, Matthew Freud, the founder of public
relations firm  Freud Communications , flew Cameron and his family
to  Greece  in August 2008. There Cameron, then the Conservative
opposition leader, joined Murdoch for drinks aboard his yacht,
the Daily Mail newspaper reported.  Brooks lives near Cameron in his Oxfordshire electoral
district, and they have dined together. He attended her wedding.
The Sun and the Times endorsed Cameron in last year’s general
election, having backed Labour under  Tony Blair  from 1997 to
2005.  Ozzy Osborne  Other top politicians have been no less close to the
Murdochs. On Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s desk
in 11 Downing Street, there’s a mocked-up front page of The Sun,
given to him in May to celebrate his 40th birthday. Under the
headline “Ozzy Was Born,” the chancellor’s face has been
grafted onto a picture of the Black Sabbath singer,  Ozzy Osbourne .  Miliband, who attended Rupert Murdoch’s summer drinks
recently, has already decided to go on the offensive against
News Corp. He told the BBC today he was “disappointed that the
prime minister didn’t respond to the clear public outrage that
there is.”  Cameron told reporters today that in the past, he and other
party leaders “were so keen to win the support of newspapers
that we turned a blind eye. The relationship needs to be
different in future.”  Cameron may need to do more to convince voters.  “If he can get out of this one without being damaged in a
serious way, he’s the king of spin,” said Fielding.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 