-- 
Casino Mogul Wynn Buys $12.8 Million Chinese Vases for Resort

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-07-08T00:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/casino-mogul-wynn-buys-12-8-million-chinese-vases-for-macau-resort-hotel.html
U.S. casino owner  Steve Wynn  paid 8
million pounds ($12.8 million) at a London auction last night
for a set of four 18th-century Chinese porcelain vases that will
decorate his new resort in Macau.  The 4-foot (1.2 meter) vases, painted with Buddhist and
Taoist emblems and embellished with 19th-century gilded metal
mounts, were the most expensive of 50 lots at Christie’s
International’s “Exceptional’’ sale in the U.K. capital.  Sold by a private collector, the Jiaqing period (1796-1821)
vases had formerly been in the collection of the Scottish
aristocrats, the Dukes of Buccleuch, and had been estimated at
600,000 pounds to 1 million pounds.  After the auction, the casino-owner’s leisure group said
the vases had been bought by Wynn Resorts  Macau  Ltd. for its new
Cotai Resort Hotel, scheduled to open in 2015. It was also the
buyer of a Chinoiserie tapestry for 169,250 pounds.  “We are delighted to return works of this extraordinary
quality to the city of Macau and the People’s Republic of
 China ,” Roger Thomas, executive vice president of Design for
Wynn Design and Development, said after the sale.  Thomas was bidding at the auction while on the telephone to
Steve Wynn, said Christie’s. The event raised 28.8 million
pounds with 36 of the lots selling.  The predicted highlight of the sale had been 17th-century
bronze of a mythological figure by the Dutch sculptor Adriaen de
Vries, estimated at 5 million pounds to 8 million pounds.  Found in the garden of a castle in  Austria , the discovery
was tipped by dealers to fetch a record price for a pre-20th-
century European sculpture. The work was withdrawn the night
before the sale after new information emerged about its
ownership history.  “We were recently informed of additional information,
about which we were unaware, that affects the validity of the
existing export license for this recently discovered work,’’
Christie’s said in an e-mailed statement. “As we take strict
compliance with export regulation extremely seriously we have
withdrawn the sculpture and the application has been
resubmitted.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 