-- 
Caterpillar Accused of Demoting Executive Discovering $2 Billion Tax Dodge

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-07-08T19:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/caterpillar-accused-of-demoting-tax-whistleblower.html
Caterpillar Inc. used offshore
 subsidiaries  in Switzerland and Bermuda to avoid about $2
billion in U.S. taxes from 2000 to 2009, boosting its earnings
through a “tax and financial statement fraud,” according to a
Caterpillar executive’s lawsuit.  The company, the world’s largest construction-equipment
maker, sold and shipped spare parts globally from an  Illinois 
warehouse while improperly attributing at least $5.6 billion of
profits from those sales to a unit in Geneva, according to the
suit filed by Daniel J. Schlicksup. He was a global tax strategy
manager for Caterpillar from 2005 to 2008.  Schlicksup, 49, sued in U.S. District Court in Peoria,
Illinois, in 2009, claiming he was moved to a job that limits
his career opportunities because he complained to superiors that
the “Swiss Structure” ran afoul of U.S. tax rules. He’s
seeking a court order to give him back his old job and prevent
any retaliation. He also seeks  stock options  that he claims were
wrongly withheld as well as legal fees and punitive damages.  His lawsuit, which calls the structure a “tax dodge,”
followed a request for job protection he filed with the U.S.
Department of Labor under provisions of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act ,
court records show. The law bars retaliation against corporate
whistleblowers. Schlicksup declined to comment for this story.
His attorney, Dan O’Day, declined to say whether Schlicksup has
taken his concerns to the  Internal Revenue Service .  Complies With Laws  Caterpillar spokesman  Jim Dugan  said the company has
engaged in no wrongdoing, and its attorneys said in a court
filing that Schlicksup’s transfer wasn’t a demotion. Dugan
declined to comment on the suit’s specific allegations, saying
Caterpillar “complies with applicable tax laws and
regulations.”  It could be difficult to prove the company underpaid U.S.
taxes, said Reuven Avi-Yonah, director of the international tax
law program at the University of  Michigan  Law School in  Ann
Arbor . IRS officials have had only mixed success recovering
large settlements in corporate income-tax cases, and "$2 billion
would be an extraordinarily large recovery,” said Edward Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles  and a former corporate tax attorney at
 Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP .  Peoria-based Caterpillar, which reported year over year
earnings growth exceeding 250 percent in each of the last two
quarters, is among several U.S. multinationals asking Congress
to end U.S. corporate income taxes on profits earned abroad. The
company had $3.7 billion of pretax income last year on $42.6
billion in revenue, 68 percent of which came from offshore.  ‘Level Playing Field’  “What we are asking for is a level playing field when we
compete with foreign competitors,” said  Edward Rapp , the
company’s chief financial officer, in testimony to a
congressional committee May 12. The company’s shares fell as
much as 3.4 percent in  New York  Stock Exchange trading today.  Caterpillar’s Swiss strategy, as described in depositions
and exhibits attached to Schlicksup’s lawsuit, reflects one way
U.S. corporations reduce their actual tax rates. Aided by lower
taxes overseas, the company had an overall effective tax rate of
about 26 percent on about $27 billion of pretax income from 2000
through 2009, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from the
company’s disclosures. The top federal corporate income tax rate
in the U.S. is 35 percent.  U.S. multinationals including Google also report overall
effective tax rates that are lower than the U.S. rate -- partly
because of the effect of their overseas operations. Google’s
overall effective rate for 2007 through 2009 was about 25
percent, based on disclosures in its annual reports. Its
overseas tax rate for the period was 2.4 percent.  Taxed at 10 Percent  Caterpillar’s Swiss income is subject to a 10 percent tax
rate, according to a legal document filed in the case and
provided to Bloomberg News by O’Day, Schlicksup’s attorney.
While the combined federal, state and local tax rate in Geneva
is about 24 percent, companies frequently receive  exemptions ,
according to the Geneva Economic Development Office.  The company said in the document that one purpose of the
Swiss structure is to lower its taxes. It also agreed that
“Caterpillar pays more tax to  Switzerland  and less tax to the
 United States  than it would have without” the strategy,
according to the document.  Around 1999, the U.S. parent company transferred the role
of “global purchaser” of spare parts from third-party
manufacturers from itself to the Swiss unit, according to a memo
prepared in 2006 by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the New York-
based accounting firm that designed the strategy.  Illinois Warehouse  The Geneva subsidiary, Caterpillar SARL, or CSARL, had no
spare-parts employees and did no work to sell or ship the parts,
Schlicksup claims in the lawsuit. The parts are shipped to
dealers around the globe from a warehouse in Morton, Illinois,
about 10 miles southeast of Caterpillar’s Peoria headquarters,
according to the lawsuit, which also describes the spare-parts
business as the company’s most profitable line.  “In order to shift profit to Switzerland, Caterpillar
pretended to shift the management and control of a large portion
of its most profitable business segment to Switzerland, but in
reality the management and control of this business remains in
the United States,” Schlicksup said in an 88-page declaration
he filed as part of the suit.  “Everything is done the same way it was done before except
that on paper, now CSARL is doing it, not Cat, while in practice
Cat is doing everything,” O’Day said in an interview. While the
Swiss unit nominally buys the parts from suppliers, it maintains
its inventory in the U.S. unit’s Morton warehouse, where
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  employees ship it and send invoices, he said.  No Business Purpose  Schlicksup’s lawsuit, which is in the evidence-gathering
phase, alleges that the Swiss structure is improper because it
has no legitimate business purpose beyond cutting Caterpillar’s
U.S. tax bills.  “They didn’t set up the minimal physical structure to give
it economic substance,” O’Day said.  Courts have generally sided with taxpayers who use foreign
subsidiaries, said Stephen Shay, a professor at  Harvard Law
School  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and a former assistant U.S.
Treasury secretary for international tax matters. “You don’t
need much substance in the foreign corporation for it to be
accepted under current rules, and frankly that’s a problem,” he
said.  To survive a challenge, a taxpayer must show that
transactions between the subsidiary and its parent were done
with the intent of making a profit, whatever the tax
consequences, and had realistic potential to create income, said
Michigan’s Avi-Yonah.  ‘Clearly Profitable’  “The sale of parts was clearly profitable, so the question
is whether a court would be satisfied with that or ask whether
routing the sales via Switzerland had to have its own separate
economic substance,” Avi-Yonah said. “I suspect the likely
answer is that the transaction satisfies economic substance as a
whole, but it’s hard to tell without knowing more facts.”  Still, if the inventory is maintained in the U.S., that
would raise questions of whether Caterpillar Inc. is deriving
taxable income from it, said Avi-Yonah.  O’Day said the IRS and tax courts will find that the Swiss
subsidiary doesn’t handle the spare parts transactions
themselves -- and thus doesn’t meet the standard.  Most cases “will say that even if an entity has substance
you will look to see if its transactions have substance,” he
said.  ‘ Bermuda  Strategy’  While the Swiss structure moved income to Geneva,
Caterpillar had New York-based accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP
devise a complementary “Bermuda strategy” aimed at returning
some cash to the U.S. without paying tax on it, according to a
Nov. 13, 2006 memo from Pricewaterhouse and internal corporate
tax summaries from 2006 and 2007 written by Schlicksup’s then-
boss, Robin Beran, Caterpillar’s chief of global taxation. The
documents are filed as exhibits to the lawsuit.  Under current law, American companies can defer federal
income taxes on most overseas earnings as long as the money
remains abroad. Foreign income brought to the U.S. is subject to
tax at the 35 percent rate -- with credits for overseas taxes
paid. Congress is considering a one-time tax holiday that would
reduce the rate to 5.25 percent.  Spokesmen for PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young said
their firms don’t comment on client matters.  Caterpillar reported total expenses of $3.68 billion for
U.S. federal taxes on $12.3 billion in pretax U.S. profit from
2000 through 2009, an effective rate of 30 percent. It reported
$2.97 billion for taxes on $14.4 billion of non-U.S. pretax
profits, a rate of 20.6 percent on foreign income.  Effective Tax Rate  Overall, including U.S. state taxes, Caterpillar reported
an effective tax rate for the period of 26 percent, or $6.9
billion on pre-tax profits of $26.8 billion, based on its
disclosures.  Caterpillar’s U.S. federal income tax return for 2003
reflects far lower numbers: $4,667 in tax on taxable income of
$18 million and revenue of $22.8 billion. Dugan, the Caterpillar
spokesman, declined to comment on the 2003 return, which was
filed as an exhibit to Schlicksup’s complaint.  Schlicksup, a lawyer and a certified public accountant with
a master’s degree in tax law, tried for two years, beginning in
2007, to persuade senior Caterpillar executives that the Swiss
plan might violate U.S. law, according to e-mails filed as
evidence in his suit. A Caterpillar employee since 1992, he
became concerned after researching the “economic substance”
issue in late 2006, he said in a declaration filed with his
suit.  Rejected as Unfounded  His bosses, Caterpillar’s general counsel and its chief
compliance and ethics officers, rejected his concerns as
unfounded, e-mails show.  “Dan, I think this really is a non issue,” Beran wrote in
a Jan. 19, 2007, e-mail filed in the court case.  In subsequent e-mails to various executives, Schlicksup
wrote that Caterpillar had not set aside enough cash in the
event the IRS disallowed the Swiss strategy. In response, Debra Kuper, the company’s senior corporate counsel, told him that
executives had reviewed his concerns. They were “satisfied that
the matter was adequately addressed and handled appropriately,”
she wrote. “This matter is therefore closed.”  Kuper, now vice president, general counsel and corporate
secretary of  AGCO Corp. (AGCO)  of Duluth,  Georgia , declined to comment.  Ultimately Schlicksup summarized his concerns in a 15-page
May 2008 memo to Rapp and Douglas R. Oberhelman, now
Caterpillar’s chief executive officer. He warned of what he
called “serious shareholder fraud” involving overstated
income, according to the declaration he filed in court in
December 2009.  Transfer or Leave  The executives did not respond, according to his complaint.
Then, in August of 2008, a human resources executive told
Schlicksup that he could transfer to Caterpillar’s information
technology division or leave the company, his complaint says.  The new job involved overseeing implementation of a
computer system he knew nothing about, his suit claims, for less
pay and a smaller bonus target. Schlicksup called it a demotion.
After a meeting with Caterpillar’s human resources department,
his pay was restored, according to the lawsuit, though he says
the transfer out of his area of expertise makes him unlikely to
be promoted.  In September 2008, Schlicksup’s new boss, Chief Information
Officer John Heller, gave him a draft agreement to restore his
compensation, according to the lawsuit. It required Schlicksup
to stop accusing Caterpillar of any “unlawful, unethical or
improper conduct,” according to a copy of the draft filed as an
exhibit in the suit.  Remains Employed  Schlicksup demanded changes, including a payment to make up
for lost promotions. Heller responded in a Nov. 12, 2008, e-mail
that the company was no longer pursuing the agreement.
Schlicksup remains employed by Caterpillar’s information
services division, O’Day said.  The company said it hadn’t retaliated against Schlicksup.
In asking the court to dismiss the case, Caterpillar’s lawyers
wrote that by Oct. 1, 2008, he had received a $14,292 raise.  Magistrate Judge Byron G. Cudmore has ordered the pre-trial
exchange of evidence to continue, and according to court
records, a trial date has been set for Jan. 16, 2012 before U.S.
District Judge Michael M. Mihm.  The case is Schlicksup v. Caterpillar Inc., et al, 09-
01208, U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois
(Peoria).  -- With assistance from Jesse Drucker in New York. Editors:
Peter Waldman, John Voskuhl, Gary Putka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 