-- 
Cemex Revival of Shelved Offering Sparked by Market Rebound: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-08T21:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/cemex-revival-of-shelved-offering-sparked-by-europe-rebound-mexico-credit.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, has become the biggest Mexican issuer of debt
overseas this year after reviving a sale it scrapped last month
as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled global markets.  The company sold $650 million of its notes due in 2018 on
July 6, pushing issuance this year to $2.45 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company sold the bonds to
yield 9.5 percent, or 471 basis points more than similar-
maturity bonds sold by Holcim Ltd., the world’s second-biggest
cement maker. The Monterrey, Mexico-based company pulled an
eight-year offering of the same size and at the same yield on
June 23, citing “volatility” in global markets.  Cemex’s bond sale is part of a rebound in international
debt offerings by Latin American companies after Greece obtained
a rescue package to avoid default, sparking a recovery in demand
for higher-yielding assets. The company, weakened by the slump
in the U.S. housing market, is stepping up bond sales to repay
obligations stemming from a $15 billion bank loan refinancing in
2009 that allowed it to continue servicing debt.  “Waiting for a shift in sentiment obviously enabled them
to get an issue off,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market
strategist at MF Global in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “It was a success. The window of opportunity was
provided by the interlude that we’re now going through with the
European Union sovereign finance crisis.”  Latin American companies have sold $1.46 billion of
overseas debt so far in July, compared to $48 million in the
same period last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Recovery  Cemex sold the notes to yield 574 basis points more than
Mexican  government bonds  due in 2019, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Yields on the company’s bonds surged 16 basis
points to 9.12 percent on June 23 amid concern  Greece  would be
the first country in the euro area to default. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Citigroup Inc. managed the sale.  The euro area approved its share of a 12 billion-euro ($17
billion) aid payment for Greece on July 2 and pledged to
complete work on a second rescue package.  Signs the  U.S. economy , Cemex’s biggest foreign market, is
rebounding also helped boost demand for the bonds, according to
Natalia Corfield, a corporate bond analyst at ING Groep NV in
New York. Cemex got about 15 percent of its $3.4 billion of
revenue in the first quarter from the U.S. market.  Orders placed with U.S. factories increased in May,
indicating manufacturing may rebound from a slowdown in economic
growth in the first half of 2011, the Commerce Department said
July 5. Companies in the U.S. added twice as many workers as
forecast in June, signaling an improvement in the labor market
that may help bolster the economy in the second half of the
year.  ‘Huge Concession’  “It was the external backdrop that changed,” Corfield
said in a telephone interview. “It was at the peak of the Greek
concern” when Cemex first tried to sell the bonds, she said.  The yield on 10-year Greek bonds fell two basis points to
16.86 percent since Cemex pulled its sale on June 23. It climbed
17 basis points today. The extra yield investors demand to buy
emerging-market corporate dollar debt rather than  U.S.
Treasuries  has narrowed to 280 basis points from 309 in the
period since the first planned sale, according to JPMorgan.  While Cemex succeeded in obtaining the financing, it paid a
rate on the bonds that was 97 basis points over their July 5
secondary-market yield to lure investors. The additional supply
sparked a plunge in the bonds in the past two days, pushing the
secondary-market yield up to 8.94 percent from 8.53 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Huge Concession’  “They’re burning a lot of bridges,” Jack Deino, who
oversees about $1.8 billion in emerging-market debt at Invesco
Inc., said in a telephone interview from New York. “To get this
deal done, they made a huge concession. They knocked their curve
out of bed.”  Jorge Perez , a Cemex spokesman in the Monterrey suburb of
San Pedro Garza Garcia, declined to comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened nine basis points to
135, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years climbed two basis points to 108, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.7 percent to 11.6256 per dollar.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February fell three basis points to 5.01 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate
that month.  Rate Outlook  Mexican central bankers left the lending rate at a record
low 4.5 percent today.  Mexico  is the only major Latin American
country to keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  Cemex’s rating was cut seven levels by S&P over a 10-month
span ending August 2009 after the company boosted debt levels to
pay for the $14.2 billion acquisition of Rinker Group Ltd. in
2007. The Rinker purchase formed part of a two-decade, $29
billion acquisition spree by Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Zambrano, whose grandfather founded the company in 1906.  Investors demanded a record 2,330 basis points to insure
Cemex debt against non-payment in December 2009, according to
credit-default swaps pricing provided by CMA. That has cost
declined to 620 basis points. S&P has lifted the company’s
rating to B, or six levels below its peak in 2007.  Under the 2009 refinancing agreement with banks, Cemex had
to sell shares, shed assets, accept limits on capital
expenditures and acquisitions, and meet financial ratios or face
increases in  interest rates  on its debt. The company cut its
debt by $5.9 billion from June 2009 to $17.7 billion at the end
of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  