-- 
Centrica Raises Gas, Electricity Rates After ScottishPower

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-07-08T16:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/centrica-joins-scottishpower-in-raising-gas-electricity-rates.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s biggest
energy supplier, became the second utility to announce higher
household gas and electricity prices from August because of
higher wholesale costs.  Centrica will increase domestic gas rates by an average of
18 percent and electricity prices by 16 percent from Aug. 18.
Annual dual fuel bills for the average customer will rise by 190
pounds ($303), the Windsor, England-based company said today in
a statement.  “We are buying in a global energy market and have to pay
the market rate,” said Phil Bentley, director of Centrica’s
British Gas division. “Rising wholesale cost is an issue facing
all energy suppliers.”  Wholesale gas costs have increased 30 percent since last
winter, driven by Asian demand and unrest in the  Middle East  and
North Africa, Centrica said. The U.K. imports almost 50 percent
of the gas used to generate power and heat homes.  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s
ScottishPower unit said last month it will push up electricity
bills by an average of 10 percent and gas bills by an average of
19 percent from August.  “Britain’s consumers are being buffeted by the violent and
unpredictable winds of global fossil fuel prices,” U.K. Energy
Secretary  Chris Huhne  said in a statement. “The U.K.
electricity market has to change so that we escape the cycle of
fossil fuel addiction.”  Centrica closed unchanged at 327.5 pence in London. The
stock has fallen 1.2 percent this year valuing the company at
16.9 billion pounds.  The utility said in May that full-year profit will grow at
a “more modest” rate than previously expected. Warmer
temperatures and energy efficiency measures trimmed electricity
consumption at the start of the year. Centrica will release
first-half results on July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  