-- 
Champagne Harvest to Start at Earliest Since 1822 on Dry Weather

-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 
2011-07-08T15:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/champagne-harvest-is-set-to-start-at-earliest-since-1822-after-dry-weather.html
The champagne harvest this year is
set to start on Aug. 20, its earliest debut in 189 years, as dry
weather in  France  hastens the ripening of grapes.  The only other time the harvest began this early was in
1822, the Comite interprofessionnel du vin de Champagne, a
national association of champagne makers, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “After an unseasonably severe winter and a spring that was
more like summer, the vineyard calendar has been moved
forward,” the group said. “The dry weather up to now has kept
parasites and diseases at bay, the bunches of grapes are in
excellent condition.”  The  association said  in March that more than 319 million
bottles of champagne were sold in 196 countries in 2010 for 4.11
billion euros ($5.89 billion), as the market rebounded after a
two-year slump.  France had its second-hottest April since 1900 this year
and also one of the driest springs in half a century, according
to the  Agriculture Ministry . Rain in June was only slightly
above normal.  “This is the first time that Champagne has seen the
combination of a significant lack of rain during the spring,
strong sunshine and an exceptionally early blossoming,” the
association said.  Champagne Region  The home market remains the biggest for the drink, followed
by the U.K., the U.S., Germany and  Belgium .  Champagne is produced exclusively within the Champagne
region in France, about 80 miles northeast of Paris. The grapes
used in the production of the drink are Pinot Noir, Chardonnay
and Pinot Meunier.  Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , which owns
champagne brands such as Veuve Clicquot, Moet & Chandon and Dom
Perignon, is the world’s biggest champagne merchant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  