-- 
Charities Turn Down Offer of Free Advertising in Final News of the World

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-08T14:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/charities-reject-news-of-the-world-offer-of-free-advertising.html
“Household name” charities have
turned down the offer of free advertisements in the final
edition of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World newspaper because they
fear their own reputations will suffer, said Rob Cope, director
of  Remember a Charity .  Cope, whose London-based organization tries to persuade
people to bequeath money to the 150 charities it represents,
said he knew of three prominent groups that have turned down the
offer, while his own has decided to reject an invitation made
through one of its partner advertising agencies.  James Murdoch , deputy chief operating officer of News
Corp., said when he announced the closure of the News of the
World yesterday that the proceeds of the July 10 final edition
will go to charities and all advertising space will be “donated
to causes and charities that wish to expose their good works to
our millions of readers.” The paper is closing after mounting
allegations over phone-hacking and payments to police officers.  “I know for a fact that three charities have turned them
down -- they felt the risks were greater than the benefits,”
Cope said in a telephone interview today. He declined to name
the charities. “The paper has created a lot of ill-feeling
among the public and the charity sector relies on public
goodwill. We don’t want to jeopardize that,” Cope said.  Advertising this weekend “was something that was a
possibility for us, but we represent 150 charities and we felt
we couldn’t put our members in that position,” Cope said. “A
lot of charities are feeling very worried about being associated
with the paper.”  The  Institute of Fundraising  also warned its members to
make sure they use caution when deciding whether to accept the
offer of money or free advertising space from the News of the
World.  “The decision as to whether a charity ought to accept a
donation or not should be grounded in its mission and policy
objectives,” the institute said in a statement posted on its
website. “A clear policy on the acceptance or refusal of
donations is important for all charitable organizations. Such a
policy needs to be acceptable to all those associated with the
charity and agreed formally by a charities’ trustees.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  