-- 
Chavez Maintains Cabinet to Counter Rumors He’s Faking Cancer

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-07-08T04:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/chavez-keeps-cabinet-to-counter-rumors-he-s-faking-cancer-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
reaffirmed support for his cabinet and military command amid
what he dismissed as rumors about his grip on power after
undergoing cancer surgery.  Chavez, speaking yesterday in a cabinet meeting broadcast on
state television, said that he reaffirmed his support for Vice
President Elias Jaua and the rest of the cabinet, and that his
government must speed up changes in the country. He also
ratified the country’s military command, postponing retirement
for some, whose presence at the cabinet meeting was unusual.  “Despite the rumors, I ratify the Vice President Elias
Jaua,” Chavez said. “There will be no pact with the
bourgeoisie. We’re going to accelerate the pace of economic,
military and social transformations.”  Opposition politicians have intensified calls for Chavez to
temporarily cede power since he traveled to Cuba a month ago and
revealed he has cancer on June 30. Since his unexpected early
return to  Venezuela  on July 4, speculation has mounted among
Venezuelans he may reshuffle his cabinet, including changing his
vice president and defense minister, to surround himself with
trusted officials as his treatment for the unspecified cancer
continues.  Vice President Jaua said July 4 that Chavez would organize
his cabinet “for the new stage” as he recovers from an
operation to remove a cancerous tumor, Agencia Venezolana de
Noticias reported.  Cuba Treatment  After returning from treatment in Cuba, Chavez revealed
that he was in intensive therapy for four days, and said it was
a miracle he was able to return in time for the country’s
bicentennial celebrations on July 5.  “We haven’t won the battle, but we have started to beat
the evil incubated in my body,” Chavez told a crowd gathered
outside the palace that day. “The first stage of complementary
treatment already started. There will be a second and third
stage.”  According to the constitution, if Chavez is deemed to be in
a “temporary absence” of his duties, the vice president will
be sworn in during the period.  Chavez, who has been in power since 1999, has said that
he’ll seek a third-term in next year’s presidential elections.
He changed the constitution in a 2009 referendum to abolish  term
limits  after having extended the terms to six years from five
years when he rewrote the carta magna in 2000.  Chavez has forged strong ties with former Cuban leader
 Fidel Castro  who he calls his father. Venezuela, the largest oil
producer in  South America , sends Cuba about 100,000 barrels of
oil a day in exchange for doctors and sports trainers who work
for government social programs in Venezuela.  Chavez, who spoke twice yesterday, said he is determined to
overcome the cancer. “Never in my life have I had this clear a
commitment that I will win this battle and I will do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  