-- 
China Buys Japan’s Long-Term Debt for Eighth Month to Diversify Reserves

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-07-08T02:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/china-buys-japan-s-long-term-debt-for-eighth-month-to-diversify-reserves.html
China  purchased Japanese long-
maturity bonds for an eighth consecutive month as the larger
nation seeks to diversify the world’s biggest currency reserves.  The country with the fastest growing major economy bought
a net 497.1 billion yen ($6.1 billion) of the debt in May,
according to a statement released by  Japan ’s Ministry of
Finance in  Tokyo  today. That’s the second-biggest monthly
purchase on record, following an all-time high of 1.33 trillion
yen in April. China was a net seller of 707 billion yen of
Japanese short-term notes, today’s data also showed.  “China has been seeking a place to hoard their expanding
foreign-currency reserves and they found the yen as an
alternative to the dollar,” said  Koji Ochiai , chief market
economist at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo. “China
may have shifted to Japan’s longer-term bonds from short-term
debt for higher profit. That could also imply their intention
to hold Japanese assets for a longer time.”  Overseas central banks boosted their holdings of yen-
denominated assets, including Japanese government bonds, by
24.6 percent to about 35 trillion yen last year, according to
 Bank of Japan  data. Bonds made up about 33 trillion yen of the
total. China has more than $3 trillion in foreign reserves.  Demand for Refuge  Global currency reserves rose to $9.694 trillion in the
first quarter from $9.259 trillion at the end of last year, and
those of emerging economies increased to $6.533 trillion from
$6.166 trillion, according to the  International Monetary Fund 
report released June 30. The yen’s share of emerging-market
reserves climbed to 2.9 percent in the first quarter, the most
since September 2000, the data showed.  Concerns that the U.S. economic recovery will lose
momentum and  Europe ’s debt crisis will spread boosted demand
for Japan’s debt as a refuge, pushing benchmark 10-year yields
to 1.085 percent on June 28, the lowest level since November.
Yields were at 1.175 percent as of 11:05 a.m. in Tokyo today.  Japanese  government bonds  due in 10 years and longer
handed investors a 1.2 percent gain in May, the biggest monthly
return this year, based on a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The broader market posted a 0.5 percent advance.  “It’s likely that China kept money it got from the
redemption of short-term bonds in yen assets,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd., Japan’s second-largest publicly traded lender. “Besides
the fact that Japan is the world’s largest net creditor with
current-account surpluses, deflation in Japan increases the
allure of yen assets as a safe investment.”  Real yields have also made Japanese bonds relatively
attractive compared with debt in the U.S., where  core inflation 
accelerated in May at the fastest pace in two years. Ten-year
U.S. Treasuries yielded 42.7 basis points less than the growth
rate of consumer prices. The so-called real yield on similar-
maturity Japanese bonds was a positive 88.3 basis points.  “Diversification of foreign reserves by central banks
around the world including China is a strong trend,” Mizuho’s
Karakama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 