-- 
China Says Its High-Speed Trains Are More Advanced Than Japan’s

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-08T06:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/china-says-its-high-speed-trains-are-more-advanced-than-japan-s.html
China  rejected Japanese
accusations that it violated patents for bullet trains,
saying Chinese technology is more advanced than that used by
its competitor, state-run media reported.  China, which is building the world’s largest high-speed
rail network, also won’t give up the right to file patent
applications for its innovations, Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing Wang Yongping, a spokesman for the Ministry of
Railways.  China CNR Corp Ltd. (601299)  and the China Academy of
Railway Sciences have applied abroad for patents since 2009,
Wang said in a chat on Xinhua’s website, according to the
state-run China Daily newspaper.  Wang spoke after  Japan ’s  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012) 
said earlier this month it would take action if China sought
patents for high-speed trains. China, which opened a high-
speed line between Beijing and Shanghai on June 30, said it
had advanced beyond the technology transferred by Kawasaki in
2004,  China Daily  reported.  “The Beijing-Shanghai high-speed railway and Japan’s
Shinkansen line cannot be mentioned in the same breath, as
many of the technological indicators used by China’s high-
speed railways are far better than those used in Japan’s
Shinkansen,” Wang said, according to Xinhua.  Patents have been granted for more than 1,900 items in
China’s high-speed railway network, with patents for another
481 technologies under review, China Daily reported.  The important thing is to obey global rules, and talks
between Japan and China should be based on World Trade
Organization regulations, Akihiro Ohata, Japan’s transport
minister, said in a briefing in Tokyo today.  China and Japan must not engage in “a heated verbal
battle,” Ohata said.  -- Michael Wei . With assistance from Feifei Shen in Beijing,
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo. Editors: Nicholas Wadhams, Michael Tighe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  