-- 
China Says It’s Reviewing Google, Microsoft Map Applications

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-08T08:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/china-says-it-s-reviewing-google-microsoft-map-applications-1-.html
China  said it’s reviewing  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s license applications to offer online
mapping services in the world’s largest Internet market.  The companies’ Chinese ventures, which submitted their
applications by the July 1 deadline, will be permitted to
continue their services while the review is under way, China’s
State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping said today in an e-mail
interview. The bureau didn’t say when it will make a decision.  Google, which withdrew its search engine in March 2010 to
avoid complying with China’s Internet censorship rules, competes
for online map services in the country with local rivals
including Baidu Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  China has said it
will punish online map providers from this month that don’t
comply with May 2010 rules that prohibit operators from
publishing geographical data deemed sensitive by the government.  Mountain View , California-based Google, which has said
since March 31 that it’s discussing the matter with the Chinese
government, has no update on its online mapping service in
China, spokeswoman  Jessica Powell  said in an e-mail today.
Microsoft’s application is in process, Viola Wang, a spokeswoman
at the company’s MSN venture in China, said in an
e-mail. She said the company couldn’t provide guidance on how
long the application will be reviewed.  Some online map providers have published sensitive
information about China’s geography, posing dangers to national
security, Song Chaozhi, deputy director-general at the surveying
bureau,  said in May 2010 . Rules on online maps issued that month
helped address the risks, Song said.  Mapping Violations  Since 2008, online mapping services have committed more
than 1,000 violations including disclosure of confidential
information and mistakes in drawing the country’s borders, the
official Xinhua News agency had reported.  The licensing system aims to prohibit services that have an
“inadequate awareness of national security,” Xinhua said.  Baidu, Tencent, Sina Corp.,  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , and a  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
venture in China were among the first recipients of online map
licenses in the country, the surveying bureau  said  last year.  In March, Google said the Chinese government is disrupting
its Gmail e-mail service and disguising the blockage as
technical issues on Google’s part. China’s Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Jiang Yu called that claim “unacceptable.”  Google has been losing share in China’s search-engine
market since January 2010, when the U.S. company said it was no
longer willing to comply with Chinese regulations to self-censor
Web content. Two months later, the U.S. company shut its
Google.cn service and redirected Chinese users to a site in Hong
Kong.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
accounted for 19.2 percent of China’s search market by revenue
in the first-quarter, declining from 19.6 percent three months
earlier, according to research company Analysys International.
Baidu’s market share rose to 75.8 percent from 75.5 percent,
according to Analysys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  