-- 
China’s Stock Index Rebound as Banks Rally; Airlines Decline

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-08T04:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/china-s-stock-index-rebound-as-banks-rally-airlines-decline.html
China ’s benchmark stock index rose,
extending a weekly gain, as banks rallied and U.S. economic data
boosted speculation the global recovery is strengthening.  Industrial Bank Co. and Shanghai Pudong Development Bank
Co. climbed at least 2.7 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc. said
lenders may advance on improving liquidity. China Southern
Airlines Co. retreated for the first time in a week after the
South China Morning Post reported airlines have reduced fares on
the Beijing-Shanghai route to compete with high-speed railways.
Gains for equities were limited on speculation a report tomorrow
will show Chinese inflation jumped to a three-year high.  “The market expects the June inflation number to be high
and the relaxation of policy tightening isn’t too likely,” said
Dai Ming,  fund manager  at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management
& Consulting Co. “These factors will limit room for a
rebound.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 5.86 points, or 0.2 percent, to
2,800.13 at the 11:30 a.m. local-break, erasing a 0.3 percent
loss. Almost the same number of stocks rose as those that fell.
The gauge has gained 1.5 percent this week. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
added 0.4 percent to 3,114.36 today.  The central bank raised  interest rates  this week for a
fifth time since the start of last year to cool inflation that
hit a 34-month high in May. The Shanghai gauge has erased much
of this year’s loss of as much as 6.7 percent on speculation
inflation is peaking and fiscal policies such as spending in
affordable housing will support the economy. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said on June 24 efforts to stem inflation have worked.  Banks Rally  A measure of 52 financial stocks gained 1.1 percent, the
most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. Industrial Bank,
part-owned by a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, climbed 3.5 percent
to 14.31 yuan. Pudong Bank, the partner of Citigroup Inc.,
advanced 2.7 percent to 10.20 yuan. Huaxia Bank Co., partly
owned by Deutsche Bank AG, rose 1.8 percent to 11.19 yuan.  Chinese banks may rebound to catch up with gains of other
companies dependent on economic growth as they benefit from an
improving liquidity and policy environment in the second half,
according to HSBC.  “Clearer solutions to local government financing vehicles
and the removal of overhang by strategic investors” will boost
banking shares, Steven Sun, head of China equity strategy at
HSBC, wrote in a report today, referring to Temasek Holdings
Pte’s sale of China Construction Bank Corp. shares.  Data Release  China accelerated the release of sensitive economic data,
about three months after announcing a crackdown on leaks. June
data for consumer and producer prices will be released tomorrow,
six days ahead of the original schedule, Liu Guoning, a press
officer for the bureau, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Inflation accelerated to 6.2 percent in June, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May, the most since July
2008, mainly driven by food costs.  The government won’t reverse its prudent monetary policy in
the short term, the Financial News newspaper reported today,
citing officials and researchers. Sheng Songcheng, head of the
central bank’s statistics department, and Yan Qingmin, assistant
chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission, were among
officials and researchers cited.                       China and  Hong Kong  stocks were cut to “underweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co., which said speculation that
Chinese policymakers are ending their tightening efforts is
“premature.”  Airlines Decline  China is likely to increase banks’ reserve requirements by
50 basis points in the second half, analysts led by  Adrian Mowat 
said in a report today. The property markets in China, Hong Kong
and  Singapore  have peaked, they said.  China Southern, the biggest carrier by fleet size, lost 1.9
percent to 8.31 yuan.  China Eastern  Airlines Corp., the second
largest, dropped 1.1 percent to 5.29 yuan.  Chinese airlines have reduced fares by an average 15
percent on the Beijing-Shanghai route to compete with the new
high-speed trains between the two cities, the  South China
Morning Post  reported, citing Luo Zhuping, a director at China
Eastern.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., the biggest cement producer, slid
for a second day, losing 2.1 percent to 27.15 yuan. Huaxin
Cement Co., the Chinese affiliate of Holcim Ltd., fell 1.7
percent to 26.51 yuan. SAIC Motor Corp., China’s largest
carmaker, lost 2.1 percent to 18.18 yuan.  A gauge of consumer staples producers in the CSI 300 has
risen 3.7 percent this week, the second most among industry
groups. Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second-biggest producer of
baijiu liquor, jumped 4.5 percent, as consumer companies
benefited from a cut in income taxes and speculation that their
earnings will weather an economic slowdown. The nation’s
equities rallied early in the week as a report showing non-
manufacturing industries expanded at the slower pace boosted
prospects the government may ease monetary tightening policies.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  