-- 
CitiMortgage Sued by Iraq War Veteran Over Home Foreclosure

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-08T21:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/citimortgage-sued-by-iraq-war-veteran-over-home-foreclosure.html
A  Citigroup Inc. (C)  unit was sued by an
Iraq War veteran who claims the lender illegally foreclosed on
his home while he was on active military duty.  Jorge Rodriguez, a U.S. Army sergeant, claimed in a
complaint filed today in federal court in Manhattan that he was
in training in preparation for deployment to Iraq in 2006 when
CitiMortgage filed a foreclosure suit against his home in Del
Valle,  Texas .  CitiMortgage lawyers falsely said in an affidavit that
Rodriguez wasn’t on active service at the time, depriving him of
protection under the  Servicemembers Civil Relief Act , or SCRA,
according to the complaint. Rodriguez is seeking to have the
suit certified as a class action against CitiMortgage on behalf
of other service members whose homes were foreclosed.  “This was not an isolated incident,” Rodriguez said in
the complaint. Beginning in December 2003, “CitiMortgage
initiated thousands of foreclosure proceedings across the  United
States  without adequate safeguards to ensure that service
members on active duty were not targeted by CitiMortgage’s
foreclosures.”  The suit seeks unspecified damages and an order restoring
to service members possession of properties foreclosed in
violation of the SCRA.  Sean Kevelighan , a Citigroup spokesman, said the bank is
looking into the matter.  SCRA protections for active-duty members of the military
include a 6 percent cap on pre-service loans, limits on court
proceedings and a ban on foreclosures without court approval.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan Stanley agreed in May to
pay $22.4 million to resolve U.S. allegations that they
improperly foreclosed on active-duty soldiers. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. earlier agreed to a $56 million settlement of claims that it
illegally overcharged military personnel on home loans.  The case is Rodriguez v. CitiMortgage Inc., 11-cv-04718,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  