-- 
Montgomery Civil Rights Group Sues to Block Alabama Immigration Crackdown

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-08T22:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/civil-rights-group-says-it-sued-to-block-new-alabama-immigration-statute.html
An Alabama-based civil rights group
sued to block the state’s new immigration law from taking
effect, calling the statute’s crackdown on illegal immigrants
“the most extreme in the nation.”  The federal lawsuit filed today by the  Southern Poverty Law
Center  in Montgomery challenges such provisions of the statute
as making it a crime to transport illegal immigrants and
requiring school officials to determine the immigration status
of students and their parents.  “ Alabama ’s immigration law is blatantly
unconstitutional,”  Mary Bauer, the law center’s legal
director, said in a statement on the group’s website. “This law
revisits the state’s painful racial past and tramples the rights
of all Alabama residents.”  The suit was brought in federal court in Huntsville on
behalf of several civil rights organizations and unions,
including the  American Civil Liberties Union  and the National
Immigration Law Center.  The plaintiffs include Matt Webster, who is adopting two
boys who don’t have “current federal immigration status,”
according to the complaint. Webster and his wife won’t be able
to obtain lawful status for the children until two years after
the adoption.  Under the Alabama law, Webster would be violating the law
by providing for the children and transporting them, the suit
claims.  Following  Arizona   Alabama Governor Robert Bentley signed the law broadening
police powers on June 9, following Arizona’s Governor Jan Brewer
in requiring local authorities to identify illegal immigrants.
The law is set to take effect on Sept. 1.  Bentley campaigned on the need for “a strong” immigration
bill.  In an interview today, he was asked about the law’s
possible effect on the state.  “I have not talked a lot about it,” Bentley said. “Some
bills don’t work as well as you thought they were going to. So
the next session you change them. We’re planning on looking at
it.”  The law also requires police officers to verify the
immigration status of anyone they stop and suspect may be in the
U.S. illegally. Businesses must use a federal database called E-
Verify to determine whether job applicants are eligible to work.
In addition, the measure makes it a crime to rent housing to
illegal immigrants.  Alabama became the fifth U.S. state to enact such
legislation.  Provisions Blocked  Central provisions of Arizona’s 2010 law and a similar
statute in  Utah , enacted in  March , have been blocked by court
actions. The ACLU on June 27 won a temporary delay in  Georgia ’s
new immigration law from a federal judge in Atlanta. Enforcement
had been slated to begin July 1.  Alabama’s population of about 120,000 unauthorized
immigrants rose almost fivefold from 2000 to 2010, according to
a February estimate by the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington.  The case was assigned to Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn,
chief judge of the Northern District of Alabama.  The case is Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v.
Bentley, 11-cv-02484, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Alabama (Huntsville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 