-- 
Closer Look Proves the Texas Path to Job Growth Isn’t Best: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-08T12:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/closer-look-proves-texas-path-to-u-s-employment-growth-isn-t-best-view.html
The June jobs report released today
shows how hard it is for the U.S. to shake free of persistently
high unemployment. The meager numbers -- only 18,000 new jobs,
far less than forecast, were created and the  unemployment rate 
rose to 9.2 percent from 9.1 percent -- should intensify the
search for pockets of growth. That search will inevitably lead
to  Texas , one of the few spots in the country where people are
finding work.  It’s easy to be charmed by  Texas , but it would be a mistake
to think the state might serve as a national model. Texas
created almost 250,000 jobs in the past two years, nearly as
many as the other 49 states combined. Texas leaders, including
Republican Governor  Rick Perry , credit that success to low taxes
and a business-friendly regulatory approach.  Yes and no. Those factors played a role. To a sizable
degree, however, the state’s booming payrolls are the result of
hard-to-duplicate factors, such as a fast-growing population,
and unusually low wages.  Consider this: Texas is one of the youngest U.S. states,
with a median age of 33, almost four years below the national
average. That means it is blessed with a consumption-driven
economy, full of young adults renting their first apartments. As
families expand, their shopping appetites create thousands of
jobs in retailing and manufacturing.  Each year brings more. The population of Texas is growing 2
percent a year, double the national average. Some of that growth
comes from other states and immigration, chiefly from  Mexico . A
bigger share reflects a high birth rate.  In high-skill professions, such as management and petroleum
engineering, Texas salaries often exceed national norms. For
unskilled labor and service employees, austerity rules. The
Texas Workforce Commission, a state agency, says hourly workers
have earned 4 percent to 7 percent less than their counterparts
nationwide for most of the last decade. For 2009, the U.S.
 Census Bureau  placed Texas third among states in  income
inequality .  Dishwashers in Texas averaged $7.90 an hour in 2009, 10.3
percent below their peers nationwide. Texas sewing-machine
operators made do with $9.35 an hour, 12.6 percent below the 50-
state average. Some 9.5 percent of hourly workers subsist at or
below the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, according to
the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . That leaves Texas tied with
 Mississippi  for the largest share of the population earning no
more than the minimum wage.  Texas’s wage gap “matters a lot” in fueling job growth,
says Mark Dotzour, chief economist at Texas A&M’s Real Estate
Center, an academic research group financed with real-estate
license fees. As he explains it, companies are leaving higher-
cost states and moving to places where they think their expenses
will be lower. Texas is working that trend to its advantage, but
this is hardly a formula that the other 49 states could, or
should, copy.  Favorable demographics and low wages are one way to build
an economy. There are better paths to follow. Congressional
ratification of pending free-trade agreements with Colombia,
Panama and  South Korea  is one. The trade deals will open new
markets for U.S. exports and spur job growth. The hang-up is the
expansion of trade-adjustment assistance that President  Barack Obama  insists on attaching to the Korean pact but that
Republican senators oppose. Obama should drop his demands and
trim the size of the assistance program, which studies show is
outdated and ineffective.  Congress should also allow companies sitting on overseas
profits to bring those earnings home at a corporate-tax rate
lower than the current 35 percent, in exchange for increasing
worker head counts. An alternative to a profit repatriation
holiday is a payroll-tax credit, which would go to employers for
each worker added.  Another promising initiative is the Layoff Prevention Act,
which Democratic Senator Jack Reed introduced this week, to
encourage more states to have work-share programs like the one
in his home state of  Rhode Island . The Reed measure would allow
states to channel federal unemployment money to companies that
reduce workers’ hours instead of laying them off. In return,
workers would make up some of the lost wages with partial
 unemployment benefits . Similar programs have worked well in
 Germany , where the jobless rate is 7 percent, below the level at
the start of the global downturn.  Congress should also consider increasing spending on public
works to repair crumbling roads and bridges and to get idled
construction workers, many of whom have been unemployed for a
year, back onto payrolls.  All these solutions can work across America. They’re
replicable in a way that Texas’s solutions -- no matter how
praiseworthy -- are not. Those interested in an antidote to
long-term joblessness will have to look elsewhere.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 