-- 
Coal India, Sesa Fall on Approval of Draft India Mining Bill

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-08T10:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/coal-india-sesa-fall-on-approval-of-draft-india-mining-bill-1-.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  led declines among
mining companies in Mumbai after a ministers’ panel yesterday
approved a draft mining bill that will erode company profits.  The shares of the world’s largest coal producer fell the
most since their Nov. 4 debut, dropping 8 percent to 362.65
rupees at 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , the nation’s
largest iron-ore exporter, shed 4.4 percent, the most in six
weeks, to 281.75 rupees.  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ) , the metal producer
that also mines zinc ore, fell 4.2 percent, the biggest drop in
more than a year, to 131.10 rupees.  The bill requires coal companies to share 26 percent of
their profit and other miners to pay an amount equal to the
royalty they pay the government for developing areas where they
operate, Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh said yesterday in
New Delhi. The levies will give the state governments about 110
billion rupees ($2.5 billion) annually, he said.  “The miners will face higher costs as a 100 percent
royalty payment is just too high,” Siddharth Rungta, president
of the Federation of Indian Mineral Industries, a mining
tradebody, said today in an interview. “The costs of iron ore
miners will rise 10 percent, which will make us uncompetitive
and dent exports.”  NMDC, Hindalco  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,  India ’s largest iron ore miner, fell 3 percent
to 257.55 rupees.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , the nation’s second-
largest aluminum producer, declined 3.9 percent to close at
188.1 rupees, while  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and  Steel Authority of India
Ltd. (SAIL) , the nation’s top producers, dropped 1.9 percent and 3.9
percent respectively.  The bill, which seeks to replace a more than five-decade
old law, stipulated that miners pay for building schools,
hospitals and homes in mineral rich states. Poverty in these
regions is leading to unrest among citizens, often providing
support for Maoist insurgents.  “Acquiring land for mining is one of the biggest problems
for Coal India,” Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV today. “Sharing profits will help
Coal India get land more easily, and increase mining, production
and profits. It’s a long-term positive for Coal India.”  In a letter to ministers on the panel earlier this week,
Mines Minister Dinsha Patel had suggested scrapping the profit-
sharing provision in the bill and replacing it with sharing of
an amount equal to 26 percent of the royalty payments.  He argued that, faced with losing more than a quarter of
their profit, accounts could be “fudged to hide the actual
profit.” The authorities also may face difficulties managing
the “huge funds,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Rajesh Kumar Singh in
 New Delhi  at   rsingh133@bloomberg.net 
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  