-- 
Sugar Declines on Brazil Ethanol Plan; Coffee, Cocoa Retreat

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-07-08T18:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/cocoa-falls-on-speculation-supply-will-be-ample-sugar-drops.html
Sugar dropped for the first time in a
week as  Brazil  may lower the amount of cane-based fuel that
refiners are required to mix with gasoline, potentially boosting
available supply. Coffee and cocoa fell the most in about three
weeks.  Ethanol made from sugar will be cut to 18 percent of the
fuel supply from 25 percent after falling cane production drove
up prices, according to a government official, who asked not to
be named because the decision hasn’t been made public yet. Sugar
surged 12 percent in the past four sessions on signs supplies
would be limited from Brazil, the world’s biggest exporter.  “We hear the meetings are on, and a decision like this
will increase the availability of sugar in the market,” said
Drew Geraghty, a broker at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . “People are taking some profit off the table after
yesterday’s big jump.”  Raw sugar for October slid 0.16 cent, or 0.5 percent, to
settle at 29.36 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. at 2 p.m. in
New York. The sweetener still climbed 7.7 percent this week.  Production in the Center South, Brazil’s largest growing
area, may drop by as much as 1 million metrics in the current
season compared with a year earlier, Unica, an industry group,
said yesterday.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery fell 5.3
cents, or 2 percent, to $2.633 a pound on ICE, the biggest loss
since June 20.  Cocoa futures for September delivery dropped $95, or 3
percent, to $3,091 a ton in  New York . That’s the largest decline
since June 16.  In  London , refined sugar gained, while robusta coffee and
cocoa retreated on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 