-- 
Commerzbank Unit Eurohypo Must Face U.S. Lawsuit by QVT Fund in Delaware

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-07-08T22:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/commerzbank-unit-eurohypo-must-face-qvt-fund-s-u-s-lawsuit.html
Eurohypo AG, a unit of  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) , must face a U.S. lawsuit by QVT Fund LP over purported
payments the bank owes QVT and other investors in Delaware-based
trusts owned by Eurohypo.  Delaware State Judge Donald F. Parsons denied the bank’s
request to dismiss the complaint and ruled that the issues in
the case must be determined under Delaware law, according to a
court filing today in Delaware Chancery Court.  “I conclude that the central questions before this court
require the application of Delaware law,” and Eurohypo’s
argument that the Delaware lawsuit will cause “inconvenience
and expense” because of a similar German proceeding “are also
unavailing,” Parsons said in the ruling.  The lawsuit stems from a dispute over 2010 dividend
payments that weren’t made to QVT and other holders of trust
preferred securities which they claim they were entitled to
receive, according to court documents.  Maximilian Bicker, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank, wasn’t immediately able to respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Eurohypo created the Delaware trusts in 2003 and 2005, and
raised $1.2 billion of “profit-dependent securities,” court
papers and company statements show. QVT, managed by  New York- 
based hedge fund QVT Financial LP, owns about $226 million of
the trust securities. QVT seeks about $68 million for the Trust
investors, about $14.1 million for itself, and “further
damages” to be determined at trial.  ‘Reaped the Benefits’  “Having reaped the benefits associated with raising
capital from investors using Delaware entities, the defendants
now are unwilling to live up to their obligations,” QVT said in
the complaint.  The bank argues it wasn’t obligated to make dividend
payments to the Trust holders in 2010 because it wasn’t
profitable in 2009, and the payments are based on making a
profit in the previous year.  QVT challenges Eurohypo’s assertion claiming it’s forcibly
being made unprofitable by Commerzbank, the second-biggest bank
in  Germany , under a so-called German law domination agreement,
which requires it to transfer all profits, if any, to its
controlling company. QVT alleges that the bank made scheduled
payments in 2008 and 2009 even though it was unprofitable.  “One plausible inference is that the Bank did not make
sufficient profits in 2009 to trigger the profit prong because
its controlling company took certain actions to limit or
eliminate its profitability,” as a direct consequence of the
domination agreement, Parsons said in the decision.  Mandatory Obligations  QVT also contends the dividend payments become mandatory
obligations when a security equal or subordinate to its own in
the  capital structure  receives payments or is redeemed,
according to court documents. QVT says the 2010 mandatory
dividend payments were triggered by payments and redemption
Eurohypo made to so-called participation-certificates holders in
June, July, September and November 2009.  The bank claims that the participation-certificates are
debt securities and therefore not on par with the trust
preferred securities and not mandatory. Eurohypo also argues
that it can’t make any discretionary payments, which it
considers the trust dividend payments to be, due to
Commerzbank’s recapitalization.  The key issue that must be resolved is “whether
distributions made on the participation certificates in 2010
despite the bank’s unprofitability in 2009, still obligated the
bank’s subsidiaries to make dividend payments to the trust
preferred security holders in 2010,” Parsons said in his
decision.  The case is QVT Fund LP v. Eurohypo Capital Funding, CA5881
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  