-- 
Confused U.S. Policy to Blame for Libya’s Muddle: John Bolton

-- B y   J o h n   B o l t o n
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/confused-u-s-policy-to-blame-for-libya-s-muddle-john-bolton.html
Casey Stengel reportedly once asked,
after becoming manager of the hapless  New York Mets , “Can’t
anybody here play this game?” Much the same question applies to
the U.S.-NATO military intervention in  Libya , now in its fourth
excruciating month.  Although it is sensible for the allies to remove the
dangers posed by  Muammar Qaddafi ’s threatened return to
international terrorism, to date there is little positive to say
about the political leadership of the operation.  Last week, French authorities acknowledged parachuting
“light weapons” (including machine guns and rocket launchers) to
rebel forces in western Libya. The Russian foreign minister,
Sergei Lavrov, immediately criticized the move, arguing that it
violated a United Nations Security Council resolution from March
that imposed an arms embargo on Libya.  France responded that it had authority to supply weapons to
the rebels because of a subsequent council resolution
authorizing military force to protect Libyan civilians, under
the  “responsibility to protect” doctrine.  China , which with
Russia had abstained on that resolution, sided with Moscow.
Britain, meanwhile, disclosed that it was supplying the
insurgents with body armor and uniforms, having earlier
acknowledged sending military advisers to Libya to assist them.  Arming Terrorists  In a further development last week, Spanish officials
expressed concern that weapons from forces loyal to Qaddafi were
coming into the hands of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, known
as AQIM. Either Qaddafi was conveying the weapons directly to
help the group carry out terrorist attacks against the West, or
his disintegrating forces were selling their arms to finance
their post-Qaddafi way of life.  Either way, AQIM capabilities are being enhanced because of
the inability of the U.S. and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization to bring the Libyan conflict to what we used to
call “victory” in the less-nuanced, less-sophisticated days
before President  Barack Obama  took office.  These most recent signs of incoherence in our Libyan
intervention underscore the broader risks of failure there.
Despite efforts to reset relations with  Russia , which in several
cases have been little short of appeasement, Moscow remains
dissatisfied with U.S. policy. Indeed, Lavrov’s recent caustic
comments about the Libyan operation suggest that the Obama
administration’s approach is reaping what accommodation often
produces: demands for yet more accommodation. Although Beijing
hasn’t yet been as vocal in its criticism, the Chinese
undoubtedly perceive the same U.S. weakness and indecisiveness.  Limited Exercise  Obama set the tone for this exercise in Libya at the
outset. He limited the military mission to protecting civilians;
by his own admission, he waited to act until the very last
minute when rebel strongholds were under imminent attack; he
declared publicly there would be no U.S. “boots on the ground”;
and he insisted on advance approval by the UN  Security Council 
and the  Arab League .  Then, after U.S. forces dominated the first days of the
“kinetic military activity,” his administration abruptly ceased
most U.S. strike missions, even as it continued to supply the
logistical, operational and intelligence backbone for air
operations by NATO. By pretending to abdicate to our alliance
partners, we behaved as if NATO hadn’t from its inception been
U.S.-led and dominated, leaving our allies shaking their heads.  On March 18, Obama expressly said he wanted Qaddafi removed
from power, but that we wouldn’t use force to do so: “We are not
going to use force to go beyond a well-defined goal --
specifically, the protection of civilians in Libya.” This is the
“responsibility to protect” doctrine, which countenances force
for humanitarian purposes, at least as defined by those dropping
the ordnance.  Errant Bombs  Subsequently, NATO strikes have killed one of Qaddafi’s
children and three of his grandchildren, and the regime claims
numerous other civilians have also died. NATO has admitted to
mistakenly attacking rebel convoys on more than one occasion.  Even humanitarian interventions can cause tragedies.  This inherent confusion among our stated goals, the
numerous restrictions imposed on NATO forces, and Obama’s
unwillingness to do what is necessary -- namely, removing
Qaddafi -- means that the Libyan operation has no end in sight.  Here is where the self-gratifying, morally smug concept of
the “responsibility to protect” unravels. The dispute between
Russia and  France  over the terms of Security Council resolutions
isn’t legalistic quibbling about almost incomprehensible UN-
speak. Instead, it reflects a real disagreement over what the
appropriate and necessary action is, and equally importantly,
who can authorize and control it.  Violating Arms Embargo  Improbably, Moscow actually has the better analysis; the
resolution authorizing force to protect civilians reaffirmed the
earlier arms embargo, meaning governments must adhere to both
provisions, not choose between them. France’s interpretation
requires arguing that the resolutions are ambiguous or
internally contradictory, though that wouldn’t be a first for
the Security Council.  The lesson Russia and China will learn is that Obama’s
understanding of hard power and cold steel is inadequate at
best, and that his leadership is in rhetoric rather than action.
They will see the Libya episode as a further signal of the
decline of U.S. resolve and of our capability to act decisively
in distant lands.  The lesson for the U.S. is that it shouldn’t always ask
permission from foreigners when pursuing its interests, but can
ask forgiveness later if necessary. That, of course, is the
conclusion Obama is least likely to derive. The absence of clear
U.S. leadership on Libya has produced the current impasse, both
diplomatically and militarily. Although NATO should ultimately
prevail, it is wrenching that our president has caused so many
of the problems we now confront.  (John Bolton, who served as ambassador to the  United
Nations  in the administration of President  George W. Bush , is a
senior fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  in
 Washington . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 