-- 
Consumer Borrowing in U.S. Increases, Led by Credit Cards

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-08T19:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/consumer-borrowing-in-u-s-rises-led-by-credit-cards-correct-.html
Consumer borrowing in the U.S. rose
in May for the eighth straight month, led by a boost in credit
card use and  student loans .  Credit increased by $5.08 billion after a revised $5.67
billion gain in April, the  Federal Reserve  said in Washington
today. Economists projected a $4 billion increase, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumers may be ramping up credit-card debt as gasoline
prices and unemployment climbed. At the same time, high fuel
costs are probably keeping households from spending on big-
ticket items like autos.  “Even though we’re moving higher, we still have a long way
to go,” said  Brian Jones , an economist at  Societe Generale  in
 New York . “People that do have jobs are perhaps feeling a
little bit more secure in them and they feel a little bit more
comfortable about taking on debt.”  The median forecast was based on a survey of 37 economists.
Estimates ranged from an increase of $6.5 billion to a decrease
of $3 billion.  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, rose by $3.37
in May after decreasing $877 million in April, according to the
central bank’s data. It was the first gain this year and the
biggest since June 2008.  School Loans  Non-revolving debt, including educational loans and loans
for autos and mobile homes, climbed $1.71 billion for the month
after increasing by $6.54 billion in April. The figure included
a $5.5 billion boost in federal government lending for education
before seasonal adjustment. The Fed’s report doesn’t track debt
secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of credit.  Unemployment climbed to 9.2 percent in June as the  U.S.
economy  added 18,000 jobs, Labor Department figures showed
today. Slow employment gains are likely dimming Americans’
outlooks, making households hesitant to spend.  Stocks dropped on concern the slowdown in employment will
hurt economic growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9
percent to 1,340.74 at 3:10 p.m. in New York.  Treasury
securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
down to 3.01 percent from 3.14 late yesterday.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
economic activity, unexpectedly stagnated in May, Commerce
Department figures showed on June 27, as high fuel and food
prices kept consumers from opening their wallets.  Auto Sales  Americans also curbed spending on autos. High retail
gasoline prices and lingering supply chain disruptions from the
March earthquake and tsunami in Japan drove auto demand down to
11.4 million in June, its slowest pace in 12 months.  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  reported on July 1 that the auto-
makers’ U.S. sales rose 10 percent in June, missing analysts’
estimates.  The elevated gas prices earlier in the year weighed on
 consumer confidence , David Nelms, chief executive officer of
Discover Financial Inc., said in an interview with Bloomberg
News on June 24. The Riverwoods, Illinois-based credit-card
company is relying on an uptick in new U.S. consumers borrowing
from Discover rather than waiting for existing customers to
borrow more, Nelms said in the interview.  “Many of our customers have deleveraged and paid down some
of their debt over the last couple of years since the financial
crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in  Washington  
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  