-- 
Corporate Earnings Poised for Smallest Gain in 2 Years in U.S.

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/corporate-earnings-poised-for-smallest-gain-in-2-years-in-u-s-.html
U.S. corporations are set to report
the slowest earnings gain since the recession ended as companies
from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  struggled with rising
oil and commodity prices and a slowdown in  consumer confidence 
that may continue to hamper spending this year.  Earnings per share for all Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies rose 13 percent in the second quarter, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profits gained 18
percent in the first quarter after jumping 37 percent in 2010.  “We aren’t going to see the dramatic increase we’ve seen
in some quarters,” said  John Carey , who helps manage $260
billion for Pioneer Investment Management Inc. in Boston.
“ Consumer spending  got hammered a bit because of higher oil
prices and we have also seen a drop in consumer confidence,
which maybe hurt numbers.”  While rising oil prices likely boosted profit at  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to their highest levels in almost
three years, they led to increasing costs at retailers such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , airlines and carmakers worldwide.  Evidence of a slowdown is also building outside of the U.S.
Earnings in the Stoxx 600  Europe  Index may rise 21 percent this
year, after gaining 63 percent in 2010, according to Bloomberg
data. A construction slump and weaker consumer spending hurt
sales at Amsterdam-based Royal Philips Electronics NV, the
world’s biggest maker of light bulbs, and U.K. shoppers facing
government spending cuts are restraining purchases.  Oil Prices Down  Some of the factors that contributed to the slowdown last
quarter have waned, including the impact of the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , which likely caused losses at
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Gasoline prices have come
down, with U.S. retail fuel costs dropping 10 percent on July 6
from $3.99 per gallon in May, the highest since July 2008,
according to figures from AAA, the nation’s largest auto club.  The gain in earnings at S&P companies in the second quarter
was the slowest since the third quarter of 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. Profits may rise 19 percent this year and 14
percent in 2012, according to the data.  “Because this recovery is slow and steady it may last
longer than some in the past,” Carey said.  Expectations may still be too high in the U.S. in an
environment where the economy is slowing, said  Jack Ablin , chief
investment officer for Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank , which
oversees $60 billion.  “My biggest concern is that companies continue to expect
wider margin expansion throughout the rest of the year,” Ablin
said. “I see a difficult path for margins from now to the end
of the year.”  Ford, GM  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, is predicted to post a
19 percent decline in profit to $2.15 billion, excluding some
items, as sales dropped 8.5 percent to $32.1 billion, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  General Motors
Co. (GM) , based in  Detroit , may say profit surged to $2.08 billion on
revenue of $36.2 billion, a 9.2 percent gain.  The largest U.S. automakers raised prices and lowered
discounts offers to a five-year low in their home market during
the quarter. That may have helped offset slower growth in U.S.
sales.  “We’re more bullish on pricing than demand,”  Itay Michaeli , a New York-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a
phone interview. “Because the industry has been more price-
disciplined and the  U.S. economy  has been a bit stagnant, demand
could be disappointing in the second half of the year and
pricing could be the source of surprise.”  Alcoa, Dow Chemical  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, is
scheduled to be the first member of the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to report second-quarter earnings on July 11 after the
market closes. Higher aluminum prices may have helped New York-
based Alcoa increase earnings to 34 cents a share, from 13 cents
a year earlier, according to the average estimate.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S. chemical maker by sales,
expanded second-quarter margins for plastics such as
polyethylene as prices rose faster than raw-material costs, said
 Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisers. Demand in  China  probably was better than the market
expects, he said.  Net income at Midland, Michigan-based Dow advanced 52
percent to 84 cents a share, excluding some items, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon Mobil, based in Irving,  Texas , is predicted to report
a 50 percent increase in second-quarter net income to $11.3
billion. Earnings at  San Ramon , California-based Chevron may
have jumped 32 percent to $7.1 billion. Such profits would be
their largest since the third quarter of 2008.  Rising Fuel Demand  Worldwide demand for petroleum to make gasoline, diesel and
jet fuel will continue to grow for the rest of 2011, driven by
economic expansion in China and  India , the  International Energy
Agency  said in a June 16 report. The Paris-based IEA said global
crude demand will rise by 1.3 million barrels a day this year, a
1.5 percent increase from 2010.  In Europe, demand for some goods was also damped by tepid
consumer confidence and rising oil prices, combined with
concerns about the Greek debt crisis.  U.K. retailers are anticipating little improvement in
consumer spending for the remainder of the year as shoppers
contend with rising fuel prices and government spending cuts.  “Consumer confidence is being affected by the state of the
global economy, it’s not something particular to any market,”
 Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  told reporters
at the annual general meeting in Nottingham, England, on July 1.
“Confidence is lower than it was a year ago, consumers are
feeling the pinch, it’s rising fuel prices, it’s rising taxes,
it’s uncertainties about employment and that inevitably means
it’s tough out there.”  German Companies  Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering
company, last week predicted growth will be tougher to achieve
in the second half as the stimulus from an economic rebound
peters out.  German carmakers, led by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , are predicted to be
a bright spot, and will probably show profit gains in the
quarter. VW’s Audi, Daimler AG’s Mercedes and  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  are all targeting record sales this year.  In Japan, the record earthquake damaged factories and a
stronger yen eroded overseas earnings.  Toyota, Japan’s biggest carmaker, may report a net loss of
85 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the three months ending June
30, according to the average estimate compiled by Bloomberg. The
company reported net income of 190.5 billion yen a year earlier.  Honda Motor Co., the country’s third-biggest automaker, is
predicted to post a net loss of 45.8 billion yen, compared with
a 272.5 billion yen profit a year earlier.  Soaring Yen  The yen gained 15 percent in 2010 and soared to a postwar
high of 76.25 per dollar on March 17. Toyota, which built 55
percent of its cars outside Japan last year, said June 10 the
stronger yen may cut profit by 100 billion yen this fiscal year.
A stronger yen reduces earnings repatriated from overseas.  “This year’s results won’t match last year’s, when there
was a subsidy program, and the drop in sales will be immense,”
said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc.
in  Tokyo . “The high yen is becoming the new normal.”  Tokyo-based Sony may report a loss of 2.5 billion yen,
compared with a 25.7 billion yen profit a year earlier,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Japan’s largest consumer-electronics exporter halted operations
at 10 plants and two research centers following the earthquake.  Food companies have faced rising prices of staples
including sugar, meat and corn over the past year. Restaurants
operators including McDonald’s have raised prices to help offset
surging commodity costs.  McDonald’s, Wal-Mart  Net income at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s may have
gained 9 percent last quarter, according to the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, after rising 11 percent in the
first quarter. In May, U.S. sales at stores open at least 13
months had their slowest monthly growth since February 2010.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, is predicted to post
a 5 percent gain in second-quarter profit. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company is expanding abroad to counter sales at
U.S. stores open at least a year that have declined for eight
consecutive quarters.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
the other four largest U.S. carriers will have a combined profit
of about $1.2 billion for the second quarter, according to the
average estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, as higher
fares and demand for summer vacation travel overcame a 47
percent jump in jet-fuel prices during the quarter.  Travel ‘Weakness’  Chicago-based United released data on June 23 that showed
revenue for each seat flown a mile would rise about 4 percent in
June, trailing May’s 15 percent gain.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines posted a unit revenue increase of about 5 percent for
the quarter, lagging behind the 7.6 percent estimated by  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst.  There is a “weakness” in travel to and from Europe, Delta
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said in a June 30
interview. The Atlanta-based carrier plans to cut capacity by 4
percent after Labor Day in September and Anderson said he will
“continue to look and tweak it and make changes” to the seat-
reduction plan if demand doesn’t strengthen.  Some U.S. companies are benefiting from demand in emerging
countries.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker,
reiterated in May that its second-quarter predictions for sales
and profit margins were “right on,” as increasing orders for
server chips used in Internet data centers offset slowing sales
of consumer laptop computers. Intel Chief Executive Officer Paul Otellini said analysts underestimated the rising demand for
computers in emerging markets such as Brazil that is
compensating for weaker demand in Western Europe and the U.S.  Pharmaceutical companies  Earnings at S&P pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
may have risen 1.6 percent from the same period last year,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  A dip in medical procedures that’s lasted more than a year
is likely to continue to skew earnings for health companies,
said John Sullivan, an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in
Boston. For drug- and medical-device makers, it’s meant lower
sales, he said.  Pharmaceutical companies have tried to offset the decline
with job and cost cuts, and the benefits of a weakening U.S.
dollar, which made their products less expensive in the rest of
the world, Sullivan said.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in  New York , may post an earnings
decline of 6.5 percent, to 58 cents a share excluding certain
items, according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 