-- 
Countrywide Wages Victorious Tranche Warfare Against Investors

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T19:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/countrywide-wages-victorious-tranche-warfare-against-mortgage-debt-holders.html
Investors who sued over $351 billion
in downgraded Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage-backed
securities after the 2007 subprime market collapse may have to
settle for less than 1 percent of what they initially sought.  U.S. District Senior Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles,
who narrowed the case to $2.6 billion in bonds and dropped
Countrywide parent  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  as a defendant, has
gone further than other judges in scaling back such claims. Her
rulings in April and May show the difficulty of trying to hold
banks liable for billions of dollars in debt downgraded to junk.  “The recent court rulings provide encouragement for
Countrywide and Bank of America and could indicate that the
courts would limit or reduce the number of claims in these cases
or perhaps dismiss them in their entirety,” said  Patrick
McManemin , a lawyer with Patton Boggs LLP in  Dallas  who has
worked on both sides of mortgage-securities cases and isn’t
involved in the Los Angeles litigation.  Countrywide, based in Calabasas, California, was once the
biggest U.S. residential home lender, originating or purchasing
about $1.4 trillion in mortgages from 2005 to 2007. The bulk of
them were sold to investors as mortgage-backed securities. Bank
of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The  Los Angeles  lawsuit, filed last year and led by the
Iowa Public Retirement System, was, at $351 billion, the largest
in terms of securities at stake among dozens of cases brought
against lenders and underwriters. A hearing on Countrywide’s
next bid to have the claims dismissed is scheduled for Sept. 12.  Securities Act  The case, like similar suits brought under the U.S.
Securities Act of 1933, isn’t part of an $8.5 billion settlement
announced June 29 between Bank of America and 22 institutional
investors in Countrywide mortgage-backed securities. That
accord, if approved, will resolve investors’ claims that
Countrywide was required under contract to repurchase loans that
didn’t meet its underwriting guidelines.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Banks and underwriters being sued argued that the offering
documents for those bonds adequately warned investors of the
risks. They claimed the securities have performed as intended
and the investors have been paid what they are owed from the
underlying mortgages.  Judges in  New York ,  Boston , Los Angeles and  San Francisco 
have dismissed or scaled back claims because plaintiffs lacked
standing -- meaning they haven’t shown how they were
sufficiently damaged or that they are the right party to sue --
or failed to sue before the statute of limitations expired.  Challenging Aggressively  “It’s real clear the defendants are challenging these
cases aggressively,” said William Sullivan, a lawyer with Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP in Los Angeles who represented
two former Countrywide executives dropped from the case in
Pfaelzer’s court. “The plaintiffs got exactly what they
bargained for, and now they are trying to shift the
responsibility.”  Shareholders who sued lenders including Countrywide and
investment banks whose stock plunged have been more successful
than buyers of mortgage bonds. The stockholders alleged they
lost money because the companies didn’t disclose their risky
lending and the danger posed to them by mortgage-backed
securities.  Shareholders have reached settlements in 23 cases for a
total of about $2.36 billion, according to data compiled by
Kevin LaCroix, a lawyer in Beachwood,  Ohio , who tracks the cases
on his blog, the D&O Diary. The largest was settled last year by
Bank of America with Countrywide shareholders for $624 million.  Three Settlements  Among bond investor suits filed during the same period as
the shareholder cases, there may be as few as three settlements.  One was filed in 2009 by mutual funds and clients of
Pacific Investment Management Co. over $550 million in
securities that Newport Beach, California-based Pimco bought
from a former General Motors Corp. unit. That case was settled
in January 2010 in federal court in Santa Ana, California. Terms
weren’t disclosed in court filings.  A second case pitting New Mexico pension funds against
Countrywide settled in November for $162 million in Santa Fe
state court. And on July 6,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay $125
million to settle claims by investors including pension funds in
 Detroit  and  New Orleans  that it misled them about the risks of
mortgage-backed securities they purchased.  Damaged by Downgrades  LaCroix attributes the low number of settlements to the
complexity of the cases, the large number of companies involved,
and disagreement about whether investors were damaged by
downgrades of the securities.  “It’s difficult to find common ground if you can’t agree
on what damages there might have been,” LaCroix said in a
telephone interview.  In the Los Angeles case before Pfaelzer, investors claim
that Countrywide’s public offering documents for the mortgage-
backed bonds didn’t disclose it was disregarding its guidelines
for originating home loans.  The value of the securities plummeted when they were
downgraded to junk in 2008 and 2009, the investors said, without
specifying losses in court papers.  In a case against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in  Manhattan 
federal court, investors alleged their mortgage-backed
securities were worth 35 cents to 45 cents on the dollar in
December 2008.  Pfaelzer Downsized Case  Pfaelzer, 85, downsized the Countrywide case in November,
ruling that under the 1933 law regulating the sale of new
securities, the pension funds can sue only for offerings they
participated in, not for all those sold based on the same
allegedly misleading registration statement.  As a result, the judge reduced the case to 14 offerings
with a face value of about $20 billion, out of 427 offerings
covered by the original complaint totaling $351 billion. She
went further in May, ruling that the plaintiffs may sue only for
specific tranches they bought within the 14 offerings. Mortgage-
backed bonds are sold in separate tranches, or layers,
representing different levels of risk and  interest rates .  Given the differences among underlying mortgage pools, the
plaintiffs weren’t necessarily harmed by nonperforming loans in
the tranches they didn’t buy, the judge ruled.  ‘Significant Differences’  “The key to the standing issue is the significant
differences between the underlying pools of mortgages,”
Pfaelzer said in her May 5 decision. “In most of the offerings,
the senior tranches were backed by different groups of  mortgage
loans  within the overall offering pool.”  That ruling removed 96 percent of the tranches and cut the
amount of the securities at issue to $2.6 billion.  The judge said in April that Bank of America couldn’t be
held liable for bond investors’ losses. The bank bought
Countrywide in 2008 after the lender’s shares fell 90 percent.  So-called successor liability doesn’t apply to an acquiring
company when it buys all or most of the assets of another, she
ruled. The investors failed to show that the transaction was a
“de facto merger” rather than an asset transfer under the law
of  Delaware , where the bank is incorporated, the judge said.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, called Pfaelzer’s decision to
exclude the bank “very comprehensive and well reasoned” in an
e-mailed statement. She declined to comment on other aspects of
the case, including possible liabilities the bank or its units
may face.  Hold Request Denied  Pfaelzer, nominated to the bench by President Jimmy Carter,
denied a request by the investors to put the Los Angeles case on
hold so they may appeal her rulings. The plaintiffs said in a
May 16 filing that the restrictions she imposed went further
than those of any other federal judge.  Other courts have consistently allowed investors to sue for
all the tranches in an offering, said Steven Toll, a lawyer for
the plaintiffs with Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC in
 Washington .  “It is the language in the offering prospectuses that is
misleading,” Toll said. “It’s in the offering statement. It’s
not in the tranches.”  The $8.5 billion settlement announced last month was
reached by a different legal avenue: contract law. The bond
investors asked Bank of New York Mellon, as their trustee, to
force Countrywide to uphold its obligation to repurchase any
delinquent loans. BNY Mellon negotiated the settlement, which
must still be approved by a New York state judge in Manhattan,
with investors and Bank of America.  Governing Agreement  Those bondholders together needed to own a total of at
least 25 percent of the trust, under the governing agreement,
said Isaac Gradman, a mortgage-backed securities litigation
consultant with IMG Enterprises in Petaluma,  California .  Many of the securities-law cases “were filed when the
investors didn’t have 25 percent of a trust and didn’t have
access to the loan files to show evidence of breaches of
contract,” Gradman said. “They wanted to get a foot in the
door and collect evidence once they got past motions to
dismiss.”  Toll said he doesn’t expect the settlement to affect his
lawsuit. Countrywide may argue that any claims by the investors
in the securities lawsuit should be offset by the settlement of
the repurchase claims, he said.  Fraud Claims  Bank of America said June 29 that the settlement doesn’t
release securities law or fraud claims on bonds covered in the
deal, and that investors including “certain members” of the
group of 22 institutional firms that signed the accord are
pursuing such claims.  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the investors in the $8.5
billion settlement, declined to comment on whether any of her
clients are in securities-law cases against Countrywide.  Countrywide, meanwhile, is pushing for Pfaelzer to be put
in charge of handling all of its institutional investor
litigation in courts throughout the U.S.  Citing six new lawsuits filed by investors who opted out of
the Iowa pension fund case in Los Angeles after Pfaelzer’s
November rulings, Countrywide said in a May 23 filing with the
U.S.  Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation  that she is
“uniquely well-positioned” to preside over a unified case.  The Los Angeles case is Maine State Retirement System v.
Countrywide Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles federal court
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 