-- 
Student Challenges Laptop Seizure at Border

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/customs-seizure-of-laptop-at-u-s-border-is-challenged-in-student-lawsuit.html
A U.S. judge is weighing whether to
halt a lawsuit filed by a graduate student whose laptop was
seized by customs agents as he crossed the border from  Canada 
and found to contain pictures of rallies by Hamas and Hezbollah.  U.S. District Judge Robert Korman in  Brooklyn , New York,
yesterday put off ruling on whether to allow the case to go
forward. Pascal Abidor, a 27-year-old U.S.-French dual citizen,
represented by the  American Civil Liberties Union , seeks to
force border guards to show a “reasonable suspicion” before
searching  laptop computers  and other devices.  Abidor brought the case against the U.S. Department of
 Homeland Security  and its secretary, Janet Napolitano, in
September, saying such seizures violated the constitutional
rights to free speech and to protection against improper
searches.  “There are lots of burdens people are subject to in order
to protect their own security and the security of others,”
Korman said at a hearing yesterday. He said people can choose to
travel without sensitive information if they fear it will fall
into the wrong hands, just as they did 20 years ago before
personal computers became commonplace.  “Not everyone has the choice to leave behind confidential
information,” said Catherine Crump, a lawyer for the ACLU,
citing attorneys and journalists.  More than 6,500 people, around half of them U.S. citizens,
had electronic devices searched in a 20-month period starting in
October 2008, according to Abidor’s complaint. In an eight-month
period, 220 electronic devices were held, lawyers for Abidor
said.  Broad Policies  Broad policies grant border guards access to information
even if it enjoys medical, legal or journalistic privilege, and
those policies don’t set limits on how long authorities can keep
electronic devices, the lawyers said.  The U.S. said only one in 90,000 people coming into the
country is searched, a necessary practice to detect drugs, child
pornography and money laundering. The  Supreme Court  in 2004
found that the belongings of people entering the U.S. can be
searched without “reasonable suspicion, probable cause or
warrant,” lawyers for the U.S. wrote in court filings.
Electronics such as laptop computers and mobile phones fall
under that rule, the U.S. said.  Abidor, an Islamic studies graduate student at  McGill
University  in  Montreal , was taken aside by U.S. officials on a
train on his way home to Brooklyn in May 2010. Customs agents
searching his laptop found images of rallies by Hamas and
Hezbollah, both designated as foreign terrorist  organizations  by
the U.S State Department.  Doctoral Thesis  The pictures were downloaded from the Internet as part of
his research into Shiites in Lebanon, the topic of his doctoral
thesis, Abidor said he told the agents. He said he was patted
down, handcuffed, taken off the train and held in a cell for
three hours before being released without charge.  Abidor said he didn’t get his laptop, with the sole copy of
his graduate work, for 11 days. When he did, there was evidence
that his files, including research, personal photos and chats
with his girlfriend, had been searched, he said.  The lawsuit was also brought on behalf of the National
Press Photographers Association, some of whose 7,000 members
have been subject to searches and seizures, according to court
papers.  The case is Abidor v. Napolitano, 10-cv-04059, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 