-- 
DoCoMo to Raise Smartphone Sales Target as iPhone Market Share Shrinks

-- B y   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 
2011-07-08T06:20:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/docomo-to-raise-smartphone-target-as-iphone-share-shrinks-1-.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s largest
mobile-phone carrier, will raise its smartphone sales target on
expectations its models using Google Inc.’s Android system will
lure more users, eroding the share held by Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  “Users think Android smartphones are more convenient than
Apple’s iPhone because Android lets them have Japanese functions
like osaifu keitai,” the debit card function built into many
Japanese mobile phones, President Ryuji Yamada said in an
interview in  Tokyo  today.  DoCoMo, whose market share fell below 50 percent after
rival Softbank Corp. introduced the iPhone three years ago, will
announce the new smartphone target in October when reporting
mid-term earnings, Yamada said. The carrier is counting on
touch-screen Android phones that surf the Internet and download
media to lure users from the iPhone, which accounts for about 60
percent of smartphone shipments in  Japan , according to MM
Research Institute Ltd.  DoCoMo had said it expected to sell 6 million smartphones
this fiscal year, compared with 2.52 million in the 12 months
ending March 2011.  Handsets running Android software captured 57 percent of
Japan’s smartphone market last fiscal year, cutting the iPhone’s
share, according to MM Research Institute Ltd. Android phones
shipments rose to 4.91 million units in the 12 months ended
March 31, Tokyo-based MM said in a May 10 statement. That
compares with sales of 250,000 units, or 11 percent of the
market, a year earlier when devices running Google’s software
were first widely available in Japan.  Smartphone Shipments  Apple shipped 3.23 million iPhones in Japan last fiscal
year, accounting for 38 percent of the nation’s smartphone
market, down from 72 percent in the previous year, the statement
said.  Shipments of domestic smartphones in Japan rose to an
estimated 20 million units in the year ended March 31, 9.1
percent higher than MM’s forecast, the researcher said in a
statement July 7.  Smartphones will overtake regular mobile phones in Japan in
the year ending March 2013, reaching 19.3 million units,
according to MM Research. Shipments of the devices will climb to
24.1 million in fiscal 2015, it said.  Separately, Yamada said DoCoMo will form a venture with
Baidu Inc. in  China  next month, confirming an earlier report in
today’s Nikkei newspaper. The venture, owned 80 percent by the
Beijing-based Baidu and the rest by DoCoMo, will provide anime,
game and e-book services for smartphones. DoCoMo will invest
$22.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  