-- 
Dodgers Bankruptcy Judge Strikes Fan Letters From Docket as Inappropriate

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-07-08T19:21:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/dodgers-fan-letters-ordered-removed-from-team-s-bankruptcy-court-docket.html
Los Angeles  Dodgers fans can’t post
anti-owner letters on the  Major League Baseball  team’s
bankruptcy docket, a judge said, ordering them removed from the
court record.  The letters, obtained before the judge had them deleted,
included one from Greg MacDonald of Ontario, California,
referring to Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  as a “life-long snake-
oil salesman.”  In another, Michael Evans of Artesia, California, wrote
that Major League Baseball “created this mess” by not
controlling McCourt. He urged an auction to someone who can make
the Dodgers “the Yankees of the West.”  “The court well understands the right and motivation of
fans to express their concerns for the baseball team they love
and the court respects their passion,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware , wrote today. “Nonetheless,
it is not proper for the court to docket fans’ letters.”  Shareholders, employees and individuals owed small amounts
of money sometimes send letters to bankruptcy courts complaining
about the handling of a case. They have a legal right to
participate because they are considered creditors. The fans
whose letters were removed by Gross didn’t claim to be
creditors.  ‘They Owe Me’  MacDonald, 33, said he has been a fan of the Dodgers since
1986, when he was 8 and the team was still owned by the family
of Walter O’Malley, who moved the club to Los Angeles from
Brooklyn. He sent the letter to the judge because he feels like
a creditor, even though the Dodgers don’t owe him any money,
MacDonald said.  “They owe me a good product on the field,” he said in an
interview today.  Dodgers spokesman Steve Sugerman declined to comment.  Ty Manion of Manhattan Beach,  California , said in a letter
that he arrived from  Wisconsin  in 1995 and became a Dodgers fan
“over time.” He wrote that he has been discouraged by long
concession lines that most recently made him miss four innings.  Colin True of  Van Nuys , who described himself in a letter
as a “lifelong baseball fan” in the Los Angeles area, asked
Gross to help “this once proud sports franchise.”  Also today, Major League Baseball and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s Highbridge Capital Management LLC submitted opposing
letters about whether the bank should be forced to turn over
documents tied to its proposal to loan the Dodgers $150 million.  Loan Documents Sought  The league said in its letter that it needs the
information to prepare for a hearing this month about the
proposed loan. Highbridge argued that the league can get any
information it needs directly from the Dodgers.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy on June 27 after Major
League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  named a monitor to
oversee the team and rejected a proposed television-rights deal
McCourt negotiated with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Selig appointed a monitor in part because of security
concerns raised after a group of Dodgers’ fans beat a San
Francisco Giants fan following a game this year, team attorney
Bruce Bennett said in court yesterday.  Bennett said baseball’s reaction to the beating showed that
McCourt is being treated differently by Selig, because other
teams have had similar problems without a monitor being
appointed. The league has denied that McCourt is being
treated unfairly.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 