-- 
Economists Cite Seasonal Variations for Jobs Miss

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-07-08T19:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/economists-stunned-by-errant-job-forecasts-blame-adp-seasonal-effects.html
Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , said
he was “stunned” by today’s U.S. employment report.  He wasn’t the only one.  Not a single economist among 85 surveyed by Bloomberg News
correctly forecast the 18,000 increase in payrolls in June
reported by the Labor Department. Estimates ranged from a low of
60,000 to a high of 175,000. The median was 105,000 -- almost
six times the actual number.  “When I’m wrong, I usually go down in flames and this time
my forecast crashed and burned,”  Joel Naroff , president of
Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,  Pennsylvania , said in
a note to clients. Naroff, who wasn’t among the economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, declined to give his forecast.  How did economists get it so wrong?  Rupkey pointed to yesterday’s report from ADP Employer
Services, which showed that companies in the U.S. added 157,000
workers in June, more than twice as many as forecast by
economists.  “People revised up their numbers basically 24 hours ago on
a report that apparently had no merit when it came to
forecasting the actual number,” Rupkey said.  The ADP report is based on data from about 340,000
companies with more than 21 million workers on payrolls. The
Labor Department surveys 140,000 businesses and government
agencies.  Different Samples  “There’s no specific explanation of the divergence,” said
 Joel Prakken , chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in  St.
Louis , which produces the report with ADP. “The data is
collected differently. They’re different samples.”  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New York, was among those who raised
their forecasts for today’s payrolls figure after the ADP
report. His forecast was for a gain of 175,000.  Shepherdson also pointed to the way the Labor Department
adjusts the data to account for seasonal variations. He said the
“unusually aggressive” seasonal adjustment factors “may
explain at least some of the payroll weakness.”  The Labor Department, which houses the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, adjusts the employment figures each month to account
for things like teachers falling off school payrolls in June and
workers finding temporary employment with retailers during the
December holiday season.  “There was a big adjustment this month,” Labor Department
Chief Economist Betsey Stevenson said on a conference call with
reporters. “It’s an art and a science doing seasonal
adjustments and it’s really hard to predict.”  Not Unusual  It’s not unusual for payroll figures to fall outside of
the range of economists’ forecasts. The same thing happened last
month, as well as in October, November and December of last
year.  Some economists who came closer to forecasting the
government figures said they didn’t see anything out of the
ordinary in the data.  “There wasn’t any quirk that we knew about,” said  Robert Brusca , president of Fact & Opinion Economics in New York, whose
forecast for a 60,000 gain in payrolls was the most accurate.
“People were digging everywhere to predict better growth. If
there were something technical we would’ve picked it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  