-- 
EMC Search for New CEO Is Said to Pit Goulden Against Gelsinger

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/emc-search-for-successor-to-tucci-is-said-to-pit-goulden-against-gelsinger.html
EMC Corp. Chief Financial Officer
David Goulden and fellow executive Pat Gelsinger are the early
front runners in a race to succeed Chief Executive Officer Joe Tucci, two people with knowledge with the matter said.  Tucci, 63, who plans to step down as CEO of the storage
provider after next year, has considered at least four
candidates, Gelsinger, an EMC president, said in an interview
last month. Those are Gelsinger, Goulden, Howard Elias,
president of EMC’s services unit, and Paul Maritz, CEO of  VMware
Inc. (VMW) , majority owned by EMC. Maritz wants to stay at VMware, and
Elias isn’t a serious contender, said the people, who asked for
anonymity because the search is private.  Goulden , 52, is a nine-year EMC veteran who previously
oversaw sales and led the purchase of VMware. Tucci hired
Gelsinger, 50, in 2009 from  Intel Corp. (INTC) , where he ran the unit
that makes chips for businesses and served as chief technology
officer. The next CEO will navigate EMC as customers shift
toward cloud computing, the delivery of storage and software
over the Internet, rather than through their own machines.  “The question is: Do they want someone a little stronger
on the product technology side, which would be Pat, or someone
who really knows the place and has done well on the execution
side, and that would be David,” said Stephen Jue, a senior
research analyst at RCM Capital Management in San Francisco,
which has more than 18 million EMC shares. He concurs that
Gelsinger and Goulden are the leading contenders.  Maritz, Elias  Maritz, the No. 3 executive at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  before he
left in 2000, isn’t interested in the top job at EMC, according
to two people familiar with his thinking. While Elias is well
regarded for his operational chops, his skills don’t match those
of other candidates, people said.  Tucci hasn’t made a selection and could opt to stay on as
CEO, two people said. CEO since 2001, Tucci may also consider
Michael Capellas, the former CEO of First Data Corp., MCI Inc.
and Compaq Computer Corp., who is now overseeing an EMC joint
venture, three people said.  “We’re fortunate to have a very deep and talented
executive team,” Dave Farmer, a spokesman for Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based EMC, said in an e-mailed statement. “As you
would imagine, we have a robust transition planning process
under way.” Grace Trent, a spokeswoman for Capellas, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  Gelsinger and Goulden are a study in contrasts. Gelsinger,
who as president of the information infrastructure business
oversees most EMC products, started at Intel as a chip designer
and was mentored by former CEO Andy Grove. He rose to lead what
was then the chipmaker’s biggest business: enterprise computing.  Technologist Gelsinger  Gelsinger’s technical expertise would help EMC manage its
broad array of data center products in areas including storage,
security, data analysis and server virtualization, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco .  Born and raised in Pennsylvania Dutch country near Reading,
Gelsinger has a master’s degree in electrical engineering from
 Stanford University  and holds six patents. He’s also a devout
Christian who has written on faith and work.  “I will be a Christian husband, family man and
businessman,” he wrote in “Balancing Your Family, Faith and
Work.” “I will use every resource God provides me to carry out
his work on earth.”  He’s not a natural salesman like Tucci and prefers a more
measured approach to decision making, drawing heavily on data,
one of the people said.  Three-Ring Binders  The CEO gig at EMC would be something of a second chance
for Gelsinger, who was considered a possible CEO candidate at
Intel when he left in 2009.  Gelsinger told reporters in a roundtable last year that he
was fired for failing to ship Intel’s Larrabee chip, which was
designed to help the company take on  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  in the market for high-end graphics. The
company canceled plans to bring Larrabee to market that year.  Goulden, who hails from the U.K., excels at operations, and
is an energetic manager who can motivate teams to perform even
mundane tasks, the people said. He has a bachelor’s degree in
physics and an executive MBA from  Cranfield School of Management 
in  England .  Goulden keeps tome-sized three-ring binders handy, with
detailed accounts of each part of the business, one person said.  Like Tucci, Goulden worked at Unisys, then a mainframe
computer maker, in the 1980s, and moved to Wang Laboratories,
the maker of minicomputers and word-processing machines,  in
1990 .  Last Car in Lot  Tucci sought Goulden for his staff at Wang after noticing
that one car -- Goulden’s -- was always in the Wang parking lot
even later than his own, according to a person familiar with the
executives. Tucci became CEO at Wang, while Goulden held
leadership roles in operations, marketing, corporate development
and acquisitions.  In 2002, Tucci convinced Goulden to join him at EMC. After
being named chief financial officer in 2006, Goulden quickly
impressed analysts and colleagues with how quickly he learned
the job, despite his lack of a background at a large accounting
firm, one person said.  Tucci faced his own challenges when he became CEO in 2001,
just as the dot-com bubble was bursting. He steered the company
through a period of job cuts and plummeting revenue. EMC has
returned to record sales and profit, and maintained its role as
the world’s biggest maker of storage computers.  Speaking at a conference in  New York  last month, Tucci
reiterated an 18-month-old plan to step down as CEO after 2012
and move to the role of executive chairman. He reiterated that
he’s grooming internal candidates to replace him.  Change Afoot  Tucci’s planned transition comes as the industry enters
“the biggest change we’ve faced yet to date,” he said at the
conference. He was referring to the switch to cloud computing,
whereby companies depend on remote, server-laden data centers
for many tasks, and rely less on their own machines.  That’s fueling demand for cloud-ready software and hardware
made by EMC and rivals including  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   “This is a massive transition,” said Brent Bracelin, an
analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon . “The
shift to cloud and virtualization means the whole of enterprise
information technology is going to be re-architected over the
next decade. EMC has done a great job so far, but there’s still
a lot of risk out there.”  Tucci’s successor will also need to weigh whether to
continue his strategy of acquiring smaller companies or taking
more drastic moves, such as making big acquisitions or merging
with a company such as Hewlett-Packard in order to vault EMC
into the ranks of the world’s biggest technology providers.  ‘Sharp As Hell’  Earlier in the decade, EMC held discussions with  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
about Dell acquiring the company, one person said. When that
fell through, Tucci was interested in selling to  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) , the person said. Neither deal materialized, and now EMC
has become too large to be acquired easily.  As EMC girds for customers’ changing needs, it may benefit
more from Gelsinger’s vision and technical knowledge than
Goulden’s mastery of finance and acquisition integration, said
Pacific Crest’s Bracelin and Marshall at Gleacher & Co.  “Between Gelsinger and Goulden, it’s a no-brainer--it’s
Pat Gelsinger all around,” Marshall said. “He’s very
aggressive, he has the support of the troops, and he’s sharp as
hell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  