-- 
Emerging Stock Index Rises to Two-Month High on U.S. Economy

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-07-08T07:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/emerging-stock-index-rises-to-two-month-high-on-u-s-economy.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
sending the benchmark index to a two-month high, as data from
the U.S. signaled the world’s biggest economy is improving,
bolstering the outlook for global growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.3 percent to
1,171.31 as of 3:31 p.m. in  Singapore , set for its highest level
since May 3. The gauge has climbed 1.3 percent this week, set to
cap a third weekly gain that will be its longest rally in three
months. Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index jumped 1.5 percent,
on course for a record close. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies’ H-shares rose 0.9 percent before the
release of inflation data tomorrow.  Emerging-market equity funds reported a second straight
week of net inflows, Citigroup Inc. said today. U.S. employers
likely added almost twice as many jobs in June compared with
May, economists said before today’s Labor Department report,
after better-than-forecast figures from ADP Employer Services
yesterday buoyed confidence in the global recovery.  “At the end of the summer, it will be clear that we have a
soft patch in the U.S., not a return to recession,”  Philip Poole , global head of investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset
Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Singapore. “It will also be clear at that point that China is
not heading for a hard landing. On the back of some resolutions
in those areas, we can see markets rallying again before the
yearend.”  Consumer discretionary and energy companies led gains among
the 10 industry groups on MSCI’s developing-nation index. PT
Astra International, Indonesia’s biggest automotive retailer by
sales, climbed 2.9 percent in Jakarta and  Hyundai Mobis (012330) , an
automotive parts supplier, gained 1.2 percent in Seoul. SK
Innovation Co., South Korea’s biggest refiner, and S-Oil Corp.
added more than 2 percent each as  oil prices  traded near the
highest level in three weeks in  New York .  Fund Flows  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen 1.8 percent this
year, trailing a 5.8 percent gain in the MSCI World Index, a
measure for developed markets. Stocks in the index for
developing equities are valued at 11.2 times estimated profits,
less than the multiple of 13 times for developed shares.  Funds investing in developing-nation stocks attracted $1.4
billion during the week ended July 6, Citigroup analysts led by
 Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing data compiled by
EPFR Global. China had the most inflows among country funds in
 Asia  excluding  Japan , according to the report.  The U.S. Labor Department may say today nonfarm payrolls
grew 105,000 in June, following the May increase of 54,000 that
was the smallest in eight months. The  unemployment rate  probably
stayed at 9.1 percent, according to a separate survey.  Indonesia , China Stocks  The Jakarta Composite index advanced 1.5 percent to
3,998.99, set for a record close. The gauge, which earlier today
breached the 4,000 mark for the first time, has risen 1.8
percent this week. PT Timah, the nation’s biggest tin producer,
gained 1.9 percent and PT International Nickel Indonesia, the
nation’s largest producer of the metal, advanced 1.7 percent
after a gain in metal prices yesterday.  PetroChina Co. rose 2.3 percent, pacing a second day of
gains in Hong Kong-traded Chinese shares. The government is
forecast to say tomorrow consumer-price inflation quickened to
6.2 percent in June, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That will mark a likely peak for this year, after the
central bank announced this week its fifth interest-rate
increase since mid-October, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  