-- 
ENRC Risks Losing Managers, Hampering Search for CEO, Director Judge Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-07-08T06:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/enrc-risks-losing-managers-hampering-search-for-ceo-director-judge-says.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a
miner of metals in  Kazakhstan , risks hampering its search for a
chief executive officer and losing managers should it fail to
resolve board conflicts, independent director Paul Judge said.  “The current uncertainty about the board’s future format
must unfortunately increase the risk of other senior managers
leaving,” Judge said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “It also means that it is more difficult to assemble
a good short-list of potential chief executives.”  ENRC is down 22 percent this year in London, compared with
a 2.6 percent gain in the FTSE 100 Index of U.K. stocks, after a
spate of management reshuffles beginning when then-CEO Johannes Sittard took over as chairman in August 2009. Felix Vulis became
the new CEO only to submit his own resignation on Feb. 4, 2011.
He remains in the post while the company seeks a replacement.  The situation deteriorated on June 8 as shareholders voted
against rehiring independent directors Richard Sykes and Kenneth
Olisa, while two other directors also left and ENRC set up a
review to restructure the board. On June 13, Company Secretary
and General Legal Counsel Randall Barker quit.  “We shall be announcing our half-year results in mid-
August and I would hope that this governance review will be
completed by then,” Judge said. The review will probably follow
the recommendations of the  Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Administrators , a corporate-governance adviser, he said.  Genesis of Dispute  ENRC, based in London, said June 16 Sittard will “serve at
the pleasure of the board” after the  Daily Telegraph  reported
the same day that the ICSA recommended he step down as chairman.  Arguments between independent board members and the main
shareholders followed Sittard becoming chairman, Olisa said in a
July 1 interview. The dispute worsened with ENRC’s purchase in
2010 of a tailings-project license in the Democratic Republic of
Congo that was claimed by  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , he said.  First Quantum, pursuing an arbitration case against Congo
for revoking the Kolwezi license in August 2009, has submitted a
complaint against ENRC to the U.K. Financial Services Authority
and is suing ENRC subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands.  ENRC’s lawyers advised the board the license was legally
canceled and transferred to companies affiliated with Israeli
investor Dan Gertler by Congo, while a suit by First Quantum was
likely, said Judge, who voted against the deal.  ‘Reputational Risk’  “On the scale of ENRC, it was a small acquisition and I
felt that it was not worth the reputational risk or the likely
diversion of management time,” he said.  ENRC, which produces ferroalloys,  iron ore , aluminum and
power in Kazakhstan, and mines copper and cobalt in Congo, paid
$175 million and provided a $400 million loan facility to
companies affiliated with Gertler as part of the transaction.  ENRC required Gertler to sign a letter saying he wasn’t
involved in the loss of First Quantum’s license, Judge said.  The company’s corporate governance review, led by Sittard
and announced at the annual general meeting, is proceeding on
schedule and is due to be completed “by the end of the
summer,” said Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC.  “There is no change to this timetable and in the meantime
the views of stakeholders from every relevant constituency,
including of course those of Sir Paul, are being solicited and
will be taken into account with a view to arriving at the right
size and structure of the Board to support the Group’s
next phase of growth whilst fully complying with the governance
code,” Kirkham said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 