-- 
EPA’s Cap-and-Trade for State Pollution Risks Court Challenge

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/epa-s-cap-and-trade-for-state-pollution-risks-court-challenge.html
The Environmental Protection Agency’s
plan to cut interstate air pollution through a cap-and-trade
system may face legal challenges.  The EPA standards issued yesterday let 27 U.S. states from
 New York  to Texas reduce power-plant emissions through trading
in which companies exceeding limits can buy credits from those
in other states that pollute less.  The Cross-State Air Pollution Rule replaces regulations
that were issued under former President  George W. Bush  and
rejected in 2008 by a federal court that said its trading
provisions wouldn’t adequately protect communities against
pollution wafting from nearby states. The new Obama
administration limits may also be vulnerable, according to John
Walke of the  Natural Resources Defense Council .  “EPA thinks it’s mitigating the pollution risk as well as
the legal risk, but none of us knows whether those risks have
been adequately addressed,” Walke, clean-air director for the
environmental group in  Washington , said in an interview
yesterday.  The legal challenge to Bush’s plan was led by  North
Carolina , which said its residents would be subjected to
pollution from neighboring  Tennessee . The  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit in Washington rejected the trading
system as unlawful.  The Obama administration rule applies to states in the
eastern half of the U.S. and mandates the reduction of sulfur
dioxide, which can lead to acid rain and soot emissions harmful
to humans and ecosystems, and nitrogen oxide, a component of
ground-level ozone, a main ingredient of smog.  Interstate Trading  The regulations allow polluters in each state to choose how
to reduce emissions. Among the options are unlimited trading of
emissions allowances between power plants within a state and
interstate trading within two regional groups. Bush’s trading
plan allowed unfettered trading among all states covered.  “The new rule likely will be challenged in court,” Rob Barnett, an energy analyst with Bloomberg Government, said.
“EPA’s authority to regulate the emissions is firmly
established, but its approach to trading could be contested.”  The EPA’s restrictions on the cap-and-trade system also may
lead to limited liquidity, more volatile prices and difficulty
in attracting market participants, according to Barnett.  Bush’s broader trading program “clearly provided more
flexibility,” Pat Hemlepp, spokesman for Columbus, Ohio-based
American Electric Power Co., one of the largest U.S. consumers
of coal, said in an interview yesterday.  Cap-and-Trade’s Failure  A proposed cap-and-trade system for  carbon emissions  linked
to  climate change  failed in Congress last year after protests
from states and businesses. A trading program aimed at reducing
so-called acid rain was established two decades ago under former
President  George H.W. Bush , a Republican, and won the support of
utilities.  “Cap-and-trade is a time-tested tool invented by a
Republican president that suddenly became demonized merely
because of its association with carbon reduction,” Walke said.  The EPA’s decision to apply the new emissions rules to
 Texas  may also be vulnerable to a court challenge, according to
Christine Tezak, an energy policy analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co. in McLean, Virginia.  Including the state “may not stand up in court if
challenged,” Tezak said last week in a note to clients. “We
aren’t convinced that the EPA will prevail if this rule is
challenged by Texas as promised.”  Texas Opposition  Texas government officials, companies and labor unions had
argued against imposing the limits on sulfur-dioxide pollution,
and the agency hadn’t included the state in a proposal last
year.  Texas power plants emit the most nitrogen-oxide pollution
in the U.S. and the second-largest amount of U.S. sulfur-dioxide
emissions after  Ohio , according to Vickie Patton, a lawyer with
the New York-based Environmental Defense Fund.  The EPA added Texas to the states covered yesterday because
“without this rule Texas power plants would contribute
significantly to air pollution” elsewhere, EPA Administrator
Lisa Jackson told reporters yesterday.  When asked whether the she’s worried about the new
standards holding up against various legal attacks, Jackson said
she’s confident the agency has fully complied with the law.  “We took great pains and went through a very transparent
and open process,” she said.  $280 Billion in Benefits  The EPA said the regulation will help lead to as much as
$280 billion in annual health benefits. It will cut sulfur-
dioxide emissions by 73 percent from 2005 levels and nitrogen-
oxide emissions by 54 percent, according to the agency.  The rule will result in $800 million in spending in 2014,
adding to the $1.6 billion a year in capital investments already
committed under the Bush rule, the EPA said.  The American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, an
energy industry group, has said the rule, along with a pending
regulation to cut air toxics from power plants, will cost
electricity providers $17.8 billion a year from 2011 through
2030 and increase rates 11.5 percent on average in 2016.  The rules also may force as much as 47.8 gigawatts of
electricity, or about 15 percent of coal’s U.S. production
capacity, to close prematurely, according to a report released
last month by the Alexandria, Virginia-based association.  The group’s members include  Southern Co. (SO) , the biggest U.S.
utility by market value, and St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer.  Environmentalists said the benefits of the EPA rule far
outweigh the costs.  “This is a real milestone,”  Frank O’Donnell , president of
Clean Air Watch, a Washington-based environmental group, said in
a statement. “This is a long-overdue and much-needed step
toward protecting the health of people in states downwind of big
coal burning power plants. It will prove to be a life-saver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  