-- 
EU Regulators Battle Banking Crisis With Greater Stress-Test Disclosures

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-07-08T15:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/eu-stress-test-failures-may-get-until-september-to-outline-capital-plans.html
European regulators will try to end
the region’s banking crisis by forcing firms to publish details
of capital shortfalls in a more stringent and detailed set of
stress tests that will give firms six months to plug any gaps.  Lenders will be made to disclose capital levels, estimates
for profitability in 2011 and 2012 as well as their holdings of
sovereign debt in the July 15 tests, the London-based European
Banking Authority said in a statement today.  European regulators are seeking to assuage investor concern
that banks in the region are inadequately capitalized with a
second round of stress tests. The EBA toughened this year’s
review by tightening its definition of bank capital and forcing
firms to disclose more about their holdings of  government bonds .
This year’s assessments included a peer review by the EBA that
forced firms to “address shortcomings and over-optimism of some
banks’ preliminary estimates,” the regulator said today.  “The market is just getting stressed about stress tests,”
said  Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd., said
before the information was released. “I don’t think equity
investors will be tripping over themselves to write a check to
protect bond investors and that’s really what the regulators are
asking the equity markets to do.”  Bank Stocks Drop  European bank stocks fell, with  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Banco Popolare SC (BP)  leading the declines. The 49-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index was down 1.8 percent
at 2:30 p.m. in  London  trading.  The 91 banks being tested will be expected to maintain a
Core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent in the tests’
baseline and adverse scenarios, the EBA said. The exams will
assess how banks would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction
in the euro area in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity
markets as well as possible trading losses on sovereign debt.  Banks will list their exposures to commercial real estate,
residential property, corporate lending and sovereign debt by
country, according to the template for the results published
today. The tests won’t include a sovereign default.  The data “will allow us to do our own modeling with
regards to a full default,” said Neil Smith, a banking analyst
at WestLB AG in London.  Plugging Shortfalls  Banks that fail the tests may need to present plans for
making up their capital shortfall by the end of September,
according to an internal EU document dated July 7. Firms may be
given a further three months to implement these plans and raise
the additional capital they need, according to the preliminary
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The market wants to see failures for banks which have
large exposure to peripheral sovereign debt, such as Commerzbank
AG and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , but that’s not going to happen,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in
London. “The most likely  bank failures  from this will come from
countries where the economies are tough already; there will be
failures, but they’re going to be in the wrong place.”  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  said today he’s certain
that the country’s lenders will pass by a “significant”
margin. All 13 German lenders being assessed expect to pass,
based on the data they plan to submit to the EBA this week,
according to people familiar with the process who declined to be
identified because the data are yet to be published. Spokesmen
for the firms declined to comment or couldn’t be reached.  Lenders will be pushed to raise capital from private
sources, according to a statement from EU finance ministers
released by the EBA today. Government money will be available
“as a last resort” and “subject to strict conditionality,”
the document said.  The euro weakened against all but two of 16 major
counterparts monitored by Bloomberg, sliding as much as 0.95
percent to $1.4229 and depreciating 0.6 percent versus the yen
to 116. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, jumped 0.4 percent.  European regulators will publish the test results at about
6 p.m. Central European Summer Time on July 15. EU finance
ministers will discuss the tests at a meeting in Brussels on
July 12, according to an agenda posted on the EU’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  