-- 
European Stocks Decline as Banks Plunge Amid Concern Debt Crisis to Spread

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-as-banks-plunge-amid-debt-crisis-concern.html
European stocks declined this week as
concern deepened that the region’s debt crisis will spread and a
report showed U.S. employers added fewer workers than forecast,
fueling speculation the economic recovery is slowing.  UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest lender, and Portugal’s  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES)  led declines in banking shares, sliding more
than 7 percent. British Sky Broadcasting Plc fell the most since
2008 on speculation its acquisition by  News Corp . will be
delayed amid a phone-tapping scandal at the News of the World.
CSM NV plummeted 15 percent after the world’s largest maker of
bakery ingredients said earnings declined.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.4 percent to
273.76 this past week. The gauge has fallen for 9 weeks out of
the past 10, bringing its decline since this year’s high on Feb.
17 to 6 percent.  “The Europe crisis is not over and also we had a reminder
that this is indeed a very weak recovery in the U.S.,” said
 Philippe Gijsels , head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global
Markets in Brussels. “There is plenty to make us think this
will remain a very nasty and volatile summer with a lot of
worries.”  European stocks erased their weekly advance yesterday after
Labor Department data showed U.S. employers added 18,000 workers
in June, the fewest in nine months. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a June gain of
105,000. The  unemployment rate  in the world’s biggest economy
rose to 9.2 percent, the highest this year. Hiring by companies,
excluding government agencies, was the weakest since May 2010.  Factory Orders  A separate Commerce Department report showed U.S. factory
orders climbed 0.8 percent, missing the average economist
forecast for an increase of 1 percent. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of non-manufacturing businesses in the
country decreased to 53.3 in June from 54.6 a month earlier.  Alcoa Inc., the largest aluminum producer in America, will
unofficially kick off the U.S. earnings season on July 11.
Profits at companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will
rise 13 percent in the second quarter, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, the smallest gain in two years.  European Central Bank officials increased the key interest
rate by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent this week, matching
forecasts by all 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey. President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB will suspend its minimum
credit-rating threshold on Portuguese bonds after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered the country’s debt to junk.  Chinese Rates  China  raised its benchmark interest rate for the third time
this year on July 6 after inflation accelerated to the fastest
pace since July 2008.  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western
European markets.  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.2 percent and
 France ’s CAC 40 Index tumbled 2.3 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE
100 was almost unchanged.  Italy’s FTSE MIB slid 7.2 percent, the most in 14 months,
as UniCredit sank 20 percent and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA plummeted
14 percent.  Banco Espirito Santo, Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank by market value, slumped 7.1 percent while Banco Comercial
Portugues SA, the second-largest, retreated 13 percent to a
record low. Moody’s cut Portugal’s credit rating to Ba2 as the
nation joined  Greece  as the second euro-region country with a
non-investment grade rating.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-largest bank, dropped 12
percent and National Bank of Greece SA slid 10 percent.  Stress Tests  European regulators will next week try to end the region’s
banking crisis by forcing firms to publish details of capital
shortfalls in a more stringent and detailed set of stress tests
that will give firms six months to plug any gaps. Results of the
second round of tests will be released on July 15, the European
Banking Association said.  The yield on 10-year Italian  government bonds  jumped to a
euro-era record over German bunds yesterday. Spanish, Irish and
Greek securities also fell.  BSkyB fell 12 percent, the most since October 2008, after
the U.K. government said it will take “some time” to consider
responses to News Corp.’s proposed purchase of the stake in the
broadcaster that it doesn’t already own amid public outcry over
the actions of News Corp. journalists.  The media company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch  said on July
7 it will shut the News of the World, a 168-year-old Sunday
tabloid, after allegations that its reporters tapped the
voicemails of murder victims and their families.  CSM (CSM) , ThyssenKrupp  CSM plunged 15 percent, the biggest drop since November
2008. The maker of bakery ingredients said earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization, excluding one-off costs, came
to about 80 million euros ($114 million) in the first half. It
reported 102.5 million euros a year earlier.  ThyssenKrupp AG posted the biggest weekly drop in 14
months, falling 6.9 percent, as Germany’s largest steelmaker
sold a 9.6 percent stake to reduce debt. The company sold 49.5
million shares at 32.95 euros each, raising 1.63 billion euros.  Dragon Oil Plc surged 7.9 percent to 548 pence in  London  as
the Financial Times Alphaville blog reported that a Chinese
company may make a bid for the oil explorer at 700 pence to 750
pence a share. It did not say where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  