-- 
Ex-Goldman Sachs Proprietary Trader Sze Said to Boost Fund to $1.9 Billion

-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-07-08T04:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ex-goldman-sachs-proprietary-trader-sze-said-to-boost-fund-to-1-9-billion.html
Azentus Capital Management Ltd., a
Hong Kong-based hedge fund led by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
proprietary trader Morgan Sze, increased assets to more than
$1.9 billion, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Azentus plans to stop accepting new money when the fund
hits $2 billion, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. It has “soft-
closed” the fund since its inception on April 1, taking
additional money only from existing and potential investors it
has been in talks with for some time, they said.  Azentus is benefiting from investor interest in large funds
staffed by teams with experienced traders as the European
sovereign debt crisis took a toll on industry performance.
Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index slid more than 2 percent in May and
June combined, headed for the worst two-month performance in a
year, according to preliminary data from the Singapore-based
data provider.  “There is a lot of global institutional money that wants
to get invested in Asia but there are relatively few billion
dollar plus funds,” said  Paul Smith , chief executive officer of
Hong Kong-based asset manager and hedge fund distributor Triple
A Partners Ltd. “The Azentus launch provides an ideal asset
allocation opportunity for this type of investors.”  Targeting Biggest Funds  U.S. and Europe-based institutions have driven recent money
flows into the global hedge fund industry, he said. They are
looking to allocate large sums of money and are targeting the
biggest managers because they are restricted from investing too
large a portion of any single fund out of risk concerns.  Azentus’s performance since fund inception on April 1 has
been “flattish,” with June’s number yet to be officially
announced, the three people said. The Eurekahedge gauge was down
1 percent in the same time period.  “Getting $2 billion invested in a rising market in  Asia 
would be very hard work,” said Smith. “Getting it invested in
sideways to down markets is very tough indeed. It will take a
while for Azentus to gain performance traction.”  Sze, who is traveling, didn’t immediately reply to an e-
mail seeking comment.  The 45-year-old was a former global head of Goldman Sachs’s
principal strategies proprietary trading desk, also known as
GSPS, people with knowledge of the matter said in March. The
bank’s largest internal hedge fund at its peak oversaw $3
billion of investments in Asia, they added.  Leaving Banks  Sze was among proprietary traders who have left financial
services companies to start their own hedge funds as the U.S.
introduced the Dodd-Frank Act that restricts banks from making
bets with their own money in the wake of the worst financial
crisis since the 1930s.  Pierre-Henri Flamand, with whom Sze was once jointly
responsible for the GSPS team, left in March 2010 to start his
own hedge fund Edoma Partners LLP.  Ariel Roskis and Daniele Benatoff, former traders for GSPS
in  London , have teamed up with Brummer & Partners to start
Benros Event Driven & Opportunistic Fund, which invests mainly
in European equities, debt and derivatives, Brummer & Partners
said on May 31.  London-based Benros Capital Partners, which manages the
fund, got an initial allocation of SEK2 billion ($316 million)
from Brummer & Partners, the largest Scandinavian hedge fund,
the Stockholm-based firm said.  Azentus, a global hedge fund focused on Asia, employs
strategies including event-driven,  capital structure  and
convertible bond arbitrage, distressed assets, volatility
trading, private securities and equity long-short, the people
said in March.  It raised $1.06 billion when it started trading on April 1,
the most by an Asia-based hedge fund startup since at least 2007,
three people with knowledge of the matter said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net 
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  