-- 
Texas Bill Gives Charter Schools Momentum in Financing Growth: Muni Credit

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/texas-gives-charter-schools-momentum-in-financing-muni-credit.html
Texas will join  Colorado  in providing
state backing for charter-school bond offerings, a move that may
spur debt sales while reducing some issuers’ borrowing costs in
a growing part of the municipal market.  U.S.  charter schools  raised more than $5 billion in about
480 bond issues from 1999 through December, typically paying 2
percentage points more in yield than top-rated municipal
borrowers, according to Local Initiative Support Corp., a New
York-based nonprofit focused on community development.  “Texas is really helping the movement go forward,” said
Russ Caldwell, a senior vice president at D.A. Davidson & Co.
The Great Falls, Montana-based investment bank has underwritten
19 percent of all charter-school debt, more than any other firm,
according to a Local Initiative study.  Under a measure awaiting Governor  Rick Perry ’s signature,
qualifying Texas charter schools can sell debt backed by the
state’s $25 billion Permanent School Fund, a AAA rated
 endowment . About 120,000 students attended 520 institutions that
may benefit this year, and about 56,000 are on waiting lists,
according to the Texas Charter School Association in Austin.  The change may lead to about $350 million in borrowing in
the next three years, said David Dunn, the charter group’s
executive director. He said bonds supported by the fund can only
be used for new construction, not to refinance existing debt.  Rating Qualification  Perry has until July 19 to sign or veto the measure. To
qualify for the endowment’s backing, schools must obtain
investment-grade credit ratings.  In the broader municipal- debt market  yesterday, yields on
top-rated 10-year bonds rose to a two-month high of about 2.79
percent, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.  Nationwide, about 1.7 million children attend 5,300 charter
schools, according to the Local Initiative report released last
month. Yet fewer than 400 have borrowed through the tax-exempt
debt market. The institutions typically serve the public under
contract with a city or district and operate largely outside the
municipal bureaucracy and rules.  Bonds totaling $429 million have been sold by 31 Colorado
charter schools since 2003 through a program that requires the
state to cover debt service when necessary, said Jo Ann Soker,
executive director of the Colorado Educational and Cultural
Facilities Authority in Denver.  Rising enrollment and more schools will fuel growth in debt
issued by the institutions around the U.S.,  Standard & Poor’s 
said in an April report. The rating company in  New York  graded
$1.8 billion of “unenhanced debt” from 123 schools through
April 10, up from $590.7 million five years earlier.  None Above BBB+  Investment-grade ratings were given to 81 percent of the
debt, while none got better than a BBB+, eighth lowest, David G. Hitchcock, an S&P analyst in New York, said in the report. The
rest fell below investment quality, mostly at BB+.  Charter-school bondholders face an “inherent risk” of
contract loss, which would “likely result in a default of its
bonds as public funds would no longer be available for debt
service,” Hitchcock said in the report.  Defaults have occurred in 14 issues out of 251 unrated debt
sales by charter institutions since 1998, according to the Local
Initiatives report. That’s a rate of about 5.6 percent.  That’s “an eye-catching number and it’s higher than I
thought it was going to be,” Elise Balboni, a co-author of the
study, said in a telephone interview.  1-in-229 Default  By comparison, just one of 229 charter-school debt issues
graded by  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service or S&P went
into default, according to Balboni’s study.  Texas charter schools that borrow using the endowment
fund’s backing must escrow 10 percent of the resulting savings
to cover any defaults by other program participants.  Opponents including the Texas School Board Association
fought the new law, saying it would drain endowment financing
capacity while public-school enrollment is rising by about
80,000 students a year. Lawmakers last month balanced the two-
year Texas budget partly by holding public-school funding $4
billion below mandated levels.  The endowment has a 13 percent return in 2010 and assets
rose to $25 billion, the Texas Education Agency said in
February. The fund’s backing may cut the yield on charter-school
debt issues by as much as 3 percentage points, Balboni said.  “We need to equalize  capital spending  so we don’t create
different classes of students,” Davidson’s Caldwell said.  Investors buying the debt have included  Allianz SE ’s
Pacific Investment Management Co., T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC’s Nuveen Investments Inc.,
Caldwell said.  About  4.82 million  students enrolled in Texas schools
through the 12th grade last year, state figures show. Charter
institutions accounted for about 2.5 percent of the total, said
Josie Duckett, a spokeswoman for the industry group in Austin.  Following is a description of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  MICHIGAN, where the population of  Detroit  has fallen to the
lowest level since 1910, will issue about $646 million in debt
through the State Building Authority as soon as next week. The
sale includes $634.4 million of tax-exempt bonds, including $46
million with a variable rate, and a $12 million taxable portion.
The securities will finance building renovation and
construction, including a new $52 million state police
headquarters in Lansing. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead
underwriters in the sale. (Added July 8)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  