-- 
Exco’s Board Rejects $4 Billion Buyout Offer From CEO, Ends Sale Process

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-07-08T21:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/exco-board-rejects-ceo-miller-s-4-billion-buyout-offer-for-gas-producer.html
Exco Resources Inc. (XCO) , the Dallas-based
natural-gas producer, rejected a $4 billion offer from Chief
Executive Officer Douglas H. Miller and is terminating its
process to seek a buyer after receiving no offers that were in
the shareholders’ interest.  The company “determined it was not reasonably likely to
receive any such proposal in the near term,” the board’s
special committee, formed to evaluate bids, said today in a
statement.  Miller, 63, offered on Oct. 29 to buy all the shares of
Exco that he doesn’t already own for $20.50 a share, or 38
percent more than the closing price the day of the bid. He made
another offer to buy about 81 percent of the company at $18.50 a
share, the special committee said today.  Exco fell 79 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $15.85 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares earlier
dropped as much as 6 percent.  The company’s stock will recover, said Michael Bodino, head
of energy research for Global Hunter Securities LLC in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas . The long-term outlook for gas has solidified since
Miller made his offer because of increased demand and the
Fukushima nuclear disaster in  Japan , said Bodino, whose firm
doesn’t rate Exco and owns none of its stock.  Falling Prices  Miller didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment. He owns about 2 percent of the company, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Exco’s shares were undervalued
because of declining gas prices, Miller said in November.  The CEO shouldn’t be forced out of his job following a
failed bid, said Eliecer Palacios, an energy-sector specialist
at New York-based investment bank Maxim Group LLC.  “He hasn’t done anything wrong,” Palacios said in a
telephone interview.  Exco now may consider joint ventures or sales of some
assets, Palacios said.  Miller was joined in his October bid by three of Exco’s
four largest shareholders:  Dallas  billionaire  T. Boone Pickens ,
Oaktree Capital Management LLC and Ares Capital Management LLC.  Exco’s proved gas reserves rose 56 percent last year to the
equivalent of 1.5 trillion cubic feet from 959 billion cubic
feet because of an increase in production from  Louisiana ’s
Haynesville Shale, the company said on Jan. 31.  The deal would’ve been Miller’s third buyout of Exco. The
former Coda Energy Inc. executive bought 51 percent of Exco in
1997, leaving the rest of the shares publicly traded, and became
CEO.  In 2003, he took the company private through a buyout with
backing from Cerberus Capital Management LP. He listed shares
again in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 Mlee326@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at   tinadavis@bloomberg.net . 