-- 
Mexico Central Bank Holds Benchmark Rate at 4.5% for 20th Straight Meeting

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-07-08T20:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/mexico-may-hold-rate-for-20th-meeting-on-monthly-price-declines.html
Mexico ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today, saying that inflation
is maintaining a “favorable evolution” and economic expansion
has moderated.  The central bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
extended its longest-ever pause, keeping the overnight rate at
4.50 percent for a 20th straight meeting. The decision matched
the forecast of all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The “pace of economic activity appears to have slowed,”
while domestic demand has lost some dynamism, the central bank
said in the  monetary decision statement . “We don’t expect
generalized price pressures in the economy,” the bank said.  Core inflation, excluding tortillas and tobacco, is still
below the 3 percent target set in January, the bank said.  “It’s expected that during 2011 general and  core inflation 
will continue within the trajectory published in the last
inflation report,” policy makers said.  Economic expansion has showed moderation, leading the board
of directors to forecast that the output gap will be narrowing
at a slower rate than previously forecast.  “The statement came more dovish than expected and it seems
the directors are perfectly happy with their positions,” said
Sergio Luna, head of economic research at Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit in Mexico City.  Banxico, as Mexico’s central bank is known, is saying “the
traditional list of domestic risks to inflation is practically
clean. The risks could come from international volatility,”
Luna said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Declining Prices, Forecasts  Consumer prices fell the most in 42 years in May and were
unchanged in June, pushing the annual rate down to 3.28 percent
last month from 3.36 percent in April, well within the bank’s
target range of 2 percent to 4 percent. Against the backdrop of
tame inflation, the expansion of the $1.04 trillion economy
decelerated to an annual pace of 2.4 percent in April, its
slowest growth since 2009.  The performance of Mexican inflation is prompting some
banks to adjust their forecasts.  Banco Santander Mexico, the nation’s third-largest lender
by outstanding loans, is now expecting inflation will end the
year at 3.40 percent compared with a previous forecast of 3.70
percent, senior economist Gabriel Lozano wrote yesterday in a
report to clients after the June consumer price report.  “We now expect the central bank to increase its  reference
rate  by 25 basis points preemptively in May 2012, instead of a
first hike in January” Lozano wrote.  The June inflation report also led Banamex to reduce its
forecast yesterday. General inflation will end the year at 3.6
percent from 3.7 percent as “some economic sectors, like
tourism, are unable to pass along price increases to consumers
due to a slower demand,” Luna said.  Banamex is keeping to its 4.8 percent estimate for economic
growth and a rate increase in January 2012.  “The central bank still has an optimistic inflation
appraisal for this year,” said  Gabriel Casillas , chief
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “The board members are quite comfortable with
their current monetary stance.”  Mexico economists cut their 2011 inflation forecast for a
fourth straight month and reduced their economic growth estimate
for the first time this year, according to the central bank’s
monthly survey of economists published July 1.  Prices will rise 3.56 percent in 2011, down from a forecast
of 3.67 percent in May and 3.87 percent in April, the survey
showed. The economy will expand 4.31 percent this year, less
than the 4.37 percent expected in May, according to the survey.  Second Half  In the second half of the year “inflation will trend
upward for seasonal reasons rather than demand-side pressures,
the ones that concern central banks,” Casillas said. JPMorgan
sees inflation at 3.5 percent by the end of this year and the
economy growing 4.5 percent annually, allowing policy makers to
start increasing rates in the first half of 2012.  Industrial production  grew 1.4 percent in April from a year
earlier -- the slowest expansion since the 0.6 percent increase
posted in December 2009 -- from 4.4 percent in March, the
nation’s statistics agency reported June 13.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due February 2012 have fallen 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 5.01 percent since the bank’s May 27
meeting, indicating traders are betting the bank will wait until
that month to raise the key rate.  As recently as April 4, they predicted an increase this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Well Behaved’  “Inflation is very well behaved and the economic recovery
is sound, but still slow,” said  Zeina Latif , senior economist
at RBS Securities in  Sao Paulo . “We’re not expecting anything
hawkish from the bank for the time being.”  RBS Securities expects the central bank to start raising
rates in the first quarter of 2012 as some board members may
“want to reinforce the 3 percent inflation target,” Latif said
in a telephone interview.  While policy makers in  Latin America ’s four other major
inflation targeting economies --  Brazil ,  Colombia ,  Chile  and
 Peru  -- have been raising rates in 2011, Mexico has kept
borrowing costs unchanged amid slowing growth and inflation.  Mexico’s annual inflation rate is less than half the 6.71
percent recorded in Brazil, the region’s largest economy.
Consumer prices in the U.S., which buys about 80 percent of the
nation’s exports, rose 3.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
the first time since 2007 that inflation in the world’s largest
economy was faster than Mexico’s.  The minutes of today’s decision will be published July 22.
The next central bank monetary meeting will take place Aug. 26.  Mexico’s peso headed to the first weekly decline in four
after the U.S. reported that payrolls rose less than forecast,
renewing concern that the world’s largest economy is struggling
to recover.  The peso dropped 0.7 percent to 11.6184 per  U.S. dollar  at
4:21 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  