-- 
Expert-Network Founder Who Refused FBI Wire Expects Arrest

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-08T23:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/expert-network-founder-who-refused-fbi-wire-says-he-expects-his-own-arrest.html
John Kinnucan, the expert-networking
firm founder whose public refusal of an FBI request to wear a
wire presaged a dozen  insider-trading  arrests, said he expects
to be charged himself.  Kinnucan, who runs Broadband Research LLC in  Portland ,
Oregon, may have good reason to fear the worst. Federal
prosecutors in New York disclosed in court papers that they had
a court-authorized wiretap on his mobile phone in connection
with their case against Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital
Advisors LP portfolio manager who pleaded guilty to insider-
trading charges on April 28 in Manhattan federal court.  Walter Shimoon, a former  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) 
executive who pleaded guilty July 5 in federal court in New
York, said during his plea hearing that he had given Kinnucan
confidential nonpublic information about his own company, as
well as  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)   “Am I a target? Yeah, absolutely,” Kinnucan said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a saying that the government
indicts who they investigate, so I have always assumed that I
was a target.”  Longueuil, Shimoon and Kinnucan have been swept up in the
biggest insider-trading investigation in a generation, one that
has implicated  hedge funds , technology firms and expert
networking firms like Broadband. Kinnucan denied he ever
received illegal tips on companies, and insisted the kind of
information he provided hedge fund clients was publicly
available.  Approached by Feds  In October, he sent an e-mail saying he had been approached
by federal agents who asked him to record conversations with an
unidentified money manager. The message was sent to about 50
recipients, including clients such as Wellington Management Co.
in  Boston ,  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  in Denver and SAC in
Stamford,  Connecticut .  Kinnucan, 54, said he doesn’t know why the government would
focus on him, saying his research was “entirely in line” with
standard industry practices. “This was industry gossip,” he
said of his work.  “The stuff we talked about you can find every day,
publicly, on the Internet,” he said, citing numerous examples
of the kind of data, called “channel checks” he provided
clients.  ‘Publicly Available’  Kinnucan gave several examples of such information that’s
publicly available, including a report about Apple Inc.’s iPhone
production for the second quarter of this year, published on
Briefing.com. He said this was the type of data he provided
after research.  “Some people have to get off the ‘perp walk’ and look at
what I actually do,” he said. “It’s publicly available
information.”  Kinnucan disputed Shimoon’s statements in court, saying he
never covered his company, insisting, “None of my clients cared
one iota about Flextronics.”  “I have e-mails from my clients saying ‘This Apple stuff
is worthless’ and clients saying ‘This OmniVision stuff is
worthless’ and that ‘Walter Shimoon doesn’t know what he’s
talking about, it’s a joke.’”  Expert Networking  Expert-networking firms connect investors with industry
experts who provide insight into a specific market. The office
of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara has charged more than a
dozen people in its crackdown on the industry, part of the
larger insider-trading probe. Bharara has said the defendants
crossed the line from giving industry insight to illegally
passing secret information.  “They’re trying to criminalize standard industry practices
here,” Kinnucan said. “The kind of information I provide to my
clients is exactly what is provided by large investment banks.”  During his plea before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
Shimoon said he’d provided “specific production schedules and
forecasts for Flextronics customers and about its suppliers like
OmniVision, which produced camera sensors.”  Shimoon said that, at the time, he was working as a paid
consultant for Broadband, which Kinnucan opened in 1999, as well
as  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global Research LLC,
another expert-networking firm.  Primary Global  Shimoon said Primary Global paid him about $200 an hour and
that he had earned a total of $18,000 from the company for
passing secret tips to hedge fund managers. Shimoon said he got
more than $27,000 from Kinnucan’s firm.  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorneys Antonia Apps and
Katherine Goldstein said in court filings that Shimoon engaged
in a conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  from 2008 to 2010.  The crime was committed “in connection with Shimoon
providing material, nonpublic information to John Kinnucan,
Broadband Research, and, indirectly, to Broadband Research’s
clients, including money managers,” the government said in
court papers.  Kinnucan hasn’t been charged with a crime.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment.  Of the 14 people charged since November in the expert
networking investigation, which includes fund managers and
technology company employees, 12 have pleaded guilty. One
person, Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted after a trial last month. James Fleishman, a Primary
Global sales executive, pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to
go on trial in August.  Listened In  The U.S. said it also listened in on conversations that
Kinnucan had with former SAC hedge fund manager Longueuil, who
had been scheduled to face trial with Jiau before pleading
guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud.  Longueuil told Rakoff that, while researching technology
firms for two hedge funds, he conspired to obtain inside
information on  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  He told the court
that he conspired with Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital
Management LP.  He said during his plea that after he read a newspaper
article on Nov. 19 about the insider-trading probe by Bharara’s
office that also mentioned Kinnucan and his numerous fund
clients, Longueuil admitted going to his office at 2 a.m.,
taking pliers to two external drives of his computer and
destroying them.  ‘Chopped up Everything’  He then said he walked 20 blocks, dumping the parts in four
separate garbage trucks around  New York City .  “Chopped it up, chopped up everything,” Longueuil wrote
in a text to Freeman, according to the complaint filed by
Bharara’s office in February.  Longueuil and Barai were charged in February along with
Jason Pflaum, an analyst at Barai’s firm, and Noah Freeman,
another ex-portfolio manager at SAC, the hedge fund firm founded
and run by  Steven A. Cohen .  Barai, Freeman and Pflaum have pleaded guilty. SAC has said
it’s cooperating with the U.S. investigation. Freeman testified
at Jiau’s trial that he circumvented SAC’s policies prohibiting
insider trading.  Kinnucan said he was aware he was being wiretapped.  He said he asked Freeman to introduce him to Barai to see
if Barai’s fund would hire Broadband as a consultant.  “They wouldn’t give me the time of day,” Kinnucan said of
Barai’s firm. “I didn’t have what I felt they wanted, which was
material, nonpublic information.”  Decided Against Firm  At Jiau’s trial, when asked if Kinnucan had ever passed
inside information to Barai Capital, Pflaum testified he and
Barai had reviewed Kinnucan’s marketing material and decided not
to hire his firm.  The evidence gathered against Longueuil included
“recordings of telephone calls between John Kinnucan and Donald
Longueuil, which were intercepted over a wiretap on John
Kinnucan’s telephone,” Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorneys Avi
Weitzman and David Leibowitz said in court papers.  Kinnucan’s firm provides research on technology companies
to hedge funds and mutual funds. In his e-mail last year to
clients, he said Federal Bureau of Investigation agents asked
him to secretly tape a conversation with a fund manager who he
didn’t name that was being targeted by prosecutors.  Not Longueuil  Asked July 5, Kinnucan said the fund manager wasn’t
Longueuil. “No, absolutely not,” he said.  Kinnucan also said he would never assist the government.  “Cooperate? Absolutely not, and I never will.”  In their case against Longueuil, prosecutors said in court
filings that they amassed “applications, court orders and
periodic reports authorizing wiretaps over a cellular
telephone” subscribed to Kinnucan.  “This is very significant that the government not only saw
a person likely to be engaging in criminal conversation but
thought the conversations were valuable enough to spend a lot of
time and resources monitoring him,” said Dan Richman, a
professor at  Columbia Law School  and a former federal prosecutor
in  New York .  Wiretaps were used to win convictions this year in two
other insider trading cases brought by Bharara’s office as part
of the national probe -- those of Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam and former Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer .  To obtain court approval for real-time surveillance of a
telephone, the U.S. must show that there is probable cause that
crimes are being committed on a particular line, Richman said.  ‘Of Deep Interest’  Intercepts on a telephone “suggests that Kinnucan was of
deep interest to the government,” Richman said.  Once approved, a wiretap must be monitored 24 hours a day
and turned off when agents determine calls aren’t pertinent to
the investigation, Richman said. Every 10 days, federal
authorities must submit reports on the progress of the wiretap.  “There is a great deal of scrutiny, and these wiretap
affidavits go on for sometimes 50 pages,” Richman said. “A
prosecutor has to set out that there is probable cause that
crimes are being committed,” he said, adding, “And they have
to show that they’re pursuing other investigative means and that
it’s necessary to do a wiretap.”  Nathaniel Burney, a lawyer for Kinnucan, said his client
didn’t do anything wrong. He declined to comment whether he
expects his client to be charged or whether he’s been notified
by the government.  “It doesn’t look like he did anything wrong from the
information I have,” Burney said. “I think it would be a
mistake to charge him.”  The case is U.S. v. Walter Shimoon, 11-cr-00032, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  