-- 
Exxon Mobil to Face Indonesia Human Rights Claims, U.S. Appeals Court Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-08T19:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/exxon-mobil-to-face-indonesia-human-rights-claims-court-rules.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must face claims it
aided and abetted murder, torture and sexual assault by its
security forces in  Indonesia ’s Aceh province, a federal appeals
court ruled, reinstating a lawsuit thrown out by a lower court.  In a 2-1 decision today, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington said Exxon Mobil didn’t have corporate immunity from
claims filed by 15 Indonesian villagers under the Alien Tort
Statute. The court reversed the ruling of a trial judge who said
the villagers couldn’t use U.S. courts to sue over alleged
actions that took place in Indonesia and involved the Indonesian
military during a period of martial law.  “It would create a bizarre anomaly to immunize
corporations from liability for the conduct of their agents in
lawsuits brought for ‘shockingly egregious violations of
universally recognized principles of international law,’” Judge
Judith Rogers wrote in her 112-page opinion.  An Exxon Mobil spokesman, Patrick McGinn, said the company
has “fought these baseless claims for many years” and is
reviewing the decision.  In two lawsuits consolidated for appeal, Indonesian
villagers claimed Exxon Mobil was responsible for the abuses
because they were committed by an Indonesian military unit
dedicated only to Exxon’s Aceh facility and under the company’s
direction and control. Exxon provided material support to the
unit by hiring mercenaries for training, advice and
intelligence, the villagers alleged. The human rights abuses
began in the early 1990s, according to one of the complaints.  Human Rights Violations  Exxon, based in Irving,  Texas , was aware that the army had
committed human rights violations in the past, they claimed.  In 2009, U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth in Washington
ruled the Indonesian villagers didn’t have the right to sue
Exxon in a U.S. court because they are non-resident aliens. He
dismissed the lawsuits, filed in 2001 and 2007 against the  oil
company .  “We’re really looking forward to going to trial and that
is what we hope happens,” said Agnieszka Fryszman, a lawyer for
the plaintiffs.  The case is John Doe VII v. Exxon Mobil Corp., 09-7125,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 