-- 
Failure in Iowa Straw Poll Could Doom Pawlenty’s White House Bid

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-08T18:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/failure-in-iowa-straw-poll-may-doom-pawlenty-s-2012-presidential-effort.html
Republican  Tim Pawlenty  has done
everything usually needed to become a top-tier contender in
Iowa’s first-in-the-nation presidential caucuses. So far,
there’s little sign his work is paying off.  That has raised the stakes for the former Minnesota
governor to make a good showing in the Aug. 13 Iowa Straw Poll,
a carnival-like contest run by the state’s  Republican Party  that
tests the early strength of presidential aspirants.  “I think he’s got to win the straw poll, or he’s going to
be in tough shape,” said Doug Gross, an Iowa Republican who ran
Mitt Romney’s 2008 statewide campaign and is unaligned now.
“This is everything for him. For that reason, the straw poll is
going to be something that is highly watched.”  Pawlenty, 50, has focused on  Iowa  since he began pursuing
the presidency. He has gained endorsements from state lawmakers
and signed up some of Iowa’s best political operatives. He was
the first 2012 candidate to run television ads in the state, and
has dutifully attended numerous local functions, including one
this week where he was flanked by two artificial palm trees and
a tiki bar as he spoke to a crowd at a banquet hall in Ames.  For all his efforts, his support stood at 6 percent in an
 Iowa Poll  last month of likely Republican caucus participants
sponsored by the  Des Moines Register . Leading the survey with 23
percent was Romney, the former Massachusetts governor making his
second presidential run; U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota had 22 percent.  Fundraising Figures  Pawlenty’s political standing also took a hit when his
campaign reported $4.2 million in donations through June 30 --
less than a fourth of the $18.3 million raised by Romney, the
leader in nationwide Republican polls, and less than the $4.5
million collected by U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas .  Bachmann didn’t officially enter the race until June 27 and
doesn’t plan to announce a fundraising report until July 15. She
already has complicated Pawlenty’s bid by embracing a similar
strategy: spotlighting the Feb. 6 Iowa caucuses as the contest
that will propel her candidacy.  These factors have intensified the straw poll’s importance
for Pawlenty -- and caused some to suggest that a poor showing
could effectively doom his quest for the White House.  Romney, who won the straw poll four years ago only to
finish second in the caucuses five months later, has decided to
pass on the event this year. So have former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  and Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah
governor. That has limited the straw poll field to candidates
including Pawlenty, Bachmann, Paul, former pizza chain executive
 Herman Cain  and former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania .  ‘ Minnesota Twins ’  Finishing well behind Bachmann could “force Pawlenty out
of the race,” said Gross, Iowa’s 2002 Republican gubernatorial
candidate. Referring to Bachmann and Pawlenty’s mutual home
state and its professional baseball team, he cracked, “There
are some Minnesota Twins fans in Iowa, but not enough.”  Pawlenty is scheduled to spend about half of July in Iowa,
trying to generate momentum as the straw poll approaches.  “We don’t need to win it, but we need to show progress,”
he said in an interview yesterday at his campaign headquarters
in Urbandale, Iowa. “We view the straw poll as the kickoff to
the real, full campaign season.”  Whatever his finish in the straw poll, Pawlenty said, he
has no plans to leave the campaign. In the past, some candidates
have dropped out after finishing below expectations.  “We don’t plan on being one of those,” he said. Referring
to a weed and grass killer, he said, “They’re not going to put
the political  Roundup  on us.”  ‘Pretty Critical’  Steve Scheffler, a Republican National Committee member
from Iowa who so far is neutral in the presidential race, termed
the straw poll “pretty critical” for Pawlenty. While a close
second to Bachmann or another candidate would probably  “not be
a death knell” for Pawlenty, a poorer showing could be, he
said.  The straw poll, which doubles as a fundraiser for the state
party, requires admission tickets. Better-financed candidates
often pick up those costs and provide bus rides to  Iowa State
University  in Ames, the event’s venue. They also lure supporters
with entertainment and free food (Pawlenty plans to serve  Famous
Dave’s  barbeque).  The results hardly represent a referendum; Romney won the
2008 straw poll with just 4,516 votes. Still, the contest
provides a gauge of a campaign’s organizational skills, which
are crucial to generating turnout for the caucuses.  Party Goal  In his most recent pitches, Pawlenty has urged Iowa
Republicans to keep in mind the party’s overarching goal of
ousting President  Barack Obama  from office.  “We want to make sure that the person that Iowa puts
forward in this race is not just interesting in that moment, but
is somebody who can become the nominee and can defeat” Obama in
2012, Pawlenty said at his Ames appearance earlier this week.  Stressing his record as a chief executive, he told his
listeners that they should support someone who isn’t “only
giving speeches and offering failed amendments.”  His comments seemed aimed at Bachmann. As a state
legislator before winning her House seat in 2006, she
unsuccessfully pushed to amend  Minnesota ’s constitution to bar
legal recognition of same-sex marriage. In Congress, she has
emerged as a favorite speaker at rallies sponsored by Tea Party
activists and hasn’t shepherded any major legislation into law.  Pawlenty insisted to reporters after his Ames speech that
he wasn’t referring to Bachmann, 55.  ‘My Strengths’  “These comments are just about my strengths that I bring
to the race,” he said. “One of the things that voters in Iowa
and across the country want to know is ‘Do you just flap your
jaw, or do you have results that you can back up these
statements with?’”  He more willingly took on Bachmann in an  interview 
yesterday with the Des Moines Register. Referring to her
legislative record, he said, “as to specific results that have
been achieved, I’m not sure what they would be.”  Pawlenty has spent more days campaigning in Iowa than all
but one -- Santorum -- of the other Republicans, according to an
 accounting  done by the Des Moines Register.  “I think he’s doing the right things, but it’s just going
to take some more time,” said Tony Osmundson, an agricultural
equipment salesman from Ames who is tentatively backing him.  Enthusiasm Gap  Gross, though, said Pawlenty is lagging partly because he
is “not a very exciting individual, so he doesn’t generate a
lot of enthusiasm.”  Pawlenty also has erred by trying to appeal to too many
factions among Republicans, Gross said. “When you try to be
everything to everybody, you are nothing to anybody,” he said.
“That’s kind of what’s happened to him.”  Former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , who won the Iowa
caucuses in 2008, was similarly behind at this point in 2007.
Earlier this week, Pawlenty’s campaign announced that it had
added Huckabee’s daughter, Sarah, as a senior political adviser.  Pawlenty got poor reviews from analysts following the first
major Republican candidate debate on June 13, held in  New
Hampshire . The criticism largely concerned his decision not to
take Romney to task for helping to enact a Massachusetts health-
care law that is similar to the national health-care overhaul
Obama pushed through Congress last year.  At Pawlenty’s Iowa campaign headquarters yesterday,
Republican Bill Campbell told the candidate that he thought he
needed to strengthen his “demeanor.”  Pawlenty told the audience of about 125 that, as a hockey
player, he has “probably been in more fights than all these
candidates combined.”  He added: “The loudest guy or woman in a bar usually isn’t
the toughest. They’re usually just the loudest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Ames, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  