-- 
Former Yankees Pitcher Lidle’s Widow Appeals Verdict in Plane-Crash Suit

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-08T18:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/former-yankees-pitcher-lidle-s-widow-appeals-verdict-in-plane-crash-suit.html
The widow of former  New York  Yankees
pitcher Cory Lidle, who died in a plane crash in Manhattan,
appealed a jury verdict that found the maker of the aircraft
wasn’t responsible for his death.  A Manhattan federal jury on May 24 cleared Duluth,
Minnesota-based Cirrus Design Corp. of liability in the death of
Lidle, who was killed in October 2006 along with his flight
instructor, Tyler Stanger, when their single-engine SR20 plane
slammed into a building on the Upper East Side.  Lidle’s widow, Melanie, and Stanger’s widow, Stephanie,
sued Cirrus Design in February 2007, alleging that the flight-
control system in the  SR20  failed because of a design defect,
causing the two men to lose control of the aircraft.  Cirrus, which was acquired by China Aviation Industry
General Aircraft Co. earlier this year, said the pilots started
a turn too close to the eastern shore of  Manhattan  at too low an
angle, leaving them too little room to finish the maneuver.  The notice to the federal appeals court was filed yesterday
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, according to court
documents. The plaintiffs also asked U.S. District Judge Barbara
S. Jones on July 5 for a new trial in the case, saying that
“critical” evidence was excluded, according to court papers.  Excluded Evidence  The excluded evidence “was substantially prejudicial to
the plaintiffs and presented a scenario of total inequity,” in
which Cirrus presented numerous theories in its defense while
the plaintiffs “were restricted from counteracting such
evidence,” Hunter J. Shkolnik, a lawyer for the plaintiffs,
said in his motion for a new trial.  Jamie Moss, a spokeswoman for Cirrus Design, declined to
comment.  Lidle started his Major League Baseball career with the  New
York Mets  in 1997 and played for five other teams before joining
the Yankees from the  Philadelphia Phillies  in a trade in July
2006. He had a career record of 82 wins and 72 losses.  The crash came four days after the Yankees were eliminated
from the American League playoffs. Lidle and Stanger were
planning to fly from Teterboro Airport in  New Jersey  to
 California  after flying down the  Hudson River , around the Statue
of Liberty and up the  East River .  About a mile north of the Ed Koch  Queensboro Bridge , the
plane began a 180-degree turn and crashed into the 50-story
 Belaire , a red-brick luxury condominium tower built in 1988,
killing Lidle and Stanger and injuring three people in the
building.  Hit Building  The four-seat SR20, the first production aircraft fitted
with a parachute as standard equipment, smashed into the
building 332 feet (101 meters) above the street and plunged in
flames.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  restricted flights over
New York’s East River two days after the crash, requiring pilots
of small planes to get air-traffic controllers’ permission to
enter the corridor.  A National Transportation Safety Board report issued in May
2007  found  that poor piloting caused the crash. A sudden, 300-
foot loss of altitude could have been caused by a loss of lift,
known as an aerodynamic stall, from the steepness of the turn,
or because the pilot lowered the plane’s nose to pick up speed
in an attempt to avoid stalling, investigators said.  The case is Lidle v. Cirrus Design Corp., 1:08-cv-01253,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 