-- 
Andy Coulson Said to Be Arrested in London Tabloid Phone-Hacking Probe

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/former-news-of-the-world-editor-said-to-be-arrested-in-phone-hacking-probe.html
Andy Coulson , the former News of the
World editor who resigned as U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
press chief in January, was arrested in a probe of phone-hacking
by the tabloid, a person familiar with the matter said.  Coulson turned himself in at 10:30 a.m., said the person
who declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak on the matter. The ex-editor was arrested on suspicion of
conspiring to hack into mobile-phone messages and in conjunction
with an investigation, begun this week, into claims the tabloid
paid police officers for stories.  His arrest comes a day after  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.
said it would close Britain’s best-selling newspaper in response
to growing public anger over the scandal. At a news conference
yesterday before the arrest was reported, Cameron acknowledged
that Coulson is under police investigation and defended his
hire.  “I decided to give him a second chance,” Cameron said.
“The decision to hire him was mine and mine alone and I take
full responsibility.”  The financial and political fallout from the scandal gained
speed this week after claims the paper hacked into the voice
mails of murder victims and families of terror-attack victims
and U.K. soldiers killed in  Afghanistan , and of the police
payments. The allegations prompted advertisers to abandon the
paper, while politicians demanded the government block News
Corp.’s planned takeover of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Goodman Arrest  The tabloid’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , 53, was
re-arrested yesterday and his office at the Daily Star tabloid
was searched in relation to the phone hacking investigation, Sky
News reported. Police confirmed they arrested a 53-year old man
and searched his home in Surrey,  England  yesterday and also
raided a London business.  The arrest of Coulson, 43, is the highest-profile so far in
the probe, which has ensnared seven people, including six with
connections to the paper.  Police, in an e-mailed statement, said that a 43-year-old
man and a 53-year-old man were released on bail. Police didn’t
disclose their names in the statement.  A 63-year-old man was arrested yesterday at a residential
address in Surrey in connection with allegations of corruption
as part of the investigation, police said in an e-mailed
statement. Police didn’t identify the man. A spokesperson for
the  Metropolitan Police Service  couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  Coulson served as editor of the 168-year-old Sunday tabloid
from 2003 to 2007 and resigned after Goodman and a private
investigator were imprisoned for phone-tapping. He denied any
knowledge of illegal activity when he was editor.  Cameron said he was given no specific information about
Coulson when he hired him as his communications chief.  Second Chances  “At the time I made the decision, there had been a police
investigation” and “what looked on the surface of it a proper
investigation,” he said. “The second chance didn’t work, he
had to resign all over again.”  Coulson didn’t respond to a message left on his mobile
phone before the arrest.  The current police investigation was opened in January
after new information surfaced as the result of civil lawsuits
filed by celebrities including actress  Sienna Miller  against the
tabloid.  Second Investigation  Police opened a second investigation this week into the
allegations of payments made to police. Cameron yesterday called
for a full public inquiry into phone hacking and said a judge
would oversee an independent investigation.  Goodman and private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  were jailed
in 2007 for tapping mobile phones. The investigation was re-
opened in September after the New York Times reported phone
hacking was more widespread at the newspaper than the prior case
showed. In December, prosecutors said they didn’t have enough
evidence to file further criminal charges.  Coulson quit as Cameron’s communications director in
January as the phone-hacking scandal widened, prompting Labour
Party attacks on the prime minister’s judgment.  Ed Miliband  on July 7 repeated a call for the resignation
of Rebekah Brooks, chief executive of News International,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, and also a former News of the World editor.
Cameron said yesterday he would have taken Brooks’ offer to
resign.  The company previously denied illegal activity went beyond
Goodman and Mulcaire, and insisted phone-hacking stopped with
their 2007 jailing. It has since admitted liability in some of
the lawsuits, and settled with Miller and sports commentator
Andy Gray.  News Corp.’s brands include the Fox TV networks and film
studios, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and book publisher
HarperCollins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  