-- 
Fracking Should Be Allowed on U.S. Land, Virginia Official Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-07-08T15:44:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/fracking-should-be-allowed-on-u-s-land-virginia-official-says.html
A  Virginia  energy official urged the
U.S. government not to hinder hydraulic fracturing and
horizontal drilling on federal land.  The U.S. Forest Service is considering rules for the George
Washington National Forest in Virginia and  West Virginia  that
may restrict the technique, known as fracking, on some lands.
Limits would needlessly stunt job creation, said Maureen Matsen,
a Virginia senior energy adviser, in testimony prepared for a
joint hearing today of the House Agriculture Committee and House
Natural Resources Committee subcommittees that oversee federal
lands.  Fracking, which injects chemicals and water into rock
formations to free trapped natural gas, has been criticized by
environmental groups as a risk to safe drinking water. In
combination with improved horizontal-drilling methods, it has
let producers extract fuel from shale formations in  Texas ,
Louisiana, Arkansas and  Pennsylvania  once considered
impenetrable.  “There have been no documented instances of surface water
or groundwater degradation from fracking in Virginia,” Matsen
said in her statement.  The federal Bureau of Land Management is considering
regulation of the practice on public lands. Final results from a
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency study of fracking’s effects
on drinking water aren’t expected until 2014, the agency has
said.  The BLM understands the importance of energy exploration
while staying mindful of environmental needs, said Bob Abbey,
the director of the Bureau of Land Management.  “Development of conventional energy resources from BLM-
managed public lands will continue to play a critical role in
meeting the nation’s energy needs,” he said in testimony.  Also scheduled to testify are Joel Holtrop, the deputy
chief of the U.S. Forest Service, as well as  David Miller , the
standards director of the  American Petroleum Institute  and Amy
Mall, an analyst with the Natural Resources Defense Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  