-- 
General Electric Moves Wind Turbine Production to New India Unit

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T07:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/general-electric-moves-wind-turbine-production-to-new-india-unit.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of wind turbines, shifted production in
 India  to the west, with the country’s most untapped potential
for the alternative power, from a saturated southern market.  The company stopped assembling turbines at its facility in
Chennai in the southern state of  Tamil Nadu  and moved production
to a plant opened this year in Pune, in the west, GE said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  “We plan to eventually grow the capacity to 450 megawatts
yearly in line with the growth in demand,” GE said, without
specifying current output.  The shift may make it easier for GE to supply projects in
states including Maharashtra, where Pune is located, Gujarat,
Rajasthan and Karnataka, which, according to the  Global Wind
Energy Council , have India’s most untapped wind potential. In
India, which  ranks  behind Ethiopia and Indonesia in
infrastructure quality, the biggest problem for wind projects is
transporting turbines and components along poor roads, according
to  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the nation’s dominant supplier.  Tamil Nadu is struggling with congestion that is crimping
investment in wind power.  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ,  Hong Kong ’s largest
power supplier and India’s biggest wind-farm developer, passed
on a chance expand a project in the state by 50 megawatts
because the local electricity grid was unable to take additional
capacity.  “We had to let it go because we could anticipate that for
the first three years of operation we would have heavy power
evacuation issues,” Mahesh Makhija, director of renewables at
CLP’s local unit, said in an interview on June 23.  Supply Chain  In contrast, the states closer to GE’s new facility can
host another 22,000 megawatts of projects, 55 percent more than
India’s current wind capacity, according to the government.  GE is assembling 1.5-megawatt and 1.6-megawatt turbines
designed for low wind speeds at Pune, which is about 150
kilometers (93 miles) south of  Mumbai , India’s financial hub.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE has also invested in
developing a local supply chain to buy components in India, it
said. Overseas turbine makers are increasingly relying on
cheaper Asian suppliers to help trim costs and increase
competitiveness.  Repower Systems SE, based in Hamburg, will start making
turbines in India for the first time this year and expects to
cut costs on average by 15 percent by buying more parts from
 Asia , Chief Executive Officer Andreas Nauen said in an interview
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  