-- 
German Exports Rose More Than Economists Forecast in May

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-08T07:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/german-exports-increased-more-than-forecast.html
German exports increased more than
economists forecast in May, adding to signs the sovereign debt
crisis isn’t harming  Europe ’s largest economy.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
increased 4.3 percent from April, when they fell 5.6 percent,
the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a gain of 1.5 percent, according to the
median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports rose
3.7 percent from the previous month.  German factory orders and industrial production both
increased in May, suggesting the economy is weathering the
region’s fiscal crisis. With countries from Spain to Ireland
cutting spending, companies have relied on faster-growing
markets to boost sales. Munich-based Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG, the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, said yesterday
deliveries jumped 16 percent in June.  “The upward trend is still intact,” said Thilo Heidrich,
an economist at  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  in Frankfurt. “While the
May figure is something of a rebound from a weak April, the
German economy is in a very good state due in large part to
demand from Asia.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.4342 at 9:02 a.m. in Frankfurt. The single currency has
appreciated 7.1 percent against the dollar this year.  Audi ‘Optimistic’  From a year earlier, exports jumped 19.9 percent, today’s
report showed. The  trade balance  widened to 14.8 billion euros
($21 billion) from 10.8 billion euros in April. The surplus in
the current account, a measure of all trade including services,
was 6.9 billion euros, down from a revised 9 billion euros.  German factory orders were boosted by a surge in domestic
demand in May. Business confidence increased in June and the
Bundesbank said last month while growth is likely to be
“considerably weaker” in the second quarter, “this should not
be interpreted as an economic slowdown.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi luxury-car division said yesterday
that German sales jumped 18 percent in June from a year earlier,
while demand also increased in  China  and Brazil.  “The first half of the year went better than we
expected,” said  Peter Schwarzenbauer , Audi’s marketing and
sales chief. “We’re also optimistic for the coming months.”  ‘Positive Momentum’  Exports to the 27-member European Union jumped 17.4 percent
to 54.5 billion euros in May from a year earlier, while sales to
the euro region increased 16.1 percent to 36.8 billion euros in
that period, today’s report showed. Sales to countries outside
the EU advanced 24 percent to 37.6 billion euros from a year
earlier, the statistics office said.  Luxury clothier  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  said on July 6 that it may
raise its 2015 profitability goal as it expands its own-brand
chain and operations in Asia. China, where demand for expensive
menswear is rising, will probably become the German company’s
third-largest market this year, overtaking France and the U.K.,
Chief Financial Officer Mark Langer said last month.  “Germany continues to do well,” said  Sarah Hewin , an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “It’s one of
the countries that has benefited most from” the global
recovery.  The European Central Bank yesterday raised its benchmark
interest rate for the second this year by 25 basis points to 1.5
percent. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a briefing in
 Frankfurt  that the euro region shows “positive underlying
momentum” and exports “should continue to be supported by the
ongoing expansion in the world economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  