-- 
Italian Yields Reach Nine-Year High as Debt Crisis Spreads; Bunds Surge

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T16:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/german-notes-snap-three-day-gain-as-exports-exceed-forecasts.html
Italian bonds slid for the fifth
straight day, driving yields to a nine-year high, as contagion
from  Greece ’s fiscal crisis intensified in the region’s biggest
government-debt market.  German 10-year yields fell the most since April after U.S.
employers added less than a fifth of the workers economists
estimated in June. The yield on 10-year Italian securities
jumped to a euro-era record over German bunds as data showed
industrial production in the Mediterranean nation dropped while
Italian bank stocks fell, paced by  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  A European
Union document said governments should be ready to help banks
that fail stress tests as a last resort. Spanish, Irish and
Greek bonds also fell.  “If you are talking about a default in Greece where
contagion spreads through Ireland, Portugal and Spain, then
Italy is the next stop,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London . “Italy has
an awful lot of debt.”  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose 10 basis points to
5.27 percent at 5:03 p.m. in London, up from 4.87 percent a week
ago. The yield reached 5.38 percent, the highest since June
2002. The 4.75 percent securities due in September 2021 fell
0.715, or 7.15 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,424) face amount, to
96.455.  Italy ’s two-year note yield jumped as much as 29 basis
points to 3.61 percent, the most since November 2008. Credit-
default swaps on Italy rose 23.5 basis points to 241, the
highest level since Jan. 11, according to CMA.  Widening Spreads  Italian industrial output declined 0.6 percent in May from
April, when it rose 1.1 percent, the Rome-based statistics
office Istat said today. Economists had forecast a 0.1 percent
decrease, according to the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Italy’s Finance Ministry yesterday said new measures aimed
at balancing the budget will total 40 billion euros, with most
of the cuts in the four-year plan scheduled for 2013 and 2014.
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said today he moved out of a
Rome apartment provided by Marco Milanese, a former aide and
member of Parliament whose arrest is sought by prosecutors in
Naples. He had a “long and cordial working lunch” with Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , the leader’s office said.  The nation is the euro area’s biggest bond market, with 1.8
trillion euros of outstanding debt as of Dec. 31, compared with
1.1 trillion euros of German debt outstanding on March 31,
according to websites from the nations’ debt agencies.  ‘Pesky Vigilantes’  The difference in yield, or spread, between German and
Italian 10-year debt touched 247 basis points, headed for its
biggest weekly increase since at least January 2010. The
difference in the price of Italian and German bond futures
widened to a record as the Italian securities fell 0.8 percent
to 104.57. The yield spread between Italian and Spanish 10-year
bonds narrowed to 42 basis points, the least since March.  “The reality now is that those pesky bond vigilantes have
caught sight of Italy, and that is basically all that matters,”
Michael Riddell, a London-based  fund manager  at M&G Investments,
said in his blog on the company’s website. “Rising sovereign
and bank borrowing costs will lead to credit-rating downgrades.
In other words, credit ratings partly get cut because the bond
prices fall.”  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index was
down 2.3 percent. UniCredit dropped as much as 8.8 percent,
while  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  said he’s certain that
the country’s lenders will pass European stress tests.  Stress Tests  Banks that fail this year’s round of EU stress tests may
need to present plans for making up their capital shortfall by
the end of September, according to an internal EU document. They
may be given a further three months to implement these plans and
raise the additional capital they need, according to the
preliminary document obtained by Bloomberg News.  German bund yields fell 14 basis points, the biggest drop
since April 18, to 2.83 percent, outperforming French, Belgian,
Dutch, Austrian and Finnish securities of similar maturity. The
German securities extended their advance after a report showed
U.S. employers added 18,000 workers last month, less than the
105,000 forecast and the fewest in nine months, while the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed.  ‘Flight to Quality’  “We are seeing some flight to quality, and peripherals
remain under pressure, particularly  Spain  and Italy,” said
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in London.
“The general mood towards Portugal and Greece, together with
the need for significant structural reforms and more austerity
in Italy and Spain, is creating the perfect storm. Spreads will
continue to widen.”  Spanish 10-year yields rose four basis points to 5.66
percent. Yields on similar-maturity Irish bonds increased 20
basis points to 12.92 percent. Greek 10-year yields jumped 17
basis points to 16.86 percent, and the nation’s two-year note
yields touched an all-time high 30.40 percent. Irish two-year
note yields reached a record 16.74 percent.  Portuguese 10-year bonds rose, pushing the yield down nine
basis points to 12.82 percent.  European officials remain at loggerheads over the best way
to handle Greece’s debt crisis. Moody’s Investors Service cut
 Portugal ’s credit to junk this week. Discussions over how to
include private investors in a second bailout for Greece are
ongoing as borrowing costs at other nations’ debt sales rise.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said private
investors may have to be forced into contributing to the new
Greek aid package, according to an interview yesterday in Dutch
newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad.  German  government bonds  handed investors 0.5 percent this
year, compared with a 2.5 percent return for U.S. Treasuries and
2.3 percent for U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Greek bonds have lost 17 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 