-- 
German Solar Stock Pioneer Restructures as Loan Deadline Looms

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-07-08T11:20:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/german-solar-stock-pioneer-restructures-as-loan-deadline-looms.html
Solon SE (SOO1) , which in 1998 became the
first German solar photovoltaic company to sell shares to the
public, is speeding up cost-cutting plans as a deadline to pay
back a 275 million euro ($393 million) loan approaches.  Solon has hired Alvarez & Marsal Inc. to “quickly
finalize” a plan started in 2010 aimed at cutting structural,
process and product costs, Sylvia Ratzlaff, a spokeswoman for
the company, said in an e-mail today. Solon must pay back by the
end of this year the loan Deutsche Bank AG made with a group of
seven German banks.  “It’s clear that Solon’s 2011 numbers won’t be good enough
to convince banks to extend the loan,” said Katharina Cholewa,
a solar analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany. “Bringing
in consultants is a move to demonstrate to creditors if Solon
has a future.”  Solon and its rivals including  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and  Conergy AG (CGY) 
have suffered from slumping demand in Germany, the world’s
largest solar market. They’re also coping with increased
competition from Chinese companies including JA Solar Holdings
Co. and Suntech Power Holdings Co. Solon fell as much as 3.7
percent to 2.55 euros a share in Frankfurt trading. Company
shares dropped 39 percent during the past 12 months.  The maker of solar modules is in talks to extend the loan
deadline and expects a result “by the end of Q3 or the
beginning of the fourth quarter,” Ratzlaff said. Meanwhile, A&M
has been asked to “identify further cost-cutting potential,”
at Solon, she said.  ‘Too Expensive’  The company’s best bet to become profitable is to seek
sales growth through lower prices, Cholewa said. “Solon’s
products are of good quality but they’re too expensive at the
moment amid price pressure from the Chinese,” she said in a
phone interview.  After  Germany  added a record 7,450 megawatts of solar power
in 2010, demand has been weaker this year, with only about 700
megawatts of modules installed in March through May, according
to government figures. That prompted Germany to drop a solar
subsidy cut planned for July, fueling hopes in the industry that
the second half of the year leads to higher demand.  Solon employs more than 800 people at subsidiaries in
Germany,  Italy ,  France  and the U.S., it says on its Website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  