-- 
Gilts Surge and Pound Strengthens as U.S. Job Data Disappoints

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-08T15:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/gilts-rally-pound-strengthens-as-u-s-payrolls-rise-less-than-estimated.html
Gilts surged and the pound advanced
against the dollar after a report showed the U.S. added fewer
jobs than forecast in June, adding to signs the world’s biggest
economy is struggling to emerge from recession.  The gains pushed 10-year yields to the lowest level this
month as investors sought the safest fixed-income assets in the
U.S., U.K. and  Germany . U.S. employers added 18,000 workers in
June, less than the 105,000 forecast in a Bloomberg survey and
the fewest in nine months, Labor Department data showed today in
 Washington . Sterling advanced versus 13 of its 16 major peers.  “Weaker growth out of the U.S. implies more accommodative
monetary policy for longer, and that’s having a positive impact
on fixed-income assets across the board,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
 London .  Ten-year gilts rose for the fourth day in five, pushing
yields down 11 basis points to 3.19 percent as of 4:32 p.m. in
London. The yield touched 3.18 percent, the lowest since June
28. The 3.75 percent security due September 2020 rose 0.89, or
8.9 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,595) face amount, to 104.44.
Yields on two-year notes were five basis points lower at 0.75
percent.  The pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.6015, after falling as low
as $1.5932, the weakest intraday level since June 28. Sterling
gained 1.2 percent to 88.81 pence per euro and was 0.5 percent
stronger at 129.18 yen.  Pound Rallies  “Sterling is benefiting because it’s one of the few
credible alternatives to the dollar for money managers looking
to diversify,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in London.  Treasuries and German bunds rallied as the slowdown in U.S.
hiring underscored Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
comment that the economic recovery is “frustratingly slow,”
boosting speculation that U.S.  interest rates  will stay lower
for longer. The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent, the
highest level this year.  Gilts were also lifted as U.K. data showed that the growth
in prices of goods leaving British factories slowed to 0.1
percent in June from 0.2 percent in May. The Bank of England
left its key rate at a record low 0.5 percent yesterday, and
maintained its bond-purchase program to support the recovery.  Britain’s currency has still lost 3 percent this year
against a basket of nine developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, as worsening
economic growth has made interest-rate increases less likely.  Slowing Growth  U.K. economic growth slowed to a virtual standstill in the
second quarter, falling to 0.1 percent in the three months to
the end of June, the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Investors are now betting that the  Bank of England  won’t
raise borrowing costs until after June next year, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, show. As recently as
February, the data indicated traders were betting on a rate
increase this May.  The implied yield on short-sterling futures expiring in
March 2012 was one basis point lower at 1.01 percent. The yield
has fallen from a high of 2.08 percent in February as investors
bet interest rates will stay lower for longer.  Short-sterling futures are used by analysts to gauge the
future trajectory of borrowing costs between banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  