-- 
Global Accounting Standards, JPMorgan, ‘Rogue’ S-Chips, Spain: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-08T12:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/global-accounting-standards-rogue-s-chips-spain-compliance.html
Major financial firms and credit
ratings companies are pushing the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to blend U.S. and international accounting standards
into one set of practices.  At a roundtable meeting on accounting standards in
Washington yesterday, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  called the idea
“a major decision for this agency, and not one to be taken
lightly.”  Representatives of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ,  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO)  and McGraw-Hill Cos.’ Standard & Poor’s unit who took part
in the roundtable argued that differing accounting standards
pose difficulties for international businesses.  Gregory Jonas, a Morgan Stanley managing director who
advocated a gradual U.S. transition toward International
Financial Reporting Standards, pointed out that diverse
languages would prove “troublesome.”  The SEC, which oversees U.S. accounting regulation, has
agreed to develop a plan to converge U.S. and international
standards. The agency published a proposal in May for a step-by-
step blending of the international provisions with U.S.
standards. In that report, the SEC said it “has yet to make a
decision as to whether and, if so, how, to incorporate IFRS into
the financial reporting system for U.S. issuers.”  Compliance Policy  Most Interest-Rate Derivatives Can Be Cleared, LCH Says  About 84 percent of interest-rate derivatives, the largest
part of the $601 trillion private marketplace, will be able to
be processed by clearinghouses by year-end, according to
LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  The assessment is more optimistic than a May report by the
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  that assumed 20
percent of OTC derivatives in the U.S. can be cleared. London-
based LCH.Clearnet, owner of the largest swaps clearinghouse,
already handles 52 percent of the interest-rate swap market,
according to a company analysis, and plans to accept forward-
rate agreements by year-end.  American and European regulators are writing rules to
require most swaps to be traded on exchanges or similar systems
and cleared after the contracts contributed to the financial
crisis.  Clearinghouses , capitalized by their members, lessen the
effects of a default, require margin to back trades and allow
regulators to monitor positions and market prices.  The amount of the market that ends up in a clearinghouse is
important because it will determine how expensive trading OTC
derivatives will be, said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at
the University of Houston.  About 68 percent of the interest-rate derivatives market
can be cleared now, according to the LCH.Clearnet analysis.
Other trades, consisting of exotic swaps that have customized
features, will never be eligible for clearing, according to
LCH.Clearnet.  For more, click here.  Consumer Bureau Plans to Write Rules for Mortgage Servicers  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is preparing to
impose rules on U.S. mortgage servicing firms, which will be a
priority for the agency, said Raj Date, the bureau’s associate
director.  He made the remarks in testimony prepared for delivery to
members of the  House Financial Services Committee  yesterday.  The $10.4 trillion industry has structural features “that
make it especially prone to the risk of consumer harm,” one of
which is lack of consumer choice because homeowners can’t choose
their mortgage servicer, Date said.  Members of the financial services and oversight
subcommittees of the House panel are examining lapses and gaps
in mortgage servicing regulation.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Office of
Thrift Supervision,  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. reached an accord with the 14 largest servicers
in April, requiring them to improve foreclosure, loan-
modification and refinancing procedures. The settlement covers
firms that handle nearly 70 percent of all mortgages.  Date said the bureau is working with other agencies,
including the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees
mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , to establish
industry standards.  EU Banks Face Possible September Deadline, Profit Estimates  Banks that fail this year’s round of European Union stress
tests may need to present plans for making up their capital
shortfall by the end of September, according to an internal EU
document.  Firms may be given a further three months to implement
these plans and raise the additional capital they need,
according to the preliminary document obtained by Bloomberg
News. Most European bank shares fell.  Lenders should “provide a credible plan indicating how
they intend to address the weaknesses revealed by the stress
test,” according the document dated July 7 that was prepared by
government officials from the 27-nation region. Firms should use
retained earnings, stock offerings and asset sales to make up
the short fall, the note says.  Ninety-one banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, according to the European Banking Authority, which is
coordinating the exercise.  For more, click here.  Separately, EU regulators may publish estimates of the
future profitability of the region’s lenders as part of the bank
stress-test results, four people familiar with the process said.  Banks are challenging the proposal from the European
Banking Authority because the estimates may be lower than
figures published by some lenders, said the people, who didn’t
want to be identified because the discussions are private. Firms
are concerned the disclosure could trigger a decline in their
stock prices, according to one of the people.  European regulators are seeking to assuage investor concern
that banks in the region are inadequately capitalized with a
second round of stress tests. The EBA is weighing whether to
make banks publish a forecast for 2011 or 2012, one of the
people said. Companies are pushing for the latter because they
expect a longer-term forecast would have less of an impact on
their stock price, the person said. Officials at the EBA
declined to comment on the negotiations.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan to Pay $228 Million to End Municipal Bid-Rig Case  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to pay $228 million to settle
federal charges that the bank conspired to rig the bidding on
investment contracts sold to state and local governments to
boost its profits at taxpayer expense.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, agreed to pay $177
million to settle federal and state charges and to return $51.2
million to municipal borrowers affected by the conduct, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a
statement.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the SEC for more than four
years have been investigating how banks and financial advisers
fixed the bidding on investments sold to municipalities.
Prosecutors say the conspiracy cost taxpayers by allowing banks
to pay governments below-market rates. JPMorgan’s penalties are
the largest yet to result from the investigation, which also led
to settlements with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Bank of America Corp.  The Justice Department said the investigation is
continuing.  The settlement marks the second that JPMorgan has reached
arising from its municipal derivatives business. In November
2009, the bank agreed to a $722 million accord with the SEC to
end an investigation over its sales of derivatives to Jefferson
County, Alabama.  For more, click here.  For a Bloomberg Television report, click here.  Chinese ‘Rogue Executives’ Dodge Singapore Law by Staying Home  Singapore investors are demanding tougher rules to
prosecute executives of China-based companies traded in the
city-state after scandals from  New York  to  Hong Kong  have wiped
out the market value of such firms.  U.S. and Hong Kong regulators have been ramping up Chinese
company probes as Muddy Waters LLC said last month that Sino-
Forest Corp. overstated its timber holdings, erasing as much as
82 percent of the China-based tree plantation owner’s market
capitalization in Toronto.  With more than one in 10 Chinese firms listed in Singapore
delisted or suspended since 2008, regulators must seek a balance
between the need for investor protection and a desire to attract
companies to Singapore’s exchange. Lawyers said executives of
Chinese firms that trade in Singapore, so-called S-chips, are
beyond the reach of current law as long as they remain in China.
  The Securities Investors Association (Singapore) has been
seeking safeguards from the island’s exchange for at least a
year, including ensuring funds are accounted for after leaving
the city, said association president David Gerald.  At least 20 Chinese firms on the exchange, where one in
five stocks are China-based, have been suspended or ordered to
delist since 2008. There were 152 China-based firms listed on
Singapore’s  S$893 billion ($727 billion)  stock market at the end
of June, according to the exchange. The FTSE Strait Times China
Index of 63 Chinese stocks has lost 11 percent this year,
compared with a 2 percent slide in the Straits Times Index.  For more, click here.  Spain Fends Off Criticism on Banks as EU Introduces Reviews  Spain blunted European Union criticism of its handling of
savings banks and tax policy, persuading the EU to water down
judgments issued as part of a new economic-policing system.  The non-binding recommendations, to be issued by EU finance
ministers on July 12 in Brussels, urge Spain to “monitor
closely” the reorganization of savings banks, softening an
earlier plea to “reinforce” the restructuring, documents
obtained by Bloomberg News show.  Spain’s case, and concessions to Belgium, France, Malta and
Cyprus, show the obstacles faced by central EU authorities in
putting their stamp on national economic policies, even as they
struggle to contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  The first draft of the recommendations was issued by the
 European Commission , the bloc’s central regulator, on June 7 and
endorsed in principle by government leaders at a June 24 summit.  The detailed recommendations, capping the bloc’s first-ever
 “European Semester”  of policy coordination, weren’t completed
by government representatives until yesterday and are set to be
rubber-stamped next week.  Commission spokesman Amadeu Altafaj didn’t immediately
reply to a voicemail seeking comment. A Spanish Finance Ministry
spokesman who declined to be named said Spain had made its
arguments to the commission.  For more, click here.  Courts/Arbitration Panels  Fisher’s Firm Told to Pay $376,000 Over Retiree Losses  Fisher Investments Inc. , the firm run by Forbes magazine
columnist  Kenneth Fisher , may have to pay damages of $376,075
for breaching its fiduciary duty to a retired investor.  Sharyn Silverstein, 64, is entitled to out-of-pocket losses
she incurred as a result of Fisher Investments liquidating her
bond portfolio and investing 100 percent of the proceeds in
stocks, according to a copy of the interim arbitration award
issued JAMS, obtained by Bloomberg News.  JAMS, based in Irvine, California, is a private forum for
arbitration and mediation.  Silverstein had invested with Fisher in 2007 after multiple
calls and visits from a Fisher outside salesman, according to
the award document. She had initially contacted the firm after
seeing a Fisher advertisement for a complimentary book in USA
Today, the document said.  “The decision was completely wrong on the law and the
facts. With more than 25,000 clients, losing an arbitration once
every seven years is a record far better than any major
competitor, which underscores the integrity of our firm,” said
David Eckerly, group vice president corporate communications for
Woodside, California-based Fisher Investments. Kenneth Fisher is
the firm’s founder and chief executive officer.  Fisher Investments manages more than $41 billion for almost
40,000 accounts, primarily for individual investors, according
to its most recent regulatory filings available on the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission website.  Joseph Peiffer, a New Orleans-based attorney who represents
Silverstein, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  MasterCard Attacks EU’s Order to Cut Fees in Court Challenge  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  will challenge European Union curbs on fees
after the world’s second-biggest card network was accused of
punishing consumers who choose to pay with plastic.  MasterCard, supported by banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , will attack a 2007 ruling
on transaction fees on cross-border credit-card payments in a
case that will test whether such levies are unfair to the
retailers and customers who eventually pick up the tab.  The  European Commission  failed to “properly identify a
restriction of competition” and demanded a “disproportionate”
remedy and fines, MasterCard was expected to tell the EU’s
General Court in Luxembourg yesterday, according to a court
 summary .  Regulators globally are attacking card fees and the way
they are set. The U.S. Federal Reserve Board’s decision last
month to cap debit-card swipe fees at 21 cents could slice about
half of the $16 billion in annual revenue reaped by card issuers
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Any decision in the MasterCard case can be appealed at the
region’s top tribunal, the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg.  The case is T-111/08, MasterCard and others v. European
Commission.  Interviews/Speeches  Gensler Says Rule Will Make Manipulation Easier to Prove  Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, talked about the agency’s adoption of a
Dodd-Frank Act rule designed to make it easier to prove fraud
and manipulation in markets for derivatives and commodities such
as oil and natural gas.  He spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s “Fast
Forward.”  For the video, click here.  Calomiris Says U.S. Regulators Need ‘Creative Solutions’  Charles Calomiris, a professor at Columbia Business School,
talked about the U.S. financial industry and housing market.
“We have to get real” about subsidizing risk-taking in the
housing market, Calomiris said. He also discussed minimizing
bank risk and financial regulation.  He spoke with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.S. Antitrust Chief Varney Said to Be Leaving for Cravath  Christine Varney , the top antitrust official at the U.S.
Justice Department, will leave her post next month to work for
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, a person familiar with the matter
said.  Varney, 55, who has made her career in private practice and
government in  Washington , will work at the law firm’s New York
headquarters, the person said.  Varney, appointed by President Barack Obama in January
2009, vowed to step up antitrust enforcement as she came into
the office in April of that year. One of her first moves was to
retract Bush administration guidelines on monopolization
policies, saying they “raised too many hurdles” to curbing
anticompetitive practices. Her replacement will selected by
Attorney General Eric Holder and Obama, Varney said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 