-- 
BofA, Goldman, UBS, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-08T10:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/goldman-blackboard-ubs-jpmorgan-madoff-wells-fargo-in-court-news.html
A Chicago trading firm accused Bank
of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  of conspiring to manipulate the London interbank offered
rate.  The banks drove down Libor to generate billions of dollars
in profits from swaps, loans, interest rate derivatives and
other financial instruments whose value depended on the rate,
Eldorado Trading Group LLC said in a complaint filed July 5 in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  The civil lawsuit is one of several filed in response to
probes by the U.S. Justice Department, Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission related to
whether there were improper attempts to manipulate Libor. The
rate, at which banks borrow from one another in the London
interbank market, is a short-term, international benchmark.  The banks “had a substantial incentive to manipulate, and
in fact did manipulate, Libor downward, in order to increase the
income from its interest rate derivatives and similar
instruments,” according to Eldorado’s complaint. “This
manipulation resulted in billions of dollars in revenue.”  Eldorado owned futures and options contracts based on
Eurodollar deposits traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
from August 2007 to December 2009, according to the complaint.
It seeks to represent similar owners of contracts traded on the
Chicago exchange.  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman, said the Zurich-based bank
is cooperating with the U.S. probes, and has also gotten
requests for information from the Japan Financial Services
Agency and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  “We believe this suit is without merit,” Danielle Romero-
Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said in an
e-mail.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment.  Jennifer
Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, declined
to comment.  The case is Eldorado Trading Group LLC v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 11-cv-3847, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  Liberty Mutual, Safeco Sue Goldman Alleging Securities Fraud  Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. and Safeco Corp. sued  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for “making misleading statements and
omissions” in a preferred-stock offering for  Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. (FMCC)  in 2007.  The plaintiffs, which also include Peerless Insurance Co.,
said they invested $37.5 million in the offering of Freddie Mac
shares, which Goldman underwrote, according to a filing July 6
in federal court in Boston.  Goldman claimed Freddie Mac “already met its regulatory
capital requirements” and that the offering was made to
increase the mortgage company’s capital base, the plaintiffs
said.  “The stated purpose for the offering was false,” the
plaintiffs said in the complaint. “Goldman knew or recklessly
ignored that Freddie Mac did not meet its regulatory capital
requirements, and Freddie Mac remained severely undercapitalized
even after the sale of the preferred stock.”  “The suit is without merit and we intend to contest it
vigorously,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, said in a telephone interview.  The insurers are seeking damages of more than $100 million
and a trial by jury. They said in the complaint that their
investments are “virtually worthless.”  The case is Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs &
Co., 11-11194, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more, click here.  Blackboard Inc. (BBBB)  Sued by Investor Over Providence Buyout Bid  Blackboard Inc., an educational-software maker, was sued in
Delaware Chancery Court by an investor contending the company’s
stock is undervalued in a proposed $1.64 billion buyout by
Providence Equity Partners Inc.  The company is being sold through “an unfair process and
for an unfair price,” shareholder Astor BK Realty Trust
contended in a complaint filed yesterday in Wilmington,
Delaware.  The Providence, Rhode Island-based investment firm agreed
July 1 to buy Blackboard, of Washington, for $45 a share in
cash, a 21 percent premium at the time.  Astor is seeking class-action, or group, status for the
lawsuit on behalf of common stockholders and an order to stop
the buyout or award damages.  Michael Stanton, a spokesman for Blackboard, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the suit.  The case is Astor BK Realty Trust v. Chasen, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  JPMorgan Reserves Right to Jury Trial in Lehman Lawsuit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , sued for $8.6 billion by bankrupt
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , said it reserved its right to a
review of the case in U.S. District Court and a trial by jury,
according to a court filing yesterday.  JPMorgan is fighting Lehman’s suit in bankruptcy court in
Manhattan, saying it was protected by so-called safe harbor law
when it took collateral from the defunct firm in 2008. Congress
created the law to protect banks lending to faltering companies,
New York-based JPMorgan has said.  Such issues aren’t usually decided in bankruptcy court,
according to JPMorgan. In yesterday’s filing, the bank said it
has a right to have the issues reviewed “de novo” by a
district court and to seek a jury trial “in any case,
controversy or proceeding related” to Lehman’s suit.  Lehman claimed in the lawsuit filed last year that JPMorgan
demanded guarantees that fatally weakened the firm, and the
transactions weren’t eligible for safe-harbor protections.
Lehman demanded $8.6 billion in collateral, plus tens of
billions of dollars in damages from JPMorgan, the second-biggest
U.S. bank.  JPMorgan, which lent $70 billion to Lehman’s brokerage
around the time of the September 2008 bankruptcy, sued Lehman
back, alleging it defrauded its lender into making the loan.  Separately, a district judge has taken over a $19 billion
lawsuit filed against JPMorgan by the trustee liquidating
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm. When asking the judge to take the case,
JPMorgan argued that it involved issues of common law and
federal law that a bankruptcy judge isn’t entitled to decide.  The Lehman suit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  UBS Suits by Madoff Trustee May Be Handled by District Judge  A U.S. district judge said she will review lawsuits against
 UBS AG (UBSN)  by the liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s defunct firm, and
will probably take the case out of bankruptcy court to rule on
it herself.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice, demanding $2.6
billion and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided Madoff’s fraud
by setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing “to look the
other way” at irregularities. U.S. District Judge  Colleen
McMahon , who is handling Picard’s $19 billion suit against
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said the UBS case is related and raises
similar issues of whether Picard has a right to sue.  In a note to lawyers filed yesterday in court, McMahon gave
Picard until July 11 at 5 p.m. to explain on paper how she is
mistaken.  McMahon said in May that a bankruptcy judge isn’t entitled
to decide whether Picard has the right to sue New York-based
JPMorgan on behalf of the con man’s customers, and she would
handle that case.  JPMorgan argued that Picard was hired to liquidate the
Madoff firm, and wasn’t empowered by law to mount a class-action
suit to recover money on behalf of Madoff customers. Picard,
defending his suit, “misses the point,” the judge said. The
trustee last month trebled the amount of money he demanded from
the second-biggest U.S. bank.  The UBS case is Picard v.  UBS AG (UBS) , 10-ap-4285, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  JPMorgan ‘Madoff’ Suit Rightfully Dismissed, Court Says  A lawsuit accusing JPMorgan Chase & Co. of conspiring with
Bernard Madoff to injure an investment company was rightfully
dismissed by a U.S. District Court, an appeals court said.  MLSMK Investment Co. accused New York-based JPMorgan of
violating U.S. racketeering law in conspiring with the Ponzi
scheme operator to harm investors. The plaintiff is barred from
making the claim by securities law, the higher court decided.
The ruling was filed by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
yesterday.  MLSMK lost its $12.8 million investment with Madoff’s firm
when the con man was arrested in December 2008, according to the
filing. It sued JPMorgan on grounds that the company was
Madoff’s banker, using state and federal law to allege that
JPMorgan helped Madoff to “fleece” his victims while
benefiting from fees paid by Madoff, according to the filing.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan dismissed
the case, saying the suit didn’t adequately show any of the
facts the plaintiff was alleging. The appeals court last month
affirmed the judge’s dismissal of the state law claims,
including aiding and abetting the fraud, commercial bad faith,
and negligence. The latest ruling affirms dismissal of the
outstanding claim brought under federal racketeering law,
according to the filing.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison.  The case is MLSMK Investment Co. v. JPMorgan, 10-cv-3040,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Algosaibi Family Ordered by U.K. Court to Show Saudi Assets  Saudi Arabia’s Algosaibi family and their company, which
defaulted in 2009, were ordered by a U.K. judge to disclose
their assets after admitting liability in a $250 million lawsuit
by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and four other banks.  Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co. and more than a dozen
“wealthy” family members must provide lists of all assets
worth $50,000 or more by Aug. 4, including property in Saudi
Arabia, Justice Julian Flaux ruled yesterday in the High Court
in London.  Algosaibi, which had sought as many as six weeks to catalog
its Saudi possessions, was also told to reveal if any business
assets had been moved irregularly since June 16, when the family
dropped its defense during a trial on the banks’ claims. The
company still hasn’t made a public offer to pay the banks, Flaux
said.  A Saudi court order freezing Algosaibi’s assets in the
country “isn’t preventing the family from carrying on quite
expensive litigation all around the world,” Tim Lord, a lawyer
for London-based HSBC, said at the hearing. “It’s about time
they pay off these debts.”  The case is part of a global dispute between Algosaibi and
one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men, Maan al-Sanea, who married
into the Algosaibi family and founded the Saad Group, which has
businesses ranging from construction to health care. Units of
Saad and Algosaibi, both based in the Saudi oil city of Al-
Khobar, defaulted after borrowing about $15.7 billion from more
than 80 banks. Algosaibi has sued al-Sanea in the Cayman
Islands, Saudi Arabia and New York, accusing him of heaping debt
on the company by taking out fraudulent loans.  Algosaibi, with interests including construction, beverage
bottling and finance, “remains willing to negotiate with banks
toward a fair and comprehensive resolution,” the law firm Baach
Robinson & Lewis Pllc in Washington said in a statement on
behalf of Algosaibi. “AHAB does not have the funds to pay the
massive amounts that were borrowed in its name.”  The London case, stemming from the largest Saudi default to
come out of the credit crunch, includes HSBC’s $85 million
claim, British Arab Commercial Bank’s $19 million claim, Arab
Banking Corp.’s claims totaling $140 million and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) ’s $6 million claim.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  JPMorgan, Mets Tactic May Cut Madoff Jackpot  Legal victories by owners of the New York Mets and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. may slash the $100 billion Irving Picard is seeking
on behalf of Bernard Madoff’s clients, undercutting bets traders
have made on victims’ claims, Bloomberg News’ Linda Sandler
reports.  Picard, liquidator of Madoff’s firm, has filed 1,000 suits
on behalf of Madoff investors. He sued JPMorgan Chase for $19
billion, equal to all the money lost by all investors in
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. He sued HSBC Holdings Plc and a dozen
feeder funds for $9 billion, and seeks as much as $59 billion --
including trebled racketeering charges -- from Bank Medici AG,
its founder, Sonja Kohn, and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  The Mets owners,
Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, face a $1 billion suit.  The banks say that Picard is straining the limits of the
law as he tries to grab back money for victims of Madoff’s
fraud. They won initial victories by persuading a judge to
remove their dispute with Picard from bankruptcy court to higher
district courts, which will decide whether Picard exceeded his
powers.  If the suits are scaled back by this tactic, Madoff clients
will have a smaller pot of damages from which to recover losses,
and investors who bought some of their claims at discount may
lose the bets they made. Madoff claims are now trading at about
70 cents on the dollar.  “The general view is, Picard will have enough success with
his lawsuits to provide substantial recovery over and above what
has settled,” said Andrew Gottesman, who heads bankruptcy
claims trading at SecondMarket in Manhattan. “That’s what’s
driving pricing. If the trustee loses those lawsuits against the
banks, traders’ sense of the risk involved would change.”  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Foreign Bribe Sting Operation for Weapons Ends in Hung Jury  U.S. prosecutors’ first foreign bribery case based on a
sting operation ended with jurors failing to agree whether four
security company executives sought corrupt deals from an agent
posing as a representative of Gabon.  The 12-member jury told U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in
Washington yesterday it had reached an impasse after six days of
deliberations. Leon decided to declare a mistrial rather than
sending the jurors back to continue deliberating.  “It’s a close call, counsel,” Leon said in court. “What
makes it a particularly close call is the amount of time, money,
energy and effort” that went into this case.  U.S. prosecutor Joey Lipton said in court that the
government intends to seek a retrial.  The prosecution of the four is part of a 22-defendant
kickback conspiracy case stemming from the sting operation and a
fake $15 million weapons deal. It’s the biggest U.S. prosecution
of individuals for bribing foreign officials.  Prosecutors allege the men sought to funnel payments to
Gabon’s minister of defense in exchange for contracts to provide
guns, grenades and uniforms for the African country’s
presidential guard. The attempted payments violated the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, prosecutors said.  Defense lawyers accused the government of engineering the
conspiracy, breaking Federal Bureau of Investigation rules about
handling informants, and obscuring from their clients that the
deal involved a kickback payment by calling it a commission.  The defendants -- John Wier III, Andrew Bigelow, Lee
Tolleson and Pankesh Patel -- have denied any wrongdoing.  Laura Sweeney, spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment, as did lawyers for the four defendants.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  JPMorgan to Pay $228 Million to Settle Municipal Bid-Rig Case  JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay $228 million to settle
federal charges that the bank conspired to rig the bidding on
investment contracts sold to state and local governments, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, agreed to pay $177
million to settle federal and state charges and to return $51.2
million to municipal borrowers affected by the conduct, the SEC
said in a statement.  The U.S. Justice Department and the SEC for more than four
years have been investigating how banks and financial advisers
fixed the bidding on investments sold to municipalities.
Prosecutors say the conspiracy cost taxpayers by allowing banks
to pay governments below-market rates. UBS AG and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  previously settled similar charges.  JPMorgan “improperly won bids by entering into secret
arrangements with bidding agents to get an illegal ‘last look’
at competitors’ bids,” Robert Khuzami, director of the SEC’s
Division of Enforcement, said in a statement. “Municipal
issuers and investors didn’t stand a chance against the
fraudulent strategies,” he said.  JPMorgan “doesn’t tolerate anticompetitive activity or
other violations of law,” the bank said in a news release. The
charges were the result of former employees at a small part of
the company that has since been shuttered, the bank said. The
employees concealed their conduct from management, JPMorgan
said.  “The firm assisted the government agencies in their
investigations and is pleased to have resolved this matter with
its regulators,” the statement said.  Wells Fargo to Pay $125 Million Over Mortgage Securities  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay $125 million to settle
accusations by investors that the bank misled them about the
risks of mortgage-backed securities it sold.  The plaintiffs in the consolidated group case, or class
action, include the General Retirement System of Detroit, New
Orleans Employees’ Retirement System and other public pensions,
according to the settlement filed July 6 in federal court in San
Jose, California.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, and several
investment banks that underwrote the securities were sued in
2009 over alleged violations of securities laws in connection
with sales of mortgage pass-through certificates. The bank and
the underwriters deny wrongdoing, according to the court filing.  “The proposed settlement agreement is a negotiated
resolution as to all named defendants and is intended to avoid
the distraction and expense of litigation,” Ancel Martinez, a
Wells Fargo spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  The bank still faces claims in state courts in California,
Illinois and Indiana filed by individual investors and federal
home loan banks seeking to rescind billions of dollars of
mortgage-backed securities purchases.  “It’s a very favorable outcome and will be significant for
investors,” David Stickney, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
in a phone interview.  The case is In Re Wells Fargo Mortgage-Backed Certificates
Litigation, 09-1376, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Fisher’s Firm Told to Pay $376,000 on Investment Losses  Fisher Investments Inc. , the firm run by Forbes magazine
columnist Kenneth Fisher, may have to pay damages of $376,075
for breaching its fiduciary duty to a retired investor.  Sharyn Silverstein, 64, is entitled to out-of-pocket losses
she incurred as a result of Fisher Investments liquidating her
bond portfolio and investing 100 percent of the proceeds in
stocks, according to a copy of the interim arbitration award
obtained by Bloomberg News. Silverstein had invested with Fisher
in 2007 after multiple calls and visits from a Fisher outside
salesman, according to the award document. She had initially
contacted the firm after seeing a Fisher advertisement for a
complimentary book in USA Today, the document said.  “She called Fisher to get a copy of a free book, with no
intention of doing business with Fisher, and ended up being
pressured and eventually persuaded, despite significant
resistance on her part and that of her husband, to turn over all
of her fixed-income securities to Fisher to be invested in
equities,” Karen Willcutts, the JAMS arbitrator for the case,
wrote in a 25-page interim award dated July 5. JAMS, based in
Irvine, California, is a private forum for arbitration and
mediation. Some investment adviser firm agreements include a
clause that parties must resolve any disputes through private
arbitration.  “The decision was completely wrong on the law and the
facts. With more than 25,000 clients, losing an arbitration once
every seven years is a record far better than any major
competitor, which underscores the integrity of our firm,” said
David Eckerly, group vice president corporate communications for
Woodside, California-based Fisher Investments. Kenneth Fisher is
the firm’s founder and chief executive officer.  Joseph Peiffer, a New Orleans-based attorney with Fishman
Haygood Phelps Walmsley Willis & Swanson, LLP, who represents
Silverstein, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 