-- 
Goldman Sachs Said to Seize DBS Partners’ Options as ‘Eji’ Balks at Call

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/goldman-said-to-seize-dbs-options-as-eji-balks-at-margin-call.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  took over
the portfolio of DBS Partners LP, one of the largest independent
market makers for options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
after that firm declined to put up more collateral, according to
four people with knowledge of the transaction.  Goldman Sachs, which had served as DBS’s clearing firm,
asked banks and brokerages late last week to submit offers to
close out about 575,000 options that Naperville, Illinois-based
DBS previously owned, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the information is private. That figure equals about 4.3
percent of the 13.5 million S&P 500 contracts outstanding as of
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DBS co-founder Eric Wojcikiewicz, known as “Eji” among
traders at the  Chicago Board Options Exchange , owned contracts
that would have cost about $470 million to unwind as of the end
of last week, said three people familiar with the portfolio.
When Goldman Sachs asked him for more collateral, he opted
instead to turn over his portfolio, two of the people said.  “Eric was well-known as one of the largest players in the
pit with positions bigger than some of the banks’,” said  Henry Schwartz , president of  Trade Alert LLC , a New York-based
provider of options-market data and analytics. “With this guy
gone from SPX, you might not see as much liquidity.”  Final Hours  Wojcikiewicz declined to comment, as did  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs.  Under rules set by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, clearing firms such as Goldman Sachs Execution and
Clearing must determine the amount of risk that market-making
clients such as DBS have taken on through their investments.
They can then ask for more collateral or take a charge against
their own capital to reflect that amount of risk, according to
Michael Macchiaroli, an associate director in the SEC’s Division
of Trading and Markets.  “If the positions go down, they take the risk,”
Macchiaroli said in a telephone interview. He declined to
comment on the events at Goldman Sachs and DBS.  Options are contracts granting their owners the right to
buy or sell a security, a commodity or an index’s cash value at
a set price.  Goldman Sachs put the contracts up for bids during the
final two hours of trading last week, just before the
Independence Day holiday weekend in the U.S., according to the
people.  Best Offer  Banks and brokerages were seeking about $480 million, or a
$10 million premium, to take on the risk of closing out the
contracts. The best offer, at $457 million, came from another
Goldman Sachs unit, according to the people, meaning the bank
worked out at least part of the portfolio in-house.  When a clearing firm takes over a client portfolio and then
passes it along to an affiliate, the company must follow CBOE
rules for such transactions, known as position transfers,
according to Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for the exchange. She
declined to comment on the DBS transaction.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , owner of the oldest U.S. options
market, has the exclusive right to trade options on the
benchmark for American equities. S&P 500 options were the third
most-traded U.S. contracts last year, according to data from
Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp., which clears and settles
all U.S. option trades on exchanges.  Four Friends  DBS Partners was formed in March 1992 by four friends who
had attended the  University of Pennsylvania , according to a
brokerage report that the firm filed with the SEC and a person
familiar with the firm. In addition to Wojcikiewicz, they
included Daniel Kerrane, Eric Bryant, and Kenneth Alpart.  After attending Penn, located in Philadelphia, all four
went to work for Cooper Neff & Associates, this person said.
Cooper Neff, a Philadelphia-based options trading firm, agreed
to be acquired in 1994 by Banque Nationale De Paris, according
to Roy Neff, one of the founders.  “I remember him as a smart guy,” Neff said of
Wojcikiewicz in a telephone interview. “He was a physics person
and he added a lot to our mathematical modeling.”  Kerrane died from cancer in 2002 at the age of 37,
according to an obituary published that November in the  Chicago
Tribune  and the person familiar with the firm. The two other
partners went to work elsewhere after DBS was formed, leaving
Wojcikiewicz as the firm’s last remaining principal.  Floor Trader  During the 1990s, Wojcikiewicz worked on the floor of the
CBOE, where his identification tag had the initials EJI, the
people said. He later began making markets from an office in
Naperville, where his home is located.  DBS had derivative contracts with a market value of $753.4
million listed as assets on its balance sheet as of Dec. 31,
2001, the only year that it filed a brokerage report with the
SEC. Its liabilities included $708.6 million of derivative
contracts listed as financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased. Partners’ capital totaled $19.3 million.  “As a market maker and trader on various national
financial exchanges, the partnership is, in fact, in the
business of managing market risk,” DBS Partners said in the  SEC
filing . “The partnership employs hedged, market-neutral trading
strategies and thus, in management’s opinion, market risk is
substantially diminished when all financial instruments are
aggregated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  