-- 
Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Say Swap Margin Rule Damages U.S. Banks

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-07-08T20:49:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/goldman-sachs-jpmorgan-say-swap-margin-rule-damages-u-s-banks.html
Proposed Dodd-Frank swaps regulations
imposing margin requirements to reduce trading risks will
“damage the competitiveness” of foreign-based businesses of
U.S. banks compared with their overseas rivals, lawyers for six
banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Morgan Stanley told regulators.  Applying margin requirements to transactions outside the
U.S. “will inevitably encourage customers to do business
instead with non-U.S. competitors,” lawyers representing the
banks said in a  letter  dated June 29 and sent to the  Federal
Reserve ,  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. ,  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  and other regulators.  The letter, signed by lawyers at  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP ,
was sent also on behalf of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The six banks endorsing the letter executed 97 percent of
the $321 trillion of over-the-counter derivatives traded by the
top 25 U.S. bank-holding companies as of March 31, according to
a June 17  report  from the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-overhaul enacted last July, seeks
to reduce risk and boost transparency in the $601 trillion over-
the-counter swaps market after largely unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The law requires bank regulators to
adopt capital and margin requirements for trades not guaranteed
by clearinghouses that stand between buyers and sellers.  $2 Trillion  The June 29 letter was sent in response to  an April
proposal  from banking regulators that would govern how swap
dealers collect margin for non-cleared trades. The proposed rule
may require U.S. banks to set aside $2 trillion in collateral
that could be used in more profitable ways, according to an OCC
study dated April 15. Public comments to the April proposal are
due by July 11.  In the proposal, the banking regulators said foreign swaps
pose “no lesser risk” to a U.S. company because of their
location. The regulators were concerned that an exemption would
allow banks to design swaps to evade the law.  “We believe that the blanket application of the margin
requirements to all transactions by non-U.S. operations because
of the possibility that derivatives activity may move offshore
exceeds the extraterritorial scope and intent of the statute,”
the lawyers wrote in the June 29 letter.  Michael DuVally, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, Jerry Dubrowski, a Bank of America spokesman, Mark Lake, a  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  spokesman, Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup
spokeswoman,  Elise Wilkinson , a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, and
Howard Opinsky, a JPMorgan spokesman, all declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  