-- 
Google Profits From Tax Credit for $750 Million Energy Plan

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-07-08T17:49:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/google-profits-from-tax-credit-to-boost-750-million-energy-plan.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans to ramp up its $750
million investment in clean energy projects by taking advantage
of tax rules to channel more funds into wind, solar and other
renewable power sources.  All except two of the company’s investments in clean energy
projects were structured as tax-equity financing, tapping
government incentives that encourage large companies to back
promising projects that often have yet to generate income, said
Rick Needham, Google’s director of green business operations.  “It’s part of our culture to try and find ways that we can
make things better,” Needham said in an interview at Google’s
headquarters in  Mountain View ,  California . Each deal, he said,
is an opportunity “to support something that we think is
important, which is deployment of more clean energy and doing it
at a scale and in places where it can eventually lead to a lower
cost of clean energy.”  Google’s goal is to promote technologies and new financing
arrangements that will give a boost to the industry and
diversify its sources of earnings. Rivals may follow its lead.
“A lot of us are hopeful that they will bring more investors
into the market,” said Mark Regante, a partner at Milbank,
Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, a  New York  law firm that represented
lenders for a project Google now backs.  “Part of their motivation is to basically try to lead more
of corporate America,” Regante said in an interview. “Right
now the tax benefits are a significant element of getting to the
targeted yields that” potential investors want.  Selling Tax Credits  Renewable energy plants qualify for tax credits that they
typically can’t use until they are selling power and generating
profits that can be taxed; once complete, many don’t have enough
taxable profit to use the entire benefit. By selling these
credits, developers receive funds to back their projects, and
the large corporate buyers can apply the credits to their own
tax bills.  In June, Google created a $280 million tax-equity fund to
help SolarCity Corp. pay for rooftop solar systems. SolarCity
finances the installation of photovoltaic panels on houses, and
homeowners pay a monthly fee to lease the gear and purchase
electricity. The investment was the first time a major
corporation, rather than a financial company or utility,
provided this type of financing for a solar installer.  ‘Serious Player’  Google is a “serious tax equity player,” Needham said.
“We realized we have cash on our balance sheet, we have tax
capacity, we could be doing this. A lot of companies could be
doing this. A lot of companies could fall into the breach and
fill that hole and make good returns. We would encourage them.”  Google has invested in a wide variety of  early stage
companies  and  projects  since 2006. Needham said its funding
decisions are based on meeting two goals: they must generate a
return, and they must be innovative. Often it considers
investments that made other potential backers wary.  “We can help look at some of these technologies, some of
which we’d call more evolutionary, that people are less willing
to finance,” he said.  Google invested $100 million to support construction of
Caithness Energy LLC’s 845-megawatt Shepherds Flat Wind Farm in
 Oregon . The project will be the first in the U.S. to use General
Electric Co. wind turbines with permanent magnet generators
instead of traditional ones with gears. The new technology
improves efficiency and lower energy costs from turbines.  Leveraged Lease  The web company also paid $157 million to buy and lease
back to Terra-Gen Power LLC two phases of its 1,550-megawatt
 Alta Wind Energy Center , a financing arrangement called a
leveraged lease. When complete, the Tehachapi, California-based
plant will be the largest U.S. wind farm, and Needham said it
was one of the first leveraged-lease deals in the wind industry.  In April, Google provided $168 million to support
construction of  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) ’s 392-megawatt Ivanpah
project in California’s  Mojave Desert , one of the first utility-
scale solar thermal plants to enter construction in the U.S. in
three decades.  In May 2010, it invested $38.8 million to refinance two
NextEra Energy Resources LLC wind farms in  North Dakota .  SolarCity  estimated  that the top 200 U.S. companies have
more than $1 trillion in cash available for investments.  “At a time when American companies are sitting on record
amounts of cash, Google is showing that solar is a great
investment, and should absolutely inspire other companies to
follow its lead,” Benjamin Cook, the  San Mateo , California-
based company’s vice president of project finance, said in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Transformational Capacity’  The two key criteria that Google uses to evaluate all these
energy investments are the “returns, given the risks” and the
“transformational capacity” of a specific technology or
financing method, Needham said.  “We wouldn’t be making these investments if they didn’t
make good business sense,” he said.  Google is also backing offshore wind. The company is
providing 42 percent of the equity needed to complete pre-
construction work on the Atlantic Wind Connection. The offshore
transmission cable would serve yet-to-be-built wind farms off
the Atlantic coast, and total construction costs may reach $5
billion.  Offshore Wind  The project is intended to serve as the “backbone” of
America’s fledgling offshore wind industry, Needham said, and
will use high-voltage direct current, “which is not something
that is all over the place in transmission.”  The cable, and a $5 million investment in an 18.7-megawatt
photovoltaic plant in  Germany , are the only ones that Google
does not consider part of its tax-equity financing efforts.  The company fell 2.6 percent to $532.53 at 1:45 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading after Morgan Stanley downgraded it
to “equal weight” from “overweight.” The  shares  have risen
16 percent over the past year.  Google is contemplating investments in other forms of clean
energy that may be riskier than the projects it’s already
backed. One promising area is geothermal, especially geothermal
technologies that may improve resource assessment, drilling or
power plant efficiency, Needham said.  If there’s a deterrent to Google backing geothermal
projects, it’s the typical five-year development timeline, from
resource exploration to commercial operation. “It is a long
time to get that power,” Needham said. “We like projects where
we’re able to get power online sooner rather than later.”  ‘Zero-Carbon Technologies’  Google also is open to more offshore wind projects “if the
economics make sense for us and we think it can have some
transformational aspect to it,” he said. Offshore wind farms
that use new technology, such as larger capacity turbines or
models without gears or permanent magnet generators, may be
attractive opportunities.  The company’s energy focus is squarely on clean energy, and
Needham said Google has no interest in nuclear or natural gas.
“We’re focused more on zero-carbon technologies for our
investment dollars,” he said.  For technologies that are newer, or not as widely deployed,
Google is “more willing than some other companies to take some
calculated risks,” though “we would expect to get better
returns on those kinds of investments,” Needham said. The
Atlantic Wind Connection is an example of that type of deal.  “Development stage equity earns a higher return; it’s a
higher risk investment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  