-- 
Google Will Let Schmidt Testify, Bowing to Senate Pressure

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-07-08T19:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/google-will-let-schmidt-testify-in-senate.html
Google Inc.  Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  agreed to testify at a Senate subcommittee hearing on
the company’s dominance of the Internet search industry,
yielding to the panel’s demands.  Schmidt will testify in September, the company said today.  “We’re happy to accommodate” the subcommittee, said
Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for the  Mountain View , California-
based company.  The move resolves a standoff between the company and the
 Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee , which threatened to
subpoena Schmidt or Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  if Google
didn’t cooperate.  The subcommittee plans to examine whether Google is using
its position as owner of the world’s most popular search engine
to hurt competition in the Internet industry.  Google initially offered to have Chief Legal Officer David Drummond appear. In a June 10 letter, Senator  Herb Kohl , a
Wisconsin Democrat and the panel’s chairman, and  Mike Lee  of
 Utah , the subcommittee’s senior Republican, said they would
prefer that one of the top two executives testified.  The hearing “will address fundamental questions of
business operations rather than merely legal issues,” they
wrote.  ‘Important Issues’  Lee said in an e-mailed statement today he was pleased that
Schmidt plans to testify.  “I look forward to discussing a number of important issues
relating to Google and Internet search competition,” Lee said.  Kohl put an examination of Google’s Internet dominance on a
list of priorities for the subcommittee March 10.  A subpoena would have required the approval of the full
Senate Judiciary Committee.  Schmidt took over as Google CEO in 2001, overseeing the
company for a decade in which revenue soared and the stock price
increased five-fold. He assumed his current position in April.  The  Federal Trade Commission ,  European Union  and the state
of  Texas  are looking into accusations by Internet companies that
Google favored its own services in search results and increased
ad rates on rivals.  In May, Google set aside $500 million related to a Justice
Department investigation into online pharmacy ads the company
accepted that may have violated the law, a person familiar with
the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  