-- 
Greek Ship Owners Cut Vessel Purchases as Confidence Falls

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-07-08T17:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/greek-ship-owners-cut-vessel-purchases-as-confidence-falls.html
Greek shipowners who operate the
world’s largest merchant fleet cut purchases on secondhand ships
by 33 percent in the first half of 2011 after losing confidence
in the dry bulk sector, a Piraeus shipbroker said.  Money invested to buy ships fell to $10.9 billion in the
first six months of 2011, from $16.3 billion for the same period
in 2010, according to a report published by  Golden Destiny SA 
and sent by e-mail today. June expenditure of $189.1 million was
down 69 percent on the previous month.  The steepest cuts were investments in secondhand bulk
carriers, used to transport  iron ore , coal, grains and other
bulk commodities. Greek shipowners spent $3.4 billion to buy 193
bulk carriers in the first half, down from 300 vessels costing
$6.9 billion in the same period in 2010.  Greek shipowners own 4,615 ships that comprise 14 percent
of the world’s fleet measured by gross tons, according to
Clarkson’s World Fleet Monitor, published by Clarkson Research
Services, a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  “Greek buyers have lost the confidence in the dry bulk
segment, which they’re the main buyers in the world,” Maria
Bertzeletou, Golden Destiny research and valuations analyst,
said in a telephone interview today.  Hiring costs for panamax ships, the largest vessels that
navigate the Panama Canal, are down 16 percent on a year
earlier, while asset values for that class of five-year-old
ships are 22 percent lower, according to data from the London-
based Baltic Exchange Ltd. that tracks international freight
costs of more than 50 maritime routes.  Greek owners expected the value of ships would drop in the
next three months, which might be why June figures were low,
Bertzeletou said. The total invested capital was an estimated
figure based on deals reported to the shipbroking market, and
based on estimated prices where details were unknown, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiesebockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  