-- 
Einhorn’s Greenlight Fund Sold Yahoo Stake at ‘Modest Loss’

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-08T17:14:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/greenlight-capital-sold-yahoo-stake-at-modest-loss-correct-.html
Greenlight Capital Inc., the hedge
fund run by  David Einhorn , sold its stake in Yahoo! Inc. for a
“modest loss” over doubts surrounding the value of the
company’s investment in China-based Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Greenlight  said in a letter dated yesterday that it didn’t
sign up for “the finger pointing that started going in every
direction” after Yahoo disclosed that Alibaba had ceded
ownership of its online-payment business to a company controlled
by Alibaba Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma.  “The value of the Chinese assets came into doubt as the
CEO of the Chinese unit hived-off a valuable subsidiary into a
corporation that he personally controls,” Greenlight said in
the letter.  Alibaba Group, which owns e-commerce businesses in  China ,
helps Yahoo benefit from growth in the world’s largest Internet
market. Yahoo, Alibaba’s biggest investor, and  Japan ’s Softbank
Corp., another shareholder, have made encouraging progress” in
talks toward an agreement over compensation for the payment
unit, the companies said in a June 21 statement.  Greenlight said in April that it bought a stake in Yahoo,
anticipating that the China unit stake may be worth as much as
the company’s entire market value. Yahoo “has taken some
increasingly shareholder-friendly steps,” Greenlight said in a
letter at the time.  Yahoo shares have lost 15 percent since May 10, the last
day of trading before the Alibaba transaction was disclosed.
Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , fell 30 cents to $15.51
at 12:21 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Xerox Stake Sold  In the letter yesterday, Greenlight also said it sold its
stake in  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  Greenlight said it bought shares last year
based on anticipated earnings from the Affiliated Computer
Services acquisition. The March earthquake in Japan “took the
upside out of our earnings forecast,” Greenlight said, spurring
a sale of the shares at a “modest gain.”  Xerox, based in Norwalk,  Connecticut , declined 18 cents, or
1.7 percent, to $10.50 in New York Stock Exchange trading. The
stock dropped 7.3 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  