-- 
Greece Approved for EU3.2 Bln IMF Loan Payment

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-08T22:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/greece-gets-approval-for-4-6-billion-imf-disbursement-under-joint-bailout.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
approved a 3.2 billion-euro ($4.6 billion) payment to  Greece 
under a joint loan with the European Union, buying policy makers
time to craft a second rescue package and avert the first
sovereign default in the euro region.  Greece’s commitments for securing the loan are “delivering
important results,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said in a statement today in  Washington . Still, “a durable
fiscal adjustment is needed, lest the deficit get entrenched at
an unsustainably high level, and productivity-enhancing reforms
should be accelerated, lest growth fail to recover.”  The decision follows last week’s authorization by European
finance ministers to unblock 8.7 billion euros as discussions
continue on how to include banks and insurers in a new package
for Greece, which can’t return to markets next year because of
surging borrowing costs. The option of involving the private
sector has been criticized by the  European Central Bank  because
it could trigger a partial default.  “Greece’s debt sustainability hinges critically on timely
and vigorous implementation of the adjustment program, with no
margin for slippage, and continued support from European
partners and private sector involvement,” Lagarde said.  The IMF, whose loan to Greece under the initial joint 110-
billion-euro package is the second-highest in the fund’s
history, has not publicly discussed its participation in a
second bailout.  Took the Helm  Instead officials such as  John Lipsky , the acting managing
director until Lagarde took the helm this week, focused on the
measures needed for the disbursement approved today. That
included sale of government assets and assurances that the
financing gap left by Greece’s incapacity to return to markets
next year will be filled.  Greek parliamentary passage of new budget cuts last week
gave euro-area governments political cover to release the funds.  Prospects for turning the savings legislation into reality
are clouded by a lack of opposition support and public hostility
that boiled over into pitched battles between rioters and
teargas-spraying police outside the Athens parliament last week.  Lagarde today said the government’s plan to sell 50 billion
euros of assets by 2015 is a “critical step” in reducing debt
and spurring growth.  While the target “is very ambitious, the establishment of
an independent privatization agency should help realize
transparent and timely implementation,” she said.  Repay Debt  Greece secured a bailout package in May 2010, seven months
after the country raised its  budget-deficit  estimate to almost
13 percent of gross domestic product, three times higher than
earlier forecast and four times the EU ceiling. Investor
uncertainty about Greece’s ability to repay its debt has roiled
markets and caused contagion in other euro-area countries,
forcing Ireland and  Portugal  into seeking rescues as well.  Greek debt, already at a European record of 142.8 percent
of gross domestic product, is set to rise to 166.1 percent next
year, the EU predicts. The effort to cut a budget deficit that
is about 10 percent of GDP has deepened a third year of
recession.  The twin disbursements will help Greece roll over about 4
billion euros of bills maturing between July 15 and July 22,
plus about 3 billion euros of coupon payments in the month,
according to Bloomberg calculations. A bigger test looms Aug. 20
when 6.6 billion euros of bonds fall due.  Greece, said by the IMF to be “on track” in February,
veered off course in April with the disclosure of a higher-than-
planned deficit for 2010, forcing Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government to wring extra savings out of this
year’s budget.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  