-- 
Greek Debt Woes Scuttle New Loans as Costs Jump to Highest Level for Year

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-07-08T13:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/greek-debt-woes-scuttle-new-loans-as-costs-jump-to-highest-level-for-year.html
The cost to raise money in the U.S.
leveraged-loan market jumped to the highest level this year as
sovereign-debt concerns threatened to dampen the global economic
recovery.  The spread on institutional term loans rated B+ or B by
 Standard & Poor’s  rose to 6.42 percentage points yesterday, the
highest level since November, according to Standard & Poor’s
Leveraged Commentary & Data.  Virtu Financial LLC  increased the
spread it offered investors by 1 percentage point this week as
two deals worth $700 million were shelved the previous week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenders are demanding more yield to get new leveraged-loan
transactions done as efforts to restructure Greece’s sovereign
debt were hampered when two rating companies said they would
consider a debt restructuring plan to be a default. Higher
financing costs could affect a large merger and acquisition
calendar as companies look to the loan market to fund buyouts.  “There’s a change in sentiment;  Greece  was the trigger and
the repricing of sovereign debt was the step that caused this
reevaluation of pricing,” said Richard Farley, a New York-based
attorney with Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP, which advises
banks that syndicate loans. “You have people taking a breather
and asking if things are priced appropriately.”  Pricing for debt rated B+ or B has risen 107 basis points
as of yesterday from 5.35 percentage points in May, according to
S&P’s LCD. The average all-in spread -- which includes upfront
fees amortized over an assumed three-year life and Libor floors
-- was at a record low of 2.14 percent in February 2007 as the
buyout boom was peaking. Institutional term loans are sold
mainly to non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, mutual funds and  hedge funds .  Virtu Loan  Virtu Financial, a provider of automated market-making
services, increased the interest rate it’s offering lenders on a
$320 million  term loan  to 6 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate from a previously offered 5
percentage points over the lending benchmark, according to a
person with knowledge of the deal.  The five-year debt will also have a 1.5 percent Libor
floor, compared with the originally offered 1.25 percent
minimum, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the terms are private. Proceeds from the loan will be used to
fund its acquisition of Madison Tyler Holdings.  The new interest rate and Libor floor will increase Virtu’s
yearly interest cost by $4 million. Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank
of America Corp. and Barclays Plc arranged the transaction,
according to the person.  The five-year debt, sold to investors at 98 cents on the
dollar, began trading at 99 cents yesterday, according to
information provider Markit Group Ltd.  Loans ‘Lagged’  The S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, gained
0.02 cent July 6 to 94.77 cents on the dollar. The index is up
from a low of 59.2 cents on Dec. 17, 2008, three months after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. High-yield, high-risk
bonds and leveraged loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  “On a stand-alone basis loans have performed well, but
relative to other asset classes they have lagged,” said Chris Taggert, an analyst at New York-based CreditSights Inc. “There
are a lot of challenges on the economic front, but company
earnings have performed fairly well and as a secured investor,
performing fairly well is a good outcome.”  Concerns about the contagion effect caused by a possible
Greek default coupled with indications that the expansion of the
world’s largest economy has slowed have made investors wary.  Economists lowered their U.S. growth forecasts for the
year, with a median estimate of 2.5 percent, compared with 3.1
percent three months ago, Bloomberg data show.  Potential Greek Default  S&P and  Fitch Ratings  indicated they would cut Greece to
default if European leaders went ahead with a plan to ask
creditors to roll over Greek bonds into new debt. Earlier this
month, finance ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-euro ($12.4
billion) loan payout to Greece in an attempt to avert the
region’s first sovereign default.  Companies were in the market this week seeking as much as
$5.2 billion of loans to back buyouts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  DG FastChannel Inc. (DGIT) , the network operator
that links advertisers with radio and television stations, is
seeking $640 million in loans to back its buyout of  MediaMind
Technologies Inc. (MDMD)  and  Blackboard Inc. (BBBB) , the education-software
maker being acquired by Providence Equity Partners Inc.,
received $1.15 billion in debt-financing commitments.  Global mergers and acquisitions announced this year are up
32.1 percent from 2010 when they totaled $2.22 trillion,
Bloomberg data show. The value of the 13,529 deals this year
totals $1.29 trillion, compared with $976.2 billion in the same
period in 2010.  “Any deal that’s already committed will get done,” said
Farley of Paul Hastings. “It’s just a question of how much flex
will be used and if there will be a restructuring or maybe going
out with a second-lien piece or a larger bond component.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 