-- 
Midtown Manhattan Rents Surge 22% for Highest-Quality Space, Studley Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-07-08T16:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/midtown-manhattan-rents-surge-22-for-highest-quality-space-studley-says.html
Midtown  Manhattan  rents for the
highest-quality offices rose 22 percent since bottoming out nine
months ago as financial firms filled space in the largest and
most expensive U.S. market, brokerage Studley Inc. said.  In the Plaza District, the area surrounding the Plaza Hotel
near Central Park, lease rates for class A offices spiked 43
percent since Sept. 30 to almost $84 a square foot at the end of
June, the New York-based firm said in a draft report. That’s
more than four times the district’s growth rate in the first
nine months of 2004, when the Manhattan office market began
recovering from the previous recession.  “ Hedge funds  and the like, those are really driving the
top end of the market,” said Steve Coutts, Studley’s senior
vice president for research. “If you’re going to recruit top
talent, the cost of the space is less of an issue than is
attracting that talent and maintaining that talent.”  Midtown’s status as a “have-to-be-in” market for
international financial firms is driving up rents and reducing
vacancies, especially in the Plaza, Rockefeller Center and Grand
Central Terminal neighborhoods, which have the city’s most
costly offices, according to Coutts. The gains reflect job
growth that’s helped Manhattan recover its position among the
best-performing U.S. economies, along with  Washington  and the
Dallas/Fort Worth area of  Texas , he said.  New York City ’s  unemployment rate  was at a 25-month low of
8.6 percent in May, the state Department of Labor said on June
16. The city’s financial industry showed a net gain of 10,400
jobs in the 12 months through May.  Availability Declines  The availability rate for all Manhattan offices fell to
11.3 percent at the end of June, from 12.2 percent in the first
quarter, the largest decline in more than three years, according
to Studley. Rents sought by landlords rose for the third
straight quarter to $50.69 a square foot, up 2.4 percent from
the previous three months and 7.2 percent from a year earlier.  Lease rates for class A offices in Midtown were $72.64 a
square foot in the second quarter, a 9.5 percent jump from the
end of March and 15 percent more than June 2010.  A separate report from Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. showed the
top Midtown buildings -- including the General Motors Building,
712 Fifth Ave. and Carnegie Hall Tower -- are outperforming the
general class A market.  A deal was signed this year at the GM Building for $175 a
square foot, the Chicago-based brokerage said on July 5. A space
at 712 Fifth Ave. went for $137.29 a square foot, more than 60
percent above the high point of the previous two years yet below
2008’s rate of $173.13 a square foot.  Below Peak  Studley data show top-tier Plaza District rents remain
about 35 percent below the peak of $129.29 a square foot reached
in March 2008. Midtown class A rents are 27 percent below the
peak of $102.52 a square foot in the same period.  Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private-equity firm whose
chairman is former Treasury Secretary John Snow, signed the
second quarter’s largest new lease in the Plaza District, taking
110,000 square feet (10,200 square meters) at 875 Third Ave., a
29-story glass tower at East 52nd Street, according to Studley’s
report.  Conde Nast Publications Inc.’s agreement to leave its Times
Square headquarters in Midtown and rent 1 million square feet at
1 World Trade Center, under construction in lower Manhattan, was
the borough’s biggest deal for the quarter.  The gains for high-quality offices may be masking
sluggishness in demand for older, less well-appointed
properties, Coutts said.  Older Buildings  About 27 percent of Manhattan’s office buildings are more
than 10 percent empty, according to Studley, and about one-10th
of properties are more than 20 percent vacant. About 8.1 million
square feet of offices have been available for more than a year.  The wave that has carried the market since it bottomed last
year may be cresting, according to Coutts. Landlords and tenants
last year began negotiating many early renewals on leases
scheduled to expire in 2012 and 2013, “essentially borrowing”
from future deal volume, he said.  Colliers International, in its own draft report, said
dealmaking slowed in the latter half of the second quarter.
While this may be a “natural ebb and flow,” it might also be a
reaction to the stock market decline in May and June, said Peter
Kozel, chief economist at Colliers’  New York  regional office.  “All the brokers were reporting that there just seemed to
be less activity,” he said. “People were delaying doing
deals.”  Unemployment Rate  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 7.8 percent from
April 29 to mid-June. Through yesterday, it had recovered most
of that loss. The index slipped 1.2 percent as of 11 a.m. in New
York after reports showed U.S. companies added the fewest
workers in nine months in June and the unemployment rate rose to
9.2 percent.  Other clouds over the market include reports that Wall
Street firms are planning to cut employees in response to lower
revenue and potential regulatory restrictions, according to
Kozel. About 25 percent to 30 percent of tenants in Midtown are
financial companies, he said.  “Government policy is to make the financial sector less
risky, to make it smaller, to shrink it,” Kozel said. “So
they’re growing more slowly, not moving into new businesses.
It’s not that things are going to dry up and blow away. What I
think we’re going to see is more measured growth, and more tied
into intrinsic economic activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  