-- 
Light Bulb Ban Opposed by Republicans Said to Save $12.5 Billion

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-07-08T14:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/light-bulb-ban-said-to-save-12-5-billion.html
Pulling the plug on a phase-out of
traditional incandescent  light bulbs , as a U.S. House bill
requires, would jeopardize $12.5 billion in consumer savings by
2020, according to a study by efficiency-advocacy groups.  The average household’s energy costs would be cut by 7
percent or $85 every year when the standards are fully in place,
according to the  analysis  released today in  Washington .  The bill in the Republican-led House, which may be voted on
next week, would block provisions in a 2007 energy law that
effectively bans the 100-watt incandescent bulb next year and
other versions subsequently. Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas
is among Republicans who say the standards are government
overreach akin to President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Supporters say the energy law, signed by Republican
President  George W. Bush , will reduce air pollution by
eliminating the need for 33  power plants  while saving homes and
businesses money. “Clearly, consumers, the economy and the
environment will suffer if these standards are repealed,” Jim
Presswood, federal energy policy director for the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , said in a statement.  The  American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy , based
in Washington, and the  Appliance Standards Awareness Project , a
Boston Group co-founded by the council and NRDC, researched and
wrote the report.  The 2007 law requires bulbs to be about 30 percent more
efficient than the traditional incandescent, said  Kyle Pitsor,
vice president of the National Electrical Manufacturers
Association in Arlington, Virginia. Lighting companies have
already retooled their manufacturing plants to make products
that comply with the law.  The association, which includes Fairfield, Connecticut-
based  General Electric Co. (GE) , is lobbying against the push to
prevent the light-bulb changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  