-- 
Indian Top Court Halts $20-Billion Temple Treasure Hunt at ‘Cobra’ Chamber

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-07-08T11:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/indian-supreme-court-halts-opening-at-cobra-guarded-vault-of-hindu-temple.html
India ’s  Supreme Court  halted the
opening of the final vault at a Hindu temple where treasures
that may be worth at least $20 billion have been unearthed,
seeking assurances on the security and preservation of the find.  Judges asked for suggestions from the trust controlled by
the descendents of the royal family of Travancore that runs the
16th-century temple and the government of the southern state of
Kerala, and said they will consider the case again on July 14.  Bags of diamonds, an 18-foot (5.5 meter) gold necklace,
statues of Hindu gods and 19 kilograms (42 pounds) of precious
coins are among the items found so far from cellars in the
complex, according to the website of the  Sree Padmanabhaswamy
Temple . The chambers were opened after a local lawyer asked the
state’s  High Court  to take stock of what was in the temple amid
accusations that it was being mismanaged.  A seven-member team of investigators had opened five of six
vaults, some for the first time in a century, before the Supreme
Court stepped in. Security has been boosted in and around the 
temple following the  discovery .  The Travancore royals ruled an area that is now part of
southern  Kerala  state until after the country gained
independence from British colonial administrators in 1947.  Royal Offerings  “All the jewels and coins you see being recovered from the
temple are offerings made by the king and relatives during
festivals, visits and special occasions like birthdays,” said
G.S. Pradeep Kumar, chairman of the Sree Chitra International
Foundation, a separate organization run by the royal family, in
 Kerala’s capital , Thiruvananthapuram.  “The palace has no right to take back the wealth, not even
a gold coin,” he said.  K.K. Venugopal, the lawyer for the erstwhile king of
Travancore, Marthanda Varma, told Justices R.V. Raveendran and
A.K. Patnaik in the top court today that members of the royal
family don’t claim ownership of the property, which belongs to
the temple’s presiding deity, Padmanabhaswamy, another name for
Lord Vishnu, one of Hinduism’s major gods.  The  Supreme Court  July 6 ordered authorities to set up a
museum to help preserve the treasures and suggested the
appointment of a curator to assess their value. It also directed
entire trove to be photographed and filmed.  Other items in the opened vaults include gold ropes and
antique jewelry studded with diamonds and emeralds, according to
the temple’s website.  ‘Bad Omen’  The  India Today magazine  reported that the final room is
believed to contain the temple’s most precious items, citing
people close to the royal family that it didn’t name. Its door
is the only one adorned with the image of a cobra, the magazine
reported, and opening it might be a “bad omen” for those
involved.  Earlier efforts to enter the final vault -- known as
Chamber B -- failed as the lock jammed, “not because there is a
serpent god or some other reason,” Kumar said by phone. “As
per the rules of the temple every lock has to be opened the way
the chief priest decides.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
P.S. Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  