-- 
Interjet May Cut $300 Million IPO Goal as Airline Attempts Debut This Year

-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 
2011-07-08T17:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/interjet-may-cut-300-million-ipo-goal-as-airline-attempts-debut-this-year.html
ABC Aerolineas SA, the operator of
low-cost Mexican airline Interjet, which canceled an initial
public offering last month, may try to sell shares again this
year, Chairman Miguel Aleman Magnani said.  Interjet may reduce the amount it seeks to raise from the
original target of about $300 million and focus more on domestic
investors, Aleman Magnani said in an interview in his  Mexico 
City office yesterday.  A new share sale “could be this year,” Aleman Magnani
said. “We’re going to try, we’ll see how the markets are. ”  Interjet scrapped plans for an IPO on June 29, citing a
“complex situation” in global financial markets. Some
potential investors in the airline chose not to buy shares after
suffering losses in the days leading up to the planned IPO,
Aleman said.  The airline had aimed to sell shares at 21 pesos to 25
pesos each, with 70 percent sold abroad and 30 percent in
Mexico, according to data published on the Mexican stock
exchange’s website.  Aleman Magnani said that in a future share sale, the
company would aim to sell 70 percent to 80 percent domestically
and the rest abroad. After the first IPO attempt, “we realized
that luckily the name Interjet is well recognized in Mexico.”  The company is working with Grupo Financiero Banorte-IXE
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to sell as much as a 20 percent stake.
According to the stock exchange a new listing requires at least
15 percent.  Passengers  Interjet, founded in 2005, planned to raise the money to
add routes and buy planes, a preliminary prospectus showed. The
company ordered 15 SuperJet regional airplanes from Sukhoi Civil
Aircraft Co. this year. The planes will start operating in
November 2012 and Interjet has the option to buy five more.  Aleman said the airline wants to double the number of
passengers it serves annually to 8 million.  Interjet currently handles 29 routes, Aleman said. It
recently started a flight to Guatemala and it plans to add
flights to Colombia, Cuba, Canada and the U.S.  Interjet’s 2010 sales rose 51 percent to $404 million from
$268 million the previous year, according to a presentation
provided by Miguel Aleman Velasco, who is Aleman Magnani’s
father and founded the company with his son. The company’s net
income climbed 344 percent to 251.3 million pesos ($21.6
million) in the first quarter, the prospectus showed.  Interjet and Grupo Aeromexico SA, the country’s biggest
airline, are expanding after their largest rival, Cia. Mexicana
de Aviacion, filed for bankruptcy and halted operations last
year.  Interjet ’s market share jumped to 25 percent in May, up
from 14 percent in July 2010, according to data compiled by the
 Ministry of Communications and Transportation.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  