-- 
Inventories at U.S. Wholesalers Jumped in May on Automobiles

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-08T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/inventories-at-u-s-wholesalers-jumped-in-may.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in May, led by the biggest jump in auto
stockpiles in five years.  The 1.8 percent increase in goods on hand compared with a
0.7 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and followed
a revised 1.1 percent increase in April that was larger than
initially estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. Sales decreased 0.2 percent in May, the first drop in
three months and also reflecting a slump in vehicle demand.  Slowing purchases may prompt distributors to keep a tight
rein on inventories, a sign orders to factories may diminish as
companies gauge the sustainability of the expansion. At the
current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on hand to last
1.16 months, the most this year.  “The pace of inventory investment has been picking up
relative to spending,”  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before
the report. “ Consumer spending  should accelerate this quarter,
justifying a moderate rate of inventory accumulation.”  The median projection was based on a survey of 32
economists. Estimates ranged from an increase of 0.3 percent to
1.1 percent. The April reading was revised from a previously
reported 0.8 percent increase.  Employers added 18,000 workers in June, the fewest in nine
months, and the unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed,
indicating a struggling labor market, a report from the Labor
Department also showed today. The increase in payrolls followed a
25,000 gain that was less than half the rise initially estimated.  Unemployment Climbs  The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent, the highest level
this year. Hiring by companies, which excludes government
agencies, was the weakest since May 2010.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1.8 percent in May, led by a 4.7
percent jump in automobiles that was the biggest since April
2006, today’s report showed. Part of the increase may have been
unintended as car sales plunged 10 percent, the biggest decline
since November 2008 when the economy was still in the recession.  Auto sales fell to an annual rate of 11.76 million units in
May from 13.14 in April, according to industry data. They dropped
to a 11.41 million pace in June as demand for small cars
decreased on caution that carmakers would take advantage of the
thin supply to raise prices.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co.’s U.S. deliveries
each fell 21 percent in June from a year earlier, while General
Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co. saw sales gain 10 percent, less
than estimates, according to industry data on July 2.  Japanese Automakers  Toyota’s market share dropped to 10.2 percent last month
from 14.8 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  The value of unsold non-durable goods inventories increased
1.7 percent as purchases climbed 0.1 percent. Clothing
wholesalers led the gain with a 3.4 percent jump in stockpiles.  High-end realtor Neiman Marcus Inc. this week reported
revenues rose 12.7 percent in June from a year earlier, led by
sales in the Southeast, Northeast and  Texas .  “Our inventory is in great shape and is in balance with
current customer trends,” Chief Executive Officer Karen Katz
said on a conference call the prior month.  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery in 2009, sped up in the first quarter,
contributing 1.3 percentage points to gross domestic product,
according to Commerce Department data. It subtracted 3.4
percentage points from growth in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, grew 0.8 percent in May, the Commerce Department
said July 5. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be
included in the July 14 business inventories report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  