-- 
IPOs Will Rebound in Europe as Investor Confidence Returns, Rabobank Says

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-07-08T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ipos-will-rebound-in-europe-as-confidence-returns-rabobank-says.html
Companies will complete more initial
public offerings and share sales in the second half of this year
because a rally in stock markets will increase investor
appetite, according to Rabobank Groep.  Concern that  Greece  will default on its debt marred equity
issuance in the first six months of 2011, with 21 companies
pulling their IPOs from European markets, the most since at
least 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rene van
Vlerken, Rabobank’s head of  equity capital markets , said that
companies’ aversion to stock markets is temporary.  “Market sentiment is going to improve as long as company
earnings don’t disappoint,” he said in an interview in Utrecht
yesterday. “The rest of this year is going to be better in
terms of deals coming to the market and getting priced.
Equities, over the next 6 to 12 months, are going to improve.”  European stocks have surged 4.9 percent in the past nine
days as Greek lawmakers passed a five-year austerity package,
qualifying the country for further European Union aid. Even so,
the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index remains 4.7 percent below this year’s
high on Feb. 17 amid speculation that the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis will derail the economic recovery.  More companies have filed for IPOs in western Europe than
at any time since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In the first half of this year, companies pulled sales that they
expected would raise as much as $8.9 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, Europe’s biggest
supplier of building materials, last month delayed an IPO of its
Paris-based packaging unit, Verallia. Saint-Gobain had sought as
much as $1.4 billion for the division.  “This doesn’t mean 2011 is going to be a loss year” for
IPOs and share sales, Van Vlerken said. “We don’t believe there
is going to be a second downturn for the global economy and
companies are well positioned for the next couple of years. This
is a good environment.”  Alcoa Inc. will unofficially kick off the second-quarter
earnings season in the U.S. on July 11. America’s largest
aluminum producer will publish its results after the close of
trading in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  