-- 
Ireland to Discuss Burden Share With ECB as Trichet Resists, Gilmore Says

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-07-08T14:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ireland-to-discuss-burden-share-with-ecb-as-trichet-resists.html
Irish Foreign Minister Eamon Gilmore
said the government will discuss with the  European Central Bank 
imposing losses on some senior bank bondholders, even after
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled his opposition.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said last month that senior
bondholders should share in the losses of  Anglo Irish  Bank Corp.
and Irish Nationwide Building Society. Trichet said yesterday
the Irish government must respect last year’s bailout agreement
which includes no provision imposing losses on bondholders.  “It is something that we’ve always said that we will
discuss with the ECB,” Gilmore said today in an interview in
Berlin after meeting with German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle . “That is something that we intend to do.”  Ireland, which has injected a combined 34.7 billion euros
($49.7 billion) into Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide over the
past two years, is merging both lenders and winding down their
assets over a 10-year period as part of efforts to overcome the
crisis. The government has said it won’t move on senior bank
bondholders without the agreement of Ireland’s bailout partners.  “Anglo and Nationwide are in an entirely different
situation than the two pillars banks which are being
established,” Gilmore said, referring to Bank of Ireland Plc
and  Allied Irish Banks Plc. (ALBK)   Ireland sought a bailout last year as the costs of
rescuing the financial system became too big to handle alone.
Moody’s Investors Service cut the rating of  Portugal , which has
also been bailed out, to junk this week.  The rating company lowered Ireland’s credit
rating in April to the lowest investment grade Baa3 and left the
country’s outlook on negative.  ‘On Time’  Gilmore said that Ireland is “very much on time and on
track” in implementing its bailout program and Ireland’s
“different set of circumstances” will protect it from a
similar downgrade.  “We are mindful that we do not want what is happening in
other countries to have a spillover effect in Ireland,” Gilmore
said, adding he’s confident European leaders will conclude a
formula for Greek aid next week.  Irish 10-year bond yields climbed 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage points, to 12.97 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  