-- 
Irish Reliance on Central Banks Rises After Deposit Fall

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-07-08T12:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/irish-based-banks-borrowing-from-central-banks-increases.html
Ireland’s borrowings from central
banks rose in June from the previous month, after deposits
continued to flow out of the country’s financial system.  Irish-based lenders’ borrowings from the  European Central
Bank  increased to 103 billion euros ($145 billion) from 102.3
billion euros in the previous month, according to a bank
spokesman. In addition, the Irish central bank’s “other assets”
stood at 55.7 billion euros, up from 53.7 billion euros at the
end of May.  The Dublin-based central bank has said that “other assets”
includes “exceptional liquidity assistance lending” for Irish
banks, without giving more details.  Ireland’s dependence on central bank funding spiked after
the collapse in the nation’s property boom in 2007 saddled the
lenders with bad loans and forced the state to pledge as much as
70 billion euros to rescue them. Ireland’s six government-
guaranteed lenders’ deposits fell by 25.8 billion euros during
May, “largely as a result of movements of deposits by
subsidiaries” of the banks, a spokesman for the central bank
said on June 30. June figures haven’t yet been published.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  ruled out the possibility
of the Frankfurt-based bank replacing existing short-term loans
to Irish banks with a medium lending facility in an interview
with national broadcaster Dublin-based RTE yesterday.  Irish 10-year bond yields climbed 33 basis points, or 0.33
percentage points, to 13 percent while the cost of insuring
against default on Irish government debt rose to records.
Credit-default swaps on Ireland jumped 28 basis points to 883,
according to CMA prices in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  