-- 
Italian Banks Tumble; Draghi Says Lenders Will Pass European Stress Tests

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-07-08T16:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/italian-banks-fall-to-lowest-in-about-3-years-amid-debt-crisis.html
Italian banks, including  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , tumbled in Milan as the contagion
from Europe’s debt crisis threatened to spread to the region’s
third-biggest economy.  Responding to the market turbulence, Bank of  Italy  Governor
 Mario Draghi  said he’s certain the country’s lenders will pass
European stress tests by a “significant” margin. The austerity
measures approved by the government led by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  make balancing the country’s budget in 2014 a
“realistic” goal, he said in a statement.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, dropped 7.8 percent to
1.23 euros, the lowest level since April 2009, giving the bank a
market value of 23.8 billion euros ($34 billion). Intesa, the
country’s No. 2 lender, lost 4.6 percent to 1.65 euros. The FTSE
Italia All-Share Banks Index declined 6 percent to the lowest
level since March 2009.  “Italian banks are unlikely to de-couple from sovereign,”
Bank of America Corp analysts said in a note today. Italian
bonds dropped for the fifth day, driving 10-year yields to a
nine-year high. The extra yield investors demand to hold the
securities instead of benchmark German bunds rose to the highest
since before the euro was introduced in 1999.  Stress Tests  Results of the second round of European stress tests will
be released July 15, the European Banking Association said
today. Banks that fail this year’s tests may need to present
plans for making up their capital shortfall by the end of
September, according to an internal EU document.  Intesa, Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA,  Unione di Banche
Italiane ScpA (UBI)  and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  have asked investors for a
total of 10.5 billion euros this year to strengthen capital
before the stress evaluations. UniCredit, which has raised 7
billion euros in the last three years through two securities’
sales, said it will meet stricter rules through organic growth.  “Italian banks have underperformed the European sector by
6 percent in the last month,” analysts at UBS AG wrote in a
report today. “We continue to favor large banks which can
leverage on strong capital positions,” they said.  Credit growth in Italy has been expanding at an annual rate
of 6 percent to 7 percent, “which is the highest in  Europe ,”
Draghi told reporters in Aix-en-Provence, France.  Monte Paschi, which will end its share sale today, fell 3
percent to 51.6 cents. UBI declined 5.8 percent to 3.58 euros
and Banco Popolare slumped 6.5 percent to 1.42 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  