-- 
Mitsubishi May ‘Fine Tune’ Business Model on Basel, Hirano Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-08T17:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/mitsubishi-may-fine-tune-business-model-on-basel-hirano-says.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank, may focus more on
transactional banking and asset management as new capital rules
make lending businesses less attractive, Deputy President
Nobuyuki Hirano said.  “The new risk-weighted asset structure will have some
negative impact on lending,” Hirano said today in an interview
at Bloomberg’s headquarters office in New York. “We need to
fine tune our business model, not only putting our resources
into lending, but also we need to share our resources to
transaction banking, which doesn’t require more capital, and
we’d like to focus more on flow-based client market
businesses.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said last month
the world’s most important lenders must hold as much as 2.5
percentage points in extra capital to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis. Mitsubishi UFJ won’t likely be included in the
top group of global systemically important banks, Hirano said.  “There’s pain for every institution, but we are prepared
and we are prepared to accept the appropriate level of
surcharge,” Hirano said. He said the bank will likely be
required to hold a buffer that’s “reasonable for us to
digest.”  The lender is also looking to expand its asset-management
business as it sees opportunity in the aging global population,
Hirano said. The firm owns a stake in  Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc (ADN) , the U.K.’s biggest independent fund manager, and could
explore partnership opportunities with  Morgan Stanley (MS) , with
which it has a lending agreement and is the biggest common
shareholder, Hirano said.  Asset Management  “We are one of the big players already in Japan, but our
global presence in the asset management area is somewhat
behind,” he said. “We believe that’s a growing and promising
industry, in particular given the new Basel framework.”  Mitsubishi UFJ will receive the most stringent  capital
requirements  among Japan’s lenders because of its international
scope, analysts at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  wrote in a June 27
report. The Japanese bank, which raised its stake in Morgan
Stanley to 22 percent this year, would be subject to a 1.5
percentage-point capital buffer, the note said.  Closest domestic rivals Sumitomo Mitsui and Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. are likely to each need 1 percentage point
of extra capital, Goldman Sachs said.  Mitsubishi will build capital required of so-called global
SIFIs even if it is excluded from the category, Katsunori Nagayasu, president of Mitsubishi UFJ, said in a July 5
interview.  The buffers go on top of the so-called Basel III
requirements decided by global regulators last November. Under
Basel III, banks will be obliged to hold core Tier 1 capital
equivalent to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, compared
with 2 percent under the previous international rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  