-- 
Liverpool’s Asia Tour Vital to Standard Chartered Sponsorship

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-08T08:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/liverpool-s-asia-tour-vital-to-standard-chartered-sponsorship.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the
international bank that sponsors 18-time English soccer champion
Liverpool, says the team’s tour of  Asia  next week is one of the
reasons it agreed to pay out a record 81.5 million pounds
($29.6).  The U.K.-based lender, which gets more than three-quarters
of its profit from Asia, started a four-year contract with the
Reds on July 1 last year. The club flies out in two days to
start a tour that will include exhibition matches in  China  and
Malaysia as well as an open training session in  Singapore .  “It’s a pretty important part of why we signed the deal in
the first place,” Gavin Laws, the bank executive who approved 
the accord, said in an interview. “We want to help bring 
 Liverpool to our clients and executive clients in Asia,  Africa 
and the  Middle East . This tour is an important part of the
 visibility we want to give our customers.”  Standard Chartered is trying to increase its global reach
after thriving during the global economic crisis that hurt most
of its competitors. It has 1,700 branches and offices worldwide,
including 900 in Asia. In January the lender opened a 65,000
square-foot trading floor in Singapore, which it says is the
biggest in Asia.  Reds captain  Steven Gerrard  will miss the tour. He’ll
remain in the U.K. to work on his fitness after undergoing an
operation on his groin in April.  “We would have loved to have him there,” said Laws, the
bank’s group head of corporate affairs. “It isn’t going to
happen. We understand the priority is to get Steven fit for the
Premier League season and if staying at home is the price we pay
that’s fine.”  ‘Worst Start’  Liverpool is the bank’s first team sponsorship. The
initial year of the agreement included the sale of the team 
to the Boston Red Sox owner Fenway Sports Group following a 
legal struggle, the club suffering its worst start to a season 
in more than half a century, the sale of its striker  Fernando Torres  and the return of  Kenny Dalglish , the coach that took
Liverpool to its last championship in 1990.  “They finished the season really strongly, they started it
really poorly and there was plenty of visibility about the club
all through the season,” said Laws, who described the team as
one of the top four or five in the world. “Who knows how long
any club can go without winning something before they start to
lose their fanbase? But you know Liverpool is engrained in many
people’s lives throughout the world.”  Liverpool , whose main shirt color is red, yesterday said
sales of its third jersey were a record for a change uniform. 
The white and blue outfit was launched earlier this year amid
controversy as some fans complained its local rival Everton
plays in blue, and others said it was imposed on the team by
 Standard Chartered  because of similarities to the bank’s
insignia.  ‘Massive Influence’  Laws said his company had no involvement in the design of
the shirt produced by Adidas AG. He’s faced earlier criticism 
after being reported as saying the bank would like the team to
sign some Asian players.  “We seem to be branded as having massive influence on
player selection, kit selection, whatever,” he said. “We have
a lot of input on areas of commercial work but we have no say
whatsoever in what the kit looks like, what the colors of the
kit are and we have no say in player selection. At the end of
the day we clearly understand that we’re a sponsor and they’re a
football club.”  Tickets for the game in  Malaysia  were sold in the bank’s
branches there. Talks to use the infrastructure as a shop
window to sell Liverpool merchandise haven’t progressed beyond
early discussions.  Naming Rights  Standard Chartered is also interested in becoming a naming
rights partner if Liverpool decides to build a new stadium.
Planning rights to develop a site in Stanley Park, close to the
club’s current Anfield stadium, were recently extended until
September. Fenway Sports Group is getting closer to a final
decision.  “There’s a whole lot of things got to happen before that
becomes a sensible conversation and the club know that we’re
interested in being involved in that conversation,” said Laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  