-- 
LivingSocial Said to Near Naming JPMorgan as One of IPO Banks

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-08T19:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/livingsocial-may-hire-jpmorgan-bofa-deutsche-bank-to-manage-site-s-ipo.html
LivingSocial, the second-largest
daily-coupon site, is close to hiring  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank
of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG to manage its initial
public offering, a person with knowledge of the talks said.  The Washington, D.C.-based startup is expected to make a
formal appointment in the next three weeks, though negotiations
with any of the banks could fall through, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  LivingSocial is seeking to raise about $1 billion in an IPO
this year, a person familiar with the matter said last week. It
aims to capitalize on surging demand for shares of Internet
companies after LinkedIn Corp., Yandex NV and Pandora Media Inc.
have each gained at least 20 percent since raising money in
public markets this year. Groupon Inc., the leader in delivering
daily coupons, filed in June 2 for a $750 million IPO.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are not
contenders to handle LivingSocial’s share sale because of their
involvement in Groupon’s IPO, said the person familiar with the
decision.  CNBC reported earlier today that LivingSocial had picked
JPMorgan, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank as underwriters.
Maire Griffin, a spokeswoman for LivingSocial, declined to
comment. John Yiannacopoulos, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment, as did
Tasha Pelio at New York-based JPMorgan and Scott Helfman, a New
York-based spokesman for  Germany ’s Deutsche Bank.  Expansion Planning  LivingSocial, led by co-founder Tim O’Shaughnessy, raised
$400 million in April, valuing the company at $3.5 billion, two
people said at the time. The company will generate $1 billion in
revenue in 2011, they said.  The company is tripling its workforce to 1,800 this year
and plans to more than double the cities where it offers deals
to 300, O’Shaughnessy said in an interview in December. Groupon
has more than 7,000 employees and sells coupons in more than 500
cities. LivingSocial had 24 percent of online daily deal revenue
in top North American markets in May, according to a study
released last month by Yipit. It gained 4 percentage points from
a month earlier, while Groupon lost 4 points, to 48 percent.  The companies deliver daily discounts on restaurants,
hotels, events, and other goods and services. The daily-deal
market may generate $3.9 billion in U.S. sales in 2015, compared
with $873 million in 2010, according to research firm BIA/Kelsey
in Chantilly, Virginia.  Investors in LivingSocial include Twitter Inc. backer
Institutional Venture Partners, as well as T. Rowe Price Group
Inc., Lightspeed Venture Partners, Revolution LLC, Grotech
Ventures and U.S. Venture Partners.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  invested
$175 million in LivingSocial in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  