-- 
Japan Current-Account Surplus Narrows Less Than Forecast on Quake Rebound

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-07-08T02:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/japan-current-account-surplus-narrows-less-than-forecast-on-quake-rebound.html
Japan ’s current-account surplus
narrowed less than economists forecast in May, a sign the
economy may be overcoming damage from the steep decline in
exports after a record earthquake.  The gap shrank 51.7 percent from a year earlier to 590.7
billion yen ($7.3 billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo
today. The median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 75.2 percent decline. The surplus
decreased 69.5 percent in April.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said this week
that the economy is showing signs of recovery after a central
bank report showed manufacturers forecast a rebound in profits
this year. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has gained 3 percent
this week on optimism about the global economy.  “We expect the current-account surplus to narrow
temporarily but see little risk of a constant current-account
deficit” because Japan has built up net foreign assets,
Takehiro Sato, chief Japan economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. in Tokyo, wrote in a report before the figures
were released. “Going forward, we expect exports to pick up
gradually as production recovers.”  Manufacturers forecast profits to surge 21 percent in the
six months ending March 2012 and said they will hire more people
this year, the quarterly Tankan survey showed last week.  The March earthquake left manufacturers out of parts and
power for production, curbing exports that have been driving
growth in the world’s third-largest economy.  Today’s report showed that exports slumped 9.8 percent from
a year earlier in May, resulting in a trade deficit of 773
billion yen. Shipments decreased 12.7 percent in April.  The income surplus, which includes earnings from overseas
trading of equities, bonds and debt securities, rose 57.5
percent to 1.458 trillion yen, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  