-- 
Japan May Be Nuclear Free by May as Tests Delay Restarts

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-07-08T08:16:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/japan-may-be-nuclear-free-by-may.html
Japan  may have no nuclear reactors
running by May next year should the round of tests announced by
the government this week cause further delays to restarting
units idled for maintenance, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Shikoku Electric Power Co. today said it delayed starting a
reactor that was due to resume in two days. About two-thirds of
Japan’s 54 reactors have been shut down by the March earthquake
and tsunami or because of regular checks, leading to power-
saving measures in parts of the country.  The so-called stress tests on nuclear stations were
announced two days ago by Trade Ministry Banri Kaieda, almost
three weeks after he declared all reactors safe. The turnaround
prompted a mayor to yesterday retract his approval for Kyushu
Electric Power Co. to start two units that were due to resume
operations in April.  “It would have made sense if stress tests were announced
before Trade Minister Kaieda said Japan’s nuclear plants are
safe,” said Tetsuo Ito, the head of the Atomic Energy Research
Institute at Kinki University in western Japan. “Residents
around reactors must feel really insulted.”  The remaining operating units in Japan, the world’s third-
biggest user of nuclear power, must be idled by May next year,
according to schedules provided to Bloomberg by Kyushu Electric,
Shikoku Electric, Tokyo Electric Power Co., Kansai Electric
Power Co. and the other power companies. The U.S. and  France  are
the biggest users of atomic power.  Reactor Meltdowns  No reactor has been restarted since the quake and tsunami
caused three reactor meltdowns, according to Kyushu Electric
Power Co. and other companies surveyed by Bloomberg. All plants
are required to close for maintenance every 13 months.  The 17-member Topix Electric Power & Gas Index fell 4.7
percent yesterday, the most in a month, because of concern the
delays will mean utilities need to spend more on costlier fuel
for thermal plants to meet power demand. The index rose 1.4
percent today.  Kaieda has been urging local authorities in southwestern
Japan to agree to restart the reactors at Kyushu Electric’s
Genkai station that were closed for maintenance. The stress
tests will be carried out on the reactors before they go back
online, Kaieda said.  Kaieda said on July 6 Japan’s safety checks will take into
consideration similar tests being carried out in  Europe  on
nuclear plants that evaluate whether reactors can withstand
disasters such as quakes and floods as well as plane crashes and
explosions.  New Guidelines  “We still have to study what kind of stress tests will
actually be done,” Yoshinori Moriyama, deputy director-general
for nuclear accident measures at Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency, told reporters yesterday. “I can’t say at this
point how much time will be required.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  also said this week new nuclear
power plant safety guidelines are needed. Kaieda didn’t consult
Japan’s Nuclear Safety Commission, which oversees NISA, before
announcing in June that the country’s plants are safe, Kan said.  The Genkai reactors can’t come back online without a clear
policy, the governor of the prefecture where the plant is
located said.  “Unless the national government takes a uniform position,
prefectural governments such as ours can’t act,” Yasushi Furukawa, the governor of Saga prefecture, where the Genkai
plant is located, said yesterday in  Tokyo .  Shikoku Electric, which was due to start the No. 3 reactor
at its Ikata plant after maintenance, delayed the move because
it hasn’t received agreement from local residents, the company
said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  