-- 
Japan’s Megabanks See Basel Rules Adding Fairness to Global Race

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-07-08T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/japan-s-megabanks-see-basel-rules-adding-fairness-to-global-race.html
Japan’s biggest banks led by
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  may benefit from being
deemed too big to fail as global regulations make competition
“fair and square,” the nation’s new banking lobby chief said.  The rules “are aimed at putting the knife of reform into
some global banks, which have been managing their business
recklessly in pursuit of short-term profit, drastic dividend
payouts and skyrocketing paychecks for bankers,” said Katsunori Nagayasu, chairman of the Japanese Bankers Association and
president of Mitsubishi UFJ.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said last month
the world’s most important banks must hold as much as 2.5
percentage points in extra capital to prevent a repeat of the
global crisis. Japan’s three biggest lenders have enough capital
and won’t have to raise funds even if they’re subject to the
strictest requirement,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said last month.  “It may be significant to join the group of global
systemically important financial institutions, and any steering
committee, because you can get access to information there and
express your own opinion,” said Nagayasu, who took the post on
July 1. He succeeded  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
Chairman Masayuki Oku, whose term as association chief expired.  Nagayasu’s bank will build capital required of so-called
global SIFIs even if it is excluded from the category, he said
in the July 5 interview.  Play Fair  “We want to play fair,” he said, adding that the lender
will be able to boost funds by building internal reserves. “We
don’t want a handicap in the global race. So we’ll stick to the
rules whether we’re selected as a global SIFI or not.”  Mitsubishi UFJ,  Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank, will
receive the most stringent  capital requirements  among the
country’s lenders because of its international scope, Goldman
Sachs wrote in a June 27 report. The Japanese bank, which raised
its stake in  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to 22 percent this year, would be
subject to a 1.5 percentage-point capital buffer, the note said.  Closest domestic rivals Sumitomo Mitsui and  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  are likely to each need 1 percentage point
of extra capital, Goldman Sachs said.  The buffers go on top of the so-called Basel III
requirements decided by global regulators last November. Under
Basel III, banks will be obliged to hold core Tier 1 capital
equivalent to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, compared
with 2 percent under the previous international rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 