-- 
Japan Banks Urge Quick Passage of Tepco Bill

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 2 3 2 3 4 6 ]   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   [ ]
-- 
2011-07-10T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/japan-banks-urge-fast-passage-of-tepco-bill-ahead-of-new-loans.html
Japan’s Diet must pass a nuclear
compensation bill within two months before banks including
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  offer new loans to the owner
of the damaged Fukushima plant, the nation’s banking lobby said.  Passage of the bill, along with government loan guarantees,
is a prerequisite for banks to provide credit to  Tokyo Electric 
Power Co., Katsunori Nagayasu, head of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said in an interview. The utility is unlikely to
suffer a shortage of funds in the year through March given that
it received emergency loans after the record earthquake, he said.  Opposition parties have said Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
proposed law, which aims to restructure the utility and secure
funds for compensation to be paid to nuclear victims, needs
amendment. Nagayasu is also president of Mitsubishi UFJ, one of
the Japanese banks that lent about 2 trillion yen ($25 billion)
to the utility known as Tepco after the March 11 quake and
tsunami damaged its nuclear plant.  “The bill must be passed in August at the latest, and it
needs a speedy deliberation and approval because the country’s
reconstruction has to proceed quickly,” Nagayasu, 64, said in
the July 5 interview. “Without the law, new money from
financial institutions to Tepco would be very difficult.”  Under the draft law,  Japan  will create a body to handle
claims against Tokyo Electric following the worst nuclear crisis
in 25 years. The third-party entity will issue bonds to fund
compensation, be allowed to acquire assets owned by the utility,
and receive bank loans that are guaranteed by the government,
according to the bill.  Guarantees Needed  Kan’s cabinet approved the compensation bill on May 13. The
legislation was sent to the Diet a month later.  Tokyo Electric reduced the average interest rate it pays on
3.4 trillion yen worth of long-term loans to less than 1 percent
in the year ended March, according to a company securities
filing dated June 29. Tepco more than doubled loans, which it
defines as debt maturing in more than a year, from 1.6 trillion
yen a year earlier.  “Maintaining loans outstanding to Tepco and offering lower
interest rates are part of the banks’ support for the company,”
Nagayasu said. “The banks need the government’s guarantee if
Tepco needs fresh loans right now before the compensation bill
becomes law. But it won’t be the case because Tepco is unlikely
to need payment of vast amounts of provisional compensation to
the victims in the near term.”  Unforgiven  Tokyo Electric unveiled plans on July 5 to pay as much as
48 billion yen to victims of the Fukushima nuclear disaster,
after an initial round of 49.8 billion yen compensation.  Japan Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said yesterday in a
parliamentary session that the government isn’t asking banks to
forgive loans to Tepco as the lower house begins deliberating
the Tepco compensation bill.  “Behind the proposed law, there is a basic idea that the
government is not going to put Tepco into a situation where its
debts exceed assets,” Nagayasu said. “Given that, forgiveness of
loans would be little more than a donation and wouldn’t make any
sense.”  Nagayasu in the same interview also asserted Japan’s
biggest banks led by Mitsubishi UFJ may benefit from being
deemed too big to fail as global regulations make competition
“fair and square.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said last month
the world’s most important banks must hold as much as 2.5
percentage points in extra capital to prevent a repeat of the
global crisis. Japan’s three biggest lenders have enough capital
and won’t have to raise funds even if they’re subject to the
strictest requirement, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last month.  The rules “are aimed at putting the knife of reform into
some global banks, which have been managing their business
recklessly in pursuit of short-term profit, drastic dividend
payouts and skyrocketing paychecks for bankers,” he said. 