-- 
Jayshree to Acquire African Tea Gardens to Double Production in Five Years

-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-08T05:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/jayshree-to-acquire-african-tea-gardens-to-double-production-in-five-years.html
Jayshree Tea & Industries Ltd. (JTI) , the
world’s third-largest tea producer, plans to acquire plantations
in  Africa  as it seeks to double output in five years.  Jayshree wants to increase tea production to 50 million
kilograms, Managing Director D. P. Maheshwari said in an
interview in Kolkata yesterday. The Indian tea producer made
three acquisitions in Africa last year to boost output as demand
for the beverage exceeds supply.  “Organic growth has a limit,” Maheshwari said in an
interview at his office. “Unfortunately things in Africa move
very slowly but I expect something concrete within next three to
four months.”  Jayshree joins  McLeod Russel India Ltd. (MCLR) , the world’s
largest producer, in expanding overseas after output in  India 
last year fell to the lowest level since 2005 because of pest
attacks in the nation’s biggest growing region. Prices at
auctions have almost doubled on average in the past five years,
data from the state-owned Tea Board of India show.  “African region is the best place right now because labor
cost is cheap and a company will get really good realization if
exporting to  Europe ,” said Sanjay Manyal, a Mumbai-based
analyst with ICICI Securities Ltd. “But tea prices are very
high so the assets are going to be very expensive.”  Jayshree’s shares, which have gained 21 percent in the past
year compared with an 8 percent advance in the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index, fell 1.9 percent to 176.25
rupees at 11:01 a.m. in Mumbai.  Funding Acquisitions  Jayshree, which owns about 10,000 hectares (24,710 acres)
of tea gardens and spent a total of 320 million rupees ($7.2
million) to buy tea estates in Uganda and  Rwanda  in the year
ended March 31, expects another purchase to “improve production
and profitability” as costs are lower in Africa, Maheshwari
said. Acquisitions will be funded mainly with company’s profit,
he said.  Tea production in India may total as much as 990 million
kilogram this year as favorable weather conditions boosts yield,
Maheshwari said. Output was 981 million kilograms in the
financial year ended March, 2010, he said.  Jayshree’s tea productions from gardens in India may total
27 million kilograms this year and another 5.5 million kilograms
may be supplied by plantations overseas, he said. The company
produced 24.1 million kilograms of tea last year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  