-- 
Jeter Gets One Hit in 5-1 Yankee Loss to Rays, Pulls Within Two of 3,000

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-08T05:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/jeter-gets-one-hit-in-5-1-yankee-loss-to-rays-pulls-within-two-of-3-000.html
Derek Jeter  said his 3,000th career
hit was a possibility last night, when a leadoff double left him
two shy of the milestone. After grounding out in his final four
at-bats, he remains two away.  “Early on I thought I was going to get a few, but that
wasn’t the case,” Jeter said at Yankee Stadium after a 5-1 loss
to the  Tampa Bay Rays .  Jeter, 37, is seeking to become the 28th player in Major
League Baseball history to collect 3,000 hits and the first to
do it as a member of the Yankees.  Jeter said he got encouragement from his teammates before
the game and thought the mark was within reach after hitting a
double to centerfield on the first pitch he saw last night.  “After the first one, I’d be lying if I said I didn’t
think it was attainable,” Jeter said. “A couple guys in the
dugout mentioned getting three hits. It was the first time they
really said anything about it.”  Jeter grounded out in his next four at-bats as many in the
sellout crowd of 47,787 stood, cheered and took pictures during
each of his plate appearances. He’s now 4-for-18 since coming
off the disabled list on July 4. Jeter had been sidelined for
three weeks with a strained calf muscle and the Yankees are 1-3
since his return.  “We all want him to get the hit, but we want to keep
winning ballgames too,” Yankees outfielder  Nick Swisher  said in
the locker room. “But it’s inevitable it’s going to happen.”  Jeter’s Ground Outs  Jeter grounded out to third base to end the second inning
with two runners on base. He was denied a hit in the fifth
inning as Rays third baseman Sean Rodriguez made a diving stop
of a ground ball down the line and then jumped to his feet to
throw Jeter out.  “He probably took one away from him,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said. “It’s unfortunate.”  In his fourth at-bat, Jeter grounded out to shortstop to
end the seventh inning, prompting some fans to head for the
exits. Jeter came up a final time with two outs in the bottom of
the ninth inning after  Brett Gardner  reached base on a wild
pitch after striking out. Jeter again grounded out to third base
to end the game.  Rays starting pitcher Jeff Niemann held the Yankees to six
hits and one run over 7 1/3 innings, while  Tampa Bay  had 10 hits
and scored five runs off the Yankees’ Bartolo Colon. Ben Zobrist
went 3-for-3 with a triple and a home run, and B.J. Upton added
a two-run homer and finished with three runs batted in.  Boston Leads  The loss dropped the Yankees to 51-35 and a half-game
behind the first-place  Boston Red Sox  in the American League
Eastern Division. The Rays are 49-39, 3 1/2 games behind  Boston 
in third place.  Girardi said Jeter’s chase of the 3,000-hit milestone
hasn’t been a distraction in the Yankees’ dugout.  “It’s business as usual. The atmosphere really isn’t any
different,” Girardi said. “Now I can’t tell you it won’t be
like that after the next one.”  Jeter and the Yankees host the Rays again today, when
Jeremy Hellickson is scheduled to be Tampa Bay’s starting
pitcher. Jeter is 1-for-2 all-time against Hellickson.  The Yankees also host the Rays on July 9 and 10, their
final games before baseball’s All-Star break.  If Jeter doesn’t reach the milestone before the break, he
may not get it at Yankee Stadium, as  New York  has an eight-game
road trip in Toronto and Tampa,  Florida , from July 14-21. No
player has reached 3,000 hits at Yankee Stadium, old or new.  “This isn’t the final destination for him, there’s plenty
more in the tank,” Swisher said. “I can’t wait to see it. I’m
excited for history to happen. Then again, we’ve got to start
winning some games.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
8797 or  matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  