-- 
Democrats Press Obama to Include Stimulus in Debt Deal After Jobs Report

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-09T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/jobs-data-fuels-calls-on-obama-to-include-economic-stimulus-in-debt-deal.html
Democrats pressed for some form of
economic stimulus in the debt deal President  Barack Obama  is
negotiating with Republicans following a U.S. Labor Department
report yesterday showing job growth slowing.  Senator Charles Schumer of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, called for an “immediate jolt” to the
economy by extending and enlarging a one-year payroll-tax cut
that’s set to expire Dec. 31. He asked for action “as quickly
as possible by including it in the final debt-limit agreement.”  Jared Bernstein , until recently Vice President Joe Biden’s
chief economic adviser, predicted the White House would step up
efforts to include in the debt deal additional infrastructure
spending or a new temporary payroll tax reduction.  In addition to continuing a 2 percentage-point break in the
employee  payroll tax , the White House may push for an equal cut
in the employers’ part of the levy, according to a Democratic
official.  “It would be a mistake for them not to ratchet up the
urgency on the jobs side, given the labor market really appears
to be in a stall,” said Bernstein, now a senior fellow at the
Center for Budget and Policy Priorities in  Washington . “It’s
not something you can ignore.”  The Labor Department reported the unemployment rate in June
unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent, the highest this year.
Employers added 18,000 jobs, the weakest growth since September
2010. Payroll growth for May also was revised downward, to
25,000.  Jobs and Debt  When Obama and congressional leaders meet tomorrow for
negotiations on  deficit reduction , the jobs numbers will
increase pressure on both sides to reach a deal that can be
presented as bold, said Dan Schnur, communications director for
Republican  John McCain ’s 2000 presidential campaign.  “Even though the president gets a disproportionate amount
of the blame for a bad economy, every elected official in both
parties takes a share of the heat,” said Schnur, now director
of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of
 Southern California . “If you’re a vulnerable Republican in a
swing district, you have just as much incentive as the president
to push your party leaders for a deal.”  Obama, in a statement delivered in the White House  Rose
Garden , said the employment report highlighted the “big hole to
fill” in replacing jobs lost during the discussion.  He said an agreement on raising the debt limit and cutting
deficits would “give our businesses the certainty they will
need to invest in creating new jobs.”  ‘Right Now’  Obama also promoted the administration’s agenda of measures
to stimulate employment, urging Congress to act “right now” to
extend the temporary reduction in the employee part of the
payroll tax, expand funding for infrastructure projects, approve
pending free-trade agreements and pass a measure to streamline
patent procedures.  Republican leaders also stressed familiar positions in
their responses to the jobs report, with House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  reiterating the party’s opposition to tax
increases in a deficit deal.  “Legislation that raises taxes on small-business job
creators, fails to cut spending by a larger amount than a debt
limit hike, or fails to restrain future spending will only make
things worse -- and won’t pass the House,” Boehner said in a
statement.  Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican, said
there are “no discussions” in his party about extending the
payroll tax cut.  “I don’t think there is any appetite for it,” said Kline,
who heads the House Education and the Workforce Committee.  ‘Pro-Growth Policies’  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney said the
“abysmal jobs report confirms what we all know -- that
President Obama has failed to get this economy moving again.”  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, also a Republican
presidential candidate, said “extremely anemic  job creation ”
demonstrates “we need free-market, pro-growth policies to spark
a wave of job growth.”  The jobs report underscores the challenging economic
environment Obama confronts for his re-election campaign next
year.  Ronald Reagan , who faced an  unemployment rate  of 7.2
percent on Election Day in 1984, is the only U.S. president
since World War II to win re-election with a jobless rate above
6 percent.  The climbing unemployment rate in recent months, up from
8.8 percent in March, will make it harder for Obama to persuade
voters that the country is moving in the right direction.  “Voters already feel like the economy is stuck in the
mud,” Schnur said. “Every month that we see a jobs report like
this one reinforces the electorate’s sense that we’re not making
progress, and that becomes gradually harder to reverse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  