-- 
U.S. Can Avoid Default If Debt Limit Not Raised, Johnson Says

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-09T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/johnson-says-u-s-can-avoid-debt-default-without-raising-borrowing-limit.html
The U.S. won’t have to default on its
obligations to bondholders even if Congress fails to raise the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling by an August deadline, Republican
Senator  Ron Johnson  said.  “If we don’t increase the debt ceiling, we’ll have to live
within our means,” the freshman from  Wisconsin  said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner , Wall Street executives and
economists have warned lawmakers that a failure to raise the
debt ceiling would have disastrous economic consequences for the
country. The Treasury Department has projected that its
borrowing authority will expire Aug. 2.  Johnson is one of dozens of Tea Party-allied lawmakers who
reject Geithner’s warnings. Their views underscore the
difficulties facing Republican leaders as they try to reach a
deficit-reduction deal with President  Barack Obama  that would
pave the way for a vote to raise the debt ceiling. Republicans
insist on major spending cuts and no tax increases.  The odds that leaders will fail to get a deal by August are
“higher than they should be,” said Johnson, who accused Obama
of failing to engage in the talks until last week. “We should
have had all this on the table, a serious plan, four months
ago.”  The U.S. has enough money to pay the interest on the debt,
Social Security benefits, military pay and secured creditors,
said Johnson. Other creditors, including those due tax refunds
or farm payments, might get 60 percent of their payment until
Congress agrees to make major spending cuts in return for
raising the debt limit, he said.  ‘Structural Bankrupting’  “What I fear far more than what’s going to happen with the
deficit, I fear the actual structural bankrupting of America,”
Johnson said, pointing to “the day of reckoning when we are no
long the  reserve currency .”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
reporters yesterday that missing the debt-limit deadline would
cause economic harm to the U.S.  “While some think we can go past Aug. 2, I frankly think
it puts us in an awful lot of jeopardy and puts our economy in
jeopardy,” Boehner said. “It’s important we come to an
agreement, but it has to be an agreement that really does
fundamentally change our spending and our debt situation.”  Tax Breaks  Republicans, pressed by Obama to consider raising taxes to
reduce the debt, are weighing whether to close loopholes and
eliminate some tax breaks in exchange for a commitment from
Democrats that Congress will act later on a broad overhaul to
reduce tax rates.  Johnson didn’t rule out accepting a deal that would include
tax increases.  “I’m opposed to those special tax deals but not opposed to
legitimate business deductions,” he said.  Johnson, who has accused Obama of demagoguery on the
deficit, denied he was doing the same thing when he called the
national health-care overhaul the president pushed through
Congress last year “the greatest single threat to my freedom.”  Asked whether the health-care law was a greater threat than
communism, Johnson said, “I wasn’t threatened under
communism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  