-- 
J&J Suppressed Oral Presention Cancer Test Over Listerine Link, Suit Says

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-07-08T21:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/johnson-johnson-sued-over-oral-cancer-prevention-contract.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-largest maker of health-care products, was sued for at
least $70 million by a company that claims it interfered in a
contract over distribution of an oral cancer test.  Oral Cancer Prevention International Inc., a private
company based in Suffern,  New York , sued over a contract it
signed in February 2010 with OraPharma Inc., then a J&J unit.
OraPharma agreed to distribute OCPI’s Oral CDx Brush Test, which
identifies precancerous cells in the mouth, according to the
complaint filed in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey.  J&J, which also sells Listerine mouthwash, then grew
“extremely concerned about the implications” of a study
published in  Australia  that linked mouthwashes with a high
alcohol content to cancer, according to the complaint. J&J did
not want to “lend credence to the link between Listerine and
oral cancer” by selling both its mouthwash and OralCDx, the
complaint said.  “Johnson & Johnson induced OraPharma to breach the sales
agreement to suppress sales of and withhold from the public a
proven life-saving oral cancer prevention product in order to
protect the sales of its mouthwash, Listerine, which has been
linked to oral cancer,” said the complaint, filed July 6.  Bonnie Jacobs, a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J, said the “company is confident that we have engaged
in proper business practices and we look forward to the
opportunity to resolve this matter through the legal system.”  Private Equity  Firm  In January 2011, a Chicago-based private equity firm, Water
Street Healthcare Partners, bought OraPharma from J&J. The
company’s main product is Arestin, a locally administered
antibiotic used by dentists to treat periodontitis.  In 2009, OraPharma sales representatives promoted Arestin
and Listerine to dentists, and company officials believed that
“selling OralCDx would double OraPharma’s revenues,” according
to the complaint.  Before signing the agreement with OraPharma, J&J failed to
disclose that it intended to launch an alcohol-free mouthwash
called “Listerine Zero,” according to the complaint.  That product “was carefully branded to conceal the fact
that it was developed primarily in response to the Australian
mouthwash oral cancer study” and the subsequent drop in
Listerine’s Australian sales, according to the complaint.  2008 Study  The Australian study, published in 2008, made no mention of
Listerine or any other specific brands, said  Camile Farah , one
of its authors, in an e-mail.  “That is implied by the reader, based on the studies we
have analyzed and the market share of each of the companies that
sell mouthwash,” said Farah, deputy head of the School of
Dentistry at the University of Queensland in Brisbane.  The American Dental Association, based in  Chicago , said in
a March 2009  statement  that while high alcohol consumption is
associated with increased cancer risk, “the weight of the
available evidence does not support a connection between oral
cancer and alcohol-containing mouthrinse.”  OCPI claims that J&J “never had any intention of allowing
OraPharma to sell OralCDx to those dentists most likely to adopt
its use in their practices,” according to the complaint.  Rather, it sought to “control and suppress sales of
OralCDx to those dentists who J&J considered most likely to
recommend the use of Listerine mouthwash to their patients,
thereby depriving the public of a known cancer prevention
product and destroying OCPI’s dental business,” according to
the complaint.  The complaint accuses J&J of fraud, tortious interference
with a contract and civil conspiracy. It seeks at least $60
million in compensatory damages and at least $10 million in
punitive damages on each of the three counts.  The case is Oral Cancer Prevention International Inc. v.
Johnson & Johnson, 11-cv-3878, U.S. District Court, District of
 New Jersey  (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  