-- 
JPMorgan Cuts China, H.K. Stocks to ‘Underweight’

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-07-08T00:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/jpmorgan-cuts-china-h-k-stocks-to-underweight-.html
China  and Hong Kong stocks were cut
to “underweight” from “neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which said speculation that Chinese policymakers are ending
their tightening efforts is “premature.”  Asia ’s largest economy is likely to increase banks’ reserve
requirements by 50 basis points in the second half, analysts led
by  Adrian Mowat  said in a report today. The People’s Bank of
China lifted its deposit and lending rates effective yesterday,
its fifth move since mid-October, and has boosted reserve
requirements 12 times since last year.  The  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index rebounded as much as 7.9 percent from
this year’s low reached on June 20 as analysts from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to HSBC Holdings Plc said further interest-rate
increases may be limited. The gauge of Chinese shares traded
mostly in  Hong Kong  is up 0.6 percent this year, trailing a 1.6
percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and a 5.7
percent rally in the MSCI World Index.  “The problem for the market is that investors are
positioned for an end of the tightening cycle,” the analysts
said. “We think it is premature to call an end to the
tightening cycle.”  JPMorgan had upgraded Chinese shares to “neutral” on
April 6, saying the government will “engineer a soft landing”
for the economy. The MSCI China Index has since declined 4.9
percent.  Property Markets ’Peaked’  The brokerage cut its rating on Hong Kong, saying that
property prices are “excessive relative to income” and that
the city’s real-estate market, along with those in China and
 Singapore , has “peaked.” JPMorgan raised its rating on South
Korea to “neutral” from “underweight” amid an improving
outlook for developed-nation economies, according to the report.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has retreated 2.2 percent this year,
compared with a 6.2 percent gain in South Korea’s Kospi Index.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index is little changed for the year.  Developed markets will drive the “trading range” for
equities in the second half, the analysts said. “We are bullish
long term on Asia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  