-- 
Kenya to Raise $400 Million in First Bond Sales Targeting Citizens Abroad

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-07-08T10:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/kenya-to-raise-400-million-in-first-bond-sales-targeting-citizens-abroad.html
The  Central Bank  of Kenya said it
plans to target the country’s diaspora for the first time in a
sale of 36 billion shillings ($399.6 million) of infrastructure
bonds in the year through June 2012.  The East African nation seeks to raise $600 million from
the sale of the securities to Kenyans living abroad this fiscal
year, Samson Burgei, head of communications at the Nairobi-based
bank, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Once the infrastructure bond sale is completed, “lucrative
bonds such as the 30-year savings development bond and other
long-tenured bonds will also be rolled out to the diaspora,”
Burgei said, according to the statement.  Remittances to the East African nation in the five months
through May rose 35 percent to $334.7 million compared with a
year earlier, the central bank said on June 28. Kenyans living
abroad send home about $1.9 billion every year, almost triple
the amount previously estimated, according to a report by
 Bendixen and Amandi , a market research company, commissioned by
the  World Bank  and released on Oct. 19.  The government’s calculation may be lower because
remittances sent via informal channels are difficult to track
and therefore under-counted, and reporting standards for banks
and money transfer operators are weak, Edward al-Hussainy, a
financial sector specialist with the World Bank, said.  The central bank is looking for ways to enable Kenyans
living overseas to invest in longer-dated securities as the
country tries to reach its target to borrow 119.5 billion
shillings ($1.3 billion) from the domestic market in 2011-12,
the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 