-- 
Kiplinger Warns Customers Hackers Got Account, Credit Card Information

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-07-09T21:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/kiplinger-warns-customers-hackers-got-account-information-1-.html
Kiplinger Washington Editors Inc. ,
the publisher of Kiplinger’s Personal Finance, warned customers
that hackers breached its computer network at least as early as
June 25 and stole account data, including credit card numbers.  Doug Harbrecht, the company’s director of new media, said
the attackers stole user names, passwords and encrypted credit
card numbers from as many as 142,000 subscribers to the magazine
or the company’s various newsletters, including the Kiplinger
Letter.  Harbrecht said the two-week delay in notifying customers
resulted from efforts to understand the extent of the break-in
by “an unidentified third party,” as the Kiplinger website
described the intruders. He said the company notified the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  and is working with the agency
on a probe of the incident.  “Part of the problem is we still don’t know exactly what
the hackers got,” Harbrecht said in a phone interview. An e-
mail sent to Kiplinger customers said the hacker may have
accessed e-mail addresses as well as other personal information.  “We had to find out as much information as possible before
we could respond,” Harbrecht said.  The attack against the personal finance publisher is the
latest in a growing cyber crime-wave that has victimized
companies including Lockheed Martin Corp., Citigroup Inc., Sony
Corp. and the television network PBS.  Financial Information  In some cases, the cyber-thieves have taken financial
information that could be used in fraud. In others, like the
hack of e-mail marketing company Epsilon Data Management LLC.,
they gained access to millions of customer e-mail addresses that
security experts warned could be used for  identity theft .  Harbrecht said Kiplinger believes the risk of identity
theft is small because of the limited information accessed by
the intruder. The type of data that he said was apparently
stolen by the intruder, including e-mail addresses and contact
information such as telephone numbers or addresses, is sometimes
used in so-called phishing scams to gain more valuable data or
for identity theft.  While the credit-card numbers were encrypted, Harbrecht
said that encryption in rare cases can be broken. Kiplinger is
advising customers to call their banks and replace the card
numbers, he said.  “We think the risk level is minimal,” Harbrecht said.
“We just want people to know we got hacked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  