-- 
New York Giants Move Training Camp to New Jersey as NFL Lockout Continues

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-07-08T17:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/new-york-giants-move-training-camp-to-new-jersey-as-nfl-lockout-continues.html
The  New York Giants  will move
training camp to their practice facility in East Rutherford,  New
Jersey , from Albany,  New York , because of the lockout that has
shut down the U.S.’s most popular sport since March.  The team had practiced at the  University at Albany  since
1996, the longest they’ve stayed at any site. They will now
practice at the Timex Performance Center, a training complex
that opened in 2009 and has three grass fields, a turf field
outdoors and a full-sized indoor field.  The center is next to New Meadowlands Stadium, the Giants’
National Football League home.  “In light of current circumstances, it simply became
impractical for us to hold camp away from home,” Giants
President John Mara said in a press release. “The University at
 Albany  and the Capital Region has been a great summer home for
us for 15 years, and we have every intention of returning there
in 2012.”  Management of the most popular U.S. sport locked out
players in March. Negotiations are taking place in New York on a
new contract, and owners and players are close to agreeing on
how to divide a projected $9.3 billion in revenue, according to
two people with knowledge of the talks who were granted
anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.  The  New York Jets  announced last month that they were
moving their camp to the team’s Florham Park, New Jersey,
headquarters from the State University of New York Cortland
campus about 220 miles north of  Manhattan . The Baltimore Ravens
said the same week they were moving camp back to their Owings
Mills,  Maryland , facility from McDaniel College in Westminster,
Maryland.  NFL training camps are scheduled to open in late July with
the first preseason game on Aug. 7. The regular season is set to
start in early September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 