-- 
News Corp. Can Regain Advertiser Trust, Publicis CEO Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-08T18:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/news-corp-can-regain-advertiser-trust-publicis-ceo-says-1-.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  can
quickly regain advertisers’ trust with an overhaul of the
“outrageous” journalistic practices that led to the closure of
its News of the World Sunday tabloid, according to the head of
one of the world’s largest ad agencies.  If News Corp. in the next couple of weeks creates “a new
News of the World with much more ethical behavior,” advertisers
will return,  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice Levy said today in an interview in Aix-en-Provence, France. “The
fact that Rupert himself considered this outrageous” is giving
“a very strong signal.”  News Corp. said yesterday it will close the 168-year-old
tabloid, Britain’s best-selling Sunday newspaper, after
allegations that its journalists tapped the voice mails of crime
victims and paid police officers for stories. The decision came
after companies including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and RWE AG
halted advertising in the paper to protest its activities.  Murdoch may seek to replace the revenue lost in the News of
the World shutdown by adding a Sunday edition of the daily Sun,
according to industry observers including Marc Mendoza, CEO of
Media Planning Group,  Havas SA (HAV) ’s media buying and planning arm.  A website titled thesunonsunday.com was registered July 5,
according to allwhois.com, a domain-name database search engine.  A final edition of the News of the World, slated for this
Sunday, won’t carry commercial advertising, and New York-based
News Corp. has offered its ad space to charities. So far
“household name” charities have turned down the offer,
preferring not to be associated with the tabloid, according to
Rob Cope, the director of campaign group Remember a Charity.
Cope’s London-based organization tries to persuade people to
bequeath money to the 150 charities it represents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Aix-en-Provence,  France  at
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  