-- 
News Corp. Must Answer Hacking-Payment Questions, Cameron Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-08T11:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/news-corp-must-answer-hacking-payment-questions-cameron-says.html
News Corp . executives have questions
to answer over payments made to victims of phone-hacking at the
News of the World newspaper and police should feel they can
“question anyone,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  Announcing the closure of the 168-year-old British tabloid
yesterday,  James Murdoch , deputy chief operating officer of News
Corp., said out-of-court settlements he approved that included
non-disclosure agreements were “wrong” and “a matter of
serious regret.”  “The statement yesterday leaves all sorts of questions to
be answered,” Cameron told a news conference in London today,
when asked whether the payments amounted to an attempt to cover
up illegal acts. “The police have got the resources and the
skill to follow the evidence anywhere it leads, to question
anyone, no matter how high or low.”  The settlements were criticized in Parliament during an
emergency debate on July 6, when opposition  Labour Party 
lawmaker Tom Watson said James Murdoch should face criminal
charges and was unsuitable to be a director of the company.  Among those who received payments was Gordon Taylor, chief
executive of the  Professional Footballers’ Association , after
his lawyers uncovered an e-mail suggesting more than one
journalist at the News of the World knew Taylor’s phone had been
hacked, the paper’s editor, Colin Myler, said in July 2009.
James Murdoch, the son of News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch,
approved the 700,000-pound ($1.1 million) payment, he said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  