-- 
National Football League Lockout Ban Overturned by Federal Appeals Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-07-08T17:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/nfl-lockout-is-upheld-by-federal-appeals-court-saying-lower-court-erred.html
National Football League  team owners
can continue their player lockout, a divided U.S. appeals court
ruled, reversing a Minnesota judge.  The St. Louis-based appeals court today said U.S. District
Judge Susan Richard Nelson in St. Paul erred when she ordered
the teams to grant players access to their training facilities
and staff. She found that the players were otherwise likely to
suffer irreparable harm.  Nelson’s order didn’t comply with federal labor law, a
three-judge appeals panel said in a 2-1 ruling. Players claimed
in a lawsuit that the NFL violates antitrust laws with anti-
competitive practices. The league countered that the dispute is
governed by the  National Labor Relations Board  and the court
lacked jurisdiction to issue the injunction. The judges agreed.  “The labor dispute did not suddenly disappear just because
the players elected to pursue the dispute through antitrust
litigation rather than collective bargaining,” U.S. Circuit
Judge Steven Colloton wrote in the majority opinion.  The 32-team league is the richest U.S. professional sports
league, with annual revenue of about $9 billion. Players and
owners are disputing over how to divide it. They also disagree
over a rookie salary cap, expanding the regular season to 18
games from 16, and health care.  Players led by quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and
 Peyton Manning  sued the NFL March 11 after negotiations on a
collective-bargaining agreement collapsed and the athletes
dissolved their union. The lockout followed at midnight.  Legal Steps  Nelson issued an order to stop the lockout on April 25. The
league won a temporary appeals court ruling on May 16 allowing
the owners to reimpose the ban until judges decided on the
lockout order. They did that today, without dismissing the case
entirely.  In May 2008, the NFL opted out of its final two years of
the prior agreement, citing concerns including operating costs,
according to the appeals court.  Negotiators for the players and owners are close to an
accord on how to divide a projected $9.3 billion in revenue,
according to two people with knowledge of the talks. Team
training camps are scheduled to open in two weeks.  The sides have worked on an agreement that may give players
less than half of the league’s revenue, according to the people.
Players got about 60 percent under the old agreement, after
owners deducted $1 billion for such costs as the NFL Network.  The two sides issued a joint statement on today’s court
decision, saying the dispute “must be resolved through
negotiation.”  Dual Commitment  “We are committed to our current discussions and reaching
a fair agreement that will benefit all parties for years to
come, and allow for a full 2011 season,” the statement said.  Circuit Judge Kermit Bye dissented from today’s decision,
saying the statutory immunity from antitrust law, enjoyed by
both sides while they’re in labor talks, must have an end point.  “Such point comes at the moment of the union disclaimer,”
Bye said, referring to the disavowal of the union.  The lower-court case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-cv-639, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota ( St.
Paul ). The appellate case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-1898,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit ( St.
Louis ).  -- With assistance from Aaron Kuriloff in  New York . Editors:
 Andrew Dunn , Stephen Farr  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  