-- 
NFL Said Near Accord With Players on Revenue Split as Ban on Lockout Lifts

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-09T04:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/nfl-players-near-deal-on-economic-issues.html
Negotiators for National Football
League owners and players are close to agreeing on how to divide
a projected $9.3 billion in revenue, two weeks before training
camps are scheduled to open, according to two people with
knowledge of the talks.  The sides have worked on an agreement that may give players
just less than half of the league’s revenue, according to the
people. Players got about 60 percent under the old agreement,
after owners deducted $1 billion for such costs as the NFL
Network.  “We’re gonna break for the weekend and get back to work
next week,” said  DeMaurice Smith , executive director of the  NFL
Players Association , after talks recessed yesterday in New York.
“We continue to work hard to get something done. I know our
fans want us to get something done as quickly as possible.”  Completing a new collective bargaining agreement next week
may help the U.S.’s most popular sport avoid missing one or more
rounds of preseason games, which NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  says
are worth about $200 million in revenue each week. Owners locked
out players four months ago, and yesterday, a federal appeals
court upheld the lockout, saying a lower court had erred in
blocking the action.  Giants’ Move Camp  The  New York Giants  also said yesterday that they would
hold training camp in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , near their
stadium rather than in Albany, New York, where it has been held
since 1996. The team said questions over the status of the
contract talks prompted it to make the decision.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  and Smith rejoined
negotiations this week after lawyers for both sides worked on
language for a new deal, said the people, who were granted
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly
about the talks.  Aiello and players association spokesman Carl Francis
declined to comment on what was being discussed in New York.  The league and union are focusing on the chief economic
issues before addressing topics such as health care and terms of
free agency, the people said.  Judge’s Error  NFL owners in March locked out players, who sued in federal
court claiming wage-fixing and antitrust violations. A St.
Louis-based appeals court yesterday ruled 2-1 that U.S. District
Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul , Minnesota, erred when
she ordered the teams to grant players access to their training
facilities and staff.  Her injunction, which was stayed by the appeals court in
May, didn’t comply with federal labor law, according to
yesterday’s ruling. Players claimed in a lawsuit that the NFL
violates antitrust laws with anti-competitive practices. The
league countered that the dispute is governed by the  National
Labor Relations Board  and the court lacked jurisdiction to issue
the injunction. The judges agreed.  “The labor dispute did not suddenly disappear just because
the players elected to pursue the dispute through antitrust
litigation rather than collective bargaining,” U.S. Circuit
Judge Steven Colloton wrote in the majority opinion.  Players led by quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and
 Peyton Manning  sued the NFL on March 11 after negotiations on a
collective-bargaining agreement collapsed and the athletes
dissolved their union. The lockout followed at midnight.  Resolution Through Negotiation  Nelson issued an order to stop the lockout on April 25. The
league won a temporary appeals court ruling on May 16 allowing
the owners to reimpose the ban until judges decided on the
lockout order. They did that yesterday, without dismissing the
case entirely.  The two sides issued a joint statement on yesterday’s court
decision, saying the dispute “must be resolved through
negotiation.”  “We are committed to our current discussions and reaching
a fair agreement that will benefit all parties for years to come,
and allow for a full 2011 season,” the owners and players said
in the statement.  The labor dispute came after a season that produced record
television ratings, drawing a total of 207.7 million viewers,
according to Neilsen Co. data. It was capped by the  Green Bay
Packers ’ Super Bowl victory against the Pittsburgh Steelers,
which attracted the largest U.S. television audience in history.  Jeff Pash , the NFL’s chief negotiator, said after a league
meeting outside  Chicago  last month that reopening for business
will require making sure legal documents are fully drafted and
approved, then ratified by both sides. Owners and players will
also have to seek approval from “various courts” to deal with
litigation.  Pash said he didn’t know how long that may take. Once the
two sides reach a handshake agreement, both owners and players
will want to “move as quickly as we could,” he said.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago Bears  are
scheduled to open July 22, with the teams slated to play the
first preseason game on Aug. 7 in Canton,  Ohio .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 