-- 
Obama Says Jobs Data Show U.S. Has ‘Long Way to Go’ in Boosting Employment

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-07-08T15:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/obama-says-jobs-data-show-u-s-has-long-way-to-go-in-boosting-employment.html
President  Barack Obama  said today’s
job report shows that ‘we still have a long way to go and a lot
of work to do to give people the security and opportunity they
deserve.’’  “We still have a big hole to fill” in replacing jobs lost
during the recession, Obama said in a statement from the White
House Rose Garden.  The Labor Department reported the U.S. unemployment rate
unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent, the highest this year, from
9.1 percent in May. Employers added 18,000 workers in June, the
fewest in nine months.  Economists expected the numbers to show employers added
105,000 jobs in May, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Obama said Congress can quickly help create jobs by
extending a payroll tax cut, hiring construction workers for
infrastructure projects, approving pending trade agreements and
passing a measure to streamline patent procedures.  The report may add urgency to talks on July 10, when Obama
and eight bipartisan congressional leaders will try again to
find a compromise on cutting deficits and raising the
government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling to head off a default
on U.S. debt obligations in early August.  Business Certainty  Agreement on raising the debt limit and cutting deficits
reduction would “give our businesses the certainty they will
need” to invest in creating new jobs,’’ Obama said.  Lingering effects of the Japanese tsunami and nuclear
accident help explain a decline in average hourly earnings and a
decline in the average workweek, said  Michael Strauss , who helps
oversee $27 billion as chief investment strategist at Commonfund
in Wilton,  Connecticut .  “The supply-channel disruptions didn’t get alleviated
yet,” Strauss said. “They’re getting alleviated in  Japan , but
it’ll take another five to six weeks to get alleviated here.”  “We will see a turn of this in July and August,” he said.  “There are really not any positives to take from this,”
said  Gus Faucher , economist and director of Moody’s Analytics in
 West Chester , Pennsylvania. “I think that people are still
nervous, consumers are still scared, businesses are still
reluctant to hire.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said a
“misguided” $814 billion stimulus package, combined with
business regulations and a mounting national debt “continue to
hold back private-sector  job creation  in our country.”  Stocks sank, erasing most of a weekly gain for U.S.
benchmark indexes, commodities slid and Treasuries jumped as
slower-than-forecast job growth damped optimism about the
economic recovery.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.25 percent to
1,336.37 at 11:01 a.m. in  New York . Oil slipped 2.1 percent to
$96.58 a barrel, helping drag the S&P GSCI Index of commodities
to a 1 percent drop. The 10-year Treasury yield decreased 10
basis points to 3.04 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  