-- 
Office Vacancies in U.S. Business Districts Decline to Lowest in Two Years

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-07-08T14:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/office-vacancies-in-u-s-business-districts-fall-to-two-year-low.html
Vacancies at office buildings in U.S.
central business districts dropped to the lowest level in two
years as companies added space for workers being hired, Cushman
& Wakefield Inc. said in a report today.  The average vacancy rate fell to 13.9 percent in the second
quarter from 14.6 percent in the previous three months and 14.8
percent a year earlier, according to the New York-based broker.
The rate last was lower in mid-2009, when it was 13.7 percent.  “It’s a reflection of the pent-up demand in the market,”
Maria Sicola, head of Americas research at Cushman, said in a
telephone interview. “Economic growth has been slow, but we are
growing.”  U.S. employers added 260,000 workers in the second quarter,
according to the Labor Department. Payrolls rose by 18,000 in
June, the slowest in nine months, showing that the market is
still struggling to gain traction. Demand for  office space  has
increased as few new buildings were developed during the
recession, contributing to lower vacancies in the second quarter
in 71 percent of the metropolitan areas tracked by Cushman.  Since the beginning of 2011, leases for 41.8 million square
feet (3.9 million square meters) of office space have been
signed, making it the strongest half in 13 years, Cushman said.
In the second quarter, 23.6 million square feet were leased, the
highest three-month total since the third quarter of 2006.  Manhattan , Chicago and San Francisco all had growth in
occupancies in the second quarter. The Midtown and Midtown South
submarkets in Manhattan maintained the lowest vacancy rates and
highest average rents in the 30 central business districts
surveyed by Cushman. Midtown South’s vacancy rate fell to 7.1
percent from 8 percent in the first quarter. Midtown’s rents
rose to $63.35 a square foot from $62.63.  Groupon in  Chicago   In Chicago, vacancies dropped to 15 percent from 16.4
percent in the first quarter and 16.7 percent a year earlier,
Cushman said. Groupon Inc. is among companies adding space in
the city, leasing about 50,000 square feet in the East Loop
district late last year to accommodate hiring at the Web-coupon
provider.  “Things have been improving slowly,” said Jack McKinney,
president of J.F. McKinney & Associates, which represented
Groupon’s landlord in the deal. “We consider it a tight market
if it’s 12 percent, but that ain’t happening for a while.”  Office landlords in San Francisco also have been helped by
demand from technology companies. The city’s vacancy rate fell
to 11 percent from 11.9 percent in the first quarter, while the
average rent increased to $38.95 per square foot from $36.24,
the biggest gain among business districts surveyed by Cushman.  Nationally, rents were little changed at $35.86 a square
foot.  South of Market  San Francisco ’s South of Market area has been particularly
popular with tech firms, said Sicola of Cushman.  “There hasn’t been a lot of development -- more
retrofitting -- but the demand continues to grow,” she said.
“You have an interesting area, which is not your traditional
core but that has a lot of amenities.”  No significant construction was finished in U.S. central
business districts in the second quarter, with 2011 completions
totaling 2.3 million square feet, Cushman said. About 2.1
million square feet of additional office space is expected to be
done by the end of the year, with projects under way in
 Washington , Houston, Miami and  Portland ,  Oregon .  “Leasing activity and declining vacancies have given us a
strong indicator in which direction the market is moving,”
Sicola said in today’s report. “If activity continues at this
pace, 2011 will be on track for a historic year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in  New York  at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 