-- 
Hoffman, Meyer, Silvia Say Jobs Data Suggest Prolonged Slump

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-08T17:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/hoffman-meyer-silvia-say-jobs-data-suggest-prolonged-slump-2-.html
Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh,  Michelle Meyer ,
a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New
York, and  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said today’s employment report
suggests a long period of labor market weakness lies ahead.  Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia,  George Goncalves , head of
interest-rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., were among
others commenting on the report.  U.S. employers added 18,000 workers in June, the fewest in
nine months, and the unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed to
9.2 percent, Labor Department figures in  Washington  showed
today.  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist for Wells Capital
Management in Minneapolis, in a Bloomberg Radio interview with
 Kathleen Hays :  “We know we are in a soft patch. We know there are
definitive reasons for that like  Japan , like weather, like
higher mortgage yields, like higher gas prices. But when you are
looking at all those same forces, most of them have either
stopped being bad or they have reversed and are going to start
to becoming positive forces for growth.  “The market message is an interesting one. In the face of
these headline numbers, you would think it would be off a lot
more. But I think it is looking ahead and saying, yes, we are in
a soft patch but we still think it is going to get better.”  Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics in Valhalla,  New York , said in a note to clients:  “An unusually aggressive seasonal (adjustment) may explain
at least some of the payroll weakness. The June seasonal is
always negative (that is, the level of adjusted payrolls is less
than the unadjusted level) to offset hiring for summer jobs.  “Had last June’s seasonal been used again, private
payrolls would have been +221K.”  Silvia:  “The Fed is going to have to take down its economic
projections. It takes any kind of Fed tightening by the end of
the year off the table.”  This also puts pressure on President  Barack Obama  and
Congress to reach a debt-reduction deal, he said.  “They may have to consider less spending cuts and less tax
increases certainly than two days ago. They have to pass
something. The uncertainty in the private sector is so deep that
people aren’t hiring.”  Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC in Austin,
Texas:  “This increases the probability of another round of
quantitative easing. We know the probability of fiscal stimulus
is much lower. If additional stimulus is required, the Fed may
be weighing its options.”  “The public sector job erosion, particularly from state
and local governments, is weighing down the jobs recovery. The
number of government job losses has been increasing on a monthly
basis. The budgetary pressures on local and state governments
are likely to lead to additional job losses.”  Hoffman:  “The economy is close to the edge of not necessarily a
double dip but a very long, muddy soft spot that is not going to
give any relief for the  unemployment rate . It certainly means
that the jobs machine wasn’t firing in May and June. For two
months in a row businesses took their help-wanted signs down.”  Meyer:  “Across the board it was a weak report. The payroll number
was lackluster and the household survey was even weaker as
unemployment increased as a result of a sharp drop in employment
and a decline in the number of people looking for jobs. The
recovery is still fragile and growth will continue to be slow.
The economy is healing very gradually.”  LeBas:  “Poor job growth essentially stops any growth in consumer
spending. This puts a big crimp in the second most important
retail season of the year, which is the back-to-school season.  “With these employment numbers, I don’t see a way  consumer
spending  can grow in any meaningful way. The decline in the
participation rate is problematic. The number of discouraged
workers is on the rise. We have a big group of disenfranchised
workers who’ve been unemployed for a long time. The summer jobs
report suggests economic expansion is essentially on hold.”  Goncalves:  “Today’s number forces all the bond bears back to the
drawing board.”  “This confirms that the data will remain soft and weak.”  David Greenlaw , chief financial economist at Morgan Stanley in
New York, in a note to clients:  “The big question at this point is whether the recent
employment data represent a lagged response to a soft patch in
the overall economy or whether we are seeing a significant
underlying deterioration in labor market conditions.  “If the former, then we should see a clear improvement in
the jobs figures over the next few months. If the latter, then
the sustainability of the economic recovery in the U.S. can be
called into question. We still believe that a number of
temporary factors point to a pick-up in GDP growth during the
second half of 2011.  “But, the extent of that improvement now seems likely to
be somewhat less than previously thought given the fading
support for income and production evident in the jobs figures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  