-- 
Ohio State Gives Up All 12 Football Wins From Last Season for Rules Breach

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T19:21:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ohio-state-gives-up-all-12-football-victories-last-season-in-rules-case.html
Ohio State University  vacated all 12
of its victories from the 2010 college football season,
including a win in the Sugar Bowl, because of rules violations
that already led to the departure of coach  Jim Tressel .  The school’s actions didn’t include a recommendation to ban
the Buckeyes from postseason play or reduce scholarships. They
came as part of a formal response to  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  charges received in April, the Columbus,
Ohio-based university said today in an e-mailed news release.  Tressel resigned on May 30, almost six months after players
including quarterback Terrelle Pryor were suspended for selling
or trading uniforms and other memorabilia to the owner of a
tattoo parlor, following revelations that the coach knew about
the infractions and didn’t report them.  Other measures officially taken today, many of which had
been previously announced, were the five-game suspensions for
five players involved in the violations; accepting Tressel’s
resignation; imposing a two-year probation; and enhancing the
school’s monitoring, education and compliance programs.  “We are fully cooperating with the NCAA, and we look
forward to working together to bring a resolution to these
current matters,” Gene Smith, Ohio State’s athletic director,
said in the statement. “Throughout the entire process since we
discovered possible infractions, Ohio State has consistently
acted to investigate any allegation, self-report its findings to
the NCAA, communicate transparently about its findings, and take
necessary remediation steps.”  12-1 to 0-1  If the NCAA accepts the proposal, Ohio State’s record for
the 2010 season would be recorded as 0-1, with a 31-18 loss at
 Wisconsin , Jeff Williams, a statistician with the national
association, said in an e-mail.  The school and Tressel also jointly announced an agreement
under which he will change his previously announced resignation
to a retirement, which “resolves any issues arising out of
Tressel’s employment with Ohio State.”  Tressel led the Buckeyes to the national championship after
the 2002 season. He originally was suspended by the school in
March for two games next season, then increased that ban himself
to five games before announcing he was leaving as coach.  “I take full responsibility for my mistakes that have led
to the ongoing NCAA inquiry and to scrutiny and criticism of the
football program,” Tressel said in a statement. “I am grateful
for this opportunity to retire from the university that I so
deeply respect and that I will continue to support.”  Ohio State went 12-1 last season, beating Arkansas 31-26 in
the Sugar Bowl. They also won their sixth straight Big Ten
Conference title and 35th overall, and beat rival Michigan 37-7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 