-- 
OM Said to Set Terms for $900 Million of Leveraged Loans

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-07-08T14:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/om-said-to-set-terms-for-900-million-of-leveraged-loans-1-.html
OM Group Inc. (OMG) , the world’s largest
cobalt producer, set terms for $900 million of leveraged loans
to fund the buyout of  Germany ’s Vacuumschmelze GmbH & Co. KG,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The financing includes a $600 million, six-year term loan B
offered at 99 percent of face value with a 1.5 percent floor on
the benchmark lending rates, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. The portion is split
between a tranche in dollars and a tranche in euros.  OM Group plans to pay interest of 475 basis points to 500
basis points more than the London interbank offered rate for the
tranche in dollars and an interest margin of 500 basis points
for the portion in euros, the person said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The Cleveland-based company is also offering an interest
margin of 375 basis points for a $100 million five-year  term
loan  A, and a $200 million five-year revolving credit, said the
person.  OM Group Treasurer Mike Mangan wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  OM Group agreed to purchase Vacuumschmelze from One Equity
Partners LLC for about 700 million euros ($1 billion). Bank of
America Corp., PNC Capital Markets LLC and BNP Paribas SA have
committed debt financing for the deal, according to OM Group’s
statement on July 5.  The acquisition of the Hanau, Germany-based maker of
advanced materials and specialty magnetics for the automotive
and electronics industries is expected to be completed by the
end of the third quarter, pending regulatory approvals.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A so-called term
loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as collateralized
loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds and  hedge funds . A term
loan A is sold mainly to banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  