-- 
Teva Won’t Sell Generic Vytorin for Cholesterol Until 2017 Under Accord

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-08T23:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/honeywell-loses-bid-to-dismiss-u-s-false-claims-lawsuit-over-body-armor.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  failed
to persuade a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit by the U.S.
claiming the company sold the government defective material for
use in body armor.  U.S. District Judge Richard Roberts in  Washington  today
rejected Honeywell’s arguments that the government’s False
Claims Act case didn’t properly allege fraud in the 2008
complaint.  “The government sets out in detail the time, place, and
content of the false representations and indentifies individuals
allegedly involved in the fraud,” Roberts said in his ruling.  The  Morris Township , New Jersey-based company “possessed a
wealth of scientific data” showing that its Zylon Shield
material degraded quickly over time, especially in hot and humid
conditions, according to the lawsuit. Still, Honeywell failed to
tell the government or the vests’ manufacturer about the
problem, the U.S. said.  The vests were bought by federal, state and local law
enforcement agencies, the  Justice Department  said in its
complaint. The government paid more than $20 million for the
vests, according to the judge’s ruling.  “We continue to believe there is no factual or legal basis
for the Justice Department’s case and we will continue to
vigorously defend against these claims,” Peter Dalpe, a
Honeywell spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Nana Efua Embil, a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message seeking comment.  Armor Holdings Inc., which manufactured the Zylon vests,
said in 2005 it would cease their production. BAE Systems Plc,
 Europe ’s largest arms company, bought Armor Holdings in 2007 for
$4.53 billion. In October 2008, Armor Holdings agreed to pay
$30 million to resolve allegations involving the vests.  Safety concerns about the vests first arose in 2003.  The case is U.S. v. Honeywell International Inc., 08-cv-
00961, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 