-- 
Montana Landowners Push for Cleanup of Exxon Oil Pipeline Leak

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T15:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/montana-landowners-push-for-cleanup-of-exxon-oil-pipeline-leak.html
Montana landowners who say their
property along the Yellowstone River has been soiled by oil that
leaked from an  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  pipeline are banding together
to push the company to do more to restore the land.  A group of about 20 people who own hundreds of acres in the
area met last night and agreed they would fight for complete
cleanup and restoration of their land, said Kelly Goodman, who
owns 100 acres off the river. A week after the spill, owners say
cleanup crews have yet to visit some farms and some want
independent air testing.  “I don’t know what’s going to happen,” Goodman, 52, said
in an interview at her home in Billings, Montana, yesterday. “I
don’t think Exxon does either. They’re a big corporation. Do
they care?”  The company, based in Irving,  Texas , has  apologized  for the
“inconvenience” caused by the estimated 1,000 barrels of oil
that spilled into the river after its Silvertip pipeline
ruptured near Laurel, Montana. It’s begun to process claims from
some landowners for losses related to the July 1 spill,
including paying for hay, fencing and iPhones, according to
residents.  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Exxon, had no immediate
response to e-mailed questions about the company’s spill
response.  The Silvertip line, which was transporting about 40,000
barrels a day prior to the leak, runs 69 miles (111 kilometers)
from Elk Basin,  Wyoming , to Exxon’s refinery in Billings,
Montana.  Independent Air Testing  Many residents still feel wary of the company and its
assurances about cleanup efforts and the safety of  air and
drinking water , said Alexis Bonagofsky, 30, who helped organize
the meeting and raises goats on a family farm in Billings.  An employee of the  National Wildlife Federation , she
remains skeptical of Exxon and plans to do her own independent
air testing.  Preliminary tests showed no hydrocarbon presence in the
river above drinking-water standards in the region, the
Environmental Protection Agency said yesterday. Use of the water
for irrigation poses no threat and municipal drinking water in
the area is safe, the agency said. Final test results will be
published in a few days, the EPA said.  Montana Governor Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat, pulled out
of a leak-response group yesterday that includes Exxon and
federal agencies because it has barred reporters from its
meetings, violating state law.  Interests ‘Not Aligned’  “Our interests are clearly not aligned with those of  Exxon
Mobil ,” Sarah Elliott, a spokesman for the governor, said
yesterday.  Schweitzer has scheduled a public meeting today with
affected landowners.  “We’re not going to just take Exxon’s word for it,” said
Montana State Senator Kendall Van Dyk, a Democrat who represents
Billings. “The biggest company in the world can
afford to fix our infrastructure and protect our Yellowstone
River.”  Van Dyk works for Trout Unlimited, a group that advocates
for conservation.  Walking through a field on Goodman’s property that remained
darkened by oil residue after the river receded, she said she
didn’t know how the soil, the trees and the grass her sheep use
for grazing would ever be completely cleaned up.  Yellowstone Flooding  Most of the oil is within 30 miles of the spill site in
Laurel, although crude has been spotted 80 miles downstream near
Miles City, Montana, the EPA said.  Flooding from the Yellowstone River, which peaked in the
past week because of above-average snow melt, has hampered
clean-up efforts on land that was already damaged by heavy
erosion.  An estimated 544 officials from Exxon and local and state
governments are involved in the response effort, including 360
who are in the field, the EPA said. The river, which flows
through Yellowstone National Park, empties into the Missouri
River in  North Dakota .  Cleanup crews have yet to show up at the 100 acres of land
owned by Goodman, who trains Belgian Shepherds in sheep-herding
and raises wheat and sugar beets.  Rapidly flowing floodwaters on the Yellowstone have made
oil hard to spot along the river’s main path, but the backwater
channels and creek beds that make up an essential part of the
river’s ecosystem are saturated, Goodman said. Her family has
lived and farmed along the river for 130 years.  Gaseous Smell  A gaseous smell permeated the air near the water, which
Goodman said had grown far less noxious than on July 2 when she
awoke in her home and thought she had a gas leak.  The grayish residue of oil was visible on grass covering
almost 40 acres of her property formerly used for hay to feed
sheep.  Goodman said Exxon’s claim process was good. A company
representative visited her home in response to her request for
about 12 tons of hay to replace lost grazing fields.  Exxon’s cleanup efforts have been less visible, she said,
with no one showing up on her land after numerous requests since
July 2.  Bonagofsky, whose family farm is downstream from Goodman’s,
has fared better with cleanup. Crews have laid out booms to
contain the oil and prevent it from reaching shore. They’ve also
put absorbent materials in the water to capture the oil.  Exxon paid $750 to replace her iPhone, which she dropped
into oil-soaked water while documenting the spill. The company
agreed to pay about $3,200 for electric fencing Bonagofsky can
use to keep her goats from grazing near the crude.  Jim Sturn, 68, said he hasn’t seen the 40 or 50 ducks and
geese that often traveled up and down the river before the
spill, even amid the flood. Sturn’s house in Billings is less
than 50 feet (15 meters) from the river bank.  “The wildlife has almost disappeared,” he said. “There
isn’t anything out there. I haven’t seen almost anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Billings,  Montana , at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  