-- 
Too Many Public Works Built on Rosy Scenarios: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-07-08T04:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/too-many-public-works-built-on-rosy-scenarios-virginia-postrel.html
“Infrastructure” may be one of
the least glamorous words in the English language, but with
the right touch the concrete and steel of roads, bridges,
tunnels, dams and railroads can look as alluring as a movie
star. Witness the sleekly seductive illustrations produced
for today’s  California High-Speed Rail Authority  or the
midcentury pictures of effortlessly flowing superhighways,
a genre that reached its apotheosis in  Walt Disney ’s  “Magic
Highway U.S.A.”  in 1958.  This glamorizing extends not just to imagery but also
to forecasts. Project promoters routinely overstate
benefits and understate costs -- and not just a little bit.  “Cost overruns in the order of 50 percent in real
terms are common for major infrastructure, and overruns
above 100 percent are not uncommon,”  Bent Flyvbjerg , a
professor of major program management at the University of
Oxford’s Said Business School, writes in the  Oxford Review
of Economic Policy . “Demand and benefit forecasts that are
wrong by 20-70 percent compared with actual development are
common.”  To draw these conclusions, Flyvbjerg analyzed results
from 258 projects in 20 countries over 70 years, the
largest such database ever compiled. Like the “stars
without makeup” features in celebrity tabloids, his
research provides a disillusioning reality check. “It is
not the best projects that get implemented, but the
projects that look best on paper,” Flyvbjerg writes. “And
the projects that look best on paper are the projects with
the largest cost underestimates and benefit overestimates,
other things being equal.”  Flyvbjerg got curious about forecasts when, as a young
professor in  Denmark , he watched the Great Belt rail
tunnel, connecting  Scandinavia  with continental  Europe , go
“terribly wrong,” with long delays and cost overruns of 120
percent. “I began to wonder not only why that was the case,
but also whether it was common or not for that to happen,”
he recalls in a telephone conversation. (The tunnel opened
in 1997.)  Finding no comprehensive data available, he assembled
his own -- and found that the big picture looked very much
like the little one. “It’s very common to have cost
overruns in big construction projects,” he says. “It’s the
norm. It’s not the exception.”  On average, urban and intercity rail projects run over
budget by 45 percent, roads by 20 percent, and bridges and
tunnels by 34 percent.  And the averages tell only part of the story. Rail
projects are especially prone to cost underestimation.
Seventy-five percent run at least 24 percent over
projections, while 25 percent go over budget by at least 60
percent, Flyvbjerg finds.  By comparison, 75 percent of roads exceed cost
estimates by at least 5 percent, and 25 percent do so by at
least 32 percent.  California  Dreaming  Promoters of rail and toll-road projects also tend to
substantially overstate future use, making those projects
look more appealing to whoever is footing the bill. Rail
projects attract only about half the expected passengers,
on average, while in new research still in progress,
Flyvbjerg finds that toll roads (including road bridges and
tunnels) fall 20 percent short. (Non-toll roads also miss
their traffic projections, but their errors go in both
directions.)  Rail-ridership predictions are especially over-
optimistic in the U.S., where the average gap between
expectations and reality is 60 percent, compared with 23
percent in Europe. So a back-of-the-envelope calculation
would suggest that California High-Speed Rail can expect to
carry only 15.6 million passengers a year by 2035, rather
than the 39 million projected.  Using the average cost overrun, California should also
expect to spend almost $8 billion, rather than the
estimated $5.5 billion, for the project’s first 100-mile
(161-kilometer) leg from Borden to Corcoran, the “train to
nowhere” in the Central Valley. Raising the estimate by the
average overrun, however, means that you still have a 50
percent chance of spending even more.  As the toll roads suggest, overruns aren’t unique to
government projects. Even privately built chemical-
processing plants suffer from similar, though less drastic,
underestimates of cost and overestimates of capacity. As
many  a Dilbert comic strip  has pointed out, salespeople
often close a deal by promising more than they can deliver.  So why do these mistakes happen again and again?  Project managers often blame a combination of bad
luck, unexpected delays and changes of plan -- the same
things that inflate the costs of remodeling your bathroom,
only on a grand scale.  It’s true that planners change their minds. “They
decide to have higher safety standards,” Flyvbjerg says,
“or higher environmental standards, so the cost of the
project goes up. Often you will find that the geology of
the project was not well covered. So when you start
digging, you find things in the ground that you didn’t
expect, and the costs go up.”  But a smart project manager should anticipate the
unanticipated and adjust the budget accordingly.
Professionals, after all, generally have far more
experience than the average homeowner. They know the sorts
of things that can go wrong.  “It’s nothing new that geology is difficult,”
Flyvbjerg says. “We know that geology is difficult. No
matter. It’s ignored in project after project. Therefore,
the problem is not geology itself but the fact that we
disregard geology.”  Bias of Optimism  A charitable explanation is that promoters are starry-
eyed and suffer from what psychologists call optimism bias.
But it’s suspicious that forecasters rarely seem to learn,
even over decades of experience. Alas, contractors, local
governments and other advocates have strong incentives to
underplay costs and exaggerate benefits to sell their
services or attract funding.  “Some forecasts are so grossly misrepresented that we
need to consider not only firing the forecasters but suing
them, too -- perhaps even having a few serve time,”
Flyvbjerg writes in his Oxford Review of  Economic Policy 
article.  Even with his gloomy findings, Flyvbjerg is an
optimist. “Things don’t have to be like this,” he says.
“It’s not like the weather. It’s a human artifact that we
are producing, and hence we can do differently.”  He would like to see better incentives -- punishment
for errors, rewards for accuracy -- combined with a
requirement that forecasts not only consider the expected
characteristics of the specific project but, once that
calculation is made, adjust the estimate based  on an
“outside view,”  reflecting the cost overruns of similar
projects. That way, the “unexpected” problems that happen
over and over again would be taken into consideration.  Such scrutiny would, of course, make some projects
look much less appealing -- which is exactly what has
happened in the U.K., where “reference-class forecasting”
is now required. “The government stopped a number of
projects dead in their tracks when they saw the forecasts,”
Flyvbjerg says. “This had never happened before.”  Unfortunately, the world’s biggest infrastructure
projects, including the recently opened high-speed rail
line between Beijing and  Shanghai , are subject to no such
checks, or even to scholarly examination. Flyvbjerg has
been trying for years to get data on project costs in
 China , to no avail. “Their data are simply not reliable,”
he says. He quotes an unidentified Chinese colleague who
said, “If the party says there’s no cost overrun, there’s
no cost overrun.”  No wonder promoters look so longingly at China. There,
infrastructure glamour is the law.  (Virginia Postrel writes about commerce and culture,
innovation, economics and public policy. She is the author
of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vpostrel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 