-- 
Morgan Keegan Seen in Sights of Stifel With Low Operating Margin: Real M&A

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-07-08T14:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/morgan-keegan-seen-in-sights-of-stifel-with-low-operating-margin-real-m-a.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , the St.
Louis-based brokerage that has quintupled revenue since 2005
with nine acquisitions, may find its biggest takeover
opportunity yet in  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ’s Morgan Keegan & Co.  Morgan Keegan may be attractive to Stifel for its retail
brokerage, fixed-income business and presence in the U.S.
Southeast, according to Silvant Capital Management LLC and FBR
Capital Markets. Silvant’s Randy Loving said Stifel may be
willing to pay as much as $1 billion, or six times more than its
largest deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Guggenheim Securities LLC estimates Morgan Keegan may fetch as
much as $1.5 billion, for Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions,
which said last month it was considering “strategic
alternatives” for the unit after paying $200 million to settle
claims over subprime mortgage-backed securities.  Stifel’s acquisitions, including Legg Mason Inc.’s capital-
markets business and Thomas Weisel Partners Group Inc., have
helped the brokerage post record net revenue in every year since
Ron Kruszewski became chief executive officer in 1997. While the
shares have also more than doubled since 2006, Stifel’s
operating margins trail 90 percent of its rivals.  Morgan Keegan “seems to fit the Stifel model,” said  Steve Stelmach , an analyst at FBR Capital in Arlington, Virginia.
“Ron is an aggressive guy and isn’t bashful about growth
through acquisitions. From that perspective, continued
acquisitions seem to make sense.”  Stifel’s Kruszewski declined to comment on Morgan Keegan.
 Tim Deighton , a spokesman for Regions, also declined to comment.  Evaluating Options  Shares of Stifel slipped 0.7 percent to $36.53 at 10:35
a.m. in New York today. Regions declined 2.3 percent to $6.03.  Regions hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to evaluate options
for Memphis, Tennessee-based Morgan Keegan and find ways to
manage capital and increase shareholder value, the bank said
June 22. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust
are not part of the review.  Regions agreed to buy Morgan Keegan in December 2000 for
about $789 million.  Morgan Keegan resolved claims brought last year by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and state regulators, the SEC said.
Regulators said the firm misled clients about asset values and
risks of bond funds that caused investor losses during the
mortgage crisis. The company didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Regions needs to repay the $3.5 billion in government
bailout funds it still holds.  ‘Raise Capital’  “Regions is trying to raise capital,” said  Walter Todd ,
who helps manage $950 million at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,
 South Carolina . “They can raise capital without having to issue
stock by selling this asset. That’s one of the reasons they are
putting the company up for sale.”  Morgan Keegan provides brokerage and investment-banking
services.  Founded  with five workers in 1969, it now has more
than 300 offices and 4,400 employees  across  the Southeast and
Midwest, including  Texas , Missouri, Ohio, the Carolinas and
Florida. Stifel’s operations are concentrated in the Midwest and
Mid-Atlantic regions.  “The Southeast is a desirable part of the country in terms
of growth,” Greenwood’s Todd said. “Morgan Keegan has a very
good footprint there and Stifel less so. It would give them a
very good jumpstart in the Southeast.”  ‘Generally Beneficial’  Stifel could also increase its retail brokerage’s more than
1,900 financial advisers, as of March 31, by adding Morgan
Keegan’s 1,200 advisers.  “Retail brokerage is a scale business,” FBR’s Stelmach
said. “The more scale you have, you can spread out fixed costs
across a much broader network. That’s generally beneficial.”  That may help boost Stifel’s operating margins, which at
0.75 percent in the last 12 months were the second lowest among
comparable U.S. investment banks and brokerages with market
values greater than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The industry average is 13 percent.  Stifel’s margin was dragged down by a third-quarter loss.
In 2009 the company posted an operating margin of 11 percent.  By acquiring Morgan Keegan’s fixed-income platform, Stifel
would add to its geographic footprint for businesses such as
public finance, Stelmach said.  “You need to have someone local in  Cleveland  that knows
the school board or knows the water and sewer guys,” he said.
“To the extent that you can get that local capacity in one
acquisition would probably be attractive.”  Takeover Price  Marty Mosby , an analyst for Guggenheim Securities in
 Memphis , Tennessee, said Morgan Keegan may sell for between 0.75
to 1.5 times his estimated revenue for the unit of about $1
billion. That would peg an acquisition anywhere from $750
million to $1.5 billion.  “If they were able to get it for less than $1 billion, I
think that would be something of interest to them,” said
Loving, an Atlanta-based portfolio manager for Silvant, which
owns Stifel shares. “At a decent enough price, they’ll have
additional flexibility to make it work.”  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may also be interested in buying Morgan
Keegan, according to Brian Foran, an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in New York. Wells Fargo CEO  John Stumpf  said in March the
bank may expand by taking over non-bank companies, including
wealth-management or insurance businesses.  ‘Bigger Question’  “The bigger question for Wells is do they feel like they
need to add scale in the wealth-management business or do they
feel like it’s not a strategic imperative right now,” Foran
said. “I’d be really surprised if they didn’t look.”  Allison Miley, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, said the lender doesn’t comment on speculation regarding
acquisitions.  BB&T Corp. (BBT) , which expanded its brokerage business with the
acquisition of Scott & Stringfellow in  1999 , may also look at
Morgan Keegan to add to its brokerage platform, Guggenheim
Securities’ Mosby said.  Cynthia Williams, a spokeswoman for BB&T of Winston-Salem,
 North Carolina , declined to comment.  Morgan Keegan’s retail brokerage would also be attractive
to private equity firms looking for cash-generating businesses,
Nomura’s Foran said.  Stifel, which has one of the largest U.S. equity research
platforms, may not benefit from Morgan Keegan’s institutional
business, FBR’s Stelmach and Silvant’s Loving said.  ‘Wiggle Room’  Also, Morgan Keegan has had a “material decline” in
fixed-income profitability and brokerage earnings estimates,
which may make buyers cautious, Chris Gamaitoni, an analyst at
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC in  Washington , wrote in a
June 23 note. Regulatory changes in the brokerage business could
also stall a sale, he said.  Still, “a lot of their acquisitions have come when markets
for those businesses weren’t at the peak,” Devin Ryan, an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York , said in
an interview. “As a result, they weren’t paying peak multiples.
They had some wiggle room from a financial perspective for
things to work out even if the environment wasn’t perfect.”  Stifel’s Kruszewski, 52, became CEO in 1997. The Legg Mason
deal was Stifel’s “foundation for success” in mergers and
acquisitions, he said in an interview.  “If you approach mergers under the same framework that you
run the business every day, then they’re actually easy to
integrate,” Kruszewski said. “If you do it right, then you
drive shareholder value.”  Legg Mason  Morgan Keegan would be Stifel’s eighth purchase after
buying Legg Mason’s capital-markets business in 2005. Since
then, Stifel’s revenue surged to $1.38 billion in 2010 from $264
million. The firm has reported record net revenue every year
since 1995.  Stifel has announced $454 million of publicly disclosed
acquisitions since 1999, capped by its biggest takeover of
Thomas Weisel last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stifel purchased Thomas Weisel for $159.1 million in
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, adding
investment-banking business in the technology, health-care and
energy industries.  “Stifel is probably one of the few firms that could make
it work,” said  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-
based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4 billion. “If I’m
Stifel, I’d feel I’m in a power position. I don’t have to
overpay for this deal because frankly there’s not too many
people who have the ability to pay for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 