-- 
Peru’s Slowing GDP Leads Central Bank to Pause for 2nd Month

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-08T14:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/peru-s-slowing-gdp-leads-bank-to-hold-at-4-25-for-second-month.html
Peru ’s central bank kept its
overnight lending rate unchanged for a second month yesterday as
economic growth and inflation slow on concern President-elect
Ollanta Humala’s policies may discourage investment.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, left the benchmark rate at 4.25 percent after
unexpectedly holding the rate unchanged last month for the first
time this year. Yesterday’s decision matched the forecasts of 16
of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One analyst predicted a
quarter-point increase.  “This pause in increases to the benchmark rate reflects
the slowdown in inflation and some economic indicators as well
as greater uncertainty about the global economy,” the central
bank said in a  statement  posted on its website. “Global
economic indicators show signs of weakness and greater
uncertainty because of the persistence of risks such as the
fiscal situation of some industrialized countries.”  Since quickening to a two-year high of 3.3 percent in
April, annual inflation in  Latin America ’s sixth-biggest economy
decelerated to 2.9 percent in June, within the central bank’s
target range of 1 percent to 3 percent. At the same time,
reduced spending by companies and consumers both before and
after the June 5 election has helped cool growth in the $153
billion economy for three straight months to its slowest pace
since February 2010.  “There isn’t a real problem with inflation so they are
holding off on any decision to raise,”  Pedro Tuesta , a
Washington-based Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc., said in
a phone interview. “Peru hiked before everyone else so they
feel they can pause and give the new government free rein to do
what it wants to do.”  ‘Practically Stagnated’  The Peruvian sol rose 0.2 percent to 2.7457 per  U.S. dollar 
at 10:48 a.m. in  New York , from 2.7440 yesterday, according to
Deutsche Bank’s local unit.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 declined one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 6.27 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic growth has “practically stagnated” and the speed
at which it revives will depend on the policies Humala adopts,
Lima-based Banco de Credito del Peru, the nation’s largest bank,
said in a June 22 report.  Private investment drove Peru’s economy to expand 8.8
percent in the first quarter, leading the central bank to raise
rates to a two-year high in May.  Economic expansion probably slowed to an annual pace of
about 6.5 percent in the second quarter, the lowest in a year,
as electricity output and cement sales eased and the government
temporarily curtailed outlays, Finance Minister Ismael Benavides
told reporters in  Lima  on July 6.  Companies have scaled back spending since April amid
concern Humala’s pledges to increase mining royalties and
enlarge state companies may deter the foreign investment that
fueled the region’s fastest growth of the last decade.  ‘Waiting’ for Humala  Though investment will probably recover after the new
government takes office and clarifies its policy on mining
taxes, the central bank cut its growth forecast to 6.5 percent
from 7 percent previously, Velarde said June 17.  “Investors are waiting to see what Humala is going to
propose in terms of economic and labor policy,” Benavides said.  Mining projects will account for almost half the $47.5
billion of private investment expected in Peru from 2011 to
2013, according to the central bank.  Peru’s factories are using less installed capacity as
domestic demand pressures ease, Lima-based  BBVA Banco
Continental , Peru’s second-largest bank, said in a July 1
report.  “This leaves less room for higher costs to be passed
through in higher prices or second-round effects,” wrote
analysts Franciso Grippa and Isaac Foinquinos.  Rate Guidance  A jump of at least 47 percent in the international price of
corn, wheat and soybean in the last year propelled Peruvian food
price inflation to a three-year high in March.  The annual inflation rate fell to 2.9 percent in June from
3.1 percent in May and 3.3 percent in April as lower food prices
offset the higher cost of gasoline. Prices will rise as much as
0.3 percent in July, after a 0.1 percent increase last month,
because of seasonal reasons, Benavides said.  “Future adjustments in the benchmark rate will depend on
new information about inflation and its determinants,” the bank
said in its statement yesterday.  The central bank expects consumer prices to rise about 3
percent this year, the least in the region.  By keeping the rate unchanged for two straight months,
Peru’s central bank has bucked the regional trend.  Brazil ’s central bank has indicated it will increase
 interest rates  for a fifth month in July as it seeks to curb
demand, while Chilean policy makers said last month they will
probably need to continue to raise rates after the economy
expanded at its fastest pace since 1995 in the first quarter.  Colombia ’s central bank may use other monetary instruments
instead of raising rates to contain demand for credit, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Alberto Ramos .  Peru’s policy makers are likely to extend the current pause
“for a while longer, and we see no more than an additional 25
basis-point hike at some point” during the second half of the
year, Ramos said yesterday in an e-mailed note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 