-- 
Peruvian Bonds Rise on Bets Rate to Stay Unchanged as GDP Slows

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-08T17:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/peruvian-bonds-rise-on-bets-rate-to-stay-unchanged-as-gdp-slows.html
Peruvian bonds rose to their highest
in almost three months as traders bet the central bank will keep
its benchmark lending rate on hold for longer than expected as
the economy slows.  The yield on the nation’s 9.91 percent sol-denominated bond
due May 2015 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
5.44 percent at 12:29 p.m.  New York  time, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.02 centimo to
115.21 centimos per sol, the highest since April 12.  The central bank held the benchmark rate unchanged at 4.25
percent for a second month yesterday, citing a slowdown in
inflation and some economic indicators. The bank may extend the
pause “for a very long time” as mining investment slows amid
concern President-elect Ollanta Humala’s plan to introduce a
mining windfall tax will make the industry less competitive,
said  Gustavo Rangel , an economist at ING Financial Markets in
New York.  “As investment in the mining sector represents such a big
portion of  Peru ’s GDP, it’s only natural the central bank
pauses,” Rangel said. “Growth in the second half of the year
will be much lower than originally expected and possibly that
may continue into next year. The central bank will probably
acknowledge at some point the major downside to the growth
outlook.”  Economic expansion probably slowed to an annual pace of
about 6.5 percent in the second quarter, the lowest in a year,
as electricity output and cement sales eased, Finance Minister
Ismael Benavides told reporters in  Lima  on July 6.  Mining companies will meet with Humala’s advisers to reach
a “technical” solution on the windfall tax that won’t make
Peru less competitive than nations like Chile and  Canada , Pedro Martinez, president of the National Society of Mining, Petroleum
& Energy, said yesterday.  The sol fell 0.1 percent to 2.7455 per  U.S. dollar , from
2.7440 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank’s local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  