-- 
Pfizer Adds Payoff to Pipeline in Deal Seen at $22 Billion

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-07-08T20:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/pfizer-unit-sales-add-payoff-to-pipeline-drugs-in-deal-seen-at-22-billion.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s plans to shed two
businesses boosts the potential payoff for three experimental
drugs moving toward regulatory review later this year.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, yesterday said it
plans to sell or spin off its animal health and baby food
divisions. The units may command a price of $22 billion, said
 Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston .
Pfizer Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  has said he plans to use
the proceeds to buy back shares and develop new drugs.  Read is giving new products led by the apixaban blood
thinner, the lung cancer drug crizotinib and tofacitinib for
rheumatoid arthritis added prominence within Pfizer’s revenue
portfolio. Divesting the units -- which generate $5.5 billion in
annual sales, or 8 percent of the New York-based company’s
revenue -- also lets Pfizer sharpen its focus on developing the
three drugs, which analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate may
reach $3 billion in annual sales by 2015.  “In the next 3 to 6 months, there’s going to be a lot of
pipeline news, and as Pfizer gets smaller the pipeline becomes
more important,” said  David Maris , an analyst with CLSA in New
York. “This is a management team that is following through on
what they said they would do, which is take a fresh look at the
business and decide what is important and what is not.”  Pfizer declined 7 cents to $20.16 at 4 p.m. in New York
stock exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 36
percent in the past 12 months.  Sales to Fall  Pfizer loses patent exclusivity in November for its biggest
product, the Lipitor cholesterol pill with $10.7 billion in
sales last year. The drugmaker forecasts sales may fall as much
as 8.3 percent in two years as the company’s new medicines fail
to offset lower sales of Lipitor.  Crizotinib was accepted for priority review by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration, and the company expects clearance
by year’s end, said Chris Loder, a spokesman. The drugmaker
plans to seek approval of tofacitinib and apixaban by the end of
the year, he said. Pfizer partners with New York-based Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. on apixaban.  “Pfizer’s late-stage pipeline is as well positioned as at
any time in recent history,” said Christopher Schott, a New
York-based analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a note to
clients.  Wanting More  On Feb. 1, Read said he would review whether to divest four
business areas that aren’t involved in developing new drugs,
including the two now being shopped. Pfizer fell 2.7 percent
yesterday, after the company said it will keep its established
products and consumer health units with $12.9 billion in yearly
sales. Some investors wanted the units sold to focus on higher-
profit drug development.  Erik Gordon , a  University of Michigan  business professor in
 Ann Arbor , isn’t convinced Pfizer’s pipeline will pay off.  “Should Pfizer double its dependence on what it does
worst: Get new drugs out the door?” Gordon, who studies the
biomedical industry, said in an e-mail.  In 2006, Pfizer halted development of its torcetrapib
cholesterol pill, a product designed to succeed Lipitor, after
it failed to benefit patients in a late-stage study.  Development Failures  Last year, the drugmaker said its experimental Alzheimer’s
drug Dimebon failed to help patients in a late-stage test.
Analysts had predicted the product would generate $5 billion in
annual sales. That same month, Sutent, approved for kidney and
stomach cancers, failed in two studies to shrink breast tumors,
and the experimental drug figitumumab didn’t help lung cancer
patients.  Read, head of global pharmaceutical operations from 2006
until his appointment as CEO last December, said Pfizer needed
to fix its “innovative core.” Fifteen research programs have
been discontinued since last September and the budget to develop
new medicines will be cut by as much as $3 billion in the next
two years from $9.4 billion in 2010 to target experimental drugs
with a greater chance of success, he said.  The units Pfizer is seeking to divest may be sold outright,
or spun off as independent companies. Spinoffs evade a 35
percent capital gains tax and sometimes provide the best return
for investors, said Adam Berger, head of mergers and
acquisitions at Leerink Swann, in a telephone interview.  Still, the remaining parent company wouldn’t benefit from
the added proceeds the way it would in a sale, he said.  Value to Shareholder  “It’s like a dividend; the value goes to the
shareholder,” Berger said. “But Pfizer has been
extraordinarily acquisitive, and sometimes if you’re a very
large business it’s hard to grow from that base.”  Another option might be a sponsored spinoff in which
investors buy a stake in the company, typically 20 percent, when
the deal is announced, Berger said. That allows the parent
company to share in proceeds from the divestiture, he said.  Pfizer acquired its nutrition unit in the 2009 purchase of
Wyeth. The unit sells food replacement and supplement products
in more than 80 countries, according to the company’s website.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the baby-formula maker that
Bristol-Myers took public in February 2009, had sales of $3.14
billion last year, led by the Enfamil infant formula. The
Glenview, Illinois-based company trades at 27 times earnings,
almost three times the valuation of Pfizer, after a 188 percent
surge through yesterday that beat the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index’s 63 percent rise, according to Bloomberg data.  Valuing Nutritionals  Applying Mead Johnson’s profit margins and share price
valuation of 31 times net income to Pfizer’s unit, which had
$1.87 billion in sales last year, would give Pfizer nutritionals
a market value of about $8.4 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Leerink’s Fernandez put the figure at about $10 billion for
the nutritionals and said “demand would be high.”  Pfizer may fare better with an initial public offering for
the animal health unit, which could value the unit at $10
billion to $12 billion, Fernandez said. He cited a
“conversation with Pfizer” that suggested nutritionals would
be sold and the animal health division may be spun off.  Pfizer had 28 divestitures completed in the last five
years, with an average deal size of $1.8 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest was the $16.6 billion
sale of its consumer products business to Johnson & Johnson in
June 2006. Pfizer sold Capsugel, a hard-capsules manufacturing
business, to KKR & Co. in April for $2.38 billion.  Pfizer said it doesn’t anticipate making more announcements
about the alternatives for the two units until sometime in 2012,
and that any transaction may take as many as 24 months to
complete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 