-- 
Poor Countries Seen Likely to Be ‘Hammered’ by Food Costs, Water Shortages

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-07-08T09:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/poor-countries-seen-likely-to-be-hammered-by-food-costs-water-shortages.html
Developing economies will be
“hammered” as declining water supply adds to problems
confronting farmers who are already struggling to meet food
demand, pushing prices even higher, said CH2M Hill Cos.  Countries in short supply of water including China will
continue to boost food imports, draining resources in some of
the largest agricultural producers including the U.S. and  Brazil ,
said Lee McIntire, chairman and chief executive officer. The
company provides services from treating waste water and building
irrigation systems to cleaning up nuclear sites.  Food costs tracked by the  United Nations  advanced in June
for the 10th time in the past 12 months, staying near a record
on higher sugar, dairy and rice prices, while meat reached an
all-time high. The  World Bank  estimates higher food expenses
have pushed 44 million more people into poverty.  “Food prices are going to go up,” McIntire said, without
giving a timeframe. “The countries that are trying to grow
their economy, I think they’re going to be hammered more and
more. They’re going to be short of water.”  The closely held company, based in Englewood,  Colorado ,
provides planning, financing, construction, operations and
maintenance services. The firm had gross revenue of $6.3 billion
last year and helps provide irrigation in the U.S.  “Global  food production  is not keeping up with demand,”
Fred Neumann, co-head of Asian economic research at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said in an interview from  Hong Kong . “Countries
such as China have seen droughts over many years. Now we see
other parts of the world facing some water shortages, which is
starting to impact the global price of certain goods.”  Food as Water  The U.S. corn-belt is among the areas in the U.S. with the
most “virtual-water” exports, as they ship food products that
use a lot of water to grow, according to a  study  published by
the Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences  in December.  The corn-belt includes the states of Iowa,  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Minnesota  and Nebraska, according to the website of the
U.S.  Department  of Agriculture. The five  states  made up 62
percent of the corn harvest last year and 55 percent of the
soybean crop in a nation that supplies almost half of the  global
trade , according to USDA data.  “There’s a connection between energy, water and food,”
said 62 year-old McIntire in an interview in Singapore July 5.
“It’s very hard to ship water. The best way to export water is
through food.” It takes about 900 liters of water to produce a
kilogram of corn, and double that amount for a kilogram of
soybeans, according to the  Water Footprint Network  website.  China , the world’s biggest importer of soybeans, bought 24
million tons of the 37.97 million tons shipped by the U.S. from
Sept. 1 through June 23, according to USDA data.  Soybeans for China  “How do they get water to China? Soybeans,” McIntire said.
“You could see a lot of investments by the Chinese, buying land
to grow soybeans so they can ship water,” he said, referring to
investments in countries including Brazil.  The Asian nation, home to about a fifth of the global
population, has only 6 percent of the freshwater, according to
the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization website.  Global stockpiles of corn, the most-consumed grain, are
forecast to drop to 47 days of use, the fewest since 1974, data
from the USDA show. Inventories are declining as demand
continues to outstrip production that’s forecast to rise to a
record for a fifth consecutive year.  The proportion of the U.S. corn harvest going to ethanol
has almost quadrupled since 2002 and will reach 40 percent in
the current marketing year, according to USDA data. Ethanol
output has increased more than six-fold since 2002, boosted by
federal renewable fuel standards and subsidies now being
scrutinized by Congress.  “Water shortages are a problem that we’re going to face
for years to come,”  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at
Astmax Co., said from  Tokyo  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  