-- 
Posco, Samsung, Among Korean Companies to Sign Congo Deals

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-08T15:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/posco-samsung-among-korean-companies-to-sign-congo-deals-1-.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
led a delegation representing companies including Samsung C&T
Corp., Pohang Iron and Steel Co. and  Korea  National Oil Corp. in
signing seven agreements with Democratic Republic of Congo.  The two countries will cooperate on projects ranging from
copper and cobalt mines to oil exploration, water infrastructure
and solar energy, Congo’s Prime Minister Adolphe Muzito said
yesterday at a signing ceremony with Lee in Kinshasa, the
capital, without giving details.  The agreements will help the Central African nation use its
natural resources more efficiently and offer opportunities for
Congolese to gain from Korean expertise, Lee said. Congo is
recovering from more than 40 years of dictatorship and war that
destroyed much of its infrastructure and economy, which grew
about 6 percent last year. The country has a third of the
world’s cobalt reserves and 4 percent of its copper.  The visit by the South Korean president followed Congolese
President  Joseph Kabila ’s trip to Korea last March to sign a
cooperation agreement encouraging South Korean investment.  Most of the accords are memoranda of understanding to
explore business opportunities with few concrete plans yet,
Kyung Shik Sohn, chairman of the Korean Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, said in an interview.  Mining Accords  “We’d like to give businessmen here more exporting
chances,” said Ju Tae Lee, chairman of the Korea Importers
Association, which signed a general trading agreement with the
government.  Samsung’s trading company and Korea Resources Corp., known
as Kores, signed an agreement with George Forrest International
for possible investments in cobalt and copper projects in
Katanga Province, said Kores’ chief representative in Congo,
Park Jong Geun.  Kores also signed a partnership for possible copper and
cobalt projects with Congo’s state-controlled mining company,
Gecamines, he said. Kores began exploring for copper and cobalt
in Katanga last year, a process that will take two or three more
years, he said.  Posco’s  Daewoo International Corp. (047050)  and Taejoo Synthesis
Steel Co. signed an agreement for the development of the Musoshi
copper mine with Congo’s state-controlled Sodimico, Yun J. Jung,
a Taejoo Legal Adviser said. The companies are still discussing
feasibility and financing issues, he said.  State-run Korea National Oil Corp. will work with Cohydro,
Congo’s government-owned oil company, to develop the country’s
potential oil deposits, KNOC chief executive officer Kang Young
Won said. Oil production won’t begin for “many years,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 