-- 
Prince William Praises Canada for the Nation’s ‘Extraordinary’ Potential

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-07-08T03:12:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/prince-william-praises-canada-for-the-nation-s-extraordinary-potential.html
Prince William  praised  Canada ’s
“extraordinary potential” and the nation’s values of “freedom
and compassion” at the end of a nine-day tour of the country
with his wife, the Duchess of Cambridge.  “Canada is not just a great union of provinces and
territories, it is a great union of peoples from many different
backgrounds who have come together to make this a model -- and a
magnet -- for those who value freedom, enterprise, tolerance and
compassion,” he said today in Calgary.  William and Catherine, formally known as the Duke and
Duchess of Cambridge, end their Canadian tour in Calgary, home
to the country’s oil and gas industry. The couple will visit a
local college and the city’s zoo tomorrow before departing for
 Los Angeles .  The tour of Canada, whose official head of state is Queen Elizabeth II, included a celebration of Canada Day, the
anniversary of the country’s creation in 1867, an aboriginal
dance performance in the  Northwest Territories , and a stop in
Prince Edward Island where Lucy Maud Montgomery’s 1908 novel
“Anne of Green Gables” is set. This is the pair’s first trip
abroad since their wedding in April.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who joined William on stage
at Calgary’s Stampede grounds, home to an annual rodeo, named a
national wilderness park youth program in honor of the Duke and
Duchess of Cambridge.  William is second in line to the British throne, and his
April 29 marriage in  London  to  Kate Middleton  was seen by an
estimated audience of 2 billion. William, 29, is the grandson of
Queen Elizabeth II and son of the late Diana, Princess of Wales,
while the Duchess, 29, is the first woman from outside royalty
or the aristocracy to marry so closely to the British throne in
350 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 