-- 
Qaddafi Threatens Europe, Vows Regime Won’t Fall

-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-07-09T10:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/qaddafi-says-his-regime-won-t-fall-threatens-eye-for-eye-against-europe.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said
his regime won’t fall and threatened to retaliate against Europe
for its involvement in attempts to overthrow him.  “Libyans will advance toward Europe willing to commit
suicide, for we will go to heaven and they will go to hell,”
Qaddafi said, according to a recording of his speech that was
aired yesterday on Al Arabiya television.  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  started military
strikes against Qaddafi’s forces in late March to aid rebels
seeking to topple him. More than three months later, rebel
advances on Tripoli are gradual and sometimes ephemeral,
underscoring the challenges in defeating Qaddafi’s forces.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said on July 2 that
Libyan rebels are gaining momentum and that Qaddafi should stop
issuing threats against foreign nations. Qaddafi didn’t heed the
warning in his comments. No date or location was given for the
audio recording.  “Tens, hundreds or thousands of Libyans might die in
 Europe . We will raid their houses, women and children, like they
raided us, and I told you an eye for an eye, a tooth for a
tooth,” Qaddafi said. “We are threatening them now.”  Rebels in the besieged Libyan city of Misrata said
yesterday that they captured a village on the outskirts of the
government-held town of Zlitan after three days of fighting.  Refueling Equipment  NATO warplanes on July 6 attacked positions held by Qaddafi
loyalists in the central oil town of Brega, including what the
alliance identified refueling equipment. The strike on
infrastructure related to  Libya ’s oil assets was the first of
its kind, an alliance official who declined to be identified
according to NATO policy said yesterday from Naples,  Italy .  A United Nations Security Council resolution authorizes the
use of force in the North African country solely to protect
civilians and civilian-populated areas under attack or threat of
attack.  The revolt in Libya, which holds  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, has cut off 1.4 million barrels a day of exports.
Crude oil for August delivery yesterday declined $2.47 to settle
at $96.20 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was
the biggest drop since June 23.  Qaddafi also threatened on July 1 to attack Europe if raids
on Libya continue, telling his supporters via an audio message
aired on state television that “if we decide, we can also
take” the battle to Europe. Last month, Libyan Foreign Minister
Abdul Ati al-Obeidi called on Muslims to start a Jihad against
the West following a NATO airstrike.  Libyan Talks  International pressure for Qaddafi to step down hasn’t
abated as rebels show no signs of taking Brega and loyalist
forces continue to bomb opposition-held Misrata. Clinton will
travel to  Turkey  next week for a meeting of the so called
Contact Group on Libya, U.S. State Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland said yesterday.  On July 5, Nuland said Qaddafi must realize he needs to
step down. The same day, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said in a press conference in  Jeddah ,  Saudi Arabia , alongside
his Saudi counterpart Prince Saud Al Faisal, that the solution
to the Libyan conflict is for Qaddafi to depart.  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said on July 4
that NATO would continue its offensive in Libya until it meets
its goals. The military alliance said up until the end of June
it had flown more than 5,000 sorties in the Libyan campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  