-- 
Paul Weiss, Moelis Hired by Quiznos Chain to Advise on Debt Restructuring

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/quiznos-hires-financial-adviser-to-restructure-sandwich-chain-s-finances.html
The law firm  Paul Weiss  Rifkind
Wharton & Garrison LLP and investment bank Moelis & Co. were
hired by Quiznos Corp., the closely held sandwich chain, to
rework its finances, said a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because it isn’t public.  “Quiznos has hired a financial adviser to assist in
working constructively with its lenders to develop a proper
financial structure for the company,” the Denver-based chain
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “We expect these activities will not adversely impact
Quiznos customers, franchise owners, employees or business
partners” the company said. “We fully expect this process to
drive an outcome that will help the brand grow and prosper.”  The company’s owners -- including CCMP Capital Advisors
LLC, Quiznos founder Rick Schaden and Consumer Capital Partners,
the private equity firm he started -- were planning to invest
about $50 million of equity to help refinance debt and avoid a
technical default this year, a person with knowledge of the
situation said last month.  Lisa Green, a spokeswoman for Paul Weiss, and Andrea Hurst,
a spokeswoman for Moelis, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comments after regular business hours yesterday.  2006 Spin-Off  CCMP  was spun off from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2006. Its
retail investments include outdoor-sports chain Cabela’s Inc.
and movie-theater chain AMC Entertainment Inc.  As of last month, Quiznos was also working with  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  to offer new debt in conjunction with the equity, said
three people, who asked not to be identified because the matter
is private.  Quiznos faces a debt covenant test this year that it may
fail if it doesn’t receive new equity, one of the people said.
That could result in control of the company going to creditors,
one of the people said.  The company amended debt terms last year after CCMP and
Consumer Capital Partners agreed to contribute additional
capital, according to a statement in April 2010. The chain has
about 2,900 stores in the U.S. and 600 international locations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  