-- 
Treasuries Fail to Recoup Loss as Economists Say Report to Show Job Gains

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-08T05:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/treasuries-fail-to-recoup-loss-as-economists-say-report-to-show-job-gains.html
Treasuries failed to recover from a
loss as economists said a government report today will show
employment growth quickened in June and is poised to improve in
the second half of the year.  Demand for higher-yielding assets buoyed company bonds and
stocks over Treasuries as Deutsche Bank AG raised its forecast
for today’s report, after ADP Employer Services said U.S.
employers hired more workers than economists forecast. An index
of U.S. corporate bonds yielded 2.45 percentage points more than
Treasuries, the least in a month.  “We reduced longer-term bonds a little,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $36.9 billion as a
senior investor in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit
of  Japan ’s second-largest bank. “ Risk aversion  is receding.”
Nakamura said Mizuho last week sold some of its longest
maturities, those most vulnerable to rising yields.  U.S. 10-year rates were little changed at 3.15 percent as
of 6:39 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.125 percent note due in May 2021 traded at 99
26/32. The rate climbed three basis points yesterday.  Japan’s 10-year yields were at 1.175 percent after rising
to 1.18 percent yesterday, the highest in two months.  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese 30-year
debt instead of two-year notes widened to 1.94 percentage points
yesterday, the most since May 5, after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said this week a “considerable” amount of bonds will be needed
to pay for rebuilding from the March earthquake and tsunami.  Payrolls Increase  U.S. employers added 105,000 jobs in June after an increase
of 54,000 in May, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the Labor Department report. The
 unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, another survey projected.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.6 percent,
heading for a third weekly gain.  Companies surveyed hired 157,000 workers in June, after
adding 36,000 the prior month, the ADP National Employment
Report showed yesterday. Deutsche Bank economists led by Joseph A. LaVorgna in  New York  raised their forecast for today’s jobs
gain to 175,000 from 100,000. Unemployment will drop to 9
percent, Deutsche Bank, one of the 20 primary dealers authorized
to trade directly with the  Federal Reserve , said in a report
yesterday.  The 10-year yield will rise to 3.5 percent by year-end,
Deutsche Bank forecast.  Stocks Versus Bonds  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
widened to 2.15 percentage points, the most in seven weeks.  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.46 percent in
the past month, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Thirty-year securities, those most vulnerable to inflation,
dropped 1.35 percent. U.S. corporate bonds fell 0.33 percent,
the indexes show.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks had a total
return of 3.89 percent since June 8, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Investors should favor stocks over bonds, said Sungjin Park, Seoul-based chief investment officer for the fixed-income
division at Samsung Asset Management Co.,  South Korea ’s largest
private debt investor. The Fed will hold  interest rates  at
current levels, limiting movement in Treasuries, he said.  “That will keep volatility in the fixed-income market low
but it will help the equity market,” said Park, who oversees
the equivalent of $58.5 billion in debt.  MOVE Index  The Merrill Option Volatility Estimate, which gauges price
swings in the Treasury market, fell to 90.40 from 110.40 at the
end of last year.  The Fed bank has held its target for overnight bank lending
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008. The central bank
completed a $600 billion bond-purchase program in June.  Investors should bet the spread between five- and 30-year
yields will widen as President  Barack Obama  tries to get
Congress to lift the federal borrowing limit, Barclays Capital
Inc., another primary dealer, said in a report today. The
Treasury has said it has until Aug. 2 before its ability to pay
the debt expires.  If there is no agreement by then,  government spending  will
have to be cut,  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , head of U.S. fixed income and
securitized products strategy, wrote in the report. Investors
will reduce expectations for the Fed to raise rates, supporting
notes, while uncertainty over the fiscal situation will boost
longer-maturity yields, he wrote.  Longer bonds probably won’t gain much until the longer-term
issue of funding Medicare and Social Security is resolved, the
report said.  Thirty-year bonds yielded 2.63 percentage points more than
five-year notes, compared with the five-year average of 1.50
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  