-- 
Three Steps Toward a Grand Bargain on the Federal Budget: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-08T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/three-steps-toward-a-grand-bargain-to-reduce-the-u-s-national-debt-view.html
Prompted by the looming expiration of
the debt ceiling, President  Barack Obama  and both parties’
congressional leaders say they have made progress on a deal that
sets the course for shrinking the federal budget by $4 trillion
over 10 years, with a mix of tax increases and spending cuts,
including from the big entitlement programs. Also on the table
is an overhaul of corporate and individual taxes.  This has all the makings of a grand bargain to reduce the
national debt -- if the president and lawmakers, who plan to
meet over the coming weekend, can pull it off. Already, the
parties’ political bases are looking to slow down any deal that
would cut entitlement programs (angering staunch Democrats) or
raise taxes (alienating conservative Republicans). They should
be ignored, and not just because the pain has to be spread. It’s
just not possible to find enough savings in the discretionary
portions of the federal budget alone.  With that in mind, here are a few guiding thoughts for a
deal:  First, any tax-code overhaul should end the hundreds of
loopholes, subsidies, deductions and credits for corporations
and individuals. The goal should be a tax system that’s simpler,
raises more revenue and doesn’t serve as a back door for the
government to spend money it doesn’t have.  The biggest tax expenditure, an estimated $260 billion a
year, is the exclusion for employer-provided health insurance.
There are bigger exclusions for employees in higher tax
brackets. The result is the government picks up more of the cost
of insurance for well-paid workers than for those earning less.
The budget negotiators should end that privilege.  Mortgage Interest  The deduction for mortgage interest, costing $79 billion a
year, encourages consumers to overborrow and spend too much on
housing. A Bloomberg National Poll last month, showing that
rising numbers of Americans favor eliminating the deduction as
part of a broader tax-reform effort, indicates it could be
politically feasible to phase this out over the coming decade.  The lower tax paid on long-term  capital gains  is another
break that should be reduced or eliminated. It’s hard to see why
workers should pay a top rate of 35 percent on wages while
investors pay just 15 percent on their profits.  In addition, Obama and Democrats are correct in wanting to
target some longstanding tax breaks, most of which are the
result of special-interest lobbying. Over 10 years, ending the
15 percent rate that applies to carried interest -- the profits
earned by managers of private-equity firms and some  hedge funds 
-- would generate $20 billion; abolishing a provision that
rewards companies that use last-in-first-out, or LIFO,
accounting for inventory costs would raise about $70 billion;
the elimination of subsidies for oil and gas companies would
yield about $40 billion; ending tax breaks for corporate jets
would generate $3 billion; and phasing out deductions for
taxpayers earning more than $500,000 a year could bring in more
than $200 billion.  Ending Loopholes  Ending a long list of loopholes and a few tax expenditures,
however, won’t raise enough new money to truly pare back the
debt, now $14.3 trillion. To do that, negotiators should allow
the Bush-era tax cuts to expire on schedule at the end of 2012
for the most affluent Americans. Allowing the rates for
individuals earning more than $200,000 annually and married
couples making more than $250,000 to return to levels that were
in effect under President  Bill Clinton  would save about $700
billion over 10 years.  Second, any serious effort to trim federal spending must
also take a hard look at the bill for Medicare, which last year
amounted to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product, or about $530
billion. Because such a large share of the population is aging,
the cost is expected to rise to 5.5 percent of GDP by 2035. But
the Medicare trustees estimate that long before then -- by 2024
-- the  trust fund  will be exhausted.  Means Testing  One way to bring down the cost is to ask affluent older
Americans to pay more for their health care. This strategy,
known as means testing, is already used in Medicare’s
prescription-drug program and its coverage of doctors’ services;
higher-income Americans pay larger premiums and receive fewer
benefits.  A proposal being offered by independent Senator  Joseph Lieberman  of  Connecticut  and Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma  would cap out-of-pocket expenses at $7,500, but raise
that amount for the affluent -- by up to $15,000 for individuals
with incomes above $160,000. Coburn and Lieberman would also ask
older Americans who make more than $150,000 a year to pay the
full cost of their premiums for drugs and doctors’ care.  Finally, budget negotiators should use this opportunity to
fix Social Security. The program’s trustees say the pension fund
will run dry in 2036. A simple way to begin shoring it up is by
changing the formula for cost-of-living adjustments to more
accurately measure inflation.  The government now uses the standard  Consumer Price Index ,
but the Labor Department and many economists say that overstates
inflation by not reflecting product substitutions most consumers
make when prices rise. A better index, called the “chained CPI,”
mimics the ways that consumers keep their expenses steady by,
say, switching to bananas when the cost of oranges goes up. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates the chained CPI will grow
about 0.3 percentage point a year slower than the normal CPI,
saving about $100 billion over 10 years.  These reforms have enough bipartisan support to fit into a
deal. They might not fit comfortably, they might not change
American lives overnight, but they’ll allow the country to
escape the catastrophic embarrassment of a default on its
obligations. And they’ll certainly put the U.S. on a path to a
sounder economic future.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 