-- 
Reliance Said Likely to Increase Natural-Gas Output At Deep-Water Field

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-08T10:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/reliance-industries-said-likely-to-increase-gas-production-after-two-years.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  may lift
natural gas output at India’s biggest deposit after two years as
it awaits ships that will connect deepwater wells drilled this
year to pipelines, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The ships are booked and may become available for use at
the KG-D6 block in 2013, the person said, asking not to be
identified because he isn’t allowed to speak to the media. The
Mumbai-based explorer plans to drill 11 wells this year to raise
output at the KG-D6 block, the person said.  Reliance, India’s biggest company by market value, may win
government approval next week to sell stakes in oil and gas
blocks to  BP Plc (BP/)  and benefit from the London-based company’s
technology and expertise in drilling and production in offshore
areas. Reliance’s profit grew at the slowest pace in six
quarters in the three months ended March 31 after production
from KG-D6 declined because of technical difficulties.  “Two years of below-capacity production is a worry,” said
 Alok Deshpande , a Mumbai-based analyst at Elara Securities Ltd.,
who has an “accumulate” rating on Reliance. “Exploration and
production was the major attraction for investors. That trigger
is missing now.”  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance, didn’t answer two
calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Reliance currently produces about 48 million cubic meters
of gas a day from the D1, D3 and MA areas of the block, located
off  India ’s east coast, from about 60 million cubic meters a
year earlier, the person said.  Drilling Commitment  The company last month submitted a plan to drill three
wells in the block and has a commitment to dig eight more in the
year ending March 31, the person said.  Reliance declined 1.8 percent to 854.85 rupees at the close
of trading in Mumbai. The stock has fallen 19 percent this year
compared with an 8.1 percent decrease in the benchmark Sensitive
Index.  Morgan Stanley cut the stock to “equal-weight” from
“overweight” today and lowered the price target by 20 percent
to 956 rupees because of the absence of any positive triggers in
the short term, according to its report. The bank cut its KG-D6
output forecast to 47 million cubic meters a day from 50
million.  Reliance sells gas to power plants and fertilizer units at
$4.2 per million British thermal units, a price set by the
government and scheduled for revision in April 2014.  Drilling rigs used in the Asia-Pacific region fell to 255
on land and sea in May from 268 a year earlier, Baker Hughes
Inc., an oilfield services company, said on its  website . Rigs in
operation climbed to a 26-year high of 286 in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  