-- 
Trichet Says Policy ‘Accommodative’ After Rate Rise (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-08T11:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/trichet-says-policy-accommodative-after-rate-rise-transcript-.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet talks about the decision to raise the
benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent and to ease
Portugal’s access to emergency funds.  He spoke yesterday at his monthly news conference in
 Frankfurt .  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK:
Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting. Based on its regular economic
and monetary analysis, the governing council decided to increase
the key ECB interest rates by 25 basis points after raising
rates by 25 basis points in April 2011, on historically low
levels.  The further adjustment of the current accommodative
monetary policy stance is warranted in the light of upside risks
to price stability. The underlying pace of monetary expansion is
continually to gradually recover, while monetary liquidity
remains ample, with a potential to accommodate price pressures
in the euro area.  All in all, it is essential that the recent price
developments do not give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures over the medium term.  Our decision will contribute to keeping inflation
expectations in the euro area firmly anchored, in line with our
aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to 2% over
the medium term.  Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to
contribute to economic growth in the euro area. At the same time,
 interest rates  across the entire maturity spectrum remain low,
thus our monetary policy stance remains accommodative, lending
support to economic activity and job creation.  As expected, recent economic data indicates some
deceleration in the pace of economic growth in the second
quarter of 2011, while the underlying momentum of economic
growth in the euro area continues to be positive, uncertainty
remains elevated.  We will continue to monitor every, very closely, all
developments with respect to upside risks to price stability.  The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will be adjusted where -- when
appropriate, taking into account the fact that all the non-
standard measures taken during the period of acute financial
market tensions are, by construction, temporary in nature.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. In the first quarter of
2011, euro area real GDP posted a strong quarter-on-quarter
increase of 0.8%, following the 0.3% increase in the last
quarter of 2010.  Recent statistical releases and survey-based indicators
point towards a continued expansion of economic activity in the
euro area in the second quarter of this year, albeit at a slower
pace. This moderation reflects the fact that the strong growth
in the first quarter was in part due to special factors.  The positive underlying momentum of economic activity in
the euro area remains in place. Euro area exports should
continue to be supported by the ongoing expansion in the world
economy, at the same time, taking into account the present level
of business confidence in the euro area, private sector domestic
demand should contribute to economic growth. However, activity
is expected to continue to be dampened somewhat by the process
of balance sheet adjustments in various sectors.  In the governing council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook remain broadly balanced in an environment of
elevated uncertainty. On the one hand, favorable business
confidence could provide more support to domestic economic
activity in the euro area than currently expected and higher
foreign demand could also contribute more strongly to growth
than expected. On the other hand, downside risks relate to the
ongoing tensions in some segments of the fund for markets that
may potentially spill over to the euro area real economy.
Downside risks also relate to further increases in energy prices,
protectionist pressures and the possibility of a disability (ph)
correction of global imbalances.  With regards to price developments, euro area and euro HICP
inflation was 2.7% in June 2011, according to euro stats flash
estimates (ph), the same rate as in May. The relatively high
inflation rate, seen over the past few months, largely reflects
higher energy and commodity prices. Looking ahead, inflation
rates are likely to stay, clearly, above 2% in the coming month.
Upward pressure on inflation, mainly from energy and commodity
prices, is also still discernible in the earlier stages of the
production process. It remains of paramount importance that the
rise in HICP inflation does not translate into second round
effects in price and wage saving behavior, and lead to broad-
based inflationary pressures.  Inflation expectations must remain firmly in line with the
governing council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below,
but close to 2% over the medium term.  Risks to this medium-term outlook for price developments
remain on the upside. They relate in particular to higher than
assumed increases in energy prices. Furthermore, there is a risk
of increases in indirect taxes and administrative prices that
may be greater than currently assumed, owing to the need for
fiscal consolidation in the coming years.  Finally, upside risks may stem from stronger than expected
domestic price pressures in the context of increasing capacity
utilization in the euro area.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of
M3 increased 2.4% in May, 2011, from 2% in April. Looking
through the recent volatility in broad money growth, owing to
special factors, M3 growth has continued to adjust over recent
months.  The annual growth rates of loans to the private sector
continued to strengthen slightly, rising to 2.7% in May, after
2.6% in April. Overall, the underlying pace of monetary
expansion has continued its gradual recovery. At the same time,
monetary liquidity accumulated, prior to the period of financial
market tensions, continued to be ample, with a potential to
accommodate price pressures in the euro area.  Looking at M3 components, the annual growth rate of M1
moderated further in May, whereas growth in other short-term
deposits increased. These developments reflect, in part, the
gradual increase in the remuneration of short-term time and
savings deposits over recent months. At the same time, the steep
yield curve implies a dampening impact on overall M3 growth, as
it reduces the attractiveness of monetary assets compared with
more highly remunerated, longer term instruments outside M3.
However, recent information suggests that this impact may be
waning.  On the counterpart side, the annual growth of loans to non-
financial corporations and to households remain unchanged from
April at 0.9% and 3.4% respectively, confirming the pattern of
developments in previous months. The overall size of bank
balance sheets has remained broadly unchanged, over recent
months. It is important that banks continue to expand the
provision of credit to the private sector, in an environment of
increasing demand.  To address this challenge, where necessary, it is essential
for banks to retain earnings, to turn to the market to
strengthen further their capital bases or to take full advantage
of government support measures for recapitalization. In
particular, banks that currently have limited access to market
financing urgently need to increase their capital and their
efficiency.  To sum up, based on its regulatory, economic and monetary
analysis, the governing council decided to increase the key ECB
interest rates by 25 basis points, after 25 basis points in
April ‘11 from historically low levels. So the further
adjustment of the current accommodative monetary policy stance
is warranted in the light of upside risks to  price stability .  A cross-check of the outcome of the economic analysis, with
that of the monetary analysis, indicates that the underlying
pace of monetary expansion is continuing to gradually recovery,
while monetary liquidity remains ample, with the potential to
accommodate price pressures in the euro area.  All in all, it is essential that the recent price
developments do not give rise to broad-based inflation --
inflationary pressures, over the medium term. Our decision will
contribute to keeping inflation expectations in the euro area
firmly anchored, in line with our aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to 2% over the medium term.  Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to
contribute to economic growth in the euro area. At the same time,
interest rates across the entire maturity spectrum have been low,
thus our monetary policy stance remains accommodative, lending
support to the economic activity and  job creation . As expected,
recent economic data indicates some deceleration in the pace of
economic growth in the second quarter of 2011, while the
underlying momentum of economic growth in the euro area
continues to be positive, uncertainty remains elevated.  We will continue to monitor very closely all developments
with respect to upside risk to price stability.  If I turn to fiscal policies, the current environment is
very demanding and requires decisive action. Euro area countries
must, as a minimum, comply with their fiscal consolidation
commitment for ‘11 and beyond, as foreseen under the respective
existing deficit procedures.  Illiquid and more front-loaded adjustment should ensure
that structural fiscal consolidation targets are met in line
with the Ecofin (ph) council recommendations and any better than
expected economic and fiscal developments should be exploited to
achieve faster fiscal  deficit reduction .  The announcement of fully specified consolidation measures
for 2012 and beyond is essential to convince the general public
and market function -- and functional market participants that
the corrective policies will be sustained and that public debt
developments will be put on a sustainable path.  At the same time, it remains essential that substantial and
comprehensive structural reforms are urgently implemented in the
euro area to strengthen competitiveness, flexibility and longer-
term growth potential. This is particularly relevant for
countries with high fiscal and external (ph) deficits or with
past losses in competitiveness.  We welcome the introduction of the European semester,
including the recent submission of countries’ national reform
programs that incorporate commitments made under the euro-plus
pact.  We also support the European council conclusions calling
for more ambitious and well-defined reforms that should be
front-loaded in order to foster competitiveness. In addition,
the removal of labor market agilities, which strongly support
the adjustment process. Measures, which enhance wage flexibility,
such as the elimination of automatic wage indexation would help
to accomplish the necessary adjustment.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  QUESTION:  Yanda Hanova (ph) with Bloomberg News.  A few questions, Mr. President.  First of all, you, last month, capped the inflation
forecast for next year, unchanged at 1.7% on average. That’s
clearly below your target or your goal. Does that mean that
there is less need to raise rates further on? Or, and you also
mentioned, obviously, deceleration of growth, lately. Or does
the fact that interest rates have been -- or real interest rates
have been negative for such a long period of time, mean that
they require -- or the borrowing costs need to be tightened
further?  Along those lines, economists expect one more interest rate
increase this year. And I wonder if you feel well understood,
both in the markets and also among ECB watchers?  And my second question is when you suspended collateral
requirements for Ireland and  Greece , earlier, you said you would
rely on your own judgment in deciding about the quality of
collateral. Now, you’re saying that you can’t accept ones that
have defaulted, that have been rated defaulted by rating
agencies. So my question is, what happened to your own judgment?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  Thank you.  First, I would say that, as you know, we have not published
a center of a range, but a full range, so I don’t deny that the
center of the range you have mentioned for next year is very
close to the figure you have pronounced. But again, we publish
ranges and we capture with these ranges, much better, the
uncertainty, which exists, taking into account, of course, all
the parameters that are influenced -- influential as regards CPI.  All that being said, the staff projections were
incorporating increase of rates. So I think we should not -- you
should not deduct from the fact that we were, in the medium term,
at least in this horizon, below the 2% and close to 2%. You
should not deduct anything as regards the fact that we will not
build in interest rate increases because they were incorporated
in this projection.  As regards your second question, I confirm that we are
taking, today, a decision, which is an important one and
explains why we were taking this decision. We do, always, what
is judged necessary by the governing council, to deliver price
stability and to solidly anchor inflation expectation, which is
fundamental, precisely, for delivering price stability and also
for anchoring solidly the European economy in terms of price
stability and of confidence.  We have no pre-commitment and you will see what we do when
time comes. No other -- no other comment on the future decisions.
They will, as always, as the two last decisions were done, done,
in our view, at the appropriate moment to deliver price
stability in the medium run.  QUESTION:  And do you have reason to change (OFF-MIKE) at
the moment?  TRICHET:  I -- nothing, but what I said. I don’t comment on
that. The market expectations are changing with our own decision.
Market expectations were -- no, yes, madam. Market expectations
were not incorporating any interest rate increase this year
until we said we are position where we are very likely to
increase rates in one month time. And then you see all, of
course, market expectations changing as is normal, according to
the decision we are taking in the governing council of the ECB.  You had a last question. On the last question, let me only
tell you that today the governing council has decided the
following. We have a press communique at 3 30, as usual,
immediately after the press conference. We have decided to
suspend the application of the minimum credit rating threshold
in the collateral digital (ph) requirements for the purpose of
the all-system credit operations.  In the case of marketable debt instruments issued or
guaranteed by the  Portuguese government , this suspension will be
maintained until further notice.  And we took that decision, taking into account the fact
that the Portuguese government has approved an economic and
functional adjustment program, which has been negotiated with
the European Commission in liaison with us and the  International
Monetary Fund . The governing council has assessed the program
and considers it appropriate.  Now let me turn to the last point you mentioned, implicitly
or explicitly. Indeed, the position of the governing council is
that we are -- we say no to selective default or credit event.  Thank you very much, madam.  Sir?  DAVID TWEED , BLOOMBERG NEWS :  David Tweed from Bloomberg
Television.  Is it the ECB, which is going to judge whether any country
is in selective default? Will you rely on your own view on that
or are you going to be dictated by the credit agencies?  TRICHET:  Nothing but we say no to selective default.  Thank you.  QUESTION:  Martina Voshaf (ph), Financial Dupla (ph),
Netherland.  The Dutch Minister of Finance, Jan Kees de Jager, has
called for forced participation of the private sector in a
second Greek rescue. He no longer says that it -- he says it’s
unrealistic that they will contribute voluntarily. What is your
stance on that, your response?  TRICHET:  You know our position. The position of the
governing council did not change. And to my knowledge, the
position of the governing -- of the euro group didn’t change
either.  Thank you very much.  Madam?  QUESTION:  Yes. Well, I would like to come back to this
fourth -- the -- to the fact that I would just one step back.
You say that there is -- you are just saying no to selective
default. But if you -- the -- I find there is a discrepancy,
between the fact that you suspended the judgment, the rating for
Greece and now even for  Portugal  and then for Ireland.  And then that you accept that you would -- until the fourth
agency, you don’t accept the collateral -- you accept the
collateral until the fourth rating agency has decided that there
is a selective default.  So I find there is a discrepancy there. Because if you
suspended the rate, you don’t care if they declare a selective
default or not.  Or can you maybe explain this? Because many people didn’t
understand.  TRICHET:  Okay.  Again, it is clear that we say no to selective default and
the -- of course, the selective default is associated with this
PSI issue, which was not taken into account when we waived it.
In the case of Portugal today, the threshold requirement.  But again, our position is clear. In the case of Portugal,
we are waiving the threshold. In the case of Greece, where we
have PSI, where we have this debate on the nature of PSI, we say
no, to say active default.  Full stop.  QUESTION:  Okay. And my second ...  TRICHET:  Thank you.  QUESTION:  Question.  TRICHET:  My -- sir? Oh, a second question.  QUESTION:  My second question, I haven’t seen any judgment
about the so-to-say, the plan made by French banks on ...  TRICHET:  It is the responsibility of the governments of
the executive branch and of the members of the euro group to
discuss with the private creditors. We let them take the
responsibility.  I would say, in the present circumstances, where you know
that our own responsibility is to deliver price stability for
331 million federal citizens, which we do, and will continue to
do, I would say, with great determination.  We call all authorities to be up to their responsibilities,
each of them in their own sphere of responsibility.  All this is the responsibility of the governments.  Thank you.  BRIAN BLACKSTONE, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL:  Brian
Blackstone with the Wall Street Journal.  Do you -- given all of this debate over private sector
involvement in a second Greece rescue, do you think the debate
over this is doing more harm than good? And should the
governments, instead, focus on austerity, privatization and
official assistance and set this whole issue aside?  And secondly, given the nature of bank lending, it seems
that interest rates tend to filter more quickly in the periphery.
Are you doing more damage to the periphery with these rate
increases?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  On the first question, I would say that we
clearly, clearly, have said what we -- what was our position on
private sector involvement. We have said publicly, since the
concept was floated, that we asked the governments to stick to
the international doctrine, to the IMF doctrine, to the doctrine,
which has been applied recently in  Asia , for instance, where we
had the last crisis, which is really a few years ago.  We are shipping this message constantly to governments.
That is -- and again, we are asking and we do not want and we
cannot want to substitute to the responsibilities of the various
authorities concerned. So we are giving our own advice as
clearly as possible to governments on PSI, namely don’t depart
from the global doctrine. If you depart from the global doctrine,
you’re weakening what you are aiming at, namely maintaining
financial stability in  Europe  as a whole and in the euro area as
a whole.  As regards our decision today, again, as I said, when we
have, for the last time, took such a decision, we considered
that maintaining stability for an entire continent, for 331
million fellow citizens, maintaining price stability,
maintaining confidence, is essential for the prosperity of the
entire continent, if I may. At least for the entire 17 economies
that are part of the euro area.  All are benefiting from this, I would say, confidence and
stability, preserved by our own action, in line with our treaty
mandate, in line with what the people of Europe is asking from
us. And the fact that we had, at the same time, difficulties in
some countries and so that they are risk premier, has nothing to
do with the fact that the solid soil on which all the euro area
is functioning is precisely this soil of confidence that we are
preserving.  Again, if there was any increase in the inflation
expectations over the medium term, this increase in the
inflation expectation would be transmitted to all interest rates,
all interest rates, in all countries.  Thank you very much.  QUESTION:  Luis Regudiaro (ph) the economical newspaper
from Portugal.  Mr. Trichet, should a country in a -- one of these
countries that are in the Troika (ph) programs, should these
countries still be ahead of the curve in terms of consolidation
to give extra guarantees to the markets? Even though they have
no specific maneuver given by a better economic growth? Or
should they strictly apply to the program as was approved by the
ECB and the other international organizations in order not to
damage the growth itself?  And secondly, if I may, after the downgrades done, recently,
from Moody’s to Portugal, do you think that the contagion from
Greece to other countries is now stronger?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  Thank you.  I would say, first, of course, rigorous respect of the
commitment and the decisions that have been negotiated,
discussed and approved by the government and by the
international community, by the European Union, is absolutely of
the essence.  That being said, being ahead of the curve is always a
positive, of course, in the circumstances. And you heard me,
here, repeating and repeating month after month that all
countries have -- would have a great advantage in being ahead of
the curve.  I have to say that in the case of the Portuguese government,
I have noted that it was very, very good that some decisions
were taken by the government on top of what had been in the
program. For instance, the list of privatization goes beyond
what was in the program, which had been published. And that is
something, which I consider as an important positive.  We have, also, a decision, which was not in the program,
but it -- which is taxation on the Christmas bonus that has been
decided by the government.  I also noted, but this is not a decision, which goes beyond
what I -- was already decided, but I know that 80% of the
parliament has approved the adjustment program, which is, of
course, something, which I trust is important.  I have no particular comment on the -- on any recent
decisions.  You, ma’am?  QUESTION:  Nora Inan (ph) from the Irish Independent in
Dublin.  Just two Irish questions for you.  First of all, the interest rate hike is, obviously, as a
number of my colleagues said earlier as well, very difficult for
the periphery. Do you have any sympathy for the hardship that
the interest rate hike will impose on the people of Ireland? And
do you have any concerns that it could ultimately undo Ireland’s
ability to complete the program, which it has agreed with the
international authorities?  And then separately, on the topic of the IRF (ph) program,
our government is now saying they hope to be able to carry out
next year’s budget without cutting social welfare and without
increasing income tax. Do you think that this -- is -- if it is
going to be possible to do?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  First of all, of course, it is extremely
important that the program is applied and I don’t elaborate more
on that.  Our interest rate increase, again, is designed to permit,
to continue to deliver price stability for Ireland and the other
fellow citizens that are up to 331 million people. It is what we
have in mind when we take such a decision.  And Ireland, as all other countries, is benefiting from the
fact that we are credible in delivering price stability and we
have a solid anchoring of inflation expectations. All countries,
without exception, are associated with the positive, which is
solid anchoring of inflation expectations.  On the implementation of the program, I have to say that
the results that I see are going in the right direction. I only
mention the fact that, for instance, the current account of
Ireland is positive. It was positive last year. The last figure
we have. And that is, of course, something, which demonstrates
that the adjustment is proceeding in line with what was foreseen.  Thank you, madam.  RALPH ATKINS, FINANCIAL TIMES:  Ralph Atkins from The
Financial Times.  A couple of questions.  One very quick one, was today’s decision unanimous or was
there anyone suggesting that you should not raise interest rates
today?  Secondly, maybe, could you just tell us how you imagine the
global doctrine as regards dealing with countries facing
solvency and liquidity issues? Because, I mean, in the past, we
have had countries that have defaulted. I’m not quite -- exactly
what you’re saying when you say uphold the global doctrine
perfectly use of -- so if you could spell out exactly what that
means?  And the final question is, a lot of people, particularly in
 Germany , worry now. The biggest worry of Germany is now,
apparently, is the stability of the euro zone, rather than
unemployment, which it was before. Can you give the people of
the euro zone an assurance that whatever happens in Greece, even
if -- against your wishes, there is a selective default, the ECB
will do whatever is necessary to preserve the stability of the
financial system in the euro zone, even if that means, for
instance, allowing emergency liquidity assistance in the case of
Greek banks? Or such measures or exceptional collateral, even if
the bonds have defaulted?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  On your first question, my response is we were
unanimous.  On your second question, the comment is when a country is
determined in practicing cost monitoring in the best fashion
possible, in order to regain competitiveness, don’t forget that
Germany started the euro with a current account deficit. And a
competitiveness, which had been considerably hampered by the
reunification.  So when a country is very attentive to its costs, when the
nominal evolution of costs and prices are well in order over
time, you have the benefit. And the benefit is growth. The
benefit is diminishing of unemployment and augmentation of
employment. And in the case of Germany, we are in presence of a
country, which has less unemployment today than before  Lehman
Brothers .  So you -- from time to time, some are asking whether
austerity or sound management or soundness are paying off. Yes,
they are paying off. You have that under your own eyes.  Of course, it has called for great attention in the time.
The kind of attention, the surveillance of the other governments
should have been exerted on other countries.  And I would also say, of course, that not only you have
growth, not only you have jobs, but you also have resilience,
which, again, is demonstrated by the fact that in the worst
crisis since World War II, could have been the worst since World
War I, the country -- and Germany is not alone in this situation,
but Germany is a very good case in point for us.  I would draw the provisional conclusion that the formidable
reinforcement of governance that we call for the 27 and for the
17, particularly, is extremely important. And for the rest, I
would say each authority has its own responsibility. We are,
ourselves, responsible for the euro area as a whole, and for the
price stability of the euro area as a whole, which is one of the
preconditions for stability and confidence.  We expect the other authorities, and of course all the
other authorities, without any exception, to be up to their own
responsibility in the case of country A, B, C.  Please?  QUESTION:  Wolfgang Polst (ph) with Financial Times
Deutschland.  I have three short questions.  You said any country should avoid, at all costs, a default
or selected default. Who should decide if there is a default or
a selected default?  Secondly, the S&P has been dormant, I think, now for 14 or
15 weeks. Are we -- can we expect that this is going to continue
to be the case? Or may there be changes?  And lastly, are you happy with the central role that rating
agencies have in today’s financial system?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  First of all, I have to go back to Mr. Atkins,
because I did not respond to part of your question.  If you would permit, as regards the so-called global
doctrine, the presumption of the international community is that
if you have a particular country problem, you do what you can to
have a very strong conditionality, which is in the global
doctrine, of course.  The -- negotiated by the IMF.  And then you are financing the adjustment, with a view to
going back to normal credit worthiness and normal market
financing, as soon as possible.  For instance, in the case of the Asian countries, all Asian
countries, with the help -- that had problems, with the help of
the IMF and the help of neighbors, different kind of help, came
back to appropriate credit worthiness, but Indonesia.  So you have exception -- possible exception to the rule at
the global level.  At -- that is something, which we had under our eyes in a
recent episode that I am mentioning.  What is not in the global doctrine, not at all in the
global doctrine, is the idea that you are asking, as soon as, on
top of the IMF loan, there is a loan made or supplied by a
neighboring country or any country, that you asked for
restructuring, haircuts, you name it.  That is not the international doctrine. That is not the
international doctrine.  You cannot, let’s say, eliminate a failure. You cannot
eliminate a drama, but you cannot presume that it is the normal
situation to have some kind of private sector involvement. It’s
clear. It is what has been said repeatedly. It is what has been
decided by the euro group. Because I have it on my eyes, the
euro group decision, which was taken, if I’m not mistaken, at
the end of November, and which exclusively refers to the
international doctrine.  But it has to be repeated.  So you give me a good occasion of repeating it.  Now, I’m sorry, because I’m back to your own question.  Could you repeat -- remind me of the first one?  QUESTION:  You said that defaults or selective defaults
should be avoided at all costs. So my question is who decides if
there’s a default or a selective default for the ECB?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  Well, again, we say no. We don’t take the
decision. Decisions are taken by governments in that particular
case and by those who are negotiating and discussing. So again,
we are saying no. But we are not the decision makers. And we do
not want to substitute to the decision makers.  Every institution, every authority, has to take up its
responsibility.  The default or selective default could be the consequence
of some of the action and then we would say no, it is not what
we would consider appropriate in the circumstances.  Credit events or selective default, we said no, full stop.  Thank you.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE)  TRICHET:  Pardon me?  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE)  TRICHET:  Three questions? Okay. Fine.  QUESTION:  About the S&P, its not been used for 14 weeks, I
think, and so I wanted to ask you if there is -- if that’s going
to stay that way?  And the last question was if you think that the importance
of the rating agencies in today’s financial system is rising?  TRICHET:  On the S&P, I would only say that we are totally
transparent. So week after week, you see what we are doing. Or
not doing. And you have been a good observer of what we were --
what was done during the last weeks. I have no other comment
than that.  We continue to be totally transparent.  On the S&P, I would also say, as you know, that we are
continuing, of course, to restore the liquidity that had been
supplied by the S&P and that also is transparent and done every
week and published every week.  On the rating agencies, I think we have to reflect on it at
a global level, as is being done, by the way, by all authorities
concerned on both sides of the Atlantic, as well in the world.  We have to -- we reflect on that through the -- at the
global level, the financial stability board.  It is clear that there is an element of poor cyclicality,
which is embedded in the functioning of the  credit rating
agencies  that is not optimal, that’s absolutely clear.  It’s also clear that a small group, a small oligopolistic
structure, is not what is probably desirable at the level of
global finance. And taking into account the fact that there are
big advantages of having a large set of private authorities,
private institutions, private participants in the global finance,
that could confirm their views and not exert an overwhelming
influence.  But all that being said, I would say it’s a work in
progress. And it would be a little bit naive to think that we
have the solution and that the solution is easy to apply.  It’s complex.  QUESTION:  I have an additional question.  TRICHET:  No, no, no, no, no, don’t do that.  You have one?  QUESTION:  Thank you, Mr. Trichet. Three questions.  Ripal George (ph) from Journal de Universe (ph) in Portugal.  Specifically, still on rating agencies, how do you comment
on this recent decision by an agency to downgrade a country that
has just been one month into the program that the IMF is -- the
European Commission and the ECB have developed?  And would you find any support for any analysis that would
actually say that it could be -- actually be some kind of attack
on the euro itself? This type of decisions?  And finally, were a country to default, and impose losses
in other countries and the ECB, could it be considered as severe
violation of the treaty?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  On your third question, as you say, we say, to
those who have a number of decisions in their hands and that are
responsible, we say avoid such events. Avoid. We say, as I said,
it’s part of our no’s. No to default.  As regards the position that has been taken, the present
position today of the governing council is in a way a response.
Immediate response.  And I will not comment on attack on the euro.  Thank you.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE).  Mr. Trichet, the Italian government has just approved a 40
billion fiscal plan, which is, in the words of the finance
minister, designed in order to bring a balanced budget within
three years. At the same time, the Italian spreads over the
German Bund are, today, at record highs. So I was wondering, in
the eyes of the ECB, what the -- what your evaluation of these
measures are? If they are as efficient? If they are enough ahead
of the curve? Or if you would have expected more from Italy,
given the fact that the bulk of those measures actually is
brought forward to 2013 and 2014?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  I would say that, of course, these decisions that
are not that easy to take, are good and are going in the right
direction. And we -- I have -- possibly because we did not
discuss that, in the governing concept. So it’s in my constant
view, that it goes in the right direction.  As I said, we are sending the message to all countries,
without any exception, that being ahead of the curve is good,
not only in the presence circumstances, but good by all means
and is rewarded, is rewarded, by more growth and more job
creation.  By being ahead of the curve, I would say, particularly,
engaged in the structural reforms, that the main problem of
Europe, the main problem of Europe, as a whole, if you took the
bird eye’s view, is not that we are, again, as a whole, in a
worst situation on the financial -- public finance standpoint or
the current account standpoint, in the worse situation than
other comparable advanced economies. The problem, the main
problem, of the open is that they had too much rigidities in the
functioning of their economies and selfish inflexibility.  And so all structural reforms of welcome and being ahead of
the curve in structural reforms is very important. Because it
gives much more -- it could give much more flexibility to the
European economy and therefore would deliver the growth
potential.  So only to enlarge, of course, your perspective.  ARTHUR BEESLEY, IRISH TIMES:  Thank you. Arthur Beesley
from the Irish Times.  A couple of more Irish questions.  There is concern in Dublin that the turmoil in Greece is
going to make it very difficult for the Irish government to make
its return to private debt markets next year or in 2013. Do you
agree with that proposition? And what should the government do
about it?  Secondly, Mr. Biddis-Maggie (ph) was quoted by  Les Echos 
(ph) last week saying the ECB was working on a new funding plan
for Irish, Portuguese and Greek banks. I wonder is there
anything you could tell us about that?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  I have a lot of questions, I have to say, on
Ireland, on Portugal, implicitly or explicitly on Greece.  Shall I remind you that we are responsible for the monetary
policy and the price stability of 330 million persons?  Order of magnitude of the United States of America.  And the governing council is called to take decisions with
the euro area as a whole in mind. We are all experts on the euro
area as a whole, according to the treaty.  And, again, those issues that you are addressing constantly,
which I can understand in some respects, should be addressed to
governments.  They are responsible.  The governments.  And again, as far as we are concerned, we try to be up to
our responsibilities.  I would say that we are not -- I mean, I have -- I don’t
visualize what you alluded to on special --  BEESLEY: The interview with Mr. Biddis-Maggie (ph) gave to
Les Echos (ph).  TRICHET:  Yes, well, I never comment on what is said by
colleagues. Otherwise, I would have to comment on 22
declarations.  I say that we are following very cautiously and very
attentively, of course, in the three countries that have
programs. They interface with the banks because it -- they are
all part of the overall program that had been negotiated.  Thank you.  Sir?  BEESLEY:  Yes. Thank you.  First, coming back to the -- to interest rates, in April
you said you have not decided that you’ve started an interest
rate hike cycle. And now, we’ve seen two hikes. You’ve said that
still the monetary policy remains a commodity and there are
still upside inflation risks.  Are we now in a rate hike cycle?  Second related question is about the interest rate corridor.
Why did you decide to not re-widen it now, when you lifted
interest rates?  And I’d like to ask about your confidence on the general
economy. You sounded relatively confident that this soft patch
we are currently seeing in the economy will pass. What are your
reasons for that thinking?  And if I very quickly may come back to the plans for
dependent banks, is your solution still being developed or are
you just waiting for the -- is it done and are you just waiting
for the right moment to implement it?  TRICHET:  On the first question, I had said we have taken
the decision to increase rates by 25 basis points. We did not
decide today that we would have a series of interest rate
increases, which is fully in line with our own doctrine. You
know that our doctrine is that we are never pre-committed. Never.
And we take the decision according to our judgment on the basis
of the facts, the figures and the judgment of the governing
council, when we meet.  This is true for -- even when we say that we are in a mode
of strong vigilance, which has a signification in terms of
probability of what could happen, but nevertheless, I always say
that at the same time we are not pre-committed.  So you will see exposed what would have happened. It’s
undeniable that we increased rates two times. And you know that
we increased rates today. Of course.  As regards the corridor, we left the corridor as it was
because we felt it was appropriate to let it, as it is, today,
taking into account all the elements.  On the third point, I had insisted, on behalf of the
governing council, quite a lot in the last month on the level of
uncertainty. Even when we were observing very good results,
which was the case for the first quarter of this year, at the
same time, we were already saying that the second quarter would
slow down quite significantly, of course, and it was absolutely
clear.  And again, I mentioned, on behalf of the governing council,
this elevated uncertainty, which is the mark of the time.  And
that, I think, we -- as you’ll remember, we are very cautious
and prudent, during all the period where we were constantly
reviewing up our own projections.  So uncertainty is in the perspective of, I would say, not
only the open growth, but also global growth in some respects.
We see the indicators less flattering now than they were before.
We don’t conclude at all that we have to review our perspective.  Our profile was exactly the profile that we have -- we are
observing now. Namely, a very, very good first quarter and then
it’s slowing down.  So, again, what counts is that we are reasoning medium term.  We said that we didn’t see, in terms of risks, we didn’t
see a bias in the risk. We see the risk balanced as regards
growth for the euro area. But within the grid of a general
uncertainty.  That was for the -- your third question.  And you had a fourth one, if I’m not mistaken?  BEESLEY:  Well, a third, really.  TRICHET:  Sorry?  BEESLEY:  The first two -- the first two are together. So,
it’s just a third.  TRICHET:  That’s fantastic.  BEESLEY:  Anyway. I asked about the dependent banks. And if
you’re done -- dependent banks, banks dependent on ECB.  TRICHET:  Yes.  BEESLEY:  Banks.  TRICHET:  Yes.  BEESLEY:  If you have a program.  TRICHET:  We already said that we -- they are, precisely,
for a large part, in the countries that are under review and we
are -- it’s a work in progress, if I may.  Yes, sir?  A work in progress.  QUESTION:  Stefan Balling (ph), Versun Satung (ph).  One question about the suspension of the gradular (ph)
framework, does that mean that you fear further downgrades by
the other rating agencies, of Portugal?  And the second question, your answer, when you said we
should ask governments all these questions about Ireland and
Portugal and Greece, I mean, many commentators would argue that
the ECB became a big player in this field by buying  government
bonds  and by the suspension of the collateral framework. Would
you say that it is a problem for your credibility when you
accept more and more papers and collateral rights that are with
ratings lower than investment grade?  Thank you.  TRICHET:  First question, no, it’s not because we fear
anything. It is because we consider that the program, which has
been signed, and is implied by the Portuguese government and is
not only is implemented, but it is also, I would say,
implemented with some ahead of the curve part of the problem, as
I said, as regards privatization or as regards taxation. All
that is explaining the decision of the governing council.  As regards our non-standard measures, all our non-standard
measures were taken without any exception to help restoring more
normal functioning of our monetary policy transmission mechanism.  And I would say for those who are, if I understand well,
fearing for our credibility, then I make them fully aware of the
fact that amongst the big central banks of the advanced
economies in the world, the big ones, we are the only one who
are -- who is taking a number of decisions that are not
generally considered anodyne (ph) and not generally considered
without any element of credibility for the banks, the central
banks, that are taking those decisions.  So I have to say on this element of credibility, yes, we
are credible, sir. Very credible. And a central bank, which
delivers, over 12 years, less than 2%, which is better than what
was done by any big central bank in Europe over the last 50
years, has no lecture on credibility to receive.  That’s my understanding.  Thank you very much.  Sir?  PAUL WALLACE, THE ECONOMIST:  Paul Wallace from The
Economist.  If the euro area crisis is ever to be resolved, doesn’t it
require much more fiscal sharing of resources and centralization
of fiscal policy than is currently envisaged?  TRICHET:  Currently, we have called for what we call a
quantum leap in governance, namely in surveillance of fiscal
policies, but also of competitive indicators of macro policies
to the extent that they have an influence on the competitiveness
and on imbalances.  We said that not in the occasion of the crisis, and by the
way, we are in the worst crisis since World War II. We said that
before the crisis. We said that from the very beginning of the
euro, vindosenbear (ph), all members of the governing council,
myself, all members of the present governing council, constantly
that the stability and growth pack (ph) was essential.  It was not, I have to say, necessarily the sentiment of all
countries, including big countries. They were wrong. And with
the benefit of the hindsight, we see where we are.  So we are very clear on that. At the present moment, there
is a discussion for improving governance and there is a
discussion, which is difficult, between governments and
parliament.  We are encouraging going as fast as possible without,
because it’s the rule of the game at the moment, change of the
treaty. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we might imagine to
go further.  But today is today. And today we have to, certainly, to
improve considerably, our surveillance of economic policies. And
again, fiscal policies and macro policies, competitive
indicators, all this is in the realm of governments, not in the
realm of the central bank.  QUESTION:  My question concerns Greece again.  On the 29th, June 29th, the Greek parliament passed the
legislation on updating the memorandum in order to pave the way
for a new bailout and for the release of $12 billion of the
previous package.  At that same time, there was some rather unpleasant sights
right in front of the parliament. There was a -- there were
pictures of police using tear gas against tens of thousands of
demonstrators.  The question here is the -- are you sure that this -- these
policies are politically sustainable, given the opposition we’re
seeing in Greece and the potential opposition we’re now seeing
in Portugal -- possibly in Portugal and  Spain ?  Is there concern on this question?  TRICHET:  Yes. Response, it is up to the various
authorities concerned to be up to their responsibilities.  If you have correction today, it is because they had been
in the past, decisions which were taken, nominal evolution,
which had been observed, loss of competitiveness and, of course,
accumulation of deficits. All this has to be corrected.  It will be corrected. All this will be corrected. And it
depends, of course, on the wisdom and the determination and the
courage of all those who have responsibilities, that it is
corrected in the best fashion possible.  Thank you.  Thank you.  QUESTION:  If I may ask my second question?  TRICHET:  Thank you.  A second question?  QUESTION:  I only asked one.  TRICHET:  Yes, but there is no right to ask a lot of
questions.  QUESTION:  I can ask two questions?  TRICHET:  You see, it is quite late.  So rapidly.  QUESTION:  No.  TRICHET:  Very concisely. Second question.  QUESTION:  Just a follow-up to that.  TRICHET:  Yes?  QUESTION:  There is a question of whether it can be
politically sustained and what it would require to pass that.  TRICHET:  It depends on the wisdom of all those who have
the important decision to take.  Thank you very much.  Sir?  I will take three last questions.  Very concise.  QUESTION:  Next week, the  stress test  in the European banks
will be published. What are you -- what do you expect from this
stress test? And will you follow them? The results of this
stress test?  TRICHET:  We will follow, of course, the results of this
stress test very, very carefully. The EBA is responsible. We
have been, ourselves, associated with some assumptions that we
have been giving.  I understand that normally the report should be published
last week, in the last half of next week, and we will follow-up
on that very, very carefully.  We had already a call, of course, for this being in the
best, most professional fashion, possible. It’s very important.
Very, very -- very important.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE)  TRICHET:  Yes. Well, first of all, we are waiting for the
stress test and we expect that all observers and the market will
trust them, of course. But we have confidence in the EBA.  QUESTION:  Dan Visno (ph) from Flight Global (ph) in  London .
Centrally issued eurobonds, any change in your thinking on the
usefulness or feasibility of such a device?  TRICHET:  We have made a number of very strong suggestions,
as regards reinforcement of governments, as I said. We have
messages. I have to say that the governing council is not
necessarily of the opinion that things could change in this
domain.  Thank you.  You already asked a question.  Please, ma’am?  QUESTION:  Marka Pashenko (ph), Marketing Listen (ph)
International.  Mr. Trichet, is it true, as reported in The Financial Times
that you consider the French PSI plan to be more bother than it
is worth? Thank you.  TRICHET:  To be more?  QUESTION:  Bother.  Bother?  TRICHET:  I have never, never expressed any opinion on that.  It is the responsibility of those who are in charge.  QUESTION:  I also had a very quick question.  TRICHET:  Some have not asked questions yet. So -- no, I’m
sorry. I’m sorry.  You have the last question, sir?  QUESTION:  Gabriel Amore (ph).  TRICHET:  I’m sorry.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE)  JACK EWING, INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE, NEW YORK TIMES:
Thank you.  Jack Ewing from The International Herald Tribune and
New York Times.  I’m sorry to ask another Greece question, but I just want
to be clear.  I just want to be clear.  Is there a point when you cannot accept Greek sovereign
bonds as collateral?  And if that happens, what would you do to prevent the
collapse of Greek banks? Or is that the responsibility of
governments, as you alluded to before?  TRICHET:  I already said what was our message, for those
who are in charge. And our message was no credit event, no
selective default, no default. That’s the message, the present
message, of the governing council.  Thank you.  So the last -- absolute last one. No, those who have
already asked questions, frankly speaking.  It would -- no, but it would be unfair.  So, sir?  No, sir, sir, sir.  QUESTION:   I thank you very much, Mr. Trichet.  Two questions on Greece.  TRICHET:  We should have a ...  QUESTION:  Yes, you always say that credit events and
selected defaults should be avoided. But I think these are two
events, not unnecessarily, that come together. For example,
international derivatives swap association says that the current
plan could not be a credit event for a CDFS. But on the other
hand, the rating agency says it could be a selective default.  So my question is, you can avoid a credit event. But you
cannot a selective default.  Is it an acceptable situation for ECB?  And to the second question is that if the Greek bank can
take money, not only from ECB, but also from their own central
bank, by using imaginative liquidity assistance, if the Greek
bonds are downgraded to selective default and ECB cannot take it
as collateral, should the Greek Central Bank also follow the
decision? And they should stop accepting the bonds?  TRICHET:  I’m sorry. Because the response is very simple.  Our message is no credit event, no selective default, no
default.  QUESTION:  One second question.  TRICHET:  It’s as simple as that.  QUESTION:  One second question.  TRICHET:  Oh, no.  QUESTION:  ELA imagines (ph) ECB.  TRICHET:  Yes.  No comment. No comment.  We are not in this -- in this working assumption. We are
not, on top of that, you said you will not obtain.  We are not the actors.  The governments and the authorities are the actors.  We said very clearly what was our message.  Thank you very much. I’m sorry, but time has elapsed.  I -- next time, could we agree that we concentrate all the
first part on our monetary policy, which is much more, I would
say, important than some of you are suspecting.  And then, of course, we have other issues.  Thank you very much indeed.  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<811611.1057402.2.1.87.23378.25>#
 