-- 
Rousseff Said to Consider Maggi for Brazil Transport Minister

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-08T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/rousseff-said-to-consider-maggi-for-brazil-transport-minister.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
may name Senator Blairo Maggi, whose family is the world’s
largest soybean grower, as transport minister, a government
official familiar with the talks said.  Details of Maggi’s appointment are still being discussed
with him and his Party of the Republic, or PR, said the official
yesterday. The person asked not to be named because the talks
are private.  Maggi would replace fellow party member Alfredo Nascimento,
who became the second Rousseff cabinet minister to resign in a
month on July 6 amid allegations a kickbacks scheme was being
run from his ministry. Maggi, 54, is a former governor of the
state of Mato Grosso, a soy-growing area located on the southern
edge of  Brazil ’s Amazon rainforest.  “It looks like Dilma found a solution that may solve her
problem,” said Alexandre Barros, the head of Early Warning, a
Brasilia-based political risk company. “It was the best choice
as far as maintaining PR support, otherwise she would have had
to rearrange things and get something else for the PR.”  Rousseff’s Workers’ Party lacks a majority in Congress and
requires the support of coalition parties to pass legislation.
Maggi’s party, known as the PR, has 40 members in the 513-seat
lower house and seven in the 81-seat Senate. Nascimento was one
of several cabinet ministers to remain in his post when Rousseff
took power in January from Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.  Soybean producers are among the businesses worst affected
by Brazil’s aging transport infrastructure, having to truck
their crops along roads that rank 105 out of 139 countries in
the  World Economic Forum ’s 2010-2011  Global Competitiveness
Index , then facing delays at overcrowded ports that rank 123rd.  Maggi’s Views  Maggi on July 6 warned lawmakers that Brazilian industry
and agribusiness face a possible “crisis” caused by the strong
real, according to a  note  published on his website.  Nascimento resigned yesterday four days after two of his
top aides quit, one was suspended, and one went on official
vacation in the wake of an article in “Veja” that alleged
irregularities in the granting of contracts. The Transport
Ministry on  July 5  suspended for 30 days its auctions to award
contracts for public works and services.  Federal prosecutors are investigating Nascimento’s 27-year-
old son, Gustavo Morais Pereira, who saw a company he founded
increase in value to 50 million reais ($32 million), two years
after being founded with capital of 60,000 reais,  O Globo
newspaper  reported this week, citing documents from the federal
prosecutor in Amazonas state.  Nascimento was the second ally to resign from Rousseff’s
cabinet this month, after the loss June 7 of her Cabinet chief,
 Antonio Palocci , one of her closest allies. Palocci resigned
amid allegations he used his position to enrich himself serving
as an intermediary for businesses doing business with the
government.  Soybeans were the country’s third biggest export in the
first five months of the year, behind iron ore and oil,
according to the Trade Ministry. Brazil may surpass the U.S. as
the world’s biggest soybean producer within five years, Maggi
said in January.  The Brazil’s real has gained 8.4 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  this year, the best performer among 7 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  