-- 
RWE Is Said to Be Near Sale of German Power Grid to Commerzbank-Led Group

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-07-08T16:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/rwe-is-said-to-be-near-sale-of-german-power-grid-to-commerzbank-led-group.html
RWE AG (RWE)  is close to an agreement to
sell its Amprion German  power grid  company to a group of
investors led by  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , as the country’s second-largest
utility cuts debt, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The utility may reach a deal with the bank’s Commerzreal
unit as early as next week, said the person, who asked to remain
anonymous because the matter is private and didn’t give a value
for the transaction. The real estate division of Germany’s
second-biggest lender will sell stakes in the network to
investors from the  insurance industry , the person said.  Annett Urbaczka, a spokeswoman for Essen-based RWE,
declined to comment as did Commerzreal spokesman Markus Esser.
RWE has said that it could partner with financial investors on
the asset to share investment costs.  The utility could sell as much as 75 percent of the unit,
which had sales of 6.4 billion euros ($5.7 billion) in 2010, a
person familiar with the matter said in February.  RWE is battling a probable slump in earnings as the German
government implements a tax on the country’s nuclear power
plants to help plug the deficit. Rules guaranteeing rates for
power line operators have lured pension plans, insurers and
banks to seek the stable returns of grid assets in  Europe .  The German utility joins competitors EON AG and Vattenfall
AB in selling electricity lines to reduce debt and satisfy
European Union regulators who want to split power generation
from transmission on antitrust concerns.  Amprion, which operates 11,000 kilometers (6,840miles) of
ultra-high-voltage  power lines  in western and southern Germany,
had equity of 613 million euros, the company said on Feb 24. RWE
also owns lower-voltage grids in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  