-- 
LS9 Planning Brazil’s Biggest Plant to Make Biofuels, Chemicals

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-08T17:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ls9-planning-brazil-s-biggest-plant-to-make-biofuels-chemicals.html
LS9 Inc. , a closely held U.S.
biotechnology company, may build  Brazil ’s biggest biofuel and
specialty chemicals factory as more companies seek to produce
new products from sugar cane, the world’s cheapest fuel crop.  The company is planning a facility may be able to produce
as much as 200 million gallons (758 million liters) of fuel and
chemicals a year, more than two-thirds bigger than Brazil’s
largest biofuels plant, South San Francisco, California-based
LS9’s Chief Executive Officer Edward Dineen said in an
interview.  LS9 plans to take advantage of Brazil’s domestic demand for
petrochemicals and its productive sugar cane crops to convert
plants into specialty chemicals that may replace products
derived from petroleum. At least three other companies are
pursuing a similar strategy.  “Brazil is going to be a focal point for us,” Dineen
said. “We envisage multiple production units there.”  The company’s plans are not complete and the factory may be
smaller, he said. “The ultimate size will depend on feedstock
availability and offtake interest,” he said. Another
possibility is a factory that will only produce chemicals with
annual production capacity of 75 million gallons.  LS9 uses genetically engineered bacteria to produce  diesel
fuel  and specialty chemicals that are used to make such products
as detergents and cleaning materials.  Cheapest Fuel Crop  “Cane production costs are really low,” Salim Morsy, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today. “It’s
known as the cheapest fuel crop in the world.”  Brazilian cane is produced on about 7.8 million hectares,
or 2.2 percent of the country’s arable land, and can produce as
much as 50 percent more ethanol than U.S. corn a hectare, he
said.  Brazil’s biggest biofuels plant is owned by  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3) 
and can produce 450 million liters of ethanol a year, according
to New Energy Finance.  LS9 operates a small-scale production plant in Florida that
may be expanded to 38 million liters a year by 2014, Dineen said  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , an Emeryville, California-based biotechnology
company, is also producing fuel and chemicals derived from sugar
cane in Brazil.  Brazilian biodiesel makers BSBios Industria e Comercio de
Biodiesel Sul Brasil SA and BioVerde Industria e Comercio de
Biocombustiveis SA both unveiled plans to tap Brazil’s specialty
chemical markets in the past week.  BSBios plans to build a 60,000-ton a year canola and
flaxseed-based lubricants factory through a partnership with the
state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , and
Bioverde expects to produce from vegetable oils as much as 100
million liters of chemicals a year by 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  