-- 
Santander Will Decide on British IPO Soon

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-08T08:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/santander-uk-chief-botin-says-ipo-decision-in-next-weeks-months.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  will decide on an
initial public offering for its British division within the next
few weeks or months, according to Ana Patricia Botin, the bank’s
U.K. chief executive officer.  “Timing is important,” Botin told the British
Broadcasting Corp. today. “Right now is probably not the best
time but we’ll be making that final decision in the next few
weeks and months.”  Botin may seek to sell as much as 25 percent of the
business in the share sale, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in January. The IPO was postponed earlier this year
after the former British-unit CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio moved to
rival  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   Santander is the U.K.’s second-largest mortgage lender
behind Lloyds following its purchase of Abbey National, Alliance
& Leicester Plc and parts of Bradford & Bingley Plc. While it
has rapidly expanded, the bank’s  customer service  reputation has
suffered and it was dubbed Britain’s most-complained-about bank
in September by the consumer organization Which?, after the
lender received 216,958 complaints in the first six months of
last year.  To improve customer service, Santander U.K. will move all
its Indian call centers back to Britain, Botin said today. Calls
that were answered in Bangalore and Pune will now be dealt with
by employees in Glasgow, Leicester and Liverpool.  ‘Commitment to U.K. Jobs’  “We’re working on a structural improvement and this is
part of that,” Botin said. “We’re going to continue to improve
our service, first to the industry average but very fast to be
number one. It’s going to take a few years.”  The investment in U.K.  call centers  will create 500 jobs
and calls will begin to be rerouted to Britain this month,
Santander said in a statement.  “We warmly welcome Santander’s commitment to U.K. jobs and
its decision to bring work back from  India ,” said  Andy Kerr ,
deputy general secretary of the  Communication Workers Union .
“We hope that other employers - especially companies where we
have members, including BT, Vodafone and Everything Everywhere -
will accept that UK contact centers are good for Britain and
good for customers and follow Santander’s example.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  