-- 
SAP Human-Resources Chief Dammann to Leave for Personal Reasons

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-07-08T14:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/sap-human-resources-chief-dammann-to-leave-for-personal-reasons.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s biggest maker of
business software, said Angelika Dammann, the head of human
resources, is leaving at her own request after a year in office.  Dammann will depart the company “without major delay,”
Christoph Liedtke, an SAP spokesman, said by phone today, adding
that the executive chose to be closer to her family in Hamburg.
Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt will assume her duties on
an interim basis, the company said in a statement.  The 51-year-old lawyer assumed the position in July 2010
after overseeing human resources at  Unilever NV (UNA) ’s operations in
Germany, Austria and Switzerland. She also previously worked at
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  SAP yesterday extended the contracts of
co-Chief Executive Officers  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe, and of Chief Operating Officer Gerhard Oswald.  Dammann’s use of commercial and company jets “conformed
with company policy” and she hadn’t practiced as a lawyer while
working for SAP, Liedtke said, responding to a report in  Der
Spiegel  magazine yesterday that she had wanted to extend her
personal flight privileges. The Walldorf, Germany-based company
and Dammann will come to a mutual agreement regarding her
compensation, Liedtke said, declining to comment further.  The announcement of Dammann’s departure comes 6 1/2 weeks
after Snabe set a goal at the annual shareholder’s meeting of
increasing the ratio of women in management to 25 percent by
2017 from 18 percent currently. Dammann, whose contract was
scheduled to expire in 2013, was the only female member of SAP’s
six-person management board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  