-- 
Scene Last Night: Venus Williams, Carla Harris, David Michalek

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/scene-last-night-venus-williams-carla-harris-david-michalek-jay-scheib.html
Some bankers play tennis. Others get
to hang out with  Venus Williams .  Wearing a gray cocktail dress and two bangles on her left
wrist, Williams doled out life advice Thursday night to 375
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  employees at their Times Square offices.  “Of course I’m very strong, like a whip, but it’s very
important to have strategy,” Williams said in an interview with
Carla Harris, a managing director at the firm.  Perseverance is key, according to both women. “Sometimes
you feel you’re not supposed to win, and that’s the point where
you don’t give up on yourself,” Williams said.  Williams and Harris have both written books about
succeeding in business. Williams’s “ Come to Win ” features tips
from  Jack Welch ,  Magic Johnson  and others. Harris’s book,
“ Expect to Win ,” is her own guide to navigating the corporate
ladder based on her 20 years on  Wall Street .  Williams, who owns an interior design business, V Starr,
and has a clothing line, EleVen, said she’d like to earn an MBA.
She noted, however, that being an athlete has at least one
advantage over being a businesswoman.  “One of the good things about playing a sport is that it
requires a lot of rest so I always have excuses to go to bed
early and take naps,” she said, laughing.  Slowing Down  The slow-motion films in “ Portraits in Dramatic Time ,” an
outdoor installation at  Lincoln Center , allow viewers to study
just about every characteristic of the actors from their
wrinkles to their eyebrows to their calf muscles.  So it was uncanny, at the party to celebrate the
installation on Wednesday night, to encounter them in real time
with cocktails in hand.  There were Jon Morris and Natalie Thomas, on a jumbo screen
on the facade of the David H. Koch Theater, battling a wind
storm. And there they were on the terrace of  Avery Fisher Hall ,
talking about how the scene came together.  The scene, which runs for 7 minutes, was filmed in 10
seconds and then stretched out.  “You have to hit your physical mark precisely,” Morris
said.  “You do start to look at your movement in a different way
-- mundane things like putting down a tea bag,” Thomas said.  Later, Morris and Thomas hung over the railing mesmerized
by another scene in which they appear.  The actors don’t usually get the chance to see their own
work in slow motion, and they were clearly fascinated.  Phantom Camera  Others attending the reception included newly minted
Guggenheim Fellow Jay Scheib, an associate professor of theater
at MIT; New York City Ballet principal dancer Wendy Whelan and
New York City Opera general manager  George Steel .  The project was not inexpensive. One way it got done was
that Vision Research donated the Phantom camera David Michalek
used to shoot the scenes. It costs $140,000 and its uses are
generally commercial, not artistic.  “When you see a car crash in a television commercial,
that’s us,” said Rick Robinson, director of marketing at Vision
Research, based in Wayne,  New Jersey .  Robinson noted another use of the camera is to analyze
problems on assembly lines. The installation is up through July
31 and runs from 8:45 p.m. to 11:45 pm daily.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 