-- 
Serbian Backing for EU Membership at Record Low, Survey Shows

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-08T11:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/serbian-backing-for-eu-membership-at-record-low-survey-shows.html
Serbian support for European Union
entry sank to a record low in the government’s first public
opinion  survey  since the arrest of  war crimes  suspect Ratko Mladic.  Fifty-three percent of respondents said they would back
joining the bloc in a referendum, down from 57 percent in a
similar survey in December, said Milica Delevic, the head of the
country’s  EU Integration office , citing a June 16-23 poll with a
margin of error of 3.1 percent. Twenty-four percent opposed the
move, 19 percent wouldn’t vote, and four percent had no opinion.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s government has made
joining the EU a top priority during its term, which end next
year. The Balkan nation hopes to win EU candidacy by the end of
2011 along with a date for the start of membership talks, to
follow former Yugoslav partners  Slovenia , an EU member since
2004, and  Croatia , which wrapped up talks on June 30 and hopes
to join the 27-member bloc in mid-2013.  The result reflects “a decline in idealism in supporting
EU membership” while backing for “reforms required for EU
membership” hit an all-time high of 85 percent, Delevic told
reporters during a presentation of the semi-annual survey
conducted among 1,017 eligible voters.  Police arrested Mladic, the most-wanted war crimes suspect
remaining from the 1990s during the breakup of  Yugoslavia , on
May 26 and extradited him to a  United Nations ’ war crimes court
in The Hague to face genocide charges. His arrest was a major
obstacle in the progression of  Serbia ’s EU accession.  Serbia must still come to terms with  Kosovo , which
unilaterally declared independence in 2008 and has been
recognized as a sovereign state by 22 EU nations.  Cvetkovic’s Cabinet, facing elections in the spring next of
2012, hopes to win a positive opinion on its candidacy on Oct.
12, when EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule arrives in
Belgrade. The government has stepped up fight against corruption
and organized crime and also needs to improve the judicial
system to convince the bloc that it’s fit for candidacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  