-- 
Singh Loses Minister Amid Phone Licenses Probe

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-07-08T02:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/singh-loses-minister-amid-phone-licenses-probe.html
India ’s Textiles Minister Dayanidhi Maran will resign after a federal agency signaled he’s being
investigated over the award of phone licenses, the second member
of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Cabinet to quit amid a
widening probe.  Maran, 44, who was telecommunications minister during much
of Singh’s first term of office from 2004, asked to leave his
position, an administration official, who requested not to be
identified as the government is yet to comment, said yesterday.
Singh said last week he is planning to reshuffle his Cabinet.  Maran’s successor at the head of the telecoms ministry,
 Andimuthu Raja , is on trial on charges he conspired with former
bureaucrats and corporate executives to award permits to run
mobile services to ineligible companies in 2008. Raja denies any
wrongdoing.  The scandal has damaged the reputation of Singh, triggered
nationwide street protests and forced business leaders to
acknowledge that the country’s growing association with
corruption is harming investor confidence in  Asia ’s third-
largest economy.  The handling of the 2008 phone-permit sale lowered
government income by more than 220 billion rupees ($4.9
billion), the  Central Bureau of Investigation  said. India’s
chief auditor put the potential loss at about $31 billion as
airwaves were sold at an “unbelievably low” price.  Both Maran and Raja are members of the  Dravida Munnetra
Kazhagam  party, the second biggest ally in Singh’s federal
coalition. The DMK was routed in state elections in its southern
stronghold of  Tamil Nadu  in April in what observers said was a
backlash against graft allegations.  Stake Sale  The CBI on July 6 told the  Supreme Court  it has evidence
that a former telecommunications minister misused his office to
force a promoter of a Chennai-based company to sell his
controlling stake to a Malaysian firm, which in turn invested in
a media group based in southern India.  While CBI advocate K.K. Venugopal didn’t use Maran’s name
in his report to the court, Indian media, including the Times of
India, said he was referring to Maran and the sale of a holding
in Aircel Cellular Ltd. to  Malaysia ’s Maxis Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  