-- 
SK Telecom Falls to Eight-Year Low on Mounting Speculation of Hynix Bid

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-07-08T01:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/sk-telecom-falls-to-eight-year-low-on-mounting-speculation-of-hynix-bid.html
SK Telecom Co., South Korea’s largest
mobile-phone carrier, fell to the lowest in more than eight
years in Seoul trading on mounting speculation it will bid for a
stake in  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)   SK Telecom, whose parent group has said it’s undecided
whether it will bid for the chipmaker, declined for a fourth
day, dropping as much as 3.9 percent to 148,500 won as of 9:32
a.m. in Seoul, the lowest intraday level since March 2003. Korea
Economic Daily and Mirae Asset Securities Co. analyst Choi Yoon Mee said in reports today the company may make a bid.  Deutsche Bank AG cut its price estimate for the stock by 8
percent, citing concern that such a move would reflect the
parent’s ambitions to shed its image as a “domestic-oriented
conglomerate” rather than a move that benefits the phone
carrier. Lauren Kim, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for SK Telecom,
wasn’t immediately able to comment.  “We find it difficult to identify any clear business
synergy from a telecom operator acquiring management control of
a memory chip manufacturer,” John Kim, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank in  Seoul , wrote in a report yesterday. “The latest
developments add to the list of uncertainties affecting investor
sentiment.”  Not all analysts would oppose the move. The export-oriented
chip business might be attractive to SK Telecom, which has been
looking for new sources of revenue outside the local market,
where growth of mobile-phone subscribers has been stagnant, Yang Jong In, a Seoul-based analyst at Korea Investment & Securities
said.  The company, which was under government pressure this year
to cut phone bills to curb inflation, may also be looking for
less regulated businesses than telecommunications, Yang said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  