-- 
South Sudan Becomes 193rd Independent Nation After Half-Century Rebellion

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-09T14:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/south-sudan-becomes-an-independent-nation-in-shadow-of-conflict-poverty.html
The Republic of South  Sudan  was
declared an independent nation today in the capital, Juba, as
tens of thousands of people celebrated their freedom after
almost 50 years of rebellion against the Muslim north.  The national flag was raised for the first time after the
declaration of independence was read by the speaker of the South
Sudanese parliament, James Wani Igga. Celebrations started at
midnight when church bells rang as a countdown clock flashed
“free at last.”  “We were bombed, maimed, enslaved, treated worse than a
refugee in our own country, but we have to forgive, although we
will not forget,” President  Salva Kiir  said in a speech after he
was sworn in for a four-year term. “Some of our suffering has
been self-inflicted. We have squabbled over issues that could be
solved peacefully.”  The festivities took place amid violence along South
Sudan’s border with the north, internal rebellion and the worst
 poverty rate  in  Africa . Almost the size of the state of  Texas 
with only 100 miles of paved roads, oil-rich South Sudan has an
adult illiteracy rate of 85 percent, and about half of its 8
million people live on less than $1 a day, according to the
 United Nations .  “All the indices of human welfare put us at the bottom of
humanity,” Kiir said in front of an audience that included UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, as many as 30 African heads of
state and former U.S. Secretary of State  Colin Powell .  ‘Overcome Bitterness’  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir called on the two nations
to “overcome the bitterness of the past” and build “positive and
special neighborly relations.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he was “proud” to
recognize South Sudan.  “Today is a reminder that after the darkness of war, the
light of a new dawn is possible,” he said in a  statement  on the
White House website.  The newly independent state will assume control of about 75
percent of Sudan’s daily production of 490,000 barrels of oil,
pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  China announced today that it recognized South Sudan,
Xinhua news agency reported.  Anti-Government Militias  Overshadowing the celebrations are increasing raids by
anti-government militias within South Sudan’s borders and
tension along its frontier with al-Bashir’s country, which
southern officials accuse of backing the rebels.  Kiir today offered an amnesty to rebels who lay down their
arms.  “They claim that our concept of freedom and democracy is
faulty,” he said. “It is up to us to prove them wrong.”  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 yesterday to send 7,000
soldiers and 900 police to South Sudan to provide security for
the new nation.  This year has been the most violent in South Sudan since
the end of the civil war in 2005, with 2,368 civilians dying in
rebel attacks and ethnic violence, including cattle raids,
compared with 940 last year, according to the UN. As many as
nine militia groups operate mainly along the border with the
north close to  oil fields .  “They aim to show the world that the government of
southern Sudan is not in charge of security in the country, to
create the impression that southern Sudan is a failed state
before it is born,” Gier Chuang, the minister of internal
affairs, told reporters on July 6.  Sharing Oil Revenue  After months of negotiations, a final north-south deal on
how to share oil revenue has yet to be worked out. The two sides
agreed in principle that the south will pay the north for the
use of pipelines and facilities at  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea  to
export its crude. Since the end of the civil war, the north and
south have split earnings from production in southern oilfields.  Military tensions with the north have heightened in recent
weeks with clashes in the northern border state of Southern
Kordofan between Sudan’s army and troops loyal to South Sudan’s
army forcing more than 73,000 people to flee their homes since
June 5, according to the  United Nations .  “Violence and intimidation in Southern Kordofan, especially
by the Government of Sudan, must end,” Obama said in the
statement.  Abyei Occupation  Sudan’s army seized the main town in the disputed border
area of  Abyei  on May 21, driving more than 100,000 members of
the Ngok Dinka ethnic group, who consider themselves
southerners, from their homes. While negotiators from the north
and the south agreed last month to withdraw their forces and
allow Ethiopian peacekeepers to deploy in the area, the pullout
hasn’t happened.  The  Security Council  voted on June 27 to deploy 4,200
Ethiopian soldiers in Abyei.  Kiir said South Sudan would work to help bring peace to the
border areas.  “When you cry, we cry, when you bleed, we also bleed,” he
said. “I pledge to you today, that we will find a just peace for
all.”  Oil revenue, which provides 98 percent of its $2 billion
budget, give South Sudan a potential advantage over other post-
conflict states, according to Bill Hammink, the director of the
U.S. Agency for International Development for Sudan.  “Starting from today, we’ll have no excuse or a scapegoat
to blame,” Kiir said. “As an independent country, we must focus
on the process of service delivery and development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Richmond  in Juba, Sudan via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 sguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 arden@bloomberg.net . 