-- 
South Sudan Opposition Party Says Members Were Arrested and Beaten

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-07-08T08:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/south-sudan-opposition-party-says-members-were-arrested-and-beaten.html
South  Sudan ’s opposition leader in
parliament said government security forces arrested and beat him
and seven other of his party members yesterday, two days before
the region becomes independent.  Three party activists were picked up in the regional
capital, Juba, while hanging posters calling for South Sudan to
guarantee human rights, said Onyoti Adigo Nyikwec, the Sudan
People’s Liberation Movement-Democratic Change’s parliamentary
leader. Five others were detained at their office, he said. Army
spokesman Philip Aguer denied the army ordered their arrest.  “They think we are an enemy of the government,” Nyikwec
said in an interview. His lip was swollen, and one of his teeth
was broken, injuries that he blamed on the security forces, he
said.  The oil-rich Republic of South Sudan becomes independent
tomorrow after a 21-year civil war with the north that claimed
about 2 million lives.  Human Rights Watch  and  Amnesty
International  have urged President Salva Kiir’s government to
take action against members of the security forces guilty of
rights violations.  “It should make sure that rank-and-file soldiers and their
officers, as well as the police service, know and understand
their obligations, and are held accountable for violations,”
Daniel Bakele, Africa director for New york-based Human Rights
Watch, said in a  June 30 report .  The arrests came a day after the 171-member parliament
passed a transitional constitution that will be in force for at
least the first four years after independence. Only five people,
including Nyikwec and one member of the ruling party, voted
against the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Richmond  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 sguazzin@bloomberg.net . 