-- 
Hynix Sale Pits SK’s Telecom Billionaire Against STX’s Shipping Magnate

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-08T10:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/south-korean-telecom-billionaire-shipping-magnate-vie-for-hynix-stake.html
SK Telecom Co. and STX Group plan to
make competing bids for a controlling stake in  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  in the biggest sale of a South Korean
technology asset in more than a decade.  The mobile-phone unit at billionaire Chey Tae Won’s  SK
Group  and shipping magnate Kang Duk Soo’s STX submitted letters
of interest before the 4 p.m. deadline today, according to
separate statements from the companies. There were no other
bidders, said Korea Exchange Bank, which is leading nine
financial institutions to unload their Hynix stake, worth 2.4
trillion won ($2.2 billion) based on current market prices.  The bidding will pit Chey against Kang for control of the
second-largest producer of chips known as DRAM, a market marked
by boom-and-bust cycles and multi-billion-dollar capital
investments each year. The sale, Hynix creditors’ fourth attempt
in two years, has raised concerns Korean business groups known
as the chaebol are reviving practices of over-expansion that led
to the financial crisis in the late 90s.  “The market’s not happy because there’s no logical reason
for SK to claim they can run a semiconductor company,” said
Shaun Cochran, head of Korea research at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets. Same applies to STX, with the only difference being
“SK Telecom at least has cash to do it,” he said.  While supporters praise the chaebol for pulling the country
out of poverty from the 1950 to 1953  Korean War  and transforming
it into  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, the  International
Monetary Fund  cited the debt-driven chaebol model as part of the
reason the nation’s economy landed in a financial crisis at the
end of 1997.  Textiles Beginnings  The phone carrier’s shares fell 7.1 percent this week and
closed at an eight-year low in Seoul trading, while STX Corp.
dropped 6.9 percent. The benchmark  stock index  climbed 2.6
percent.  SK Group, whose roots stretch back seven decades when it
was a textiles maker, has grown into the nation’s third-largest
chaebol with 86 units sprawled across energy, financial services
and telecommunications. Chey’s wealth is estimated at about $2
billion, making the 50-year-old  South Korea ’s seventh-richest
man, according to Forbes magazine.  SK Telecom is seeking to diversify its businesses by buying
Hynix and will make a final decision on whether to proceed after
“thorough reviews,” the Seoul-based phone carrier said in a
statement.  With 1.5 trillion won in cash as of the end of the first
quarter, SK Telecom won’t likely have trouble financing a
purchase of Hynix, Choi Yoon Mee, an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co., said in a note today.  Largest Tech Deal  The stake of about 15 percent being sold by shareholders
led by  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  would make the buyer the biggest
shareholder in the chipmaker.  The disposal of the stake would also be the largest share
sale of a South Korean technology company since July 1999, when
Hynix bought a majority holding in Hyundai Microelectronics Co.
for 2.56 trillion won, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SK’s plan to spend that money on a costly, unrelated
business isn’t winning over investors, Cochran said.  “What foreign investors definitely would like them to do
is to pay that capital out in their dividends, but obviously
they’re reluctant to do that,” he said.  Hynix wouldn’t be SK Telecom’s first investment in a
business straying from its main operations. In 2003, the company
bought a stake in  Posco (005490)  as part of a deal to stop the nation’s
biggest steelmaker from selling its stake in the carrier, which
was valued at $942 million at the time.  Middle East Fund  STX  has grown into South Korea’s 14th-biggest business
group since it was founded by Kang, 60, a decade ago through
acquisitions. STX Offshore was taken over by the group in 2001
and STX Pan Ocean Co., the nation’s biggest commodities shipping
company, was bought in November 2004.  While it acquired Aker Yards ASA,  Europe ’s largest
shipyard, for about 1.4 trillion won in 2007, buying Hynix would
be STX Group’s biggest acquisition.  STX, which plans to team up with a unidentified Middle East
sovereign wealth fund, won’t need to borrow to pay for the
stake, according to Vice Chairman Lee Jong Chul. It also plans
to sell assets to raise funds for the deal, he said.  Ryu Jae Han, chief executive officer of state-run Korea
Finance Corp., said in October that shareholders including his
corporation wouldn’t object to a buyer partnering with a foreign
investor.  End of Bank Supervision  STX Group’s five listed units had cash and equivalents of
about 2.9 trillion won at the end of March, according to their
financial statements.  For Hynix, the sale may result in the end of a decade under
bank supervision. Hynix was bailed out by creditors including
Korea Exchange Bank and Woori Bank in 2001 after they swapped
debt for equity.  Still, Hynix’s competitiveness, which allowed it to avoid a
loss this year amid an industry downturn, may make it an
attractive asset for SK Telecom and STX, which are looking for
new sources of revenue, said James Song, a Seoul-based analyst
at Daewoo Securities Co.  Hynix posted record sales and profit in 2010, helped by
cost cuts and demand for chips used in mobile devices, leading
the company to pay a cash dividend to investors for the first
time. It reduced debt by more than 1 trillion won last year and
had more than 2 trillion won in cash, according to the company.  The chipmaker plans to spend about 3.4 trillion won this
year expanding production and upgrading factories, after
investing 3.4 trillion won in capital expenditure in 2010.  “Hynix’s constant need for capital expenditure deterred
potential buyers in the past,” Song said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 Jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 