-- 
South African Wage Disputes May Stoke Inflation, Shut Down Mines, Plants

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-08T12:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/south-african-wage-disputes-may-stoke-inflation-shut-down-mines-plants.html
South Africa  will probably be hit by
a wave of strikes over the next few weeks as mine and factory
workers demand wage increases that are more than double the
inflation rate.  Petroleum, chemical and packaging industry workers plan to
down tools on July 11, according to two unions that say they
represent more than 70,000 workers. Stalled wage talks threaten
to spark separate labor action by coal and gold miners, while
steel and engineering workers have been on strike since July 4.  The pay settlements required to avert or end the strikes
are likely to push up consumer prices and increase pressure on
the central bank to raise  interest rates  from a 30-year low.
Inflation accelerated to a 12-month high of 4.6 percent in May
from 4.2 percent the month before, led by rising oil and food
costs.  “Inflation is rising and there are upside risks,” Adenaan Hardien, chief economist at Cadiz Asset Management in  Cape Town ,
said in a telephone interview today. “A key risk is wage
increases. If strike action is perpetuated” output and growth
could also be affected.  Wage settlements negotiated on an industry wide basis
averaged 8.2 percent in the first quarter, according to data
collated by Andrew Levy Employment Publications, a Johannesburg-
based advisory service and research company.  The Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied
Workers Union and the General Industries Workers Union of South
Africa are demanding increases of between 11 percent and 13
percent and improved benefits, while employers are offering
between 4 percent and 7 percent.  ‘Intransigence and Greed’  Hundreds of companies will be affected by the strike,
including  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest producer of motor fuel
from coal, and  Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of glossy
paper, the unions say. They also plan to curb production at
refineries owned by Engen Petroleum Ltd., a unit of  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “The strike comes as a direct result of the intransigence
and greed of the employers,” the unions said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Given the “rising cost of living,
increasing poverty and inequalities, our members, though
employed, cannot even afford the basic necessities.”  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and other coal producers
may also soon face labor action that threatens to disrupt
production at mines that supply the fuel to  Europe ,  India  and
 China .  The  National Union of Mineworkers  is demanding 14 percent
wage increases. It is one of three unions opposing the Chamber
of Mines’ proposal to raise coal miners’ wages by 5 percent to 6
percent, depending on skills.  Avert Strike  The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration
may issue a certificate of non-resolution on or after July 20, a
procedural step necessary before unions are allowed to strike.
The Johannesburg-based chamber said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday it was hopeful a settlement could be reached that
would avert a strike.  The NUM is also demanding 14 percent increases for its
members employed by gold producers, including  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , who are offering 5 percent raises.
Negotiations are due to resume on July 13.  “We have already begun the mobilization for a massive
strike action by over 250,000 of our members in both the gold
and coal mines,” said Frans Baleni, the union’s general
secretary, in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “A real war has
just started, a war over a living wage.”  The NUM is also canvassing whether workers employed by
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. favor striking to pressure the
world’s largest producer of the metal into meeting their demands
for 20 percent wage increases. The company is offering 4.6
percent.  Meanwhile, talks aimed at ending a strike by steel and
engineering workers are due to resume later today, according to
Karl Cloete, deputy general secretary of the National Union of
Metal Workers. The union is demanding 13 percent increases,
while the Steel and Engineering Industries Federation of South
Africa, which represents employers, is offering 7 percent.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  