-- 
Sputnik Dreams Lost to Space Shuttle Realities: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-07-08T04:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/sputnick-dreams-lost-to-space-shuttle-realities-jonathan-alter.html
It’s hard to believe that less than
six months ago President  Barack Obama  was talking about a
“Sputnik moment.” In his State of the Union address he proposed
huge investments in infrastructure, innovation and education to
help us “win the future.”  The president still wants those investments, but nowadays
he means something different when he talks about the need to “do
something big.” At his news conference this week, “big” clearly
referred to “tackling the deficit” and making the government
“live within its means.”  Yes, saddling future generations with huge debt is
irresponsible. But is avoiding that fate all we can aspire to as
a country? Are we past the point of ambitious projects that stir
the imagination of those of us who aren’t accountants?  Today’s scheduled launch of the space shuttle Atlantis --
the final ride of the 30-year-old shuttle program -- isn’t
getting as much attention as it deserves, which is no big
surprise. For all of its success in launching the  Hubble Space
Telescope  and speeding other scientific advances, the shuttle
program still gets little respect.  As the old  NASA  joke has it: The shuttle was supposed to be
cheap and safe, and make space travel so common that it became
boring. One out of three ain’t bad.  Paying a Price  But the ho-hum routine of 133 successful shuttle missions
(marred, of course, by the loss of Challenger in 1986 and
Columbia in 2003) shouldn’t blind us to the price we’re paying
for moving into low gear on space flight. Just because space
isn’t “revenue neutral” doesn’t mean we should stop thinking
about it.  It’s not that funding for the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration is being slashed -- at least not yet.
Before the current budget talks, it was scheduled to be about
$20 billion a year over the next five years, which is a little
more than one-half of 1 percent of the federal budget.  Yet look where the space program sits now in the national
conversation. If the Casey Anthony trial were still under way
this week, the Atlantis launch might have been overshadowed
altogether.  For some celestial inspiration, I consulted Alan Bean, who
was a crew member on  Apollo 12  before becoming a professional
painter. His canvases evoke the majesty of space exploration.  Bean is a character. When I visited his art studio in
Houston last year he showed me the gloves he wore while walking
on the moon. On the sleeve were tiny pictures of naked Playboy
Playmates to amuse him and the mission commander, Pete Conrad,
while they completed their checklist of lunar duties.  This week Bean is in a sober mood as he contemplates the
end of the shuttle program.  The Astronaut’s Objections  His first objection is practical. “I don’t sell my car
until I buy a new one,” he says. “Right now, if we want to go
anywhere, we’ll have to go on a Russian spaceship.”  The price for hitching a ride, of course, is about to go
through the roof. For all the talk of privatizing space, public
funding remains the only viable option. Unlike early aviation,
which used mail delivery and passenger service to finance its
rapid development, the business model for private space rides
shows no signs of working,  Richard Branson ’s efforts
notwithstanding. “You can’t make a profit on human space flight,
it’s that simple,” Bean says.  That leaves NASA, which is experiencing a huge brain drain
as thousands of engineers see lean times ahead and get out.
After Obama announced a plan last year for NASA to work with
private investors,  Neil Armstrong  wrote an  open letter  arguing
that this “destines our nation to become one of second- or even
third-rate stature.”  Although Buzz Aldrin was more supportive of the president’s
plan, no astronauts are satisfied with the level of public
support for a robust space program.  National Vision  The real issue, Bean says, is one of national vision.  “What have we done lately that we can be proud of as a
nation?” he asks. “We’re not doing the things that great
countries do.”  Most of today’s important new megaprojects, like rebuilding
the electric grid, which Obama has been pushing in the face of
hundreds of NIMBY objections, just aren’t sexy.  But there’s one, seemingly from the world of science
fiction, that bears consideration. Russell Schweickart, who flew
on  Apollo 9 , has been advocating an ambitious plan to protect
the Earth from asteroids. His organization, the B612 Foundation,
is named for the asteroid the Little Prince lived on in the
classic Antoine de Saint-Exupery story.  A New Mission  The goal is to prove that we can dock on an incoming
asteroid and change its orbit with a series of explosions, so
that it misses Earth. Since 1980, when scientists began to agree
that an asteroid killed off the dinosaurs 65 million years ago,
the threat from cosmic objects has been taken more seriously. In
the past decade, NASA has discovered more and more near-Earth
objects, and identified more than a thousand “ potentially
hazardous asteroids .” If a large one of these were to hit a
populous area, millions could die.  Like the unmanned NASA probes that are exploring vast
stretches of the solar system, an anti-asteroid program would
provide immense scientific benefits. In fact, the propulsion and
power technologies involved in docking on an asteroid are keys
to future deep-space missions.  According to the  B612 Foundation , “this mission is
conceptually very simple” and could be tried within five years
on a small asteroid not immediately threatening the Earth.  You can already hear the guffaws from  Washington : What a
spacey idea! We can’t afford that now!  But we can, if we move  government spending  away from
seniors, guns and tax breaks, and leave room for “something big”
from above.  Then, maybe, we can begin to act like visionaries again.  ( Jonathan Alter , the author of “The Defining Moment: FDR’s
Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 