-- 
Strauss-Kahn Faces Preliminary Paris Inquiry on Banon Attempted Rape Claim

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-08T11:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/strauss-kahn-faces-preliminary-paris-inquiry-on-banon-attempted-rape-claim.html
The Paris prosecutor opened a
preliminary investigation today into an attempted rape complaint
by a French writer against  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  The prosecutor will seek to determine whether there are
grounds for a full criminal probe into Tristane Banon’s claims
the former International Monetary Fund chief assaulted her in
2003 when she went to interview him, according to spokeswoman
Agnes Labregere-Delorme.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, stepped down from the IMF after being
charged with sexually assaulting a maid at a New York hotel in
May. He was released last week from home confinement and had his
bail returned after U.S. prosecutors uncovered evidence the 32-
year-old woman who accused him had lied about key aspects of her
life. Strauss-Kahn denies the claims in both cases.  Lawyers for Strauss-Kahn in France didn’t immediately
return calls for comment. He has called Banon’s claims
“imaginary” and asked that a slander complaint against Banon
be prepared, according to a July 5 statement by his lawyers.  L’Express Interview  Banon was an intern with magazine Paris Match in 2003 and
had just signed a contract for a book on politicians’ regrets.
She met Strauss-Kahn in February for a follow-up interview at
his friend’s apartment in Paris, she said in an interview
published in the July 6 issue of L’Express.  Strauss-Kahn turned off her tape-recorder and began
assaulting her, touching her breasts and putting his hands in
her mouth and underwear, she said, according to the magazine.
She kicked him and said “you’re not going to rape me,” then
ran out, got in her car and called her mother, the magazine
quoted her as saying.  Banon’s lawyer, David Koubbi, didn’t immediately return
calls for comment on the opening of the preliminary
investigation. Prosecutors received Banon’s complaint on July 6.  Attempted rape and rape have a statute of limitation of 10
years in  France , while sexual assault has a three-year limit.  The prosecutor will try to substantiate the allegations in
the complaint before deciding whether to dismiss it or refer it
to an investigating judge for a full inquiry. In the New York
case, the maid’s complaint and information that Strauss-Kahn was
already on a Europe-bound flight prompted his immediate arrest.  ‘Very, Very Fast’  “In the U.S., things went very, very fast,” said Thomas
Morin, a Paris-based lawyer with  Linklaters LLP . “In France,
once a complaint is filed by a victim, things go much less
fast” from the time a complaint is filed to when charges are
brought as the first step is to substantiate the alleged
incident.  French investigations focus on the alleged incident rather
than the victim’s veracity on other points, Morin said. In  New
York , the maid lied or didn’t volunteer information on other
aspects of her life including the circumstances of her
immigration from  Guinea  and her bank and telephone accounts,
undermining the investigation there in ways that wouldn’t affect
a French probe, he said.  In France, “the investigation would focus on the facts of
the rape, not about ancillary aspects of the victim’s life,”
said Morin. “It doesn’t change anything if there is material
proof.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 