-- 
Syrian Forces Kill at Least 13 During Rallies Against Assad’s Government

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-08T19:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/syrian-forces-kill-at-least-five-during-rallies-against-assad-s-government.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 13 demonstrators as thousands of anti-government
protesters across the country rallied against President Bashar al-Assad’s rule.  Three people died today in the northern province of Idlib,
where about 60 tanks were deployed along with helicopters this
month, said  Ammar Qurabi , head of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria.  Two people were killed in the Midan district of the
capital, Damascus, while one person was killed in each of the
coastal cities of Banias, Dmeir and Zabadani, said Qurabi.
Abdul-Karim Rihawi, head of the Syrian Human Rights League, said
five people were killed in the Khalidieyh neighborhood of Homs.  At least 500,000 people rallied in the city of Hama to call
for the fall of Assad’s government, Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by phone
today. Al-Jazeera television showed the city’s rallies.  The past four months of protests have been the biggest
challenge to the Assad family since 1982, when Hama was also the
scene of an uprising. Assad’s father and predecessor, President
Hafez al-Assad, used the army to end those demonstrations, which
were led by the Muslim Brotherhood and in which  Human Rights
Watch  said about 10,000 people died. Syrian forces have killed
more than 1,650 in this year’s unrest, Qurabi and Merhi said.  Message to Regime  Thousands of protesters also took to the streets after
Friday prayers today in Homs, Aleppo and Deir al-Zour, as they
have since the unrest began in the southern province of Daraa,
the three activists said.  “This is a message to the regime that the people will
continue to protest so long as it doesn’t abandon the use of
violence and terror,” Qurabi said. There is a “heavy security
presence,” and checkpoints in the Damascus suburbs of Tal,
Harasta and Douma, Merhi said.  The U.S. ambassador to  Syria ,  Robert Ford , visited Hama
yesterday, traveling through a military and civilian checkpoint
to reach the city, where he spoke to more than a dozen residents
and visited a hospital, State Department spokeswoman Victoria
Nuland said yesterday. Ford described the situation as tense,
and noticed that shops were closed, she said. The U.S. Embassy
had informed Syrian authorities of the visit, she said.  Allegations ‘Rubbish’  The Syrian Foreign Ministry said Ford didn’t obtain
permission for his visit to Hama, according to a statement
carried by the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency . Ford’s visit
is “clear evidence of the involvement of the  United States  in
current events in Syria and is an attempt to incite an
escalation of the situation which disturbs the security and
stability” of the country, the ministry said.  Nuland said today the U.S. is “dismayed” by the reaction
of the Syrian authorities to Ford’s visit to Hama, calling the
Syrian Foreign Ministry’s allegations “absolute rubbish.”  “This is not about us getting in the middle of it,”
Nuland said.  As many as 400,000 people in Hama rallied against Assad’s
rule July 1 and 2, and at least 23 demonstrators have been
killed in the past week in the city by security forces backed by
tanks, according to Merhi and Qurabi.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem denied there is a
“military campaign” against Hama in a July 6 CNN interview.  At least 20,000 people have been arrested since the
demonstrations began, with half still in detention, Qurabi said.  French Ambassador  France ’s ambassador, Eric Chevalier, was also in Hama
yesterday, and went to a hospital where he met wounded people
and their families, French Foreign Ministry spokesman  Bernard Valero  said in a statement today.  “France repeats its preoccupation for the inhabitants of
Hama and its condemnation of the violence exerted by Syrian
authorities against the protesters and the civil populations,”
Valero said.  The protests against Assad’s 11-year rule have been part of
a wave of unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa this
year that has unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia . Assad
blamed the demonstrations on a foreign conspiracy on June 20 and
said the opposition was trying to create a sectarian divide.  Assad called last month for talks with the opposition. The
calls for reconciliation with protesters demanding more
democratic rights hasn’t been met by action, State Department
spokeswoman Nuland said July 5.  Vandalism, Murder  Assad said last month that the protests have been marked by
“vandalism, murder and the destruction of private property,”
and that the demonstrators are being paid. Members of the
security forces have also been killed during the unrest, though
the government hasn’t said how many.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to  Turkey 
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries. A total of 9,182 Syrians remain in camps
in Turkey set up by the Turkish Red Crescent in the province of
Hatay, the country’s Disaster and Emergency Management
Presidency said today in a statement. As many as 15,391 people
entered Turkey during the upheaval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 