-- 
U.K. Producer Prices Increased Least in Nine Months in June

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-08T08:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-k-producer-prices-rise-least-in-nine-months-on-fuel-cost-drop.html
U.K. producer prices rose in June at
the slowest pace since September as costs for petroleum products
declined for a second month.  The cost of goods at factory gates rose 0.1 percent from
May, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .
That matches the median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. From a year earlier, output prices rose 5.7
percent, the fastest since October 2008.  Oil prices  fell as much as 22 percent since the start of
May, undoing part of a surge earlier in the year sparked by
unrest in oil-producing nations in  Africa . The  Bank of England 
left its key interest rate at a record low to support the
economic recovery yesterday, extending its tolerance of
inflation that’s more than double its 2 percent target.  “Hopefully the softer commodity prices will continue and
that should translate into modest falls in output prices,” said
 David Page , a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds TSB in London.
Still, the economy’s “soft patch is likely to prove to be short
lived,” and the central bank may begin to raise interest rates
in November, he said.  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
data and traded at $1.5973 as of 9:40 a.m. in London.  Oil Prices  Within output prices, food costs rose 0.4 percent on the
month in June, while petroleum products fell 0.1 percent after a
0.7 percent drop in May. They had surged 1.6 percent in April.  Crude oil slipped 0.2 percent today to $98.51 a barrel.
That compares with a 2011 high of almost $115.  Input prices rose 0.4 percent from May and were up 17
percent from a year earlier, the most since September 2008. Core
output prices, which exclude food, drink, tobacco and petroleum,
increased 0.2 percent on the month and 3.2 percent on the year.  In a separate report, the statistics office said
construction grew 0.4 percent in May after a 12.4 percent
decline in April. The data is non seasonally adjusted.  The pound’s drop of about 25 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since the start of 2007 has made British exports more
competitive. U.K. factory production rose 1.8 percent from the
previous month in May, the fastest pace since March 2010.  The pickup in production hasn’t been enough to spark
momentum in the economic recovery. Gross domestic product
expanded just 0.1 percent in the second quarter after the
Japanese earthquake and long weekends to mark the royal wedding
in April weighed on growth, the National Institute for Economic
and Social Research said yesterday.  McBride Plc (MCB) , a U.K. maker of household and personal-care
products, said yesterday that annual profit will meet
expectations as growth in central and eastern Europe offsets
“difficult trading conditions” in the U.K. The company said it
will leave businesses where margin pressure becomes too great
following “some volatility,” in raw material costs.  Growth is “still likely to be weak,” Niesr said,
supporting the case for the bank to refrain from tightening
monetary policy to counter faster inflation. Consumer prices
rose an annual 4.5 percent in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  