-- 
U.S. Sends Assad a Message With Ambassador’s Visit to Anti-Regime Hot Spot

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-07-09T00:29:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-s-sends-assad-message-with-envoy-visit-to-protest-hot-spot.html
The U.S. has a new way to show
displeasure with Syria: Send its ambassador to meet with
residents of Hama, an anti-regime hot spot and scene of a
government massacre of opponents three decades ago.  Republicans in Congress have urged the Obama administration
to recall its envoy to Damascus, repeating a protest made by
President George W. Bush in 2005. Instead,  Robert Ford , the
first U.S. ambassador to Syria in six years, traveled 129 miles
(207 kilometers) north of the capital in a gesture of support
for the 500,000 people rallying for the end of rule of President
Bashar al-Assad under threat from government forces.  “For him to go personally at this time and stand with the
people of Hama, I think, expresses in physical terms, not to
mention political terms, our view that the people of Hama have a
right to express themselves peacefully and that we are concerned
about the posture that the security forces have taken,” State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said yesterday.  Ford was welcomed by cheering Syrians waving olive branches
and placing flowers on his car, Nuland told reporters in
Washington, citing a  YouTube video clip  posted by members of an
opposition party.  Syria ’s state-run media called his trip a U.S. effort to
“incite” unrest.  Syrian Surveillance  Responding to a question during the briefing yesterday,
Nuland said in a statement released later in the day that the
Syrian ambassador to the U.S., Imad Moustapha, had been called
to the State Department on July 6 to hear U.S. concerns about
reports that Syrian mission personnel “under Moustapha’s
authority” had conducted video and photographic surveillance of
people at anti-Assad demonstrations in the U.S.  She said the department was investigating reports that the
Assad government has sought retribution against family members
in Syria for the actions of relatives in the U.S. “The United
States government takes very seriously reports of any foreign
government actions attempting to intimidate individuals in the
United States who are exercising their lawful right to freedom
of speech,” she said.  The past four months of protests have been the biggest
challenge to the Assad family since 1982, when Hama was at the
heart of an uprising led by Islamist forces. Assad’s father and
predecessor, then-President Hafez al-Assad, used the army to
crush the rebellion in actions that  Human Rights Watch  said
killed about 10,000 people.  500,000 Protesters  At least 500,000 people rallied yesterday in the city of
Hama, said  Ammar Qurabi , head of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria. Syrian forces have killed more than 1,650
people in this year’s unrest, according to Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  Ford’s overnight stay in the city, where he met with
residents and visited a hospital, was condemned by the Syrian
government, which said the trip was unauthorized. It accused the
U.S. administration of fomenting rebellion.  Syria’s Foreign Ministry said Ford didn’t obtain permission
for his visit to Hama, according to a statement carried by the
state-run Syrian Arab  News Agency , and his visit is “clear
evidence of the involvement of the  United States  in current
events in Syria and is an attempt to incite an escalation of the
situation which disturbs the security and stability” of Syria.  ‘Absolute Rubbish’  Nuland called Syria’s claims “absolute rubbish” and said
the U.S. embassy informed the Syrian defense ministry that
diplomatic personnel would be headed to Hama. Ford left the city
yesterday around lunchtime before protests were called after
prayers, she said.  In Washington, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairwoman
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican, “has been and
continues to oppose the misguided policy of legitimizing the
Syrian regime through the presence of a U.S. ambassador in
Damascus,” her spokesman, Brad Goehner, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  In 2005, the  George W. Bush  administration recalled then-
ambassador to Syria, Margaret Scobey, to protest what it saw as
Syria’s role in the murder of Rafik Hariri, a former prime
minister of Lebanon.  It’s not the first time Democrats and Republicans clashed
on Syria.  Nancy Pelosi , a Democrat from  California , defied the
White House and went on a diplomatic mission to Syria in 2007 as
speaker of the House. Bush White House officials said her visit
undermined U.S. efforts to isolate Syria as a state sponsor of
terrorism.  Criticizing Assad  Diplomatic relations with Syria were severed in 1967 and
re-established in 1974. Ford is the 10th U.S. envoy to the Arab
country.  The U.S. administration, starting with Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , has stepped up criticism of the Assad regime
while falling short of asking him to step down.  John McCain , who
lost the 2008 election to President  Barack Obama , said on May 13
it was time for Assad “and his regime to go.”  In  Egypt , it took 18 days of protests in Cairo’s  Tahrir
Square  to topple Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  while it took
Obama two weeks to urge the autocrat to resign.  Assad is “running out of time” as his administration is
failing to accommodate the demands of anti-government protesters,
Clinton told reporters in Vilnius,  Lithuania , in her last public
comments about the unrest in Syria. She said she was
“disheartened” by events in the Middle Eastern country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  