-- 
U.S. Payrolls Probably Picked Up in June

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-08T12:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-s-payrolls-probably-picked-up-in-june.html
Employers in the U.S. probably added
more workers in June than the prior month, indicating the labor
market may be poised to pick up in the second half, economists
said before a report today.  Payrolls rose by 105,000 workers after a 54,000 increase in
May that was the smallest in eight months, according to the
median of 85 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The projected
gain probably failed to reduce the jobless rate, which
economists forecast held at 9.1 percent.  Cheaper fuel that helps companies hold down costs may make
it easier for them to step up hiring, setting the stage for a
pickup in the  consumer spending  that accounts for about 70
percent of the economy. While the improvement reinforces the
 Federal Reserve ’s view that the first-half slowdown was
temporary, bigger payroll gains are needed for a sustained
decline in the unemployment rate.  “Payrolls will start to look better in the second half as
the economy shifts into higher gear,” said Christopher Low,
chief economist at FTN Financial in  New York . “We do have job
growth, but it’s not enough. It’ll take a long time for the
unemployment rate to come down significantly.”  The Labor Department’s payroll numbers are due at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from increases
of 40,000 to 175,000. President  Barack Obama  is due to make
statement on the report at 10:35 a.m., the White House said.  Company Payrolls  The projected gain would be less than the 166,000 monthly
average in the first quarter. Payroll increases of at least
200,000 a month are needed for a sustained decline in the
 unemployment rate , Low said.  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies,
increased by 132,000 after rising 83,000 in May, according to
the survey median. Manufacturing employment probably rose by
5,000 in June, the figures may show.  Recent figures have shown the economy has started to perk
up. Companies added twice as many workers as forecast last
month, data from ADP Employer Services showed yesterday. An
Institute for Supply Management report last week showed
manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in June.  The figures helped drive stocks higher. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.1 percent to an almost two-month high
yesterday. In Europe today, stocks were little changed amid
renewed concern about the region’s debt crisis, with the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index slipping 0.1 percent.  U.S. stock-index futures fell, with futures on the S&P down
0.2 percent to 1,349.7 at 11:48 a.m. in  London .  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for the unemployment rate
ranged from 8.9 percent to 9.2 percent.  First Half of 2011  Policy makers “expect the unemployment rate to continue to
decline but the pace of progress remains frustrating slow,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news conference after the
central bank’s June 21-22 monetary policy meeting.  Fed officials have said the slowdown in economic growth in
the first and second quarters partly reflected temporary
factors. Manufacturers were hurt by supply disruptions in the
aftermath of the earthquake in  Japan , just as the surge in
gasoline expenses limited spending on non-essential items by
American consumers.  Central bankers in other countries are turning to tackling
inflation after seeking to boost growth.  Interest rates  were
raised this week in  Sweden , the euro-area and  China . China may
now limit increases for the rest of the year after five shifts
since mid-October, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and HSBC
Holdings Plc.  South Korea ,  India ,  Chile ,  Brazil  and  Poland  have
also all tightened monetary policy in the past month.  ‘Improving Slowly’  While investors anticipate a further increase from the ECB
this year, after its quarter-point boost yesterday, the Fed has
signaled no imminent plan to lift its key rate from near zero
amid weak expansion.  “The labor market is improving slowly,” Jenny Lin, senior
U.S. economist at Ford Motor Co., said on a teleconference with
analysts on July 1. “The economy is facing two temporary
factors, which slowed growth -- the fuel price run-up and Japan
impact. Both of these are reversing now and set the stage for
some improved readings in the months ahead.”  Lack of faster progress in the labor market and in the
economic recovery, which started in June 2009, has taken a toll
on Obama’s approval ratings. Since he took office in January
2009, unemployment has increased by about a percentage point and
the economy has lost 2.5 million jobs.  By a 44 percent to 34 percent margin, Americans say they
believe they are worse off than when Obama took office,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  