-- 
U.S. Stocks Slide on Slowing Job Growth, Trimming Gains for Week

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-08T22:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-before-jobs-data-google-drops.html
U.S. stocks sank, pulling down the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index from a two-month high, as the
weakest American job growth in nine months hurt companies most
tied to the economy.  Financial and industrial companies led losses among 10  S&P
500  groups, dropping more than 1.2 percent. General Electric Co.
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fell at least 1.6 percent, the most in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , after the Labor Department
reported job growth that was about one-sixth the median
economist forecast.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  lost 2.7 percent as Morgan
Stanley downgraded the shares.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.7 percent to 1,343.80 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , after falling as much as 1.4 percent. The index rose
0.3 percent this week, extending its two-week rally to 5.9
percent, the most since October 2009. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average lost 62.29 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,657.20 today.  “The report is exceedingly disappointing,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion. “It
fell short of just about everyone’s expectations and it
certainly has to disappoint equity investors. It wasn’t just a
miss, it was a complete whiff.”  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  retreated from within 0.8 percent of a
three-year high after U.S. payrolls increased by 18,000 in June,
less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists, which called for growth of 105,000 on
average. The jobless rate rose to a 2011 high of 9.2 percent.  Cyclical Trend  Losses in companies reliant on economic growth today
represented a reversal from the past three weeks. The Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index tracking manufacturers, commodity
producers and transportation stocks rose 10 percent between June
16 and yesterday, beating the Morgan Stanley Consumer Index of
drugmakers and grocers by 6.6 percentage points. Amid concern
the debt crisis in European nations including  Greece  would slow
global growth, the consumer index outperformed the cyclical
index by 9.7 points between Feb. 17 and June 16.  The S&P 500 had climbed 6.7 percent since the start of last
week as Greek lawmakers passed a five-year austerity package,
qualifying the country for further aid, and yesterday’s report
from ADP Employer Services showed U.S. companies added twice as
many jobs as forecast in June.  The Morgan Stanley index of 30 cyclical stocks slumped 1.1
percent today, reversing two days of gains. Financial and
industrial stocks lost 1.3 percent and 1.2 percent,
respectively, the most among 10 industries in the S&P 500.
Shares of commodity companies slipped 0.7 percent.  BofA, GE  Bank of America declined 2 percent to $10.70 and  General
Electric Co. (GE)  fell 1.6 percent to $18.99 for the biggest losses
in the Dow. Cisco, the world’s largest maker of networking
equipment, slumped 1 percent to $15.74.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the
world’s largest maker of construction equipment, dropped 1.1
percent to $110.41.  Staffing companies declined after the U.S. job report
showed that hiring by companies was the weakest since May 2010.
 Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  sank 3.2 percent to $14.65.  Manpower Inc. (MAN) 
dropped 4.3 percent to $56.13.  “It means that we’re still a ways off from getting to
where we should be,”  Warren Buffett , chairman and chief
executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said in an
interview from  Sun Valley , Idaho, with Bloomberg Television’s
Betty Liu on the “In the Loop” program. “How fast the
recovery will come, I don’t know. I see nothing that indicates
any kind of a double dip.”  Earnings Season  The job report damped optimism about prospects for profit
growth before the second-quarter reporting period starts next
week. The earnings season unofficially kicks off on July 11 with
 Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the first Dow company to release results. Corporate
profits are forecast to have grown by 13 percent in the period,
the smallest increase in two years, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve had a very benign earnings pre-season without a lot
of negative earnings warnings,” said Tim Hoyle, director of
research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust, which
manages $6.5 billion. “We remain positive on second-quarter
earnings,” he said. “But if the jobs situation continues to be
weak as it has been in the last two months, then there’s
definitely going to be a downward revision.”  President  Barack Obama  said the job report shows that “we
still have a long way to go and a lot of work to do to give
people the security and opportunity they deserve.”  “We still have a big hole to fill” in replacing jobs lost
during the recession, Obama said in a statement from the White
House Rose Garden.  Google, ADM, Yahoo  Google dropped 2.7 percent to $531.99 after the world’s
biggest search engine had its analyst rating cut to “equal
weight” from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley, which cited the
risk of declining profit margins in 2011 and 2012 because of
higher employee compensation costs and the uncertainty over the
return on investments in social media.  Archer Daniels Midland Co. rose 1.9 percent to $31.04.
Buffett may look at the world’s largest grain processor as
Berkshire Hathaway seeks more acquisitions. ADM, based in
Decatur,  Illinois , is the “kind of company we look at,”
Buffett said.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  are also
the types of companies he finds attractive, Buffett said in the
Bloomberg Television interview.  Yahoo! Inc. slipped 1.3 percent to $15.61. Greenlight
Capital Inc., the hedge fund run by  David Einhorn , sold its
stake in the Internet company for a “modest loss” over doubts
surrounding the value of the company’s investment in China-based
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Yahoo, Alibaba’s biggest investor,
has lost 15 percent since May 10, the last day of trading before
the Alibaba transaction was disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  