-- 
Vacancies at U.S. Shopping Centers Climb After Holding Steady for A Year

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-07-08T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-s-shopping-center-vacancies-rise-after-year-of-holding-steady.html
Vacancies at U.S. shopping centers
rose for the first time in a year in the second quarter as
retail properties lagged behind the rebound by offices and
apartments, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)  Regional mall vacancies
climbed to the highest level on record.  The vacancy rate at neighborhood and community shopping
centers rose to 11 percent from 10.9 percent, where it had stood
since the second quarter of last year, the New York-based real
estate research firm said today in a report. The rate for
regional and superregional malls increased to 9.3 percent, the
highest since Reis began collecting the data in 2000.  Retailers are cutting back on space and closing stores as
unemployment remains above 9 percent and online competition
grows. More than a dozen national retailers have declared
bankruptcy since the recession in 2008 and 2009.  “This remains consistent with our view over the last
couple of years that the retail sector will be the last to
recover from the effects of the recession,” Ryan Severino, a
senior economist at Reis, said in an e-mail.  Apartment vacancies fell to 6 percent in the second
quarter, the lowest since the end of 2007, from 7.8 percent a
year earlier, according to a Reis report yesterday. Downtown
office vacancies dropped to 13.9 percent, the lowest since mid-
2009, from 14.8 percent a year earlier, Cushman & Wakefield Inc.
said today.  Rents Slip  Shopping centers, usually anchored by a grocery store or
discount retailer, had a net drop in occupied space of 670,000
square feet (62,000 square meters) from the first quarter, Reis
said. A total of 638,000 square feet of space at strip malls
came to market in the second quarter, the second-lowest amount
since Reis began tracking the data in 2000.  Shopping center owners’ asking rents and the actual rents
paid by tenants after price breaks were unchanged from the first
quarter, the 12th consecutive quarter of no change or declines,
Reis said. Asking rents averaged $19.03 per square foot, down
from $19.07 a year earlier. Effective rents fell to an average
$16.54 a foot from $16.58.  “With demand remaining so weak and new completions
anticipated to increase in the latter of half of 2011, we expect
the vacancy rate” to set a record later this year, Severino
said.  At regional and superregional malls -- properties often
anchored by department stores -- asking rents averaged $38.77
per square foot, little changed from $38.75 in the first quarter
and $38.72 a year earlier, the report said.  Forces at Work  “This segment of the retail sector is struggling not only
from weak demand but also from the echo effects from anchor
vacancies that spiked in 2009 and 2010,” Severino said. “Other
anchor and non-anchor tenants continue to look for other options
or scale back on their need for space.”  Design Within Reach, the furniture retailer known for
modern classics such as Eames chairs and George Nelson lamps,
illustrates the forces buffeting retail landlords. The Stamford,
Connecticut-based chain closed one-third of its 70 U.S. stores
during the past 18 months and cut deals for rent reductions in
exchange for longer leases.  “The company overexpanded in 2006 and 2007, right before
things started to get tough,” Chief Operating Officer John McPhee said in a telephone interview. “In some cases we did
‘blend and extend.’ We get a lower rate and we give them a
longer term. We found the majority of landlords to be reasonable
and very flexible to partner with us to keep the company
alive.”  Online competition also is prompting some retailers to take
less space.  Dayton,  San Francisco   “We have seen online sales growing at double digits year
over year for the past several quarters and that certainly has
to be impacting brick-and-mortar store sales,” said Abigail
Rosenbaum, senior economist at CBRE Econometric Advisors in
 Boston , a unit of CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., the world’s
largest commercial property services firm. Online retailers
account for about 9 percent of retail sales, she said.  Dayton,  Ohio , had the highest shopping-center vacancy rate
among metropolitan areas, at 17.1 percent, Reis said. San
Francisco had the lowest, at 3.8 percent, although rents fell in
the city.  “San Francisco is very strong with tech coming back
there,” McPhee said. “It seems right now there are all kinds
of startups and people calling and saying, ‘Hey, how quickly can
you get me 50 Aeron chairs?’ That happened the last time when it
was a bubble. We hope it’s not a bubble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  