-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Corn-Crop Stunner at Morgan Stanley

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-08T12:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-corn-crop-stunner-at-morgan-stanley.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Corn-Crop Stunner at Morgan Stanley Means U.S. Overstated Supply  U.S. corn supplies may be smaller than expected this year,
according to analysts including Morgan Stanley’s  Hussein
Allidina  who were surprised by a government forecast for the
second-highest planted acreage since 1944.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Enel Opens Solar Panel Plant as Italy Seeks to Boost Renewables  Enel SpA, STMicroelectronics NV, and Sharp Corp inaugurated
Italy’s biggest solar panel plant today as the country seeks to
boost renewable energy.  Reliance Said Likely to Increase Gas Output After Two Years (1)  Reliance Industries Ltd. may lift natural gas output at
India’s biggest deposit after two years as it awaits ships that
will connect deepwater wells drilled this year to pipelines, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  India Said to Consider Ending Curbs on Wheat, Rice Exports (2)  India , the second-biggest grower of wheat and rice, may
allow private traders to export 3 million metric tons of grain
this year as stockpiles climb, three government officials with
direct knowledge of the matter said.  Food Prices, Water Shortages to ‘Hammer’ Poor Countries (1)  Developing economies will be “hammered” as declining
water supply adds to problems confronting farmers who are
already struggling to meet food demand, pushing prices even
higher, said CH2M Hill Cos.  Gazprom Prices May Cause ‘Big Problem’ With EU Sales, Stern Says  OAO Gazprom may lose sales in Europe as the Russian gas
exporter’s insistence on pricing policies creates “a big
problem” with buyers, said Jonathan Stern of the Oxford
Institute for Energy Studies.  Malema’s Call to Seize  South Africa ’s Mines Spooks Investors (1)  Julius Malema , the youth leader of South Africa’s ruling
party, is rattling investors and stoking racial tension with his
declaration of war on “white monopoly capital” and calls for
government seizure of mines and banks.  Billionaire Ambani Said in Talks to Sell Road, Power Stakes (2)  Billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. is
in talks to sell stakes in its power transmission business, road
and subway projects, said two people with direct knowledge of
the matter.  Coleman’s $1.2 Billion Commodity Fund Said to Drop 10% in June  Michael Coleman  and Doug King’s $1.2 billion commodity
hedge fund fell 10 percent in June, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Gas’s Six-Month Drop to End on Heat, Hurricanes: Energy Markets  Natural gas futures may snap two quarters of declines as
hotter-than-normal weather and an active  hurricane season  keep
U.S. stockpiles from rising to a record for a third straight
year.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Rio Tinto Delivers First Ore for  London  Olympic Games Medals  Rio Tinto Group has delivered to organizers of the London
2012 Olympics the first of the ore that will be turned into
4,700 medals and competed for by the world’s top athletes in
just over a year.  Copper May Advance on Speculation Hiring Strengthened in U.S.  Copper, on course for a second weekly climb, may rise on
speculation hiring in the U.S. sped up in June.  Aluminum Product Exports From  China  at Record on Rebate (1)  Aluminum product exports from China, the largest supplier,
may have jumped to a record for a second month in June as
producers and traders rushed to sell ahead of an expected
reduction of a tax rebate.  MINING:  Aquila Said to Plan Sale of Coal Mining Project in Queensland  Aquila Resources Ltd. plans to sell its Washpool coal
mining asset in Queensland state as it seeks funds for an iron-
ore project in  Western Australia , said a person with knowledge
of the matter.  Coal India, Sesa Fall on Approval of Draft India Mining Bill (2)  Coal India Ltd. led declines among mining companies in
Mumbai after a ministers’ panel yesterday approved a draft
mining bill that will erode company profits.  ENRC Risks Losing Managers, Hampering CEO Search, Director Says  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a miner of metals in
Kazakhstan, risks hampering its search for a chief executive
officer and losing managers should it fail to resolve board
conflicts, independent director Paul Judge said.  Guildford Coal May Sell Stake to Finance Project Constructions  Guildford Coal Ltd., an Australian explorer of the fuel,
may sell part of itself or its projects to fund construction and
has received initial interest from  Japan , China and India,
Managing Director Michael Avery said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls in London as Investors Sell on Rally, Stronger Dollar  Gold declined for the first time this week in London as a
stronger dollar curbed demand for an alternative asset and as
some investors sold the metal after its first weekly rally in
three.  Gold May Advance as Debt Concerns Boost Demand, Survey Shows  Gold may gain as debt concerns in  Europe  and the U.S. spur
demand for the metal as a protection of wealth, a survey found.  AGRICULTURE:  Cocoa Falls on Speculation Supply Will Be Ample; Sugar Drops  Cocoa fell for a third day in  New York  on speculation
supply will be ample this quarter. Sugar also declined.  Palm Oil Gains as Advances in Crude Lifts the Appeal of Biofuel  Palm oil climbed for a second day to the highest level in
more than a week after crude advanced, lifting the appeal of
vegetable oils as a biofuel feedstock, and on gains in rival
 soybean oil .  Indonesia Set to Top Malaysia as Asia’s Biggest Cocoa Processor  Indonesia, the third-largest cocoa grower, may surpass
Malaysia as the biggest grinder next year as it aims to produce
43 percent more butter and powder, according to Piter Jasman,
chairman of the cocoa industry association.  Rice Futures Advance on U.S. Acreage, Thai Export Price Concerns  Rice advanced to its highest in almost five months on
concerns that flooding will cut acreage in the U.S. and a shift
in policy in  Thailand  will boost prices.  India Said to Consider Ending Curbs on Wheat, Rice Exports (1)  India, the second-biggest grower of wheat and rice, may
allow private traders to export 3 million metric tons of grain
this year as stockpiles climb, three government officials with
direct knowledge of the matter said.  Balrampur Forecasts India Sugar Prices May Increase on Exports  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd., India’s second-largest sugar
producer, expects prices to climb this year as the country
exports more sweetener from the biggest harvest in three years.  China’s Cotton Area May Be Less Than Estimated, Association Says  Cotton acreage in China, the world’s largest user, may
increase 5.2 percent this year, lower than previously estimated
as a recent decline in prices and dry conditions in some areas
discouraged farmers from replanting seedlings, according to a
China Cotton Association statement.  SHIPPING:  Tropical Storm Calvin Gains Strength Off Mexico’s West Coast  Tropical Storm Calvin, the third named storm of this year’s
eastern Pacific hurricane season, gained strength off Mexico’s
west coast while the U.S. National Hurricane Center monitored
two other systems in the Atlantic.  Coal Exports Near 19-Year High Buoy U.S. Rails: Freight Markets  The U.S. is poised to export the most coal since 1992 this
year, filling a gap created when flooding interrupted Australian
supplies and buoying shipments for railroads such as Union
Pacific Corp. and CSX Corp.  ECONOMIES:  Yuan Bull Bets Decline to Post-Peg Low on Surplus: China Credit  Prospects for yuan appreciation fell to the lowest since
the dollar peg was scrapped a year ago as an estimated 33
percent drop in the trade surplus gives China room to rebuff
U.S. calls for faster gains, forwards contracts show.  China Debt Sale Fails for Third Time in 2011 on Cash Crunch (1)  China’s finance ministry failed to sell all of the debt
offered at an auction for the third time this year as a cash
crunch damped demand from banks.  Chinese Stocks May Join Korea, Russia Rally, Credit Suisse Says  South Korean and Russian equities will extend this year’s
rallies while Chinese stocks may rebound as consumer price gains
slow, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Trichet Communes With Charlemagne Before Exorcising Lehman Ghost  As European officials haggled over the latest solution to
Greece’s debt crisis last month,  Jean-Claude Trichet  circled the
1,200 year-old marble throne of Charlemagne in the German city
of Aachen.  U.S. Payrolls Probably Picked Up in Sign Economy Rebounding (1)  Employers in the U.S. probably added more workers in June
than the prior month, indicating the labor market may be poised
to pick up in the second half, economists said before a report
today.  German Exports Rose More Than Economists Forecast in May (2)  German exports increased more than economists forecast in
May, adding to signs the sovereign debt crisis isn’t harming
Europe’s largest economy.  Fed’s QE2 Spurred Shares, Commodities, Not Lending: Chart of Day  The  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion program of bond
purchases that ended last month boosted U.S. share prices while
doing little to support an economic recovery, Totan Research Co.
said.  Spain  Fends Off Criticism on Banks as EU Introduces Reviews  Spain blunted European Union criticism of its handling of
savings banks and  tax policy , persuading the EU to water down
judgments issued as part of a new economic-policing system.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro Weakens,  Italy  Bonds, Banks Decline; S&P 500 Futures Drop  The euro weakened against the dollar, Italian bonds
retreated and the country’s banks fell while sovereign default
insurance climbed to a record. U.S. stock-index futures declined
before the monthly payrolls report.  European Stocks Are Little Changed; PPR Advances as RWE Retreats  European stocks were little changed, erasing earlier gains,
as the bonds of the euro area’s weakest economies declined amid
renewed speculation that the region’s sovereign-debt crisis will
spread. Asian shares climbed, while U.S. index futures dropped.  China, Hong Kong Stocks Cut to ‘Underweight’ at JPMorgan (1)  China and Hong Kong stocks were cut to “underweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co., which said speculation that
Chinese policymakers are ending their tightening efforts is
“premature.”  Oil Falls, Trimming Weekly Gain, on Supply Levels, European Debt  Oil fell, paring a second weekly gain in New York, on bets
that fuel supplies are sufficient to meet demand and on concern
that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis will intensify.  Cameron Says News Corp. Should Have Let Brooks Resign (1)  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the News Corp. executive
running the News of the World when telephones were hacked should
have been removed and that it’s up to regulators to decide on
the company’s future role in U.K. television broadcasting.  Obama Summons Lawmakers for ‘Hard Bargaining’ on Debt Reduction  President Barack Obama is summoning top congressional
Republicans and Democrats to a rare Sunday meeting at the White
House to begin “hard bargaining” on a broad debt-reduction
deal.  SPORTS:  Liverpool’s Asia Tour Vital to Standard Chartered Sponsorship  Standard Chartered Plc, the international bank that
sponsors 18-time English soccer champion Liverpool, says the
team’s tour of Asia next week is one of the reasons it agreed to
pay out a record 81.5 million pounds ($29.6).  Samir Nasri Ready to Play Out Arsenal Contract: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  