-- 
U.S. Credit Risk Increases as Payroll Data Dims Spending Outlook

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T17:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-s-credit-risk-increases-as-payroll-data-dims-spending-outlook.html
An indicator of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose after lower-than-expected job growth numbers dampened
optimism about  consumer spending .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 2.2 basis points to a
mid-price of 92.9 basis points as of 12:41 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Perceptions
of  American Express Co. (AXP) ’s creditworthiness, which is tied to
consumer spending, declined after the jobs data.  Employers added 18,000 workers in June and the  unemployment
rate  rose to 9.2 percent. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a June gain of 105,000 jobs and an
unchanged 9.1 percent jobless rate. Yesterday’s ADP Employer
Services report called for an even bigger increase.  “If you listen to companies, there are very few talking
about hiring,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York. “For today it’s certainly the number one headline.”  The Markit index is at the highest since June 29. The
barometer typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates
and falls as it improves.  Credit-default swaps on New York-based American Express,
the biggest credit card issuer by customer spending, rose 4.2
basis points to 84 basis points, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Weak job growth hurts consumers’ willingness to spend, a
key part of American Express’s business, said  Michael Taiano , an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners in  New York .  “They’re one of the companies that’s probably more closely
measured with how the U.S. consumer is doing,” he said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  