-- 
U.S. Payrolls Grow at Slowest Pace in Nine Months as Jobless Rate Climbs

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-08T20:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/u-s-payrolls-rose-18-000-in-june-jobless-rate-climbed-to-9-2-.html
American employers added jobs at the
slowest pace in nine months in June and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent, sending global stocks
sliding on concern the world’s biggest economy is faltering.  Employers increased payrolls by 18,000 workers, less than
the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, which called for growth of 105,000. The increase
followed a 25,000 gain that was less than half the initial
estimate. Hiring by companies was the weakest since May 2010.  “This is a very fragile state for the U.S. labor market,”
said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State
Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “It suggests that the
overall recovery remains somewhat tenuous.”  Treasuries climbed as the report called into question
 Federal Reserve  forecasts for an economic rebound in the second
half of the year and raised the odds of additional stimulus. The
increase in unemployment also poses a fresh challenge for
President  Barack Obama  as he seeks to keep the economy growing
while also negotiating budget cuts with congressional leaders.  Estimates of the 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
overall payrolls ranged from increases of 40,000 to 175,000.
(See related commentary.)  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,343.81 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in  New York , after
falling as much as 1.4 percent. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year note dropped to 3.02 percent from 3.14 percent late
yesterday.  Forecast to Hold  The unemployment rate, which rose in June to the highest
level this year, was forecast to hold at 9.1 percent, according
to the survey median. Estimates ranged from 8.9 percent to 9.2
percent.  Obama, speaking at the White House  Rose Garden , said the
report shows that “we still have a long way to go and a lot of
work to do to give people the security and opportunity they
deserve.”  The report adds urgency to talks on July 10, when Obama and
eight congressional leaders from both parties will try again to
find a compromise on cutting deficits and raising the
government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling to head off a default
on U.S. debt obligations in early August.  “The sooner that the markets know that the debt limit
ceiling will have been raised and that we have a serious plan to
deal with our debt and deficit, the sooner that we give our
businesses the certainty that they will need in order to make
additional investments to grow and hire,” Obama said.  Japan  Earthquake  Fed officials have said the slowdown in economic growth in
the first and second quarters partly reflected temporary
factors. Manufacturers were hurt by supply disruptions in the
aftermath of the earthquake in Japan, while a surge in gasoline
expenses limited spending on non-essential items by American
consumers.  “This increases the probability of another round of
quantitative easing,” said Jason Schenker, president of
Prestige Economics LLC in Austin,  Texas , referring to large-
scale asset purchases. “If additional stimulus is required, the
Fed may be weighing its options.”  Companies reducing staff include Lockheed Martin Corp., the
world’s largest defense contractor. Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed on June 30 said it plans to cut about 1,500 employees.
McLean, Virginia-based Gannett Co., the publisher of 82
newspapers including  USA Today , also announced last month it is
eliminating about 700 jobs.  Some employers are more optimistic.  Buffet’s View  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said he is wagering on continued
economic expansion and doesn’t expect a second recession.  “I would bet very heavily against that,” Buffett,
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu on the “In the Loop”
program after today’s data. “How fast the recovery will come, I
don’t know. I see nothing that indicates any kind of a double
dip.”  Berkshire Hathaway added about 3,000 jobs last year after
cutting more than 20,000 positions in 2009. The Omaha, Nebraska-
based company employed about 260,000 people at units from
insurance and shipping to consumer goods and energy, Berkshire
said in February.  Emmanuel Saujet, chief executive officer of New York-based
International Cosmetics and Perfumes Inc., said his luxury
cosmetics and fragrance company, which employs about 75 people
in  North America , is hiring to keep up with growing demand.  “We have probably expanded our full-time staff by about
one-fifth since the beginning of the year,” Saujet said in a
telephone interview.   Participation Rate  The jobless rate rose even as the participation rate
declined to 64.1 percent, the lowest since March 1984. The Labor
Department’s survey of households, used to calculate the
unemployment rate, showed a 445,000 decrease in employment and a
173,000 increase in unemployment.  In that survey, the government calls 60,000 households and
asks people if they are working or looking for a job. The survey
includes the self-employed, farm workers and domestic workers.
Those people are not counted in the establishment survey used to
calculate the payroll figures.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose
57,000 last month after a 73,000 gain. It was projected to rise
by 132,000, the survey showed.  Factory Payrolls  Factory payrolls climbed 6,000 in June after a 2,000
decline in the previous month.  Employment at service-providers increased 14,000 in June,
the least since a decline in September. Construction employment
fell 9,000 workers, while retailers added 5,200 workers.  Boyd Martin Construction LLC, a commercial construction
company in  Las Vegas , has cut its employment in half to 20
employees from 40 in 2006 as demand for all types of work has
waned.  “When housing went away it took away a chunk of the entire
economy and that has affected the entire construction sector,”
said owner Boyd Martin, 48.  Government payrolls declined by 39,000 in June, the eighth
straight decrease. Employment at state and local governments
fell 25,000.  Average hourly earnings dropped 1 cent to $22.99, today’s
report showed. The average work week for all workers decreased
to 34.3 hours, from 34.4 hours the prior month.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 16.2 percent
from 15.8 percent.  Temporary Workers  The number of temporary workers decreased 12,000. Payrolls
at temporary-help agencies often slow as companies seeing a
steady increase in demand take on permanent staff.  Recent figures had signaled the economy was starting to
perk up after slowing in the first half of the year. An
Institute for Supply Management report last week showed
manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in June.  There are other bright signs. Consumer borrowing in the
U.S. rose in May for the eighth straight month, led by a boost
in credit card use and  student loans , a Fed report today showed.  Credit increased by $5.08 billion after a revised $5.67
billion gain in April. Economists projected a $4 billion
increase, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  Policy makers “expect the unemployment rate to continue to
decline but the pace of progress remains frustratingly slow,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news conference after the
central bank’s June 21-22 monetary policy meeting.  Growth Slows  The economy expanded at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the
first three months of the year, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg from June 28 to July 7 forecast second-quarter growth
of 2 percent. In the final three months of 2010, the economy
grew 3.1 percent.  Lack of faster progress in the labor market and in the
economic recovery, which started in June 2009, has taken a toll
on Obama’s approval ratings. Since he took office in January
2009, unemployment has increased from 7.8 percent and the
economy has lost 2.5 million jobs.  By a 44 percent to 34 percent margin, Americans say they
believe they are worse off than when Obama took office,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  