-- 
Ukraine’s Parliament Backs Pension Law Needed for Next IMF Bailout Payment

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-07-08T12:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ukraine-s-parliament-backs-pension-law-needed-for-next-imf-bailout-payment.html
Ukraine’s parliament gave final
approval to the government’s pension overhaul, moving the
country closer to receiving additional payments from a $15.6
billion International Monetary Fund bailout.  Lawmakers backed the legislation early this morning after a
nine-hour debate, with 248 members of the 450-seat legislature
voting in favor. The measure, which raises the  retirement age 
for women by five years to 60, takes effect Sept. 1.  The IMF approved Ukraine’s second rescue in three years
after the government promised last year to narrow its  budget
deficit . While Ukraine received the first two installments
totaling $3.4 billion, the third was delayed because the Cabinet
had failed to increase the retirement age and raise household
gas prices, two of its cost-cutting pledges.  “We expect Ukraine’s capital markets to react
positively,” Kiev-based Dragon Capital said today in an e-mail
to clients. The measure helps the “sustainability of Ukraine’s
public finances and improves the prospects for disbursement of
the next $1.5 billion tranche” of IMF aid.  Ukraine’s $500 million of dollar bonds due June 2012 rose
for a second day, pushing the yield down 33 basis points, or
0.33 percentage point, to 3.96 percent as of 3 p.m. in Kiev.
That’s the biggest drop since June 21, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gas Talks  The former Soviet republic is trying to persuade the
Washington-based IMF to disregard the gas-price requirement as
the government seeks to renegotiate the terms of its import
contract with  Russia  and because higher energy costs would spur
inflation, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said last month.  Ukrainian inflation accelerated to 11.9 percent in June,
the fastest since December 2009, as utility and food costs
increased, the state statistics office said yesterday. Finance
Minister Fedir Yaroshenko and Coal & Energy Minister Yuriy Boyko
travelled to  Washington  on June 14 to meet with IMF officials.  Ukraine, which depends on Russian gas for two-thirds of its
energy needs, wants its neighbor to reduce the price to $240 per
1,000 cubic meters from $297 at present, President  Viktor Yanukovych  said May 24. The state energy company, NAK Naftogaz
Ukrainy, has run a deficit because consumers pay less than the
import price.  Yanukovych said today he will meet with Russian counterpart
Dmitry Medvedev this month for further talks on gas supply and
transit. He said he may also meet with Russian Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  if Azarov able to do so because of his health.  ‘Wrong Approach’  The IMF will “remain tough” on the gas-price increase,
Dragon Capital said. The IMF program will stay mostly suspended
until parliamentary elections in October 2012 because of “the
election-induced lack of political will to proceed with fiscal
consolidation,” according to the bank.  Oleh Liashko, deputy head of parliament’s budget committee,
said Ukraine should reduce foreign debt rather than borrowing
more from the IMF.  “Sustaining economic growth should be our goal, and to
achieve that we have to liberalize the economy and create more
jobs,” said Liashko, an opposition lawmaker who voted against
the pension overhaul. “The government hopes it will help it in
talks with the IMF for more loans. It’s the wrong approach.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  