-- 
Ukraine Won’t Merge Naftogaz With Gazprom, President Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-07-08T15:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/ukraine-isn-t-planning-naftogaz-gazprom-merger-yanukovych-says.html
Ukraine isn’t considering a merger of
NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, its national energy company, with OAO
Gazprom, the Russian gas export monopoly, President Viktor Yanukovych said.  “A merger as such is not planned and is not going to
happen,” Yanukovych told reporters today in Kiev. Ukraine wants
to work with Gazprom on joint projects such as gas extraction
and pipeline modernization, he said.  Yanukovych plans to meet his Russian counterpart Dmitry Medvedev this month to discuss the gas supply and transit
accords. The two countries signed the agreements in January 2009
to end a pricing dispute that halted European deliveries for
more than two weeks.  Ukraine is  Russia ’s main gas transit route to European
consumers and depends on Russia for more than half of its energy
needs. The former Soviet republic is seeking to diversify fuel
imports and boost its own oil and gas production.  Yanukovych said in May that a fair price to pay Gazprom for
supplies is $240 per 1,000 cubic meters, while the world’s
biggest gas producer has sought to bring the price in line with
European levels.  Dividing Naftogaz  Gazprom has offered lower gas prices for Ukraine only if
the two companies merge, Chief Executive Officer Alexei Miller
said July 5 after meeting with Ukraine Coal & Energy Minister
 Yuriy Boyko  in Moscow.  “With God’s help we will solve this issue,” Yanukovych
said today.  Yanukovych called on the government to restructure
Naftogaz. The company’s extraction, transportation and fuel
deliveries businesses should be divided, allowing them to
“develop separately and set up real market mechanisms for
growth.”  Naftogaz production unit’s VAT Ukrnafta, DK
Ukrhazvydobuvannya and DAT Chornomornaftohaz and pipeline
operators DK Ukrtranshaz and VAT Ukrtransnafta will benefit from
selling about 10 percent of their shares in initial public
offerings, Yanukovych said.  These companies “need to be prepared to register for IPOs
so that we can get a real price for the assets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  