-- 
UN Supports South Sudan Independence With Peacekeepers

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-08T19:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/un-votes-to-support-south-sudan-independence-with-peacekeepers.html
The  United Nations   Security Council 
today authorized sending 7,000 soldiers and 900 police to the
oil-rich Republic of South Sudan to provide security for the new
nation, which will celebrate its independence tomorrow.  The Security Council voted 15-0 to adopt a U.S.-drafted
resolution creating the 12-month peacekeeping mission. It will
help South Sudan “govern effectively and democratically” and
deter violence through “proactive deployment and patrols in
areas at high risk of conflict,” according to the resolution.  “This is a strong signal of support for South Sudan,”
Ambassador Peter Wittig of  Germany , which holds the rotating
presidency of the Security Council in July, told reporters.  Wittig said the Security Council would likely vote on July
13 to recommend the admission of South Sudan as the UN’s 193rd
member nation. The General Assembly is scheduled to officially
grant membership the following day.  South Sudan will control of about 75 percent of Sudan’s
daily oil production of 490,000 barrels. The crude, pumped
mainly by  China National Petroleum Corp. ,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp., is exported
through a pipeline that runs to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea . Oil
earnings accounted for about 98 percent of South Sudan’s 2010
budget.  “With natural resources, huge amounts of arable land and
the waters of the Nile flowing through it, the South could grow
into a prosperous nation,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
told reporters in Juba, the capital of South Sudan.  Most of the 7,900 peacekeepers will be drawn from the
10,500 soldiers and police currently deployed in southern Sudan
to monitor the cease-fire that ended a two-decade civil war in
the region. About 2,500 now stationed on the northern side of
what will become the border between two nations will be
withdrawn. The Sudanese government in Khartoum hasn’t agreed to
allow peacekeepers to stay north of the border.  The resolution calls for the force to monitor the flow of
weapons across the border with  Sudan  and use “all necessary
means” to protect civilians. The UN would review the need for
as many as 7,900 uniformed personnel after three months.  It’s the second new UN peacekeeping mission sent to the
region in the past two weeks. The Security Council voted on June
27 to deploy 4,200 Ethiopian soldiers to the disputed border
area of Abyei to allow for the withdrawal of Sudanese and South
Sudanese troops. Sudan’s army seized the main town in Abyei on
May 21 after accusing South Sudan of attacking its forces. The
Ethiopian troops, separate from the 7,900-member peacekeeping
force, will remain in the Abyei area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  