-- 
Rising Unemployment Pressures Fed to Purchase More Bonds, Economists Say

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-08T20:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/unemployment-puts-pressure-on-fed-for-third-stimulus-round-economists-say.html
Pressure is increasing on the  Federal
Reserve  to stimulate the economy through a third round of bond
purchases after a U.S. government report showed employers hiring
at the slowest pace in nine months, economists said.  U.S. businesses expanded payrolls by 18,000 in June and the
unemployment rate rose to 9.2 percent, marking the third
consecutive monthly increase. The rise in payrolls fell below
the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, which called for a 105,000 gain.  Should unemployment climb and growth slow in coming months,
then “another round of bond buying would be a distinct
possibility,” said Sung Won Sohn, an economics professor at
California State University-Channel Islands. “If the
unemployment rate were to rise to 10 percent, a psychologically
important figure, there would be a hue and cry for the Fed to do
more, especially from politicians,” he said.  The Fed started a program in November to buy $600 billion
in  Treasury securities , known as quantitative easing, when the
 unemployment rate  was 9.8 percent. The rate hit a post-recession
peak of 10.1 percent in October 2009. It was the highest rate in
26 years.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a June 22 press
conference that “frustratingly slow” economic growth is due to
transitory factors such as high energy prices and that the
recovery should pick up in the second half. Policy makers
released forecasts that day indicating they estimate
unemployment will fall to 8.6 percent to 8.9 percent by
December.  Weak Report  The weak employment report “raises doubts that the second
half of the year will see much improvement in the overall
economy,” said Doug Duncan, chief economist at  Fannie Mae .
Continued weak hiring will “push out into the future the time
that we can expect the housing market to heal,” he said.  The asset purchases were geared toward spurring economic
growth, increasing employment, boosting stock prices and
prompting  consumer spending  through reduced borrowing costs.  The odds of a third round of quantitative easing, or
“QE3,” are one in five, said  Allen Sinai , chief global
economist for Decision Economics Inc. The Fed through additional
bond purchases would seek to avert a “vicious cycle,” in which
a slowdown in hiring prompts consumers to spend less, slowing
the recovery, he said.  Record Low  The central bank will probably hold the benchmark interest
rate at a record low of between zero to 0.25 percent through at
least the first half of 2012, Sinai said. “The Fed will be on
hold as far as the eye can see.”  Bernanke on June 22 left the door open to a new round of
bond-buying should the economy weaken. He said the Fed has other
tools to stimulate growth, including the option to commit to low
 interest rates  for a longer period of time in its post-meeting
policy statement. The central bank also could cut the interest
rate it pays banks on excess reserves held at the central bank,
he said.  The economy was in worse shape when Bernanke signaled last
August that the central bank would pursue a second round of
asset purchases.  Employers were cutting jobs -- 59,000 of them in August
2010 alone -- and unemployment rose that month to 9.6 percent.
Also, Bernanke was concerned about the risk of deflation, or a
broad-based drop in prices, wages and asset values such as homes
and stocks.  Fed Mandate  “As of last August, we were essentially missing
significantly on both sides of our mandate,” Bernanke said on
June 22. “Inflation was too low and falling, and unemployment
looked like it might be even beginning to rise again. In that
case, the case for monetary action was pretty clear,” he said.  Growth will quicken during the second half of this year to
a 2.5 percent to 3 percent rate compared with estimated growth
of between 1.5 percent and 2 percent during the first half of
this year, Sinai said.  Still, the  U.S. economy  needs to grow at a 5 percent rate
for a full year in order for unemployment to fall by around 1
percentage point, according to economists including Bernanke.  “We do still expect GDP growth and consequently employment
growth to rebound a little in the second half of the year,”
said  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S. economist at  Capital Economics ,
in Toronto. “But judging by this report, that rebound hasn’t
started yet,”  Inhibited Growth  Bernanke, at the June 22 news conference, said that some
forces that inhibited economic growth in the first half of the
year will fade, including a shortage of parts to U.S. factories
following the Japan earthquake. He predicted the economy will
rebound in the second half of this year, while adding that
declining home prices, high unemployment and weaknesses in the
financial system may weigh on the growth in the longer term.  If the economy seems close to stalling and the unemployment
rate keeps rising, “then the Fed would jump in, but the hurdle
is high for the Fed to engage in another large-scale asset
purchase program,” said former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley .  The Fed last month also lowered its forecast for economic
growth this year and raised its forecast for unemployment.
Growth won’t exceed 2.9 percent this year, compared with a 3.3
percent rate at the top end of its forecast in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net  