-- 
UniCredit, Intesa Drop to Two-Year Low as Debt Contagion Threatens Italy

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-07-08T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/unicredit-intesa-drop-to-two-year-low-as-debt-contagion-threatens-italy.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s biggest banks, fell to the lowest in more than two
years in Milan yesterday as contagion from  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatened to spread to the region’s third-largest economy.  UniCredit plunged 7.9 percent, the biggest decline since
March 30, 2009, while Intesa dropped 4.6 percent. Both hit lows
not seen since the period when markets were emerging from the
crisis spawned by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Investors are concerned Italy is moving too slowly to curb
its public debt, as political infighting threatens to delay a
plan to push deficit-cutting measures worth 40 billion euros
($57 billion) though Parliament later this year. Italian bonds
dropped for a fifth day, driving 10-year yields to a nine-year
high. The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of benchmark German bunds rose to the highest since
before the euro was introduced in 1999.  Banks are being hurt by “concerns related to the
sovereign-debt crisis, because they are the most exposed to the
Italian  government bonds ,” said Massimiliano Romano, head of
research at brokerage Concentric Italy in Milan. “The risks may
further increase if bond yields remain at their current
levels.”  Italy has so far avoided the crisis that forced the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  to bail out
Greece, Ireland and Portugal. Italian policymakers are seeking
to balance the budget by 2014, while banks in the country are
boosting capital to strengthen finances.  Debt Burden  Still, Italy’s government debt will reach 120 percent of
gross domestic product this year, leaving Greece as the only
euro-region nation with a larger burden, European Commission
forecasts show.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
said in the past two months that they may cut the country’s
credit rating because slow economic growth will make it tough to
curb debt.  “There are concerns that the budget plan will not be
approved, or that a lighter version will be approved,” said
Angelo Drusiani, a  fund manager  at Albertini Syz & Co. “This
would mean a downgrade of Italian debt. Considering that the
Italian banks are the most exposed to the debt, investors are
selling financial stocks and bonds,” he said.  Banks Pass Tests  Responding to the market turbulence, Bank of Italy Governor
Mario Draghi said July 8 he’s certain the country’s lenders will
pass European stress tests by a “significant” margin.  Results of the second round of European stress tests will
be released July 15, the European Banking Association said
yesterday. Banks that fail this year’s tests may need to present
plans for making up their capital shortfall by the end of
September, according to an internal EU document.  Intesa, Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA,  Unione di Banche
Italiane ScpA (UBI)  and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  have asked investors for a
total of 10.5 billion euros this year to strengthen capital
before the stress evaluations. UniCredit, which has raised 7
billion euros in the last three years through two securities’
sales, said it will meet stricter rules through its earnings.  Credit growth in Italy has been expanding at an annual rate
of 6 percent to 7 percent, “which is the highest in Europe,”
Draghi told reporters in Aix-en-Provence,  France .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  