-- 
News Corp.’s Murdoch Heads to London to Address Hacking

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 
2011-07-09T17:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/murdoch-headed-to-london-to-address-hacking.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Murdoch  is headed to London to help manage fallout from
the phone-hacking scandal that forced the closure of News of the
World, Britain’s biggest Sunday newspaper.  Murdoch will work from News International’s headquarters in
London’s Wapping neighborhood and meet with staff, a person
familiar with Murdoch’s plans said today.  The unfolding crisis led to the arrest of the tabloid’s
former editor,  Andy Coulson , and prompted public anger over
allegations its journalists bribed police for stories and hacked
into the voice mails of crime victims. The U.K. government said
yesterday it will take “some time” before ruling on News
Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) plan to buy satellite-
TV service  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   News Corp., based in  New York , said this week it will close
the 168-year-old News of the World, a move that failed to stem
the company’s stock slide or silence calls for the ouster of
Rebekah Brooks, CEO of the News International publishing unit.
While Murdoch, 80, and Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch have both supported Brooks, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told reporters he would have accepted her resignation.  Brooks, 43, said in a letter to the U.K. Parliament’s Home
Affairs Committee published today, that she had no knowledge of
any phone tapping and has no reason to believe any other of the
company’s newspapers used the method to get stories. News
International also manages The Times, The Sunday Times and daily
tabloid The Sun.  New Jobs  Brooks told News of the World employees yesterday she will
try to find them jobs after the newspaper shuts down, while
signaling she will remain in her post. All the newspaper’s
employees, about 200, will be paid for the next three months,
she said.  “We are working hard to put our own house in order and do
the right thing,” Brooks said in a memo to staff.  Murdoch plans to arrive tomorrow, Sky News reported
earlier.  Chase Carey , News Corp.’s chief operating officer, told
Bloomberg News yesterday he was also going to  London .  Shares of News Corp. and BSkyB, the U.K.-based broadcaster
it partially owns, have fallen since accusations that its
journalists hacked the phones of murder victims and the families
of soldiers who were killed in Afghanistan.  News Corp., which operates the Fox television networks and
film studios, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and book
publisher HarperCollins, fell 68 cents, or 3.9 percent, to
$16.75 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares were
down 7.3 percent for the week. BSkyB fell 7.6 percent yesterday
to 750 pence in London, and lost 12 percent this week.  Coulson Arrest  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Coulson, 43, who resigned as Cameron’s press chief in
January, was arrested in connection with the phone-hacking probe
and an investigation begun this week into claims the tabloid
paid police officers for stories, according a person familiar
with the matter. The arrest is the highest-profile so far in the
investigation that has ensnared seven people, including six with
connections to the paper. Coulson has denied any knowledge of
illegal activity when he was editor from 2003 to 2007.  News of the World’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman ,
53, was re-arrested yesterday and his office at the Daily Star
tabloid was searched, Sky News reported. London police confirmed
they arrested a 53-year-old man and searched his home in Surrey,
 England , yesterday and also raided a London business.  Damaging Information  A 63-year-old man was also arrested at a residence in
Surrey in connection with the investigation, police said
yesterday without identifying him. The 43-year-old man and a 53-
year-old man were released on bail, police said in an e-mailed
statement without disclosing the names.  Brooks hinted she expects more damaging information to
surface, according to a  transcript  of yesterday’s address to
staff posted by BSkyB’s Sky News. “Eventually it will come out
why things went wrong and who was responsible, and that will be
another very difficult moment in this company’s history,” she
said, according to the transcript.  Brooks told News of the World staffers she was among those
“betrayed” by the acts of others. She rejected resignation,
saying she is “much more useful” leading the company through
the crisis.  ‘More Visibility’  “We have more visibility perhaps with what we can see
coming than you guys,” Brooks said, according to the
transcript. “I am tied by the criminal investigation, but I
think in a year’s time, every single one of you in this room
might come up and say, ‘I see what she saw now.’”  Those calling for Brooks’s resignation included opposition
 Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband . A Channel 5 poll showed three-
quarters of Britons saying she should quit. While Brooks
discussed her resignation with  James Murdoch  this week, she
didn’t offer to leave, News Corp. spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  said.  Brooks became head of News International in 2009 after
serving as editor of The Sun for 6 1/2 years. Beginning her
career as a feature writer for the News of the World in 1989,
Brooks rose through the ranks and was editor of that newspaper
from 2000 to 2003.  Criticism of Brooks intensified this week with a report
that in 2002, when she was editor, the News of the World hacked
into the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler and deleted
voice-mail messages, misleading her parents into thinking she
might be alive and complicating the police investigation of her
disappearance. Before this week, the phone-hacking scandal had
centered on celebrities, politicians and athletes.  No Knowledge  Brooks said in her letter to the U.K. lawmakers she wanted
to be “absolutely clear that as editor” she had “no knowledge
whatsoever of phone hacking in the case of Milly Dowler and her
family, or in any other cases during my tenure.”  News Corp.’s decision to close the Sunday tabloid came
after companies including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  RWE AG (RWE) 
halted advertising in the paper to protest its activities.  The company now needs to find new revenue sources to
replace the sales lost in the shutdown. It may add a Sunday
edition of the daily Sun, according to industry observers
including Marc Mendoza, CEO of Media Planning Group,  Havas SA (HAV) ’s
media buying and planning arm.  A website titled thesunonsunday.com was registered July 5,
according to allwhois.com, a domain-name database search engine.
The company hasn’t made any decisions on any new publications or
expanding existing ones, Brooks said in the memo.  ‘Outrageous’ Practices  News Corp. can quickly regain advertisers’ trust with an
overhaul of the “outrageous” journalistic practices that led
to News of the World’s closure,  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  CEO  Maurice Levy  said yesterday. If the company in the next couple of weeks
creates “a new News of the World with much more ethical
behavior,” advertisers will return, said Levy, head of one of
the world’s largest advertising agencies.  A final edition of the News of the World, to be published
tomorrow, won’t carry commercial advertising, and News Corp. has
offered its ad space to charities. So far “household name”
charities have turned down the offer, preferring not to be
associated with the tabloid, according to Rob Cope, the director
of Remember a Charity, a London-based organization that tries to
persuade people to bequeath money to charities it represents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  