-- 
Turkey Weak-Lira Policy Risks Inflation Backfire, BofA Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-07-08T15:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/turkey-weak-lira-may-backfire-with-inflation-surprise-bofa-says.html
Turkish authorities are downplaying
the risk that their strategy of keeping  interest rates  low to
weaken the lira may backfire by leading to higher-than-expected
inflation, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  The central bank’s focus on narrowing the current-account
deficit through a weaker lira may lead to an inflation-rate
“surprise” in the second half of 2011, according to a report
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists including Turker Hamzaoglu. Core inflation may increase to close to 7.5 percent
by year-end from 5.3 percent in June, they said.  “The side effect of the low rates-weaker lira policy
choice is higher inflation,” the economists wrote. The risk is
“largely downplayed by the policy makers and the markets,”
they wrote. Their model shows inflation has started to
accelerate as the lira depreciates, according to the report.  The lira weakened 0.8 percent to 1.6307 at 5:30 p.m. in
Istanbul, bringing the week’s decline to 1.5 percent.  The central bank’s two-pronged strategy involves leaving
interest rates low to deter short-term capital inflows and
weaken the lira so as to keep Turkish exports competitive, while
raising banks’ reserve requirements to curb lending and the
current-account deficit. The annual consumer inflation rate
slowed to 6.2 percent in June from 7.2 percent in May. The 12-
month current-account gap more than doubled from a year earlier
to $63.4 billion in April, the most since records began in 1984
and equivalent to about 8.5 percent of gross domestic product.  Inflation  Each sustained drop of 1 percent in the lira’s value
translates into a 21 basis point, or 0.21 percentage point,
increase in consumer-price inflation over 12 months, and 24
basis points over 24 months, the bank said, citing its
forecasting model.  The lira has weakened 5.6 percent against the dollar this
year, the worst performance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg as of today. Under the Bank of
America model, that depreciation would add 1.2 percentage points
to the rate of inflation over the next year.  The central bank said June 23 that it expected a “short-
term and limited” increase in  core inflation . “In general, the
inflation outlook is positive,” it said.  The deterioration in  Turkey ’s current-account deficit is
“likely to continue unabated,” according to the report,
written by Bank of America after its economists visited the
central bank in Ankara.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  