-- 
Vietnam’s Central Bank Cuts Repurchase Rate to 14%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-08T08:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/vietnam-s-central-bank-cuts-repurchase-rate-to-14-correct-.html
(Corrects story originally published July 4 to say the
repurchase rate for the seven-day term was cut that day for the
first time since the start of April 2010.)  Vietnam ’s central bank cut its
repurchase rate by one percentage point even after inflation
accelerated to one of the fastest paces in the world.  The State Bank of Vietnam said it lowered the rate to 14
percent from 15 percent effective today, according to an e-
mailed statement. That’s the first reduction since the start of
April 2010.  “The cut comes as a surprise given that inflation is yet
to peak,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB. “The decision likely reflects
the fact that it should peak soon and not much above current
levels.”  The  World Bank  last month described price gains in Vietnam
as “intolerable” and had called upon policy makers to maintain
tight monetary conditions until inflation is sustainably below
10 percent. Vietnam raised borrowing costs every month this year
through May, pushing market lending rates to more than 20
percent and slowing economic growth.  “Tightening too much is self defeating,” said Alan Pham,
chief economist at VinaCapital Investment Management Ltd. “Many
businesses are cutting back production, lowering supply of goods
which can cause inflation.”  The economy grew 5.57 percent in the six months through
June, compared with 6.18 percent in the first half of 2010,
according to government data.  Stocks, Currency  The benchmark VN Index on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange has declined 16 percent in the past 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The dong, which was devalued for
the fourth time in 15 months on Feb. 11, weakened 0.1 percent to
20,600 per dollar as of 2:45 p.m. local time.  “We think this loosening of monetary policy is
premature,” Hai Pham, a Singapore-based analyst at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a note. “Possibly higher
money and credit growth going forward, as result of today’s
action, will fuel another round of high growth and higher
inflation next year.”  Consumer prices jumped 20.82 percent in June from a year
earlier, the quickest pace since November 2008. That’s also the
highest inflation rate tracked by Bloomberg among 17 economies
in  Asia .  The Southeast Asian nation’s government is targeting year-
end inflation of 15 percent to 17 percent, according to a news
item posted on its website June 30. Vietnam raised its inflation
target to 15 percent from 11.75 percent on June 3.  Inflation Outlook  “We believe that inflation will peak in August just
because last year, that’s when it started to accelerate,” said
Marc Djandji, the Ho Chi Minh City-based head of research at
Viet Capital Securities. “Rates can’t go down much further
until we really see inflation going down.”  Some commercial banks in Vietnam has charged clients an
interest rate of as much as 27 percent, the newspaper Dau Tu
reported June 30. Surging borrowing costs forced about 30
percent of the companies in Vietnam to close factories or
postpone production, the report showed without providing a
timeframe.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam asked lenders to reduce and fix
“reasonable” rates for loans, particularly for rural and
agricultural companies, export businesses and small- and medium-
sized enterprises, according to a  statement  on its website on
June 16.  The central bank said on March 1 that it will use the
refinancing rate and open-market operations interest rate,
combined with other unspecified monetary policy tools, to manage
market borrowing costs. The repurchase rate is also known as the
open-market operations rate.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang. Editors: Cherian Thomas, Shamim Adam  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 Oha3@bloomberg.net . 