-- 
Vietnam Rate Cut to Boost 2012 Inflation, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-08T05:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/vietnam-rate-cut-to-boost-2012-inflation-credit-suisse-says.html
Vietnamese inflation will be higher
next year than previously forecast as a result of a central  bank
rate  cut this week that was “premature” and may confuse
investors,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said.  The  State Bank  of  Vietnam  on July 4 lowered its repurchase
rate to 14 percent from 15 percent. The cut was the first this
year for the repurchase rate, which was 10 percent in January.
The repurchase rate appears to have become Vietnam’s benchmark
for monetary policy,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in March.  Vietnamese inflation accelerated in June to 20.82 percent,
the fastest since 2008. The government plans to keep a tight
monetary policy in place at least until the end of this year,
Minister of Planning & Investment Vo Hong Phuc said on June 9.
The  International Monetary Fund   said  on the same day that the
central bank should further increase its rates to fight
inflation and avoid putting pressure on the Vietnamese dong.  “The decision to cut the rate is premature, and risks
sending a confusing signal to the market,” wrote Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse, in a
research note today. “The decision reflects the government’s
long-standing bias in favor of growth over stability, which
caused the current high inflation and trade deficits in the
first place.”  Inflation by the end of next year may now reach 10.1
percent, up from Credit Suisse’s previous end-2012 forecast of
8.7 percent, the Swiss bank predicted. Inflation at the end of
2011 will probably be about 16 percent, according to Credit
Suisse, which didn’t change its previous forecast for this
year’s pace of price increases.  ‘Policy Reversal’  The repurchase rate may now fall to 12 percent by year-end,
instead of increasing to 16 percent as Credit Suisse previously
anticipated, the bank said.  “ Monetary policy  works with a lag,” Santitarn wrote.
“The impact of this policy reversal should be visible in the
growth and inflation data next year.”  Vietnamese economic growth may accelerate to 6.2 percent
next year from 5.8 percent this year, Credit Suisse said. The
country’s gross domestic product expanded 6.8 percent in 2010.
The economy grew 5.57 percent in the first half this year, down
from 6.18 percent in the first half of 2010, the General
Statistics Office in Hanoi said on June 29. Growth in the second
quarter alone was 5.67 percent.  “The latest round of macro indicators, including second-
quarter gross domestic product, already pointed to early signs
of a demand slowdown,” Santitarn wrote. “It is premature to
conclude from these data that the tightening measures have
worked and hence justify the rate cut, especially when inflation
is yet to peak.”  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editor: Tony Jordan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  