-- 
Two-Year Treasury Yield Near Highest in a Week Before Labor Market Data

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-08T10:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/two-year-treasury-yield-near-one-week-high-before-u-s-labor-market-data.html
Treasury two-year note yields reached
the highest in a week as economists said a government report
today will show employment growth quickened in June.  Treasuries pared an earlier decline amid concern the euro-
region sovereign-debt crisis may be worsening. U.S. employers
added 105,000 jobs in June after an increase of 54,000 in May,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the Labor Department report. The  unemployment
rate  held at 9.1 percent, another survey projected. Companies
hired 157,000 workers in June, after adding 36,000 the prior
month, the ADP National Employment Report showed yesterday.  “The market’s waiting for the non-farm payrolls data,”
said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London. “There’s an expectation that the
number could be better than consensus after yesterday’s ADP
numbers. The market is vulnerable to upside data surprises and
that could push yields higher.”  U.S. two-year yields were little changed at 0.47 percent as
of 6:51 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices, after reaching 0.48 percent earlier, the most since July
1. The 0.375 percent security due in June 2013 traded at 99
26/32. The rate climbed five basis points yesterday. The five-
year note yield was also little changed at 1.73 percent after
rising seven basis points yesterday.  Euro-Region Debt  Italian bonds slid for a fifth straight day, pushing yields
to a nine-year high, as contagion from  Greece ’s fiscal crisis
intensified in the region’s biggest government-debt market.
Spanish, Irish and Greek bonds also fell.  “Peripheral euro-government bonds have weakened and that’s
given support to the core markets, such as Treasuries and
bunds,” Wand said.  Treasury 10-year note futures rose, with the contract
expiring in September gaining 2/32 to 122 17/32.  Demand for higher-yielding assets buoyed company bonds and
stocks over Treasuries as Deutsche Bank AG raised its forecast
for today’s report, after ADP Employer Services said U.S.
employers hired more workers than economists forecast. An index
of U.S. corporate bonds yielded 2.45 percentage points more than
Treasuries, the least in a month.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose for the ninth day
in 10, gaining as much as 0.4 percent, while futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent.  Raised Forecast  Deutsche Bank economists led by Joseph A. LaVorgna in New
York raised their forecast for today’s jobs gain to 175,000 from
100,000. Unemployment will drop to 9 percent, Deutsche Bank, one
of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade directly with the
 Federal Reserve , said in a report yesterday.  The 10-year note yield will rise to 3.5 percent by year-
end, Deutsche Bank forecast.  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
widened to 2.15 percentage points, the most since May 19, before
paring to 2.11 percentage points.  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.46 percent in
the past month, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Thirty-year securities, those most vulnerable to inflation,
dropped 1.35 percent. U.S. corporate bonds fell 0.33 percent,
the indexes show.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks had a total
return of 3.9 percent since June 8, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Treasuries Volatility  Investors should favor stocks over bonds, said Sungjin Park, Seoul-based chief investment officer for the fixed-income
division at Samsung Asset Management Co.,  South Korea ’s largest
private debt investor. The Fed will hold  interest rates  at
current levels, limiting movement in Treasuries, he said.  “That will keep volatility in the fixed-income market low
but it will help the equity market,” said Park, who oversees
the equivalent of $58.5 billion in debt.  The Merrill Option Volatility Estimate, which gauges price
swings in the Treasury market, fell to 90.40 from 110.40 at the
end of last year.  The Fed has held its target for overnight bank lending in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The central
bank completed a $600 billion bond-purchase program in June.  Investors should bet the spread between five- and 30-year
yields will widen as President  Barack Obama  tries to get
Congress to lift the federal borrowing limit, Barclays Capital
Inc., another primary dealer, said in a report today. The
Treasury has said it has until Aug. 2 before its ability to pay
the debt expires.  Debt Limit  If there is no agreement by then,  government spending  will
have to be cut,  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , head of U.S. fixed-income and
securitized-products strategy, wrote in the report. Investors
will reduce expectations for the Fed to raise rates, supporting
notes, while uncertainty over the fiscal situation will boost
longer-maturity yields, he wrote.  Longer bonds probably won’t gain much until the longer-term
issue of funding Medicare and Social Security is resolved, the
report said.  Thirty-year bonds yielded 2.63 percentage points more than
five-year notes, compared with the five-year average of 1.50
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  