-- 
Tyne Daly’s Fierce Callas Ignites ‘Master Class’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/tyne-daly-s-fierce-callas-ignites-scorching-master-class-jeremy-gerard.html
Terrence McNally’s funny, reverential
and wholly engrossing “ Master Class ” brings us all too briefly
into the distinctive orbit of  Maria Callas  in the twilight of
her career, when the soprano called La Divina critiqued young
singers before invited audiences of opera students.  And as the play recreates a master class in singing, so
Tyne Daly as the singer offers a master class in technique to
inspire any acting student or colleague.  This extraordinary actress -- probably still best known to
TV audiences as detective Mary Beth Lacey in the 1980s series
“Cagney & Lacey” -- bears no resemblance either to Callas or
to Zoe Caldwell, who originated the role in 1995.  And yet under Stephen Wadsworth’s finely detailed direction
(note the exquisite calibration of her every move about the
stage, as if it was a chess board and she the Queen) Daly
captures Callas’s spirit and fire, her carriage, and learned
hauteur. Most eerily, she nails Callas’s speaking voice.  Assisted by makeup and an elegantly formal black pantsuit,
she brings the diva to fiery life as two young sopranos and a
tenor subject themselves to her sometimes humiliating scrutiny.  Giving Notes  First is Sophie De Palma (Alexandra Silber), so clueless on
stage that Callas treats her like an idiot. Next is tenor
Anthony Candolino (Garrett Sorenson), whose indifference to
textual analysis fails to dull a native talent that leaves the
teacher speechless.  Finally there is Sharon Graham, who arrives sheathed in
evening wear and attitude. Played by Sierra Boggess with go-for-
broke brazenness, Sharon pushes back, matching Callas blow for
cruel blow.  McNally fills the interstices of the action with flashbacks
to Callas’s life in  Greece  during WWII and her tempestuous
affair with Aristotle Onassis.  “That’s who I am! This voice,” Callas exclaims after
listening to an old recording of herself singing the “Letter”
aria in Verdi’s “Macbeth.”  Well, that is who she was, as we learn from a playwright
who knows whereof he speaks and from Daly’s triumphant portrayal
of her.  At the Friedman Theatre, 261 W. 47th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 