-- 
Yuan Forwards Drop on Signs of China Slowdown, U.S. Jobs Data

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-11T09:24:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/yuan-forwards-gain-before-data-likely-to-show-faster-inflation.html
Yuan forwards declined the most in
three weeks on signs economic growth in  China  is slowing and a
recovery in the U.S. is losing momentum, deterring policy makers
from allowing appreciation that may hurt exports.  China’s trade surplus widened more than economists forecast
to $22.3 billion in June, as imports increased at the slowest
pace since 2009, official data showed yesterday. A government
report this week will show  Asia ’s largest economy grew 9.3
percent last quarter, the least in almost two years, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Emerging-market
currencies fell against the greenback after U.S. payrolls
recorded their smallest increase in nine months in June.  “In such a risk-off environment, I expect little
appreciation of the yuan this week,” said  Tim Condon , head of
research for Asia at ING Groep NV in  Singapore . “The trade
surplus figure is showing a weak domestic demand story in China
given the recent monetary tightening measures.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped 0.2 percent
to 6.3975 per dollar as of 5:21 p.m. in Hong Kong. The contracts
were trading at a 1.1 percent premium to the onshore spot rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan weakened 0.03 percent to close at 6.4671 in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency touched 6.4599 on July 4, the strongest level since
the country unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.1
percent to 6.4650.  Reference Rate  The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference
rate 0.01 percent weaker at 6.4709 per dollar today. The
currency isn’t allowed to trade more than 0.5 percent on either
side of the fixing.  China’s inflation reached 6.4 percent in June, the fastest
pace in three years, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
July 9. Consumer prices may rise 4.8 percent this year, People’s
Bank of China adviser  Li Daokui  said, according to a headline
from state-run Xinhua News Agency today. Ba Shusong, a
researcher at the State Council’s Development Research Center,
said inflation may fall to about 4 percent in the fourth quarter,
the People’s Daily reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  