-- ‘Resident Evil’ Top Weekend Film With $21.1 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-09-17T20:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/-resident-evil-tops-weekend-films-with-sales-of-21-1-million.html
“Resident Evil: Retribution,” the
fifth installment in the zombie-invasion franchise, made its
debut as the top film at U.S. and Canadian theaters with $21.1
million in sales for  Sony Corp. (6758)   “Finding Nemo 3D,” a re-release of the 2003 animated hit,
opened in second place, taking in $16.7 million for  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) , researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  “Resident Evil: Retribution” stars Milla Jovovich as
Alice, a skilled warrior who battles zombies and the powerful
corporation that created them. The first four films have
generated $675.8 million in global ticket sales. This
incarnation of the movie met a weekend estimate of $21 million
from Boxoffice.com. The movie co-stars  Michelle Rodriguez  and
was directed by Jovovich’s husband, Paul W.S. Anderson.  “It’s a point in the calendar when there’s not much
happening,” in terms of big box-office generators, said  Paul
Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “Studios are
gearing up for their holiday releases.”  “Finding Nemo 3D” is the fifth release in Disney’s plan
to re-issue classic films in a three-dimensional format. In
September of last year, a 3-D version of “The  Lion King ”
opened in first place with $30.2 million and went on to generate
$94.2 million in domestic sales. Other films converted to 3-D
include two “Toy Story” movies and “Beauty and the Beast.”  ‘The Possession’  “Finding Nemo 3D” was expected to have opening-weekend
sales of $30 million and a total domestic take of $85 million,
according to  Boxoffice.com , an industry website.  “It did so well in the home entertainment market that
maybe it’s a bit played out,” said Sweeney. “Disney will be
disappointed, but these redos tend to do well internationally,”
he added.  The horror film “The Possession” was third with sales of
$5.8 million, according to Hollywood.com.  The movie, from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , draws on
Jewish folklore for the malevolent spirit that inhabits the body
of a young girl. The son of a Hasidic rabbi takes on the task of
freeing the child from the spirit, known as a dybbuk. The movie
features Jeffrey Dean Morgan and  Kyra Sedgwick .  The Prohibition-era crime story “Lawless,” from Weinstein
Co., was fourth with $4.3 million. Based on the true story of
Depression-era moonshiners, the film features  Tom Hardy ,  Shia LaBeouf  and Jessica Chastain. The story is taken from the book
“The Wettest County in the World” and has pulled in $30.3
million since its debut.  ‘Expendables’  Sylvester Stallone’s “The Expendables 2,” also from  Lions
Gate , had sales of $3.1 million to finish fifth in its fifth
week of release. The picture, a follow-up to the 2010 hit, has
taken in $80.4 million since Aug. 17.  Opening in limited release, “The Master,” director Paul
Thomas Anderson’s tale of a troubled World War II veteran who is
ensnared by a cult, took in $736,311 playing in five locations,
producing the highest per-theater opening for a non-animated
film, according to Hollywood.com.  The film stars Joaquin Phoenix as a veteran struggling to
adapt to peacetime life and Philip Seymour Hoffman as the
charismatic leader of a spiritual movement. The movie, from
Weinstein, has attracted attention because of comparisons
between Hoffman’s character and Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 20 percent to $69
million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 3 percent to $7.8
billion, with attendance up 1.8 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Sept. 14 through Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  