-- Harry Reid Has a Glass-House Quandary on Taxes
-- B y   D o r o t h y   A .   B r o w n
-- 2012-09-16T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/harry-reid-has-a-glass-house-quandary-on-taxes.html
Would you want your tax returns
made public? The good news is that federal law prohibits the
U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  from releasing them. The bad news
is that it is also generally illegal to make anyone else’s
returns public, too.  Democrats, including Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
continue to make much of the refusal of  Mitt Romney , the
Republican presidential nominee, to release more than two years’
worth of tax returns. It is all a red herring. The key to
bringing fairness to our tax laws would be for all  535 members 
of Congress -- including Reid -- to release their returns.  One thing that congressional tax records can tell us is how
many members of the House and Senate benefit from the tax breaks
they enact. To take one example, if you own stock outside of
your retirement account, then you are eligible for the
preferential rate of 15 percent. But if your income is mostly
from wages or from the amounts drawn from your retirement
account, then your tax rate can be as high as 35 percent. While
fewer than  one  in five Americans have incomes eligible for the
15 percent rate, almost nine in 10 senators do.  This information isn’t easy to obtain. I had to go through
every senator’s financial-aid disclosure form found on
 OpenSecrets.org  and check for stock ownership that wasn’t in
retirement accounts. It was a painstaking process, which may
understate things because assets owned by members of Congress
that are held in blind trusts aren’t required to be included in
their financial-disclosure forms.  Lower Rate  You shouldn’t have to trust my survey. The tax returns
should be made public so we can all see how often the
legislators actually benefit from the 15 percent rate.  The reason so few Americans can benefit from this lower
rate is because most of them don’t own stock, or don’t own it in
the right way. About half of all Americans don’t own any stock.
Of the half who do, more than two-thirds own it in their
retirement accounts, which are ineligible for the 15 percent
rate. One reform idea, which was  included  in the Simpson-Bowles
commission report in late 2010, is to tax wage and stock income
at the same level, which would mean lowering the 35 percent rate
while raising the 15 percent rate.  That change would have a negative impact on senators’
wallets, but it would be positive for middle-class Americans.
Does tax-return privacy keep us from getting meaningful reform?  The argument for the low 15 percent rate is that it spurs
investment, encourages savings, creates jobs and promotes
economic growth. How has that been working for us lately? In
reality, U.S.  laws  encourage only certain types of savings. If I
buy stock, I am eligible for the 15 percent rate, but if I put
my money in a savings account, I am not. According to estimates
in a  Joint Committee on Taxation  report, $90 billion of revenue
will be lost for 2013 because of the 15 percent rate that less
than 20 percent of Americans will benefit from.  Some will argue that even if there should be one rate for
wages and capital gains, now is not the time to make that
change. According to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities ,
when tax rates on high incomes were cut in 1981, the economy
grew at about the same pace as it did in 1990 and 1993, when tax
rates on high incomes were raised (adjusted for inflation and
 population growth ). What is more telling, however, is that
government revenue grew about twice as fast when tax rates were
higher in the 1990s than in the 1980s when they were lower.  Legislators’ Inaction  No member  of Congress -- Democrat or Republican -- has ever
introduced the Simpson-Bowles proposal that I described. The
Democratic platform says the party wants a  tax code  that is
fairer and simpler. Yet when the Democrats controlled both
houses of Congress and the White House,  tax reform  was not
forthcoming.  Democrats and Republicans in Congress do nothing to make
our laws fairer for the average taxpayer. If the lawmakers were
required to release their returns, would they be more likely to
take action? The next step is up to you. The American public
must demand not only Romney’s tax records, but the returns of
each senator and representative. When members of Congress
understand that in order to keep their jobs they must put the
financial interests of their constituents above their own, we
will get the type of tax system that we deserve.  (Dorothy A. Brown is a  professor  of tax law at  Emory
University  in Atlanta. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the mad  expansion of
occupational licensing , on  India’s bold reforms  and on
 Istanbul’s potential  to be a financial hub;  Albert R. Hunt  on
Mitt  Romney’s tax plan ;  Simon Johnson  on  Deutsche Bank and the
German taxpayer ;  Virginia Postrel  on  middle-class job security .  To contact the writer of this article:
Dorothy A. Brown at  dabrow7@emory.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  