-- Aussie Drops From Near 6-Month High on Europe Concern
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-17T07:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/aussie-trades-near-6-month-high-on-global-stock-gains.html
The Australian dollar declined from
near its strongest level in almost six months as concern
European leaders are struggling to find agreement on debt-crisis
solutions curbed demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie slid versus most of its 16 major
counterparts before Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  travels
to  Rome  for talks with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  this
week. Australia’s currency and its New Zealand counterpart fell
against the yen amid escalating tensions between Japan and
 China , Asia’s biggest economies, over the ownership of disputed
islands.  “The plans are laid in Europe, but the actual
implementation will be the challenge,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “Geopolitical
tensions between China and Japan will not be good for the
economy and trade. There’s room for selling the Aussie back
again.”  Australia’s dollar lost 0.2 percent to $1.0527 as of 5:05
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0551 on Sept. 14, when it rose to
$1.0625, the highest since March 20. It fell 0.3 percent to
82.45 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to 82.84 U.S.
cents from last week, when it touched 83.54, the strongest since
March 2. The so-called kiwi traded at 64.89 yen, 0.2 percent
below its 64.98 closing price on Sept. 14.  Australian bonds  fell, pushing the 10-year yield up 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 3.43 percent. That’s
the biggest one-day rise in the rate since July 27. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, rose 4 basis points to 2.78 percent.  Meeting Deadlock  A meeting of European Union finance ministers last week in
the Cypriot capital of Nicosia deadlocked over the timetable for
a more unified European Union banking sector. The ministers also
disagreed over the terms of bailout requests and the role of the
 European Central Bank .  Spain’s Rajoy will meet Italy’s Monti on Sept. 21. The
following day, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will hold talks
with French President  Francois Hollande  at a commemoration in
Ludwigsburg, Germany.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia today released information on
the composition of other central banks’ foreign-exchange
reserves in response to a Bloomberg News  request  under the
Freedom of Information Act. Fifteen national central banks hold
Australian dollar reserves -- including Sweden, Switzerland,
Russia, Poland and Korea -- while eight others possibly do, the
RBA said.  ‘Major Beneficiary’  “Central banks have been diversifying not only out of the
 U.S. dollar , but also out of core foreign-exchange reserve
allocations into so-called ‘other’ currencies,” Callum Henderson, Singapore-based global head of currency research at
 Standard Chartered  Plc, said after the data was released. “The
Australian dollar has been a major beneficiary of this flow.”  Standard Chartered raised its year-end forecast for the
Australian dollar to $1.07 from a previous prediction of $1.05,
according to a research note e-mailed to clients today.  The Aussie has weakened 2.1 percent in the past month, the
biggest drop after the U.S. dollar among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
New Zealand’s dollar lost 0.4 percent.  Territorial Dispute  The South Pacific currencies slid as a territorial dispute
between China and Japan worsened, with Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  saying he’ll demand the Chinese government ensure the
safety of Japanese citizens amid protests in a dozen cities
including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou.  Demonstrators called for Chinese sovereignty over disputed
islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, and
the boycott of Japanese goods. Tensions escalated after Noda’s
government said last week it would purchase the territory from a
private Japanese owner, prompting China to dispatch government
vessels near the area. China is Australia’s largest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  The U.S. will announce a trade complaint against China
today, alleging impermissible subsidies of auto- and auto-parts
exports, according to an Obama administration official who asked
to speak on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  