-- Australia to Control Spending to Reach Budget Surplus, Swan Says
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-09-16T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/australia-will-control-spending-to-return-to-surplus-swan-says.html
Australia  will focus spending on
vital services such as education while cutting expenditure in
order to return the budget to surplus this fiscal year,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  The government made more than A$130 billion ($137 billion)
in savings over the past five budget periods and measures such
as reducing private health insurance rebates for high income
earners would enable it to reach the goal of a surplus,
Treasurer Wayne Swan said yesterday in his weekly economic note.  The Australian government in May revealed a budget that
aims to cut spending for the first time in at least 42 years as
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  seeks to end four years of deficits,
a move that would give the central bank flexibility to lower
 interest rates  to boost growth.  “We’ll need to continue to find savings to deliver on our
priorities in areas like education and disability reform,” Swan
wrote. “Governments need to tighten their own belts as well.
That’s why we’ve taken a methodical approach to finding savings
across the public service.”  Australia’s economy advanced 3.7 percent from a year
earlier last quarter, the strongest annual pace since 2007 after
a revised 4.4 percent growth in the first quarter, according to
the Bureau of Statistics report on Sept. 5.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut rates
in May and June to buttress consumption as an elevated currency
extended a slump in manufacturing and services.  Government spending  rose 1.6 percent in the second quarter,
adding 0.3 percentage point to GDP growth, and household
consumption advanced 0.6 percent last quarter, also adding 0.3
point to the expansion, the Sept. 5 report showed.  Spending Discipline  “Our spending discipline is well demonstrated by the fact
that we’ve been able to make room for our priorities and put the
budget on track for surplus this year, while also keeping taxes
low,” Swan said. Commonwealth taxes are estimated to make up
22.1 percent of GDP this year, down from the record high of 24.2
percent set in the middle of last decade, he said.  The government has no plans to increase the  sales tax  on
goods and services, Gillard told reporters yesterday.  Swan also said the Federal Reserves’ plan to support growth
and jobs in the U.S. and a constitutional court’s ruling in
Germany backing Europe’s bailout fund to combat the region’s
debt crisis should provide “much needed” support to confidence
in the near term.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Sept. 13 that the
central bank will buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities
a month, without a limit on the total or duration. The Fed also
extended its near-zero interest rate policy until 2015 and said
it will stay accommodative “for a considerable time” even
after the economy strengthens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  