-- Most Asian Stocks Outside Japan Gain; China Shares Slide
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-17T10:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/australian-stock-futures-rise-as-fed-move-buoys-equities.html
Most Asian  stocks  outside  Japan  and
China rose, led by mining companies, amid speculation U.S.
stimulus measures will boost global demand. Shares in  Shanghai 
and  Hong Kong  retreated as Citigroup Inc. cut its 2013 growth
outlook for China.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
climbed 2.5 percent in Sydney as rising metals prices boosted
raw-material companies. An index of Hong Kong property companies
slipped after the city introduced measures to counter price
gains caused by Federal Reserve easing. Some Chinese car sellers
dropped as anti-Japan protests turned violent over the weekend.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index climbed 0.2
percent to 442.41 as of 6:46 p.m. in Hong Kong, headed for its
highest closing level since May 2. Chinese shares fell as
Citigroup cut its 2013 economic forecast for the country on
weaker external demand. Equity markets in Japan are closed for a
public holiday.  “Over the longer term we’re still optimistic,” Steve
Brice, Singapore-based chief investment strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc, said on Bloomberg Television. “Equity markets
are the best asset class out there at the moment. But we do
believe we’re a little bit over-extended in the short term.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan index (MXAPJ)  surged last
week after the Fed said it will conduct open-ended purchases of
$40 billion of mortgage debt a month and pledged to keep federal
fund rates near zero “at least through mid-2015.”  Relative Valuation  The Asian benchmark rose 12 percent this year through Sept.
14, compared with a 17 percent gain on the  S&P 500  and a 13
percent advance for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index amid speculation
central banks around the world will step up measures to promote
economic growth. The Asian benchmark trades at 12.5 times
estimated earnings, compared with 14.2 for the S&P 500 and 12.3
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Materials and energy producers led gains among Asia-Pacific
shares today. The Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Materials Index
has risen seven of the past eight days.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  climbed 0.3 percent. The
Kospi index slipped 0.3 percent in  Seoul  today as  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s biggest company by market value,
fell 1.6 percent after a judge ruled Apple Inc. didn’t violate
Samsung’s patent rights.  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 2.1 percent while a
measure of Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong retreated 0.5
percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.1 percent after
falling as much as 0.2 percent.  China’s economic expansion will surpass the 7.5 percent
growth target set earlier this year, Xinhua News Agency reported
on Sept. 15, citing Fan Jianping, director of the Economic
Projection Department with the State Information Center.  U.S. Criticized  “We think Fed’s action could aversely impact China’s bias
to ease, at the margin,”  Citigroup Global Markets Asia-Pacific
Chief Economist Johanna Chua wrote in a report dated today. “We
think this has marginally reduced the odds of easing for a
number of countries largely due to rising inflation
expectations, especially among central banks that have been
somewhat neutral to hawkish.”  China  Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer,
slumped 3.4 percent to HK$17, while Shimao Property Holdings
Ltd., a developer that gets all its revenue from China,
retreated 2.4 percent to HK$13.12.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said on Sept. 14 that the
maximum term on all new mortgages cannot exceed 30 years and
also ruled that mortgage payments for investment properties
can’t be more than 40 percent of buyers’ monthly incomes.  China’s former banking chief called the Fed’s third round
of quantitative easing “irresponsible,” while an official at
the regulator said the stimulus won’t provide sustained support
to the  U.S. economy .  ‘Irresponsible’  “It’s irresponsible to the U.S., and also irresponsible to
us,”  Liu Mingkang , former chairman of the China Banking
Regulatory Commission, told  Bloomberg News  at a conference in
Beijing on Sept. 15. He declined to elaborate. The measures are
more likely to boost growth “for a period” of time than
provide longer-term support, Yan Qingmin, assistant chairman of
the CBRC, said Sept. 15.  BHP Billiton  rose 2.5 percent to A$34.15. Rio Tinto Group
gained 1.6 percent to A$57.50.  The  London Metals Exchange (LMEX)  of industrial metals gained 4.3
percent on Sept. 14. That was the biggest one-day advance since
November 30, when China began loosening monetary policy with its
first reduction in banks’ reserve ratio requirements since 2008.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials climbed
1.1 percent.  Heightened Tensions  Dongfeng Motor Group Ltd. slid 7 percent to HK$9.62.
Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., the Chinese partner of Toyota
Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co., lost 4.6 percent to HK$5.46 on
concern the carmaker will suffer as China boycotts Japanese
cars. A joint venture with Toyota and Honda accounts for the
majority of  Guangzhou Auto ’s total sales, Liang Yonghuo, an
analyst at Haitong International Securities Group Ltd., wrote in
a note.  Tensions between China and Japan escalated over the
weekend. Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government
said last week it would purchase disputed islands from their
private Japanese owner, prompting China to dispatch government
vessels near the islands.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The benchmark for U.S. equities ended last week at the
highest level since Dec. 31, 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  