-- Australia Fixed Home Rates Fall Below Floating: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-09-17T04:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/australia-fixed-home-rates-fall-below-floating-mortgages.html
Australia ’s biggest banks, taking
advantage of cheaper funding, are trying to lure home buyers
with fixed-rate mortgages after the central bank’s reduction of
its  benchmark  failed to boost the housing market.  Floating-rate loans account for about 90 percent of
Australian mortgages, so the  Reserve Bank ’s reduction of its
benchmark by 1.25 percentage points to 3.5 percent between
November and June provided homeowners with almost immediate
benefits. The cuts did little to stimulate home sales because of
concerns that slowing economic growth would drag down property
prices. Loan approvals unexpectedly fell in July by the most in
five months.  Australia’s long-term borrowing costs are the cheapest in
the developed world relative to short-term, a situation known as
an inverted yield curve, as bond investors bet the central bank
will cut its benchmark rate by another 73 basis points in the
next year to stimulate the flagging economy. That allows lenders
such as Commonwealth Bank of Australia to lower fixed rates to
near decade-lows in an effort to revive the nation’s slowest
lending growth since records begin in 1977.  “We have a Nike swoosh, so to speak, of a yield curve,”
said Jarrod Kerr, director of Australian rates strategy at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . For the banks, the cheaper
fixed-term mortgages are “another way of competing and trying
to get business; it’s passing on these lower prices to
customers.”  Commonwealth Bank (CBA) , the biggest lender, is offering four-and
five-year loans at 6.14 percent, the lowest in more than nine
years. That compares with 6.8 percent on its standard variable-
rate loans.  More Fixed  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the second-biggest, cut its one-year
rate to 5.69 percent, the lowest since September 2009. Members
Equity Bank Pty. is offering the cheapest one-year and three-
year loans since it became a bank in 2001. In the U.S., 30-year
mortgages  cost  about 3.55 percent.  Westpac has seen an increase in customers shifting to
fixed-rate mortgages since it started offering the cheaper
rates, said spokesman Danny John.  “It’s a very competitive market and therefore we are
pricing competitively,” he said.  Banks are fighting for a smaller pool of new borrowers,
with the annual growth of outstanding home loans falling to the
slowest pace since at least 1977 as Australians repay debt and
boost savings. The  annual rate  was 4.9 percent as of July,
compared with 14 percent in 2006, central bank data show.  Australia’s economy slowed last quarter on weaker housing
and rising imports, a government report showed Sept. 5. Gross
domestic product advanced 0.6 percent from the previous three
months, when it rose a revised 1.4 percent.  Sliding Prices  House prices  in Australia’s eight state and territory
capital cities were little changed last month and fell 2.4
percent in the year to Aug. 31, according to a report from RP
Data Ltd. and Rismark International.  Australian fixed-rate mortgages revert to a floating rate
after the initial period, making them different from loans in
countries such as the U.S. where the rate is locked for the
entire term, said Vera Chaplin, a Melbourne-based managing
director of structured finance at  Standard & Poor’s .  “Fixed-rate loans can offer payment stability to borrowers
and on the other hand at the end of the fixed-rate period,
borrowers may also experience payment-shock if interest rates
increase significantly,” she said. “From a credit perspective,
we don’t differentiate them too much.”  Top-ranking Australian RMBS would mostly maintain their AAA
credit scores even if  home prices  were to fall 35 percent,
unemployment to reach 11 percent and variable interest rates to
increase to 12 percent, according to a Fitch Ratings report last
month. Some 97.2 percent of the rankings would remain unchanged
under that scenario, the report said.  RMBS Sales  Australian offerings of residential mortgage-backed
securities climbed to A$3.2 billion ($3.4 billion) in August,
the most since October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ME Bank priced A$800 million of mortgage-backed bonds on
Sept. 13, paying 135 basis points more than the bank bill swap
rate on the main class of notes. That’s the smallest margin paid
by any Australian lender this year on comparable securities, the
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “RMBS is largely a defensive asset class and is becoming
relatively more attractive with the general grind in on
corporate yields,” said Justin Davey, a Sydney-based asset
manager at  BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT) , which oversees the
equivalent of $13 billion. “From an asset quality perspective
RMBS has continued to perform.”  QE3  Top-rated Australian RMBS have never defaulted. Arrears
fell to a seven-month low of 1.5 percent in June, compared with
7.6 percent in the U.S., S&P and Bloomberg data show.  Australia’s central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total
of 50 basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points
in May and June to help shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and slower growth in  China . It held the rate at 3.5
percent, the highest among major developed economies, at the
past three meetings.  Lenders didn’t pass on all of those cuts to borrowers with
variable-rate loans, blaming higher funding costs to attract
deposits.  “Households remain cautious when it comes to acquiring new
debt, which likely stems from the less-than-complete  interest
rate  pass through by the major banks in May and June,” said
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Tom Kennedy this month after
housing finance data missed analysts’ forecasts.  Purchase Loans  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments in July declined 1 percent from June, when they rose
a revised 1 percent, the statistics bureau said Sept. 10. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists was
for approvals to be unchanged. The report showed the total value
of loans fell 1.8 percent to A$20.1 billion.  The rate on Australian two-year  interest-rate swaps , a
gauge of interest rate expectations, is the least relative to
three-month bills among 15 developed markets with comparable
securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Australian two-year swaps yield 3.2 percent, compared
to 3.53 percent on the shorter-term debt.  Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, says expectations for more rate cuts in
Australia may come to fruition as China slows and the currency’s
resilience to a decline in commodity prices hurts growth.  “We believe China’s economic rebalancing will be much less
supportive for the Australian economy,” said  Robert Mead ,
Sydney-based head of  portfolio management  at Pimco. “Either the
Aussie has to weaken or the RBA will be required to ease policy
further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 