-- Bullish Wagers at 16-Month High as Citi Sees Gains: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-09-17T21:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/bullish-wagers-at-16-month-high-as-citi-sees-gains-commodities.html
Bullish commodity wagers rose to a
16-month high just before the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge for more
stimulus drove prices to a seventh weekly advance and banks from
HSBC Holdings Plc to Citigroup Inc. forecast more gains.  Hedge funds  and other speculators lifted their net-long
 positions  across 18 U.S. futures and options by 0.3 percent to
1.33 million contracts in the week ended Sept. 11, the most
since May 2011, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. Copper holdings surged 25-fold to 17,509 contracts, the
biggest gain on record. Gold bets climbed to the highest since
Feb. 28, and silver wagers advanced for a seventh week.  More than $1.4 trillion was added to the value of global
equities last week after the Fed announced a third round of bond
buying on Sept. 13 to revive growth. Inflation expectations
measured by the break-even  rate  for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities surged to the highest since May 2011. HSBC
recommended investors increase their allocation to raw materials
on Sept. 12. The U.S. stimulus plan came a week after  China  and
 Europe  also announced stimulus measures.  “People will see commodities as something they want to
hold, because they see these moves as inflationary,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage about C$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion)
at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. “It’s
hugely bullish in the short run, now that all of the central
banks seem to be singing from the same hymnal.”  Longest Rally  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
rose 2.6 percent last week, capping the longest run of weekly
gains since October 2010. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities jumped 2.9 percent, the most since January. The dollar
slumped 1.8 percent against a measure of six major trading
partners. Treasuries lost 0.9 percent, a Bank of America Corp.
index showed.  Twenty of the 24 raw materials tracked by S&P advanced last
week. Coffee surged 11 percent, the most since January 2006.
Natural gas jumped 9.7 percent, the biggest gain since May.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to bring down an
 unemployment rate  stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. The
central bank said it will make open-ended purchases of $40
billion of mortgage debt a month and hold the benchmark  interest
rate  near zero at least through mid-2015. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said Sept. 6 that policy makers agreed to
an unlimited bond-purchase program, the same week in which China
approved a $158 billion subways-to-roads construction plan.  ‘Supply Shocks’  Commodities will keep rising because of global stimulus
actions and “possible supply shocks,” according to Fredrik Nerbrand, HSBC’s global head of  asset allocation . The Fed’s plan
for a third round of debt buying, known as quantitative easing,
has “accelerated the momentum” for raw materials, Nannette Hechler-Fayd’herbe, Credit Suisse Group’s head of global
financial markets research, said in a report Sept. 14. Prices
will rise into the fourth quarter, Citigroup analysts led by
Heath Jansen said in a report the same day.  The Fed’s plan won’t do enough to restore economic growth,
according to James Dailey, who manages $215 million at TEAM
Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  U.S. industrial production shrank last month by the most
since March 2009, Fed figures showed Sept. 14. Manufacturing
shrank for a third month in August, the longest decline since
the recession ended in 2009, a report from the Tempe, Arizona-
based  Institute for Supply Management  showed Sept. 4.  China Slowing  China’s industrial output in August grew at the slowest
pace in three years, the National Bureau of Statistics said
Sept. 9, and imports unexpectedly fell, the customs bureau said
the next day. The country is the world’s biggest consumer of
metals and energy. The U.S., the biggest economy, is the top
user of corn and crude oil.  The Fed “may be able to change the course of the Titanic
by a little bit, but it can’t keep it from hitting the
iceberg,” Dailey said. “The hope is that we not only get
inflation, but that the policies will actually work in helping
the economy. But the data continues to disappoint. It’s not
clear how this policy would lead to better jobs numbers.”  Investors added $1.77 billion to raw-material funds in the
week ended Sept. 12, the most in 32 weeks, according to EPFR
Global. Precious metals accounted for $924 million of the
inflows, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said.  Bull Market  The S&P GSCI has jumped 25 percent since reaching this
year’s low on June 22, driving the gauge into a  bull market  in
the fastest turnaround since the depths of the financial crisis
four years ago. The measure surged 92 percent from the end of
2008 through June 2011 as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt
in the first two rounds of quantitative easing and held
borrowing costs at a record low.  Copper investors were the most bullish since early April,
the CFTC data showed. Prices reached a four-month high on Sept.
14 in  New York  as the stimulus plans boosted demand prospects.
Refined production of the metal fell short of consumption by
241,000 metric tons last year, the International Copper Study
Group said last week. Supplies will also trail demand this year
and next, Barclays Plc said in a report Sept. 12.  Gold  bets  jumped 14 percent to 165,724 contracts. Prices in
New York, which climbed to a six-month high of $1,780.20 an
ounce on Sept. 14, closed at $1,770.60 on the Comex today.
Crude-oil holdings rose for a fourth straight week to 203,324
contracts, the longest increase since February. Futures rose
above $100 a barrel last week for the first time since May.  Platinum wagers climbed 11 percent to 24,205 contracts, the
highest since May 2011. Futures rose for 10 straight sessions in
New York before falling today. South African workers at a  Lonmin
Plc (LMI)  mine and nearby operations of  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,
the biggest producer, are holding protests over pay.  “The Fed statement does change things,” said  Jack Ablin ,
who helps oversee about $60 billion of assets as chief
investment officer of BMO Private Bank in  Chicago . “It really
shows the Fed’s unwavering desire to inflate asset prices, and
commodities will certainly be part of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  