-- Case Against More Job Security? It’s Academic
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-09-16T22:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/case-against-more-job-security-it-s-academic.html
In the U.S., “middle class” is not
just an income category. It’s a cultural norm.  That is why people get upset when they  read reports  that
the middle class’s share of total income is shrinking. And it is
one reason we get into such vicious debates about what it means
not to raise taxes on the middle class. Almost all of us believe
we should be among the exempt.  A recent  Pew Research Center survey  asked people to
classify themselves as upper class, upper-middle class, middle
class, lower-middle class or lower class. The results were
nothing like the neat income quintiles that economists and
Census Bureau reports use. Forty-nine percent called themselves
middle class, 15 percent upper-middle class, and 25 percent
lower-middle class. With a few gradations, in other words, 89
percent of Americans identify with the middle class.  Politicians want to make sure everybody has a chance to be
middle class -- and, equally important, that all people who
think of themselves that way feel appreciated and protected. So
if a middle-class lifestyle includes owning a home or going to
college, policy entrepreneurs find a ready audience for ideas
designed to make those goals easier to obtain -- with results
that are, at best, mixed.  Secure Jobs  Here, another result from the Pew survey suggests potential
dangers ahead.  The poll asked whether Americans need certain things to be
considered middle class. Forty-five percent of respondents said
it is necessary to own a home, 37 percent said you must have a
college education, 66 percent said you need health insurance --
the most recent focus of expansive public policy. A whopping 86
percent said you have to have “a secure job.”  Not “steady work” or “a reliable income” but “a secure
job.”  Working for a living has long defined the middle class, as
opposed to rentier aristocrats or the dole-dependent or
profoundly insecure poor. But a lot of other assumptions are
baked into the term “secure job.” It seems to exclude from the
middle class everyone who doesn’t draw a regular paycheck from a
single organization -- the self-employed (about 11 percent of
the workforce), the retired, housewives, students -- as well as
employees on limited-term contracts. As a self-employed writer
who doesn’t have “a job,” let alone a secure one, I found the
word choice striking.  “The wording ‘secure job’ means a steady or stable job,”
says  Wendy Wang , a research associate on Pew’s Social &
Demographic Trends project. A comparable survey in 1991 used the
phrase “white collar job” and not surprisingly drew a much lower
positive response: about 30 percent. Pew researchers decided to
change the wording and, in doing so, picked a term that reflects
the times. “ Job security  is something that the middle class may
be concerned about these days,” Wang says.  That concern represents a significant change since the
onset of the recession. Contrary to many news-media claims, U.S.
employees had enjoyed several decades of rising job security
before the 2008 crisis. In a 2008  American Economic Review
article , economist  Steven J. Davis  of the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business examined many different data
sources and found the same pattern in all of them: “American
workers face lower risks of job loss in recent years than 10,
20, or 30 years earlier.” That security has now disappeared, and
people are anxious.  In  polls since the 2008 financial crisi s, Gallup Inc. has
found that about 30 percent of workers were worried about being
fired or having their wages or hours reduced. Over the previous
decade, the numbers never topped 20 percent and were usually
lower.  Employee Protection  Suppose policy makers decide to follow the polls and try to
guarantee everyone “a secure job” in order to promote the middle
class. If the economy remains sluggish and the public anxious,
it is easy to imagine a turn away from the current focus on  job
creation  toward a new emphasis on job security. This seems
particularly likely in a second  Barack Obama  administration that
would be looking for initiatives that don’t add to federal
spending. We might see regulations, for example, to make it
harder to fire long-term employees. The Obama campaign has
already excoriated Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  for job cuts
when he was at Bain Capital Partners LLC.  To see the potential results of such policies, you don’t
have to look to  Europe ’s persistent unemployment. You just have
to dream a little.  Imagine a career in which once you had worked somewhere for
a long time -- say, seven years -- and you couldn’t be fired
unless you did something really horrible. To make the picture
even more appealing, imagine further that your industry was
largely immune from foreign competition, had been enjoying
increasing consumer demand, was subsidized by the state and
federal governments, and rarely experienced any bankruptcies.  As you have probably realized, this career exists. It’s the
professoriate. But while outsiders imagine higher education as a
sheltered enclave of secure jobs, the actual state of American
faculty members is much more uncertain. Tenure-track employment
is no longer the norm. Part-time work is.  About  30 percent  of faculty members are either tenured or
on the tenure track, compared with about 57 percent in 1975. The
rest are “contingent faculty”: About 19 percent work full time,
usually on contracts lasting one to three years, and more than
half work part time. (These figures omit graduate students who
also teach classes.) Along with a lack of job security,
contingent faculty members receive lower pay and fewer, or no,
benefits. They frequently don’t have offices and may not even
get library cards.  It’s a two-tiered system that depends heavily on people
whose main jobs are doing something else. And it is what you get
when you guarantee permanent employment but need flexibility as
conditions change. How well it works for academia depends on
whom you ask. But it certainly doesn’t deliver secure jobs.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  