-- Cool Wine to Take the Heat From Indian Food: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-09-16T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/cool-wine-to-take-the-heat-from-indian-food-john-mariani.html
Samuel Johnson said, “Claret is
the liquor for boys; port for men; but he who aspires to be a
hero must drink brandy.”  Unfortunately, he neglected to say which one goes best with
Indian food. Of course, back in the 18th century,  London  had no
curry houses of the kind where in the 1960s I could pay one
pound for a full meal, with a bottle of Kingfisher beer for 50
pence.  Years later, while visiting India, I never met anyone who
recommended anything but beer or the yogurt drink lassi to go
with the spicy, often incendiary food of  New Delhi ,  Mumbai , and
Calcutta.  There were no wine lists in the restaurants, and, although
India has made wine for at least two millennia, until recently,
few Indians enjoyed it with their meals.  A prohibition against
wine in the 1950s hurt the industry, which is only now
recovering.  This myopia is now changing among the more affluent
generation in  India ’s big cities, where wine and alcohol are
becoming very much a part of dining out.  “Even two years ago, imported wines were astronomically
 priced  in India,” says Rohini Dey, owner of two Vermilion
restaurants, in  Chicago  and  New York . “Today Mumbai is more
progressive than other places, and they now have a pop culture,
so the young people with money want to try Old World and
California wines.”  Global List  At New York’s Vermilion, the wine list is global and
pricey: a humdrum 2010 Vie Vite Rose that sells in wine store
for $15 costs a whopping $80 here, and a 2010 Nieto Malbec from
 Argentina , $10 at retail, is $48 on the list.  “My advice is to stay away from high alcohol wines that
will accentuate the burn of the food,” Dey says. “Syrupy wines
do a disservice to our food. The best choices are wines with low
tannins and high acidity.”  I agree with Dey. The wines I found went best with highly
spiced dishes, like duck vindaloo with pomegranate molasses and
pindi butter chicken with a creamy tomato sauce, were pleasant
whites like chenin blanc and a white Rioja whose minerals and
acidity did nothing to tamp down the fire but gave a good fruity
edge to the food.  I also spoke with Simon Stilwell, one of the rare
sommeliers at an Indian restaurant in the U.S., in this case the
excellent new Rasika  West End  in  Washington , DC. He likes
mineral-rich white Burgundies with rich, creamy dishes like the
cheese-based paneer makhani.  Tandoor Oven  As for food cooked in the fierce tandoor oven, Stilwell
says, “The high temperature and slight char effect on the food
are similar to the results from grilling, like dishes from
coastal  Spain  where a lot of fish is grilled, or Argentina,
where they grill so much meat. So, the wines from those
countries are well worth investigating.”  Rasika West End carries no Indian wines on its list (“They
are difficult to source in DC,” says Stilwell), but he does
have some high-end Bordeaux, Burgundy and California cult wines
that I thought would be ill-advised choices with Indian food
because it would obliterate the subtleties of the wines.  “Not at all!” Stilwell says, “It’s like asking if
drinking a great chianti, barlolo, or brunello with pizza or
pasta is a bad idea. I think people should eat and drink what
makes them most happy -- if that is high-end French wines or
cult Cali’s, then please enjoy!”  Stilwell also recommends Old World dessert wines with
Indian desserts, which can be intensely sweet.  Sweet Malbecs  “Dessert changes things a little because often the cold
temperature of desserts subdues their aromas,” he says. “An
intensely sweet Hungarian Tokaji, with its aromas of saffron,
apricots and honey are great for dishes like our mango and
saffron kulfi or rice pudding. Our ras malai is made into
Chocolate Ras Malai with layers of chocolate mousse, ganache,
and chocolate cake work great with tawny ports or even sweet
malbecs from Cahors,  France .”  I’m pretty sure I won’t be serving my First Growth Bordeaux
with Indian food -- I’ll save them for the simplest of flavors,
like unadorned steak and lamb -- but good, inexpensive white
wines from Spain, Provence, and  South America  make a lot of
sense, not least because they are thirst-quenching. And Stilwell
is absolutely right about those dessert wines.  Then again, if a beer has a sure degree of creaminess and
sweetness to it, I think it makes a great match for Indian
desserts.  Until Indian wines get better and more available, the
myriad global wine options make a lot of good sense with the
kind of food once enjoyed only by Mughal royalty.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 