-- Czechs Chase Illegal Alcohol After Tainted Drinks Kill
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-09-17T12:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/czech-police-detain-22-suspects-after-methanol-drinks-kill-20.html
Czech police are uncovering a
network of illegal alcohol producers and distributors after
spirits laced with methyl-alcohol are suspected of killing as
many as 23 people in the past two weeks.  The police have charged 23 people with various crimes
related to making and spreading poisonous substances, Martin
Cervicek, police president, told reporters in  Prague  today. The
government imposed an indefinite ban on sales of hard liquor
across the country on Sept. 14 as police and customs officers
search for the source of the contaminated beverages.  “The investigation conducted so far clearly shows that the
cases are related,” Cervicek said. “We have progressed to a
group of people that may be related to organizers, or possibly
to importers of the base material.”  Autopsies have confirmed that 19 people died from drinking
tainted liquor and doctors are examining four more deaths
suspected of having been caused by methanol, Leos Heger, the
health minister, said at a news conference today. As many as 40
people have been hospitalized in the country’s worst case of
mass alcohol poisoning in at least 30 years, he said.  Two people in neighboring Slovakia were hospitalized
yesterday with cases of “lighter poisoning” after drinking
plum brandy bought over the Internet in the  Czech Republic ,
Heger said.  Poland  yesterday banned the sale of liquor imported
from the Czech Republic for 30 days.  ‘Extraordinary Measure’  The sale and serving of all spirits with more than 20
percent alcohol content “is prohibited until the recalling of
this extraordinary measure,” according to a statement posted on
the government’s website. The ban includes both domestic and
imported liquor, it said.  The state collects about 750 million koruna ($40 million) a
month in taxes from hard liquor sales, Ladislav Mincic, a deputy
finance minister, said on television yesterday.  “If this prohibition lasts for a very long time,” the
revenue shortfall “would be a challenge as it would
complicate” efforts to cut the  budget deficit , he said.  The tainted alcohol was sold in bottles under fake labels
from at least two Czech liquor makers and the bottles weren’t
properly sealed, according to police.  The poisonous drink was sold at discounts in bottles
labeled as vodka or tuzemak, a local rum-like alcoholic
beverage. Several people went blind or fell into coma after
consuming it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  