-- Spain Faces Czech Republic in Davis Cup Final After Beating U.S.
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-17T01:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/defending-champion-spain-beats-u-s-to-reach-davis-cup-final.html
Defending champion Spain reached
its fourth Davis Cup tennis final in five years after beating
the U.S. and will play the  Czech Republic  for the title.  David Ferrer  beat  John Isner  6-7 (3-7), 6-3, 6-4, 6-2
yesterday to ensure the semifinal victory in Gijon after Spain
also won the opening two singles matches in the best-of-five
contest on Sept. 14.  The Czech Republic, which was swept 5-0 by Spain in the
2005 final, will host the Nov. 16-18 championship decider after
beating last year’s runner-up Argentina 3-2 in Buenos Aires.  “It’s different,” Spain captain Alex Corretja said of
playing the final away from home. “Here you play in front of
your home crowd on your best surface. You pick everything, the
best scenario. We’re going to have to wait for what the
opponents want and we’re going to have to be ready for that.”  Spain, which was without the injured  Rafael Nadal , has won
the top team competition in men’s tennis five times in the past
12 years. Serbia is the only other nation to claim the trophy
since the U.S. secured the last of its  record 32 titles  in 2007.  The U.S. had kept its chances of adding to that tally alive
following a win for Bob and  Mike Bryan  in the doubles two days
ago. World No. 5 Ferrer and 10th-ranked Nicolas Almagro had put
Spain in control with singles victories on day one.  Isner won the opening set in a tiebreaker before Ferrer
took control. Ferrer made 32 unforced errors compared with 70
for his opponent as he extended his perfect Davis Cup record on
clay to 16 straight wins.  “He’s a guy who never gives up,” Corretja said of Ferrer.
“He’s a gladiator and he knows the way he needs to play on
clay, the way he needs to move and hit the ball.”  Czechs Win  Tomas Berdych, who needed five sets to beat Argentina’s
 Juan Monaco  in his singles opener, followed up with a 6-3, 6-3,
6-4 victory against Carlos Berlocq yesterday to give the Czech
Republic an unbeatable 3-1 lead. Berdych and  Radek Stepanek 
defeated Berlocq and  Eduardo Schwank  in the doubles, while
Monaco beat Ivo Minar in the final singles match.  It was Argentina’s first defeat at the Parque Roca and it
the first time it lost on clay at home since 1998.  “The whole team had that belief that we could make it,”
Berdych said on the tournamant’s website. “It’s not impossible
to win in Argentina as we proved.”  Spain beat Argentina in the 2008 and 2011 finals, and was
host for the 2009 win over the Czech Republic. The Czechs won
the competition as part of the former Czechoslovakia in 1980.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  