-- Yen Climbs Against Most Peers Before BOJ Meets; Aussie Declines
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-09-17T06:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/dollar-trades-near-four-month-low-versus-euro-amid-stocks-rally.html
The yen rose against most of its 16
major peers before the  Bank of Japan (8301)  starts a two-day meeting
tomorrow as investors weighed whether it will follow the  Federal
Reserve  in expanding monetary easing.  The  Dollar Index  was 0.2 percent from a six-month low
before Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  and  New York 
Fed chief William C. Dudley speak tomorrow. The U.S. central
bank on Sept. 13 decided to buy $40 billion a month of mortgage
debt to bolster the labor market. Australia’s dollar fell
against most of its counterparts as territorial and trade
disputes involving China damped risk appetite among investors.  “What the Fed has done increases the pressure that was
already evident on the Bank of Japan politically to take further
action against yen strength,” said Ray Attrill, global co-head
of foreign- exchange strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. If the BOJ meeting “passes off without any new policy
initiatives on Wednesday, then I would expect to see dollar-yen
probably back down to the lows that we saw last week.”  The yen was at 102.81 per euro as of 7:30 a.m. in  London 
after falling 3.1 percent in the past four trading days to
102.93. It was little changed at 78.29 per dollar after reaching
77.13 on Sept. 13, the strongest since Feb. 9. The euro fetched
$1.3131 from $1.3130.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 78.813 today. It
retreated to 78.601 on Sept. 14, the lowest since Feb. 29.  Fed Policy  The Fed’s Evans, who doesn’t vote this year on monetary
policy, urged the central bank on Aug. 27 to begin a third round
of bond buying. Dudley  voted for  the Fed’s Sept. 13 decision on
debt purchases that follow two rounds of a $2.3 trillion
quantitative-easing program from 2008 to 2011  “The prevailing sentiment is that the  U.S. dollar  is going
to remain weak,” said NAB’s Attrill.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on Sept. 6 that the
yen’s appreciation causes a decline in  Japan ’s exports and that
its negative effect is “dominant.” Japan’s markets are closed
today for a national holiday.  The yen has risen 6 percent in the past six months, the
biggest gainer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has fallen
1.2 percent during the period, while the euro depreciated 1.6
percent.  Geopolitical Tensions  The Australian dollar weakened against most of its 16 most-
traded counterparts. Demonstrators took to the streets in a
dozen cities across China, Australia’s biggest trading partner,
calling for Chinese sovereignty over islands that are also
claimed by Japan.  Tensions escalated after Japan said last week it would
purchase the territory from a private Japanese owner, prompting
 China  to dispatch government vessels near the islands known as
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. Japan’s foreign
ministry said yesterday that Shinichi Nishimiya died of an
unspecified illness, five days after his appointment as an
ambassador to China.  “Geopolitical tensions between China and Japan will not be
good for the economy and trade,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency
strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “There’s room for
selling the Aussie back again.”  The U.S. will announce a trade complaint against China
today, alleging impermissible subsidies of auto- and auto-parts
exports, according to an Obama administration official who asked
to speak on condition of anonymity in advance of the public
announcement.  Australia ’s currency lost 0.2 percent to $1.0533 and
dropped 0.3 percent to 82.45 yen.  German Economy  The euro snapped a four-day advance versus the yen before a
German report tomorrow that may show investor confidence remains
weak in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research is forecast
to say its  German index  of investor and analyst expectations,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance, was minus 20 in September, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. The gauge slid to minus 25.5 last
month, the lowest this year.  “I don’t think economic growth is suddenly going to be an
offset to all the budgetary problems that we’ve got” in the
countries that use the euro, said  Thomas Averill , managing
director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and interest-
rate risk management company. “There’ll be an opportunity for
very profitable shorts in euro-dollar at some point over the
next two to three weeks,” he said, referring to bets on a
decline.  The Dollar Index may pause its decline this week as it’s
entering an “important” support zone,  Niall O’Connor , a New
York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co, wrote
yesterday in a research note to clients. This zone includes the
78.398 level that is the 50 percent retracement of its rise from
72.696 on May 4, 2011, to 84.100 on July 24, according to
O’Connor. It also includes the May 1 low of 78.603.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  