-- Dubai’s Emaar to Build Hotel Near World’s Tallest Tower
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-09-16T09:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/dubai-s-emaar-to-build-hotel-near-world-s-tallest-tower-1-.html
Emaar (EMAAR)  Properties PJSC, the  United
Arab Emirates ’ biggest publicly traded developer, plans to build
a hotel in Dubai near  Burj Khalifa , the world’s tallest tower,
to capitalize on the city’s hospitality boom.  The hotel, which will be managed by Emaar’s Address chain,
will include 200 rooms and 542 serviced apartments, Arif Amiri
the company’s retail chief executive officer, told a press
conference today.  “Our hotel occupancy in the area is around 90 percent all
year long, which shows the strong demand for hospitality in
Dubai,” Amiri said. “There is strong interest from investors
in the Gulf,  Russia ,  China  and the  Middle East .”  Hotels and malls are becoming the main source of earnings
for Emaar as tourist arrivals to Dubai rose 10 percent to 9.3
million in 2011, according to tourism department data. The
company derived 41 percent of its revenue from hotels and malls
this year, compared with 24 percent in 2011. As Dubai’s airport
passenger traffic rises, the company’s hotels and malls are
benefiting from increased demand.  Initial financing for the project, which will be mainly
raised by sales of serviced apartments before construction
starts, has been “secured,” Amiri said. He declined to comment
on the value of the project or the sale prices of the
apartments. The sale of the project will start on Sept. 22.  The five-star hotel is Emaar’s sixth  Address  property in
Dubai and will have 63-storys, with studios to three-bedroom
apartments. Construction is expected to start soon and
completion is set for early-to-mid 2015, he said. A contractor
is yet to be appointed.  Dubai’s airport traffic rose 14 percent to a record 27.9
million in the first six months of 2012, the operator said in
July. Economic growth, which relies on hospitality and trade for
more than 33 percent of gross domestic product, is forecast to
expand as much as 5 percent this year, according to the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  