-- Egypt Stocks Rise as Fed Action Outweighs Protests; Dubai Gains
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-09-16T12:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/dubai-shares-rally-as-fed-stimulus-outweighs-mideast-protests.html
Egypt ’s benchmark index rose to the
highest since January 2011, leading gains in the Middle East, as
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to buy mortgage securities
outweighed concern over violent protests in the region.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE rallied to the highest level since
May after shareholders approved the creation of an investment
bank with Qatar’s QInvest. In Dubai,  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) ,
developer of the world’s tallest tower, climbed 3.2 percent.
Egypt’s EGX 30 Index surged 2.8 percent to 5,821.75, the highest
since January 2011, at the close in Cairo. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
rose 1.4 percent, Abu Dhabi’s  index  increased 0.8 percent and
the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  added 0.1 percent.  “Middle East and North Africa markets are shrugging off
any concerns relating to disparate Islamic protests and focusing
instead” on the Fed’s stimulus plan, said  Julian Bruce , the
Dubai-based director of institutional sales trading at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE. “The Gulf Cooperation Council is off to a
solid start as overall sentiment improves.”  Global stocks climbed after the Fed said Sept. 13 it would
embark on a third round of quantitative easing with open-ended
purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month as it seeks to
boost growth and reduce unemployment. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  rose
2.7 percent last week, and crude oil for October delivery
advanced by the same amount in New York. Gulf Arab oil
exporters, including the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia ,
supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Turkey Aid  Protests against a film denigrating Islam eased in the
Middle East following violence in Libya, Tunisia, Sudan and
Yemen. Clashes in Cairo’s Tahrir Square stopped yesterday after
Egypt’s main Islamist groups called for calm. Police secured the
square and arrested 220 people, the country’s  Interior Ministry 
said in a statement. Egypt also secured $2 billion of economic
aid from Turkey, according to an e-mailed statement from the
 Finance Ministry .  Demonstrations over the weekend “weren’t that big, it was
more or less angry people on the streets,” said Teymour El- Derini, Cairo-based director of MENA sales at Naeem Brokerage.
The rally in global markets also helped turn investor sentiment
to “once again very positive and the market is moving in one
direction.”  EFG-Hermes gained 3.5 percent to 13.4 Egyptian pounds, the
highest since May 9. Shareholders also approved terms of the
QInvest agreement including a condition that the Cairo-based
company won’t compete with the entity to be established in Doha
and will cede to it the EFG-Hermes trademark within a year of
completing the transaction.  Emaar Hotel  Dubai, the second-largest of seven sheikhdoms that make up
the U.A.E., relies on foreign trade, tourism and property for
growth. About 221 million shares traded  in the emirate   today ,
compared with a 12-month daily average of 143 million.  Emaar increased to 3.58 dirhams, the highest since January
2011. The U.A.E.’s biggest publicly traded developer plans to
build a hotel in Dubai near Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest
tower, to capitalize on the city’s hospitality boom.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) ,  Abu
Dhabi ’s biggest developers, rose 2.4 percent and 2.5 percent,
respectively, to the highest since March as the emirate asked
state employees to live in the U.A.E. capital within a year.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  advanced 0.6 percent and Bahrain’s
 measure  rose 0.3 percent. Qatar’s  benchmark  increased 0.4
percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  and Kuwait’s
 gauge  slipped 0.1 percent. Israel’s market was closed for a
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  