-- Egyptian Copt Held Over Facebook Link to Anti-Islam Video
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-09-16T14:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/egyptian-copt-held-over-facebook-link-to-anti-islam-video.html
A Coptic Egyptian who was detained
in Cairo last week for posting a controversial video clip
mocking the  Prophet Muhammad  will be kept for a further 15 days
pending investigation.  Albert Sabir, 25, was detained on Sept. 13. after posting a
Facebook link to the clip, along with a video of himself titled
“Who is the spokesman for Allah?” in which he argued that
every faith claims sole ownership of the truth.  A crowd gathered in front of his house in the Marg
neighborhood of eastern Cairo, chanting slogans and calling for
his death, Ahmed Ezzat, a human-rights lawyer who’s following
his case, said by phone today. When Sabir called the police for
protection they arrested him, Ezzat said.  Egypt  and other countries in the  Middle East  have witnessed
mass demonstrations and attacks on embassies over the U.S.-made
film in the past week. The Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox
Church issued a statement on Sept. 12 condemning the video,
while Egyptian Christians have staged a number of vigils against
it.  “It’s unfair. Why are Christians always targeted? Why am I
feeling unsafe in my own country?’ Yossef Bolos, a 54-year-old
trader of car parts, said by telephone. “Why are they blaming
us for something we didn’t commit? And why do we have to always
take an apologist line for things we’re not responsible for?”  The Association for Freedom of Thought and Expression, of
which Ezzat is a member, said in a statement on its website that
it “emphasizes the danger of ignoring the incitement to
violence practiced by a number of religious TV channels against
Copts.” Expressing opinions, “even if they are shocking and
unfamiliar to the majority of the society,” shouldn’t lead to
imprisonment, the association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  