-- Egypt’s Nine-Month Yields Plunge as Devaluation Bets Wane
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-09-16T16:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/egypt-s-nine-month-yields-plunge-as-devaluation-bets-wane-1-.html
Egypt’s nine-month yields plunged
to the lowest since November and the country sold its first
floating-rate bonds as concern about a  currency devaluation 
waned and protests against an anti-Islam movie died down.  The average yield on the government’s sale of 4.3 billion
Egyptian pounds ($705 million) of  273-day treasury bills  dropped
102 basis points, or 1.02 percentage points, to 14.465 percent,
at an auction today, according to central bank data on
Bloomberg. The government also sold its target 1 billion pounds
of two-year floating-rate T-bonds at an average yield of 15.388
percent, the regulator’s data shows. The notes carry a coupon of
15.454 percent.  The yield on six-month and one-year securities tumbled to
the lowest since November at an auction on Sept. 13. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said yields may drop about 300 basis
points, or 3 percentage points, in the year after the government
signs a loan agreement with the  International Monetary Fund .
External financing may help Egypt avoid a “large devaluation,”
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment banking unit said last week.  “There’s increased foreign interest in Egypt’s local
debt,” Nour Mohei-El-Din, assistant general manager for
treasury at BNP Paribas Egypt, said by phone before the auction
results. “There are reduced fears of a major devaluation
here.”  Foreign investors sold off their government debt holdings
after last year’s uprising on concern the worst drop in foreign-
currency reserves since 2004 would force Egypt to devalue the
pound, which is subject to a managed float. Domestic banks were
left with the onus of buying the debt, sending borrowing costs
to record highs. The pound weakened less than 0.1 percent to
6.0964 a dollar last week.  Aid Pledges  In addition to a $2 billion deposit with the central bank
and $18 billion of investment pledges from  Qatar , Egypt will
receive $2 billion in aid from  Turkey , Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said yesterday. The country is due to restart talks
with the IMF this month for a loan of as much as $4.8 billion as
it seeks to accelerate economic growth to more than 4 percent.  Protests against a film seen as insulting to Islam eased in
the  Middle East  following violence in Libya, Tunisia,  Sudan  and
Yemen. Clashes in Cairo’s Tahrir Square stopped yesterday after
Egypt’s main Islamist groups called for calm. Police secured the
square and arrested 220 people, the country’s  Interior Ministry 
said in a statement.  Plunging Yield  The central bank, which holds domestic debt auctions on
behalf of the  Finance Ministry , allowed investors to bid for the
floating-rate notes at a maximum spread of 0.4375 percent,
according to data on Bloomberg. The  base rate , which is
calculated every six months, is the weighted average yield of
the last four auctions of  six-month T-bills . The yield on 182-
day securities plunged 85 basis points at a sale last week to
14.25 percent.  The yield on the nation’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in
April 2020 fell six basis points last week to 5.28 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  