-- European Squabbling on Crisis Tests Rally as Spain Bonds Decline
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-09-17T11:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/european-squabbling-on-currency-crisis-solution-may-test-rally.html
Squabbling among European
governments over the next steps needed to overcome the sovereign
debt crisis raised the specter of more turmoil, puncturing a
rally that had sent Spanish 10-year bond yields to their lowest
in five months.  A Sept. 14 European Union finance ministers meeting in the
Cypriot capital of Nicosia deadlocked over the timetable for a
more unified EU banking sector, with a German-led coalition
pushing back against a more ambitious plan sought by  France ,
 Spain  and Italy. The ministers also bickered over the terms of
bailout requests and the role of the  European Central Bank .  “Experience suggests that just as day gives way to night,
improvement gives way to policy complacency, which is then
followed by renewed crisis,”  Joachim Fels , chief economist at
Morgan Stanley in London, wrote in a note yesterday.  The euro area’s ability to overcome differences will
determine whether a market revival prompted by increased ECB
intervention and a German high-court ruling on bailout funding
will mark a turning point in the three-year-old crisis or just
the latest European bid for more time.  Governments “mustn’t disappoint markets” in their
banking-supervision design, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
today at press conference in Berlin. “It’s not about putting
something out that once again won’t work in the end.”  The indecision in Cyprus sparked a drop in Spanish
 government bonds , with two-year yields climbing 14 basis points
to 3.27 percent at 12:50 p.m. in  Madrid . Ten-year yields climbed
11 basis points to 5.89 percent, 420 basis points more than
comparable German notes. The euro slid 0.1 percent to $1.3117
after climbing 1.1 percent on Sept. 14, helped by new measures
by the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Single Supervisor  The sharpest EU disagreement in Nicosia was over a European
Commission plan to establish joint banking supervision from the
beginning of next year. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , backed by colleagues from Sweden, the Netherlands and
Poland, urged the meeting to agree on a more cautious approach
when assigning new duties to the ECB.  EU leaders called for a single supervisor in June as a
condition of bailout assistance directly to  euro-area banks .
Such a mechanism would be designed to decouple government
funding to prop up failing credit sectors, breaking the link
between sovereign and banking debt that has been blamed for
compounding the crisis.  While Schaeuble argued that such a “sizable apparatus”
would require more time to take in more than 6,000 euro-area
financial institutions, other finance ministers wanted to stick
to the Commission’s timetable.  “We can’t waste time,” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told reporters in Nicosia.  Rajoy Meeting  Shuttle diplomacy will continue this week, culminating with
back-to-back high-level meetings, as Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  travels to  Rome  for talks with Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  on Sept. 21. The next day, Merkel will hold
talks with French President  Francois Hollande  at a commemoration
in Ludwigsburg,  Germany .  An initial test of market confidence could come in Spain,
where Rajoy is considering whether to request further euro-area
assistance, an issue that’s sparked further division. Schaeuble
last week cautioned Spain against seeking a full bailout,
countering pressure from France. The country “would be daft”
to ask for a bailout on top of the 100 billion euros ($131
billion) for its banks if it didn’t need it, Schaeuble said.  Spanish Steps  Rajoy’s government will unveil new measures by the end of
the month based on recommendations made in July, including a
possible increase in the  retirement age , shifting from labor to
consumption taxes and deregulating closed professions, according
to European officials. Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
in Nicosia reaffirmed the country’s ambition to cut its deficit
to 6.3 percent of GDP this year from 8.9 percent.  Such measures are giving rise to a growing backlash in
Spain, with union leaders demanding a referendum on budget cuts
as 65,000 protesters marched in Madrid over the weekend.  “It’s time to give a voice to the people again,”
Comisiones Obreras General Secretary Ignacio Fernandez Toxo, a
union leader, told protesters blocking the center of the
capital. “With the support of the people we will take this as
far as the government wants us to. This doesn’t end here.”  In  Greece , the government continued its bid to win more
leeway to meet its obligations to the country’s troika of
international creditors -- the Brussels-based Commission, the
ECB and the  International Monetary Fund .  European officials in Nicosia, concerned that a
confrontation with  Athens  could up-end the reform drive and
sully the market bounce, signaled that Greece may get its way.  Troika Delay  “Greece has already produced a huge effort but will have
to continue to do so,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
told reporters during the Nicosia meeting. “There are various
ways to adjust. Time is one. That needs to be considered as an
option.”  The troika’s verdict on Greece’s progress, which will
determine whether the country where the crisis originated
continues to receive funding, was put off until October,
possibly coinciding with a leaders’ summit in Brussels.  Merkel said today her “heart bleeds” at the hardships
faced by many Greeks as the government in Athens imposes the
austerity measures demanded for the bailouts.  To be sure, some analysts predicted that the market rebound
will likely be extended even amid the current euro scuffling.
 Erik Nielsen , global chief economist at UniCredit Bank AG in
London, said that attention in coming months could shift away
from Europe and toward the election and budget fight in the U.S.
and the leadership transition in China, as that country
confronts a slowdown in growth.  “I think this rally still has some weeks to run,” Nielsen
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “The capital
misallocations driven by (irrational) fear were so big that it
almost certainly takes more than a couple of weeks to correct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  