-- Ford Picked bv CAW as Target Automaker in Labor Talks
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-09-16T22:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/ford-picked-by-canadian-auto-union-as-target-in-labor-talks.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  was chosen by the
Canadian Auto Workers as the target for contract talks leading
up to tomorrow’s strike deadline, with the union saying the
company offers the best prospect among U.S.-based automakers for
an agreement.  Negotiations will intensify between the Toronto-based union
and the Dearborn, Michigan-based company to avoid a strike by
11:59 p.m. Toronto time tomorrow, when the current labor
contract expires. The union will focus on discussions with Ford
and work around the clock,  Ken Lewenza , the union president,
said today.  “Right now we are feeling good that we can get a deal,
provided Ford continues to respond as they have in the last
couple of days,” Lewenza said today at a press conference in
Toronto. “Ford moved forward. But bargaining is fluid. That
confidence could be shaken in an hour from now.”  Union negotiators intend to use the terms of an accord with
Ford as the basis for agreements to be negotiated with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC. Lewenza has said he will
resist concessions on wages for existing and new members in the
talks, and reiterated today his preference for a deal.  “If we have an agreement at Ford, which we’re trying to
get done a couple of hours before the deadline, and we share it
with Chrysler and General Motors and they can live with the
framework of that agreement, we will not go out on strike,”
Lewenza said.  Loonie’s Surge  The Canadian dollar has risen about 60 percent in the past
10 years, making manufacturing more expensive in the country.
The CAW accepted a pay freeze and gave up bonuses and time off
along with other concessions as part of the restructuring that
brought GM and Chrysler out of bankruptcy in 2009.  Ford has “a strong track record of working collaboratively
with the CAW,” Stacey Allerton, vice president of human
resources at the company’s Canadian unit, said in an e-mail.
“We are confident that, working together, we can find
innovative solutions to help build a successful future for our
Canadian operations.”  GM looks “forward to continuing our discussions with the
CAW,” Adria MacKenzie, a spokeswoman for GM  Canada , said today
in an e-mail. “We are focused on working with our CAW partners
to reach an agreement that will improve GM Canada’s competitive
position for the future.”  Chrysler’s Reaction  Chrysler is “very concerned by the CAW decision,” LouAnn
Gosselin, a spokeswoman for Chrysler Canada, said in an e-mail.
Ford isn’t “in the best position to take on this role.” The e-
mail cited Ford’s “significant reduction” in Canada. Ford
closed a vehicle-assembly plant in Ontario last year.  The union’s latest proposal includes a new “wage
progression program” and aims to contain fixed costs while
allowing the company to improve productivity, Lewenza said
without being more specific. Under the current agreement, new
employees start at 70 percent of the top wage and take six years
to reach it.  A union goal is to secure commitments from the companies to
invest in Canada, Lewenza said.  “When the companies look at future investment, labor is a
piece of the pie,” he said. “We want to make sure that our
piece of the pie jumps out and says: ‘Come to Canada.’”  The CAW represents about 18,000 employees at GM, Ford and
Chrysler in these negotiations. The union accepted a pay freeze
and gave up bonuses and time off along with other concessions as
part of the restructuring that brought GM and Chrysler out of
bankruptcy in 2009. GM was the last carmaker to be hit by a
strike in Canada, in 1996.  A walkout “is the last tool in the bargaining toolbox,”
Lewenza said. “Our job is to get a deal. I’m not anxious to
shut down Chrysler. I’m not anxious to shut down GM. In fact,
I’m anxious to build cars so they show more profit and we’re in
a better position in three years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  