-- Foreigners Seen Buying More Indian Stocks on Policy Reforms
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-09-17T12:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/foreigners-to-buy-more-indian-stocks-on-retail-aviation-reforms.html
Offshore investors will buy more
Indian equities after the nation opened its retail and aviation
industries to foreigners, accelerating the highest fund inflows
in  Asia  this year, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  approved on Sept. 14 plans to
allow overseas retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to own 51
percent of supermarket chains, and lifted a restriction on
airlines selling stakes to foreign carriers. The benchmark  BSE
India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.4 percent to 18,542.31
in Mumbai, its highest close in 14 months.  Foreign funds have bought a net $13.4 billion of Indian
shares this year, the most among 10 Asian markets outside  China 
tracked by Bloomberg, on speculation the government will revive
plans to boost an economy growing at the slowest pace in three
years. The investment measures, together with a Sept. 13 move to
end a 14-month freeze on diesel prices, may spur the central
bank to ease monetary policy after a review today, said Sampath Reddy, chief investment officer at Bajaj Allianz in Mumbai.  The announcements are “very, very positive in terms of
fund flows, and in improving sentiments of foreign investors
toward  India ,” Reddy, who manages $7.5 billion at a venture
with  Europe ’s biggest insurer, said by phone on Sept. 14.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao today kept
funding costs unchanged while unexpectedly lowering the amount
of deposits banks must set aside as reserves to boost growth.  Sensex Target  Citigroup Inc. raised its June 2013 target for the Sensex
by 8 percent to 19,900 on increased foreign inflows, Aditya
Narain, head of India research, wrote in a note today. Deutsche
Bank AG increased its year-end target for the 30-stock gauge by
11 percent to 20,000, according to a report today.  The Sensex has risen 20 percent this year, the second-best
performance among benchmark measures in countries with at least
$1 trillion in stock market value, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The gauge jumped 4 percent last week, helped by the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s announcement of a third round of stimulus
measures and a Sept. 13 increase in diesel prices.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , the nation’s top supermarket
operator, surged 19 percent, the most since May 2009, to 187.70
rupees in Mumbai.  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP)  jumped 8 percent to 383.75
rupees, the highest since July 20. Budget carrier SpiceJet Ltd.
soared 12 percent to 38.6 rupees.  Increased Weighting  Global funds “have to raise” their weighting on Indian
equities after the investment proposals, Taina Erajuuri, a  fund
manager  in Helsinki at FIM Asset Management overseeing about
$1.2 billion of emerging-market assets, said by e-mail on Sept.
14. “Otherwise, they will underperform. Stocks will go up on
the back of the measures.”  The Sensex trades at 14.7 times estimated  earnings . While
that’s 30 percent more than the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s
valuation of 11.3 times, it’s still below the 16.2 multiple the
Sensex traded at in February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singh was the architect of India’s 1990s economic opening
and has been prime minister since 2004. The Sensex soared a
record 17 percent on May 18, 2009, prompting exchanges to halt
trading for the rest of the day, after he won a second term on
the promise of higher economic growth and more jobs. The rupee
jumped 3 percent that day.  Cash Ratio Cut  Still, Singh’s efforts to implement policies to revive
investment amid threats from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
to downgrade India’s credit rating have been derailed by his
fractious ruling coalition and corruption allegations. Inflation
near 7 percent has limited room for interest-rate cuts. The RBI
cut the  cash reserve ratio  to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent,
effective Sept. 22, adding about 170 billion rupees to the
banking system, according to a statement. Three of 39 economist
in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the outcome, with the rest
forecasting no change.  The announcements of Sept. 14 “will bring in more capital
flows and support the rupee,” Upasna Bhardwaj, an economist at
ING Vysya Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, said on Sept. 14. The rupee may
advance to 53.50 or 53 per dollar, she said. The currency rose
0.6 percent to 54.0075 after jumping to a four-month high of
53.6550 earlier. The rupee rallied 2 percent on Sept. 14.  India’s economy , Asia’s third-largest, grew 5.5 percent in
the June quarter after expanding 5.3 percent in the previous
three months, the least in three years. Growth could slow to 5
percent annually if the policy logjam persists, Singh said in
his address to the Planning Commission on Sept. 15.  Political Opposition  The changes in ownership rules don’t require approval by
parliament. Still, Singh’s ally Mamata Banerjee, the chief
minister of West Bengal state, on Sept. 14 gave the government
72 hours to reverse the steps,  Press Trust of India  reported.
Her party, the Trinamool Congress, may consider pulling out its
ministers from the ruling coalition, PTI said yesterday, without
citing anyone. The  Bharatiya Janata Party , the main opposition
party, and its partners, have called for a countrywide strike on
Sept. 20, according to the news service.  “If the government doesn’t succumb to the pressures of the
opposition and its allies and implements these things, it will
be a great move,” Shishir Bajpai, senior vice president at
Mumbai-based IIFL Wealth Management Ltd., which oversees $1.8
billion in stocks, said by phone on Sept. 14. “After a long
time, there’s something positive. I hope the measures don’t
remain on paper.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  