-- Forrest’s Debt Battle Evokes Memories of Anaconda Disaster
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-17T06:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/forrest-s-debt-battle-evokes-memories-of-anaconda-disaster.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ’s talks
with lenders to restructure debt is reviving investor memories
of the disaster of billionaire Australian mining magnate Andrew Forrest’s previous venture a decade ago.  The nation’s third-biggest  iron ore  exporter plans to
update the market by tomorrow after a record slump in its U.S.
securities on Sept. 13. The Perth-based company halted its
shares from trading last week as its market value plunged to
A$9.3 billion ($9.8 billion).  The slide means Forrest has likely lost his place as
 Australia ’s richest man as about $3 billion was wiped off the
value of his stake in Fortescue since its peak this year on
March 22 as the company  raised borrowings  to $10.6 billion to
fund expansions and iron ore prices dropped. Anaconda Nickel
Ltd., an earlier company of Forrest, who is also known as
Twiggy, was forced to sell shares to meet debt payments in 2003
after its mine was delayed and costs blew out.  “He is pretty good, Twiggy, at convincing people from
overseas to buy part of the dream,” said Peter Rudd, resources
and mining manager at Altitude Private Wealth in  Melbourne  who
has more than 20 years experience in the Australian mining
sector. “As we know with Anaconda, that eventually fell over.”  U.S. investors Pacific Investment Management Co., which
manages the world’s biggest bond fund, BlackRock Inc. and
 Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  are the largest holders of Fortescue
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on filings
from groups that are obliged to disclose their purchases.  Bondholder Losses  U.S. bondholders who bet $400 million on Anaconda recouped
26 cents in the dollar after Forrest, who built the company, was
ousted in 2001 from his position as chief executive officer.
Anglo American Plc fared even worse, walking away with 7 percent
of its $200 million investment, after battling to remove
Forrest.  Anaconda shares slumped 89 percent ahead of the company
being re-badged as Minara Resources Ltd. It was eventually taken
over by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  last year. Fortescue shares
have declined 30 percent this year compared with an 8.5 percent
gain in the Australian benchmark index.  Boom Over  The spot price for iron ore dropped by more than a third
this year on concern a slowdown in  China , the world’s biggest
consumer, would curb demand. Prices fell to a three-year low of
$86.70 this month as Fortescue slashed its annual spending
forecast by 26 percent to $4.6 billion.  The commodity price boom is over, Australia’s Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. The nation can’t rely on increases in prices,
he said.  Forrest’s net worth dropped to $3.4 billion on Sept. 13,
according to data compiled and calculated through the Bloomberg
Billionaire Index. More than 97 percent of his wealth is linked
to shares of Fortescue. He bought $137 million  worth of shares 
in June and another $38.6 million in August. BlackRock, the
world’s biggest money manager, invested almost $97 million on
July 6 to raise its stake in Fortescue to 2.1 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wealth Freefall  The freefall in Forrest’s wealth came as  short interest  as
a percentage of Fortescue’s free float reached 20.4 on Sept. 11,
according to the latest available data compiled by Markit, a
London-based research firm.  That’s the second highest among companies on the S&P/ASX
200 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Short
interest in Fortescue shares reached 21.1 percent of free float
Sept. 5, the highest on record, Markit data show.  “Fortescue has grown aggressively and clearly their
assessment of potential downside scenario was too optimistic for
iron ore and their financial leverage would leave them exposed
to such volatility,” Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor
who helps manage $1 billion at London-based FM Capital Partners
Ltd. said in an e-mail on Sept. 14. “Yet when you consider
their cost curve position, the rather formidable asset base and
the supportive long-term economics of iron ore, lenders will see
it as a win-win to grant some breathing space by waiving for 12
months the maintenance covenant around leverage.”  ‘Continued Rumors’  Fortescue expressed concern at the “continued rumors and
speculation in respect of its bank-related facilities,” in a
Sept. 14 statement that reiterated it was fully compliant with
its financial covenants and has full access to all its funding
facilities while talks with its bankers continue.  “It is likely that the company obtains waivers from the
banks for a higher fee on its facilities,” Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty noted in a Sept. 14 report that said banks may
also demand a sale of equity.  Yvonne Ball, a spokeswoman for Fortescue, wasn’t
immediately able to comment on any issues previously faced by
Anaconda or Fortescue’s debt talks.  Fortescue may make asset sales including airstrips and
accommodation facilities after agreeing to sell one of its three
power stations to raise funds, as well as divesting stakes in
its iron ore operations, Bank of America Corp. resources
analysts  Peter O’Connor  and Peta Arnott wrote in a Sept. 14
note.  Rating Review  Bank of America extended a deadline to syndicate a $1.5
billion facility for Fortescue to the end of the month, a person
familiar with the matter said last week. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch agreed to underwrite the debt facility, according to a
stock exchange filing from Fortescue last month.  About 20 lenders have been approached to join the loan and
a range of international banks, including Chinese and Japanese,
are processing credit approvals, other people said Aug. 30.  Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 4 that Fortescue,
rated Ba3, remained under review for a  debt-rating  cut as a
result of the drop in iron ore prices. A rebound in iron ore to
about $115 to $125 a metric ton will “substantially reduce
concerns around liquidity and covenant pressure,” it said.  The company may face a $1.7 billion expansion funding
shortfall on lower cash-flow estimates, Citigroup Inc. said in a
Sept. 5 report. It may need to raise as much as $2.3 billion in
extra debt if prices stay at current levels, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said Aug. 29.  Spending Forecast  The company will reduce its gearing as production ramps up,
it said in a Sept. 13 presentation to investors in  Hong Kong .
Its preferred gearing range will be 30 percent to 40 percent in
the 2014 fiscal year.  It signed an agreement this month to raise $300 million
from selling a power plant to TransAlta Corp. The company has no
plans for an equity raising and wants to sell non-core assets
such as power stations and airports to raise cash, Chief
Executive Officer Neville Power said Aug. 8. Fortescue hopes to
complete talks soon with potential partners to develop the
Northstar magnetite project, Power said Aug. 30.  Anaconda struggled to build the Murrin Murrin nickel mine
in  Western Australia  using new technology, said  Gavin Wendt ,
founder and senior resource analyst at Mine Life Pty in Sydney
who has covered Australian resources for about 20 years.  “Anaconda was quite unique in what they were trying to
do,” Wendt said. “There was a significant technology risk
associated with the company.”  Forrest’s Fortescue doesn’t suffer the same metallurgical
issues as Murrin Murrin, said Rudd, who was a geologist when
Anaconda was experiencing problems.  “There’s a lower technical risk here but the financial one
is just as great,” he said.  Fortescue had planned to reach an annual output rate of 155
million metric tons from its mines, port and rail operations in
Australia’s Pilbara region by the end of June next year. It
trimmed that to a “near-term” goal of 115 million when it cut
spending plans this month.  Iron Ore Prices  Iron ore prices may as much as double in the fourth quarter
to $145 a ton, according to the median of seven analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. A rebound to $110 a ton could
trigger Fortescue to resume its expansion, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts led by Matthew Hope said in a Sept. 13 report. At
that price the operation would have pretax cashflow of $2.1
billion. The commodity jumped 5.7 percent on Sept. 14 to
$101.60, the highest since Aug. 22.  Fortescue may face a shortfall of $390 million in December
when the short-term, $1.5 billion lending facility expires, Hope
said. There may be another shortfall of $600 million in June
2014 when a revolver facility expires, he said.  “I wouldn’t under estimate  Andrew Forrest ’s ability to do
a deal,” Ed Prendergast, a  fund manager  at Pengana Capital Ltd.
said in an interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
Inside Business program yesterday. “The business was built from
a deposit and then an idea and done on debt deals and deals into
China to sell forward the product. He’s a very good deal doer,”
and may be able to coordinate a rescue package, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Hong Kong at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  