-- Four U.S. Soldiers, Two Britons Dead in Attacks by Afghan Police
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-09-16T11:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/four-u-s-soldiers-two-britons-dead-in-attacks-by-afghan-police.html
Four U.S. soldiers were shot dead
in southern  Afghanistan , the second incident in less than 24
hours in which NATO forces were killed by individuals dressed in
Afghan police uniforms.  The U.S. soldiers were killed in Zabul province at about 2
a.m. local time in the district of Mezan, said Ghulam Jilani
Farahi, the deputy police chief of Zabul province, in a phone
interview. “The assailant was an Afghan policeman, and he was
shot dead in response by American soldiers,” he said. Two
British soldiers were killed in Helmand province yesterday.  So-called insider attacks on North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and International Security Assistance Forces
personnel in Afghanistan are increasing, with at least 46
deaths, mostly Americans, so far this year, compared with 35 in
all of 2011, according to figures on ISAF’s website.  The insider attacks are the “major problem creating
distrust among Afghan and ISAF troops,” Waheed Mujda, a former
senior Taliban official and a Kabul-based political analyst,
said in a phone interview today. Events including the “mocking
video of  Prophet Muhammad  produced in the U.S.” are giving
Afghans troops “incentive to target their allies,” he said.  The Taliban claimed responsibility for both attacks, said
spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed in a phone interview.  ISAF confirmed that four soldiers were shot dead by an
individual wearing an Afghan police uniform, while declining to
confirm the victims’ nationality. The incident is still being
investigated, said Lt. Col. Hagen Messer, an ISAF spokesman, in
a phone interview.  “Two British soldiers were shot dead yesterday afternoon by
an individual believed to be an Afghan local police,” Messer
said. The attacker was killed in response, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher{ at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  