-- Billionaire Arnault’s LVMH Amasses EU4 Billion in Belgium
-- B y   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 2012-09-17T06:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/french-billionaire-arnault-s-lvmh-amasses-eu4-billion-in-belgium.html
Companies linked to French
billionaire  Bernard Arnault ’s LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
have amassed 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) in assets in  Belgium ,
where he recently applied for citizenship.  Belgian central bank records show that 12 companies and a
private foundation, all connected to LVMH and based in Brussels,
have more than tripled their assets since 2008.  Olivier Labesse, an LVMH spokesman, said the companies are
investment vehicles for LVMH, which has annual revenue of $26
billion. The Paris-based company has made Belgium its
“operational center of finance” in recent years to take
advantage of more favorable tax treatment there, he said. The
shifting of assets to Belgium “has nothing to do” with
Arnault’s personal tax situation, Labesse said.  Arnault, 63, the chief executive officer of LVMH and
 France ’s richest man -- with a net worth of $25.7 billion,
according to Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index -- sparked an uproar
in France this month when he said he was seeking Belgian
citizenship, just as President  Francois Hollande  plans to impose
a 75 percent tax on income of over 1 million euros.  Belgian income and inheritance taxes are lower than in
France, and unlike France, Belgium does not impose a tax on
personal wealth. The LVMH chief has said he will retain his
French citizenship and will continue to pay French taxes.  The 12 Belgian investment companies report assets ranging
from less than 100,000 euros to more than 2.6 billion euros in
their most recent central bank filings. Their total holdings are
just over 4 billion euros, up from 1.3 billion in 2008. They
employ seven people, according to the filings.  Arnault’s Heirs  In addition to the companies, Belgian records show that in
2008 Arnault created a private foundation called Protectinvest,
whose charter says it is to “protect the financial interests
and wealth” of Arnault’s heirs.  The foundation now has only a few thousands euros in assets;
its charter says it would be used after his death to protect his
heirs’ interests in Pilinvest, one of the 12 investment
companies.  Pilinvest’s most recent central bank filing, in 2009,
reported 242 million euros in assets. LVMH spokesman Labesse
declined to answer questions about the foundation, citing a
company policy against commenting on Arnault’s private finances.  The  LVMH investment companies , first disclosed last week by
the Workers Party of Belgium, are stirring controversy in
Belgium because they pay very little tax.  Citizenship Effort  They reported 630.4 million euros in profits since 2009,
while using deductions to reduce their tax bill to only 24.2
million euros, says David Pestieau, head of the Workers Party
research department, who has analyzed the companies’ annual
reports. He calls the companies “nothing more than a post
office box” that allows LVMH to evade French taxes.  A Belgian television crew on Sept. 13 visited a modest
Brussels office building where most of the companies are housed.
The companies were listed on a sign outside a locked door; when
a reporter knocked, a voice inside replied, “No one is here.”  Belgian newspapers cited the mayor of the Brussels suburb
of Uccle as saying last week that Arnault told him in late 2011
that he wanted to move to Belgium because he was unhappy with
French tax policies. Arnault has said that his “personal
action” is not aimed at sending a political message or escaping
Hollande’s so-called millionaire tax.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said yesterday
that the 75 percent tax will remain in place for two years.  ‘Patriotic Measure’  “We aren’t watering down the measure,” he said in an
interview on RTL radio. “It’s a strong, patriotic measure.
Those that got very rich over the past period can help in a
patriotic way to turn around the country.”  In order to benefit from lower Belgian tax rates, Arnault
wouldn’t need to be a Belgian citizen -- although he would be
required to have his principal residence there.  Arnault has said he wanted a Belgian passport because he is
planning to invest there. Local investment authorities, however,
said he would gain no advantage by having citizenship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Matlack in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  