-- French Shale Backers Vow to Battle On After Hollande Frack Ban
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-16T22:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/french-shale-backers-vow-to-battle-on-after-hollande-frack-ban.html
Oil companies  and labor unions
vowed to fight on in favor of developing unconventional energies
in  France  after President  Francois Hollande  said a fracking ban
would remain during his five-year mandate.  “We don’t think it’s game over,” said Jean-Louis Schilansky, head of Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres,
or UFIP, which represents explorers like  Total SA. (FP)   The oil and gas lobby plans to promote shale development at
the government’s national energy policy debate and also push to
unblock the granting of exploration licenses for conventional
hydrocarbons, frozen since last year, he said.  Hollande said Sept. 14 he would uphold a ban on hydraulic
fracturing, known as fracking, in France, one of two nations
with the most potentially recoverable shale gas in  Europe ,
because the drilling technique may be hazardous. Hollande also
failed to create, as proponents of the method had hoped, a
national commission for research into extraction techniques and
shale reserves.  France shouldn’t “close the door” on energy research
including shale,  Bernard Thibault , head of the CGT union, was
quoted as saying in the  Journal du Dimanche  newspaper.
Preventing exploration is “a bit worrying,” he said. French
unions have looked favorably at shale energy as a way to create
jobs and energy independence. Environmental groups such as
Greenpeace applauded Hollande’s decision.  Permits Rejected  Hollande ordered the rejection of seven exploration permits
that companies, including Total, had applied for. These would
have required fracking to make them worthwhile, according to
Environment Minister Delphine Batho.  Fracking aside, applications for some 100 exploration
licenses using conventional methods to search for onshore oil
and natural gas have been blocked by the French administration,
according to the UFIP lobby.  After French lawmakers voted to ban fracking last year, the
administration stopped granting any new exploration licenses,
Schilansky said. “What we hope for is that these will be
granted and we can continue to work,” he said.  Fracking, which involves blasting shale rock with water,
sand and chemicals to extract trapped hydrocarbons, is widely
used in the U.S. Conventional drilling doesn’t use this
technique and is allowed in France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  