-- Safe-Haven German Banks Attract Global Lenders’ Funds
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-17T11:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/german-banks-funding-boost-drives-global-loan-rebound.html
German banks’ cross-border funding
rose by 26 percent in the first quarter, the largest boost in
more than 20 years, as they attracted global lenders’ funds
after the  European Central Bank ’s liquidity injections.  Cross-border lending by international banks to their German
peers expanded by $271 billion in the three months ended March
31, the  Bank for International Settlements , record-keeper of the
world’s central banks, said in its  quarterly report . The surge
was one of the biggest contributors to a 0.4 percent rebound of
global cross-border lending that followed the biggest drop since
2008 in the preceding three months, it said.  “BIS reporting banks’ aggregate cross-border claims
increased during the first quarter of 2012, after falling
sharply” in the previous three months, Basel-based BIS said.
“Notwithstanding this rise, cross-border bank lending remained
subdued from a longer-term perspective, in line with the
moderate activity observed during the past few years.”  The ECB pumped an unprecedented 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the region’s banks via two three-year Longer Term
Refinancing Operations in December and February in an effort to
unfreeze interbank lending and restart economic growth.
President  Mario Draghi  has since topped that measure by
announcing unlimited government bond purchases this month.  The 28-member  Euro Stoxx Banks (SX7E)  index, which has risen 51
percent since Draghi said July 26 he would do “whatever it
takes” to save the 17-nation euro, fell 1 percent at 1:31 a.m.
in  Frankfurt  after European finance ministers deadlocked over
the timetable for a more unified EU banking sector.  ‘Distinct Divergence’  The BIS’s numbers show a big divide between banks in the
euro area’s core countries such as  Germany , the Netherlands, and
 Austria , and banks in the countries that are already receiving
aid or are suffering from rising refinancing costs, such as
 Greece , Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and  Italy . Lending to banks in
the U.S. and  Switzerland  fell in the quarter, while  Japan  also
recorded an increase in interbank loans from abroad.  The ECB’s LTROs rekindled market confidence and “helped to
reopen wholesale bank funding markets,” the BIS said. “At the
same time, there was a distinct north-south divergence in cross-
border lending to euro-area banks.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, has seen the
most stable part of its funding -- deposits and long-term
securities -- almost double since the end of 2007, to 672
billion euros, or 57 percent of all funding needs, Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said last week.  ‘Didn’t Unlock’  While lending to German, Austrian, Dutch, Finnish and
Belgian banks expanded in the quarter, lenders in Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain continued to see their
funding contract by a combined $42 billion, or 11 percent,
according to the BIS. That was driven by a 16 percent drop in
lending to Italian and a 20 percent drop by Portuguese banks.  Meanwhile, lending to companies and households in those
countries declined 2.6 percent, mostly due to Spain and Ireland,
while loans to the public sector shrank by 5.4 percent, mostly
caused by the Greek debt swap in March.  “Overall, the figures suggest that the two three-year
LTROs conducted by the ECB in 2011 and 2012 did not unlock new
foreign financing to these countries,” the BIS said.  Lending to  emerging markets  rose by 2.8 percent, the first
expansion after three quarters of declines. That was mainly
driven by cross-border lending to Chinese, Thai and Korean
banks, companies and households, the BIS said. Latin American
companies and households recorded the biggest expansion on the
BIS’s records, mostly thanks to an expansion of credit to
Brazilian and Mexican borrowers.  Emerging Europe  The only emerging economies who saw lending drop again were
those in eastern  Europe , mostly caused by falling loans to
Hungarian, Russian and Serbian borrowers, while credit to
Turkish residents grew, according to the BIS.  The BIS data record the cross-border business of banks in
the countries reporting to it. Data for banks’ consolidated
cross-border claims -- which include bonds, loans and funds
deposited at banks -- are reported by 30 countries. Those
countries include most developed and some emerging economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  