-- Gunmen Attack Egyptian Security Headquarters in North Sinai
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2012-09-16T15:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/gunmen-attack-egyptian-security-headquarters-in-north-sinai-1-.html
Unidentified militants renewed an
attack on an Egyptian security headquarters in north Sinai,
wounding seven conscripts, while gunmen opened fire on a vehicle
belonging to the Multinational Force and Observers.  The attack on the security headquarters in the peninsula
was the latest since  Egypt  launched a sweeping operation in the
area to root out extremists after an August attack left 16
Egyptian border guards dead.  Assailants renewed their assault after earlier in the day
attacking the security headquarters with rocket-propelled
grenades and machine guns, Mohamed Saeed, the head of criminal
investigations in the area, said by phone. The gunmen had taken
up positions on rooftops near the headquarters in the first
attack. The second assault raised the number of conscripts
wounded to seven, including two who were in critical condition,
he said.  Separately, gunmen opened fire on a vehicle belonging to
the independent Multinational Force and Observers, in an attack
that came two days after the force’s headquarters in the region
came under attack. The MNF said in a  statement  yesterday that
the Sept. 14 assault on its compound left eight of its personnel
slightly wounded.  Authorities evacuated students from schools in Sheik Zuweid
where the assault on the vehicle took place, Saeed said, adding
the precautionary move came as the gunmen have adopted hit-and-
run tactics.  August Attack  One of the men wanted in the August attack on the border
guard outpost that left 16 dead was captured and referred to
military prosecutors, said Lieutenant Colonel Mohamed Mahgoub,
the head of investigations in Cairo’s Darb el-Ahmar district.  Mahgoub said the man was arrested, along with three others,
after they attacked the U.S. Embassy in Cairo on Sept. 11. The
embassy attack, in which hundreds demonstrated in front of the
mission, climbed atop its walls and ripped down the U.S. flag,
signaled the start of sweeping protests in several Arab nations
over a film that ridiculed Islam’s prophet.  In all, Egyptian authorities have arrested at least 417
people in connection with five days of protests and clashes with
police. Authorities yesterday cleared the remaining
demonstrators from Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , near the embassy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed Khalilelsayed in Cairo at 
 akhalilelsay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  