-- Libya Protest ‘Hijacked’ by Extremists, U.S.’s Rice Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-09-16T22:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/libya-protest-hijacked-by-extremists-u-s-s-rice-says.html
The protest in Libya that killed
U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans last
week appears to have begun spontaneously and was “hijacked” by
extremists, United Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  said.  Intelligence so far shows the protest began as “a
spontaneous, not a premeditated, response” to demonstrations in
Cairo over a “very offensive video” criticizing Islam, Rice
said yesterday on ABC’s “This Week” program. “As that
unfolded, it seems to have been hijacked, let us say, by some
individual clusters of extremists who came with heavier
weapons.”  “We do not have information at present that leads us to
conclude that this was premeditated or preplanned,” she said,
speaking on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” She said on ABC that a
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation probe aims to determine what
happened in the Sept. 11 attack at the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi, Libya.  Even so,  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the senior Republican
on the Senate Armed Services Committee, disputed the contention
that the attack on the Benghazi consulate was largely
spontaneous.  “How spontaneous is a demonstration when people bring
rocket-propelled grenades and heavy weapons?” McCain asked on
CBS yesterday. He said there was “no doubt” the attack was
waged by “extremists,” though he didn’t know how long it had
been planned.  ‘Turning Point’  Mohammed Yussef Magariaf, the recently elected head of
Libya’s General National Congress, said in an interview in
Benghazi that the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate “is a
 turning point  for the country.”  “Confrontation is necessary and inevitable with these
elements,” Magariaf said. “Today, it is the Americans,
tomorrow it is going to be the Libyans.”  Magariaf said the assault on the U.S. mission was part of a
wider campaign to destabilize  Libya , and the militants must be
“confronted” by pro-government forces. He said that
communications intercepted by the U.S. ahead of the attack
linked al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb to another Islamist
brigade known as Ansar al-Shariah.  He said separately on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program
yesterday that about 50 arrests have been made in connection
with the attack.  Egypt, Tunisia  The attacks on U.S. and other diplomatic missions in Libya,
 Egypt ,  Tunisia ,  Sudan ,  Pakistan  and Yemen over the past few days
were largely sparked by a film denigrating Islam’s prophet. The
incidents have laid bare the challenges confronting many of
these nations as they emerge from the so-called Arab Spring
uprisings.  The spokesman for Libya’s Supreme Security Committee said
by phone that the names of as many as 50 people had been given
to Libyan border posts, “but some may have escaped to Egypt.”  The disparity in information about arrests in Libya,
coupled with questions about whether the attack was preplanned
or spontaneous, reflected the state of uncertainty and
instability in Libya, where the new prime minister has yet to
appoint a government and the country has been mired in violence
since Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster last year.  The attack in Benghazi was the deadliest of the assaults on
U.S. missions in several Arab nations. Egypt’s  Interior Ministry 
said 417 people had been arrested in connection with about five
days of protests that began on Sept. 11.  Tunisian Arrests  In Tunisia, 75 were arrested in connection with attacks on
the U.S. embassy on Sept. 14. The attack there included several
thousand Salafis, who adhere to an ultraconservative
interpretation of Islam, protesting near the mission, burning
vehicles in the embassy compound and torching the American
school.  The State Department ordered all non-emergency personnel
and dependents to leave Sudan and Tunisia and issued travel
warning for the countries Sept. 15.  Police and protesters yesterday clashed outside the U.S.
consulate in Karachi, Pakistan. One protester was killed and
four were injured, GEO television reported.  The head of Hezbollah, a Lebanon-based Shiite Muslim group,
yesterday called for a nationwide protest over the anti-Muslim
film.  Hassan Nasrallah  in a televised speech on  Al-Manar
television said the U.S. must be held accountable for creating
strife between Muslims and Christians.  Hezbollah  Nasrallah said the protest would be for the residents of
 Beirut  and its southern suburb. The U.S. has imposed financial
sanctions against Nasrallah for providing support to Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad. The group, which draws much of its
financial and military support from Iran through Syria, is a
major militia force and political party in Lebanon and is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.  The Islamist Ansar al-Shariah brigade remains in its base
in Benghazi, and its forces are guarding one of the city’s three
main hospitals. Brigade members at both locations declined to be
interviewed when approached by a Bloomberg reporter.  Magariaf said there appeared to be rifts even with the
militants believed to be involved in the attack, with some of
the Benghazi-based Ansar al-Sharia “for participation, some
against.”  In either case, “it’s a deliberate, calculated action by a
group working in collaboration with non-Libyan extremists,” he
said. “I would not be surprised if it’s another country, but
it’s not  Saudi Arabia  or Qatar, I’m sure.”  With the FBI planning a probe into the attack, Magariaf
urged the U.S. to not act unilaterally, for fear such a step
would inflame public sentiment.  Al-Qaeda Support  U.S. officials said yesterday that American intelligence so
far supports Magariaf’s contention that the main battles in
Libya, Egypt, and Tunisia are between hard-line militant groups
backed or encouraged by al-Qaeda’s North African affiliate and
more moderate Islamic governments, including Libya, in the wake
of the Arab Spring revolutions. The officials spoke on condition
of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters.  The extremists have tried to exploit what they called an
amateurish anti-Muslim hate video distributed via  YouTube  to
incite violence that would bring harsh government crackdowns,
two officials said. The extremists hoped that, in turn, this
would discredit the new and unsteady governments and make them
appear to be pawns of the U.S., where the video originated. So
far, those officials said, the extremists appear to have what
one called very limited success.  Rushing American forces or investigators to the scenes of
trouble or vowing revenge could exacerbate the moderate regimes’
difficulties, one of the officials said.  “While it is prudent to dispatch military forces to the
area, action should follow solid evidence,” Patrick M. Cronin
of the Center for a New American Security, a Washington policy
research institute, and Audrey Kurth Cronin, a professor at the
George Mason University School of Public Policy in Fairfax,
 Virginia , wrote today in the Global Times. “Until we know
exactly who did what, this kind of unsophisticated reaction
merely perpetuates the al-Qaeda brand, empowers terrorists and
undermines our interests.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  