-- Middle East ‘Extremists’ Protests May Continue, Rice Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-16T15:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/middle-east-extremists-protests-may-continue-rice-says.html
The protest in  Libya  that killed
U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans appears
to have begun spontaneously and was “hijacked” by extremists,
United Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  said.  Intelligence so far shows the protest began as “a
spontaneous, not a premeditated, response” to demonstrations in
Cairo over a “very offensive video” criticizing Islam, Rice
said today on ABC’s “This Week” program. “As that unfolded,
it seems to have been hijacked, let us say, by some individual
clusters of extremists who came with heavier weapons.”  Speaking on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” she said, “We do
not have information at present that leads us to conclude that
this was premediated or preplanned.”  Even so, Mohammed Yussef Magariaf, president of Libya’s
General National Congress, said on the CBS program he believes
the attack was “planned by foreigners, by people who entered
the country a few months ago” from countries including Mali and
 Algeria .  The Sept. 11 date of the attack “leaves us in no doubt
that this was preplanned,” Magariaf said, according to a
transcript of the interview.  FBI Investigation  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the senior Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, disputed Rice’s contention that
the attack on the Benghazi consulate was largely spontaneous.  “How spontaneous is a demonstration when people bring
rocket-propelled grenades and heavy weapons?” McCain asked on
CBS. He said there was “no doubt” the attack was waged by
“extremists,” though he didn’t know how long it had been
planned.  Rice said on ABC that a  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
probe aims to determine what happened in the Sept. 11 attack at
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya.  Rice, speaking on CNN’s “ State of the Union ,” said
protests “could percolate into the future.”  “This is a turbulent time” and a “time of dramatic
change” in the Mideast, she said. Those causing the violence
are a “small minority” and are “the ones who lost” in the
move toward democracy, the ambassador said on CNN.  The U.S. is reinforcing embassy and consulate security
throughout the  Middle East  following protests in countries
including Sudan and Tunisa, Rice said, noting that the U.S. has
had a diplomatic presence in Libya for “only a matter of
months” following the overthrow of dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  Visiting Tripoli  “I’ve visited there myself, both to Tripoli and
Benghazi,” she said. “I was very grateful to have a strong
security presence with me.”  Asked whether the violence in the region means Obama’s
overtures to Muslims haven’t worked, she said “there have been
substantial improvements.” She described the U.S. as
“extremely popular in Libya.”  Rice said she is confident in the majority of Libyans,
citing a public outcry over the killings of the Americans.  When democracy is taking root in a country, there may be
“short-term turbulence,” she said. People in Libya are “not
going to allow an extremist mob to hijack their future and their
freedom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  