-- Mideast Markets Shun Violence as Shares Gain, Yields Fall
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-09-17T12:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/mideast-markets-shrug-off-violence-as-shares-gain-yields-fall.html
Investors in  Middle East  markets 
are shrugging off violent protests, with  Egypt’s benchmark index  
climbing to the highest since January 2011, after the U.S.
Federal Reserve announced new stimulus measures.  The EGX30 Index gained for a second day, rising 1.3 percent
to 5,895.63, the highest close since Jan. 26, 2011, the second
day of the revolt that ended President  Hosni Mubarak ’s three-
decade rule. The index is up 63 percent in 2012, outperforming
more than 90 global indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s
measure (DFMGI)  rose 1.4 percent yesterday, before falling 0.4 percent
today, while the  Saudi index  has gained 0.6 percent this week.
Egypt’s  nine-month treasury-bill  yield fell to a 10-month low at
an auction yesterday.  Hundreds were hurt during clashes between protesters and
authorities in Egypt, Tunisia and  Sudan  against a film
denigrating Islam, before protests died down over the weekend.
Clashes in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  stopped Sept. 15 after Egypt’s
main Islamist groups called for calm.  Libya  arrested about 50
people in connection with the attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi that left the U.S. ambassador and three others dead.  “Incidents like these have happened in the past, even
before the Arab Spring, and they are reactions rather than
structured and ongoing violence,” said Fadi Al Said, a Dubai-
based senior investment manager at ING Investment Management.
“Market and investor sentiment doesn’t want anything to spoil
the honeymoon” after the Fed’s decision to implement a third
round of asset purchases.  Credit Risk Drops  The Fed said Sept. 13 it would embark on open-ended
purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month as it seeks to
boost growth and reduce unemployment. The move helped boost the
MSCI World Index 2.7 percent last week. The measure slipped 0.2
percent at 1:36 p.m. in  London .  Stock markets in Qatar and Bahrain advanced today, while
the yield on Dubai’s benchmark 5.591 percent bonds maturing in
June 2021 was little changed at 4.53 percent, near the lowest
level on record.  Egypt ’s five-year credit default swaps have tumbled 85
basis points this month to a one-year low of 400 at the end of
last week, according data provider CMA. Tunisia’s contracts
dropped 11 basis points on Sept. 14 to 303, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The yield on Egypt’s nine-month treasury bills plunged 102
basis points, or 1.02 percentage points, at yesterday’s sale.  “The market is more or less immune from protests now, in
addition to the fact that there’s a lot of cash on the sidelines
waiting to be deployed on any weakness, so that’s keeping a bid
under the market,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional
sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.  Aid Pledges  The U.S. embassy in Cairo has resumed operations and
Egypt’s  Finance Ministry  said the North African country will
receive a $2 billion aid package from  Turkey .  Turkey’s pledge comes after Qatar, the world’s biggest
exporter of liquefied natural gas, said it would deposit $2
billion with Egypt’s central bank and invest another $18 billion
in projects. Egypt, which hosted a delegation of U.S. businesses
last week, is due to resume talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  this month for a loan of as much as $4.8 billion
as the country aims to double economic growth this fiscal year
to more than 4 percent.  ‘Shrugging Off Concern’  The EGX 30’s relative strength index surged to 83 today
after surpassing 70 last month. A reading above 70 indicates to
some investors that a security is poised to decline. At the
6,000-point level, “we will find some additional supply, until
some real progress is made and various recent pledges are
actually seen to be deployed,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-
based director of institutional sales trading at EFG-Hermes.  In Dubai,  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  climbed 3.2 percent
yesterday after the developer of the world’s tallest tower said
it will build a hotel near the Burj Khalifa to capitalize on the
city’s hospitality boom. The shares lost 0.5 percent today.  EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the biggest publicly traded Arab investment
bank, rallied 3.5 percent to a four-month high yesterday after
shareholders approved the creation of an investment bank with
Qatar’s QInvest. The shares lost 3.2 percent today.  “Middle East and North Africa markets are shrugging off
any concerns relating to disparate Islamic protests and focusing
instead” on the Fed’s stimulus plan, said Bruce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  