-- India Airlines Least in Need May Gain Most From New Rules
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   V i p i n   V .   N a i r
-- 2012-09-17T11:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/india-airlines-least-in-need-may-gain-most-from-new-owner-rules.html
India ’s decision allowing airlines
to sell stakes of as much as 49 percent to overseas carriers may
be most beneficial to operators least in need of investment.  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , which has said it’s in “no rush” for
funds, may be the most appealing target for foreign investors
because of the discount carrier’s low debt and record of
profitability, said Sharan Lillaney, an Angel Broking Ltd.
analyst. Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. may struggle to win
investment, even as billionaire Chairman  Vijay Mallya  seeks new
financing, after posting at least five straight annual losses.  “The biggest beneficiary will be SpiceJet as it has lower
debt and a decent brand image,” Lillaney said. “Kingfisher
needs to restructure its balance sheet and convert debt into
equity before it can look at attracting any foreign
investment.”  The two carriers jumped in Mumbai trading today on
speculation the rule change will help the industry win funds
following years of losses caused by price wars, high fuel taxes
and a weaker rupee. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government
announced Sept. 14 the end of the ban along with a similar
easing for retailers as its moves to open up  Asia ’s third-
biggest economy.  Planes Grounded  Kingfisher (KAIR)  has said it is in talks on investment that
depend up regulatory changes as it struggles under an 86 billion
rupee ($1.5 billion) debt pile. The carrier has also cut two-
third of services, grounded planes and halted international
flights in a bid to end losses.  “I am skeptical whether Kingfisher is able to attract”
foreign investment, said Nikhil Vora, Mumbai-based managing
director at IDFC Securities Ltd. “Kingfisher’s significant
leverage on its balance sheet makes it a challenging proposition
for any buyer.”  The airline, named for liquor tycoon Mallya’s flagship
beer, needs an immediate capital infusion of $600 million for a
turnaround, according to CAPA - Centre for Aviation. The
company’s founders will need to provide at least half of this
before talks with a foreign airline could begin, the research
company said.  Kingfisher has only an “outside chance” of selling a
stake compared with SpiceJet and Go Airlines (India) Ltd., CAPA
said in an e-mailed statement. The carrier has a long-term debt
to total capital ratio of 162 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 76 percent for
SpiceJet and 58 percent for Mumbai-based Jet Air.  Shares Jump  SpiceJet rose 12 percent at close of Mumbai trading while
Kingfisher jumped 20 percent.  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the
nation’s biggest, fell 2.2 percent. The carrier isn’t eligible
to win overseas funds as its founder’s 80 percent holding,
routed through overseas entities, is already deemed as foreign
investment, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report.  Kingfisher has plunged 50 percent in the past year.
SpiceJet has jumped 61 percent and Jet has risen 32 percent.
India’s three other main carriers, state-owned  Air India , IndiGo
and Go Airlines are all closely held.  The easing of the investment rules will help Kingfisher re-
engage with prospective airline investors “in a more meaningful
manner,” Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman, said in a Sept. 14 text
message. The carrier will also move toward re-capitalization and
ramp up its operations, he said.  SpiceJet Chief Executive Officer Neil Mills didn’t answer
two calls to his mobile phone today. GoAir Managing Director Jeh Wadia, IndiGo President Aditya Ghosh and Jet Air spokeswoman
Ragini Chopra also failed to answer calls.  Kingfisher Loss  Kingfisher posted a 6.5 billion rupee loss in the quarter
ended June, compared with 2.6 billion rupees a year earlier.
SpiceJet and Jet Air both posted profits in the period.  Non-airline investors from overseas were allowed to hold as
much as 49 percent in local carriers before the rule change.  Middle East airlines may be the most likely to buy into
Indian carriers because of their geographical proximity,
existing service connections and state backing.  Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive Akbar  Al Baker  said in
April that that anyone who didn’t want to invest in China or
India “must be crazy.”  India’s annual passenger numbers may surge to 180 million
by 2020 from 61 million last year as rising wealth makes travel
affordable to more people, according to a government forecast.
Al Baker today said in Doha that Qatar Air is studying the
Indian rule change. The carrier isn’t in talks for any alliance
now, he said.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways PJSC said yesterday equity
investments are an “important evolution of its successful
partnership strategy.” The carrier already has stakes in Virgin
Australia Holdings Ltd., Air Seychelles Ltd. and Air Berlin Plc.  ‘Tremendous Potential’  “The Indian aviation industry offers tremendous potential,
with significant passenger movement on domestic and
international sectors,” it said without commenting on whether
it wanted to buy into a local carrier. The airline will add
flights to a ninth Indian city, Ahmedabad, in November, it said.  Low-cost Asian airlines may also look to expand in India
following the rule change, possibly through new ventures, said
CAPA.  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest discount carrier,
declined to comment Sept. 14. Qantas Airways Ltd.’s budget arm
Jetstar will focus on its recently opened venture in  Japan  and
planned operation in  Hong Kong  before considering more
affiliates, said Andrew McGinnes, a spokesman. FlyDubai, where
SpiceJet CEO Mills used to work, has no plans to invest in other
airlines, it said yesterday.  Dubai-based Emirates, the world’s largest international
airline, also “has no plans to acquire a stake in another
airline in India or anywhere else,” it said. British Airways’
parent,  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG both said Sept. 14 that they had ruled out
investments in Indian airlines. Air France-KLM Group declined to
comment.  ‘Destroy the Market’  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said in April that
India was “a great example of where governments interfere and
destroy the market.” The Indian government said the same month
that state-owned Air India may get 300 billion rupees of
bailouts through 2020 if the unprofitable carrier hit
performance goals.  India’s “regulatory bottlenecks” and “exorbitant” fuel
taxes may also cause overseas carriers to shun direct stakes in
favor of cooperation with local carriers, said K. Ajith, a
Singapore-based airline analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Research. “An
equity investment might not be able to change the dynamics.”  Billionaire Maran  SpiceJet is adding more planes and routes helped by backing
from billionaire Chairman Kalanithi Maran. The carrier, which
operates about 300 flights a day to around 36 cities, had a
market share of 18 percent in July about the same as Air India.
Discount carrier IndiGo and Jet Air both had about 27 percent,
with Kingfisher on 3.4 percent, according to  data  from the
Directorate General of Civil Aviation.  CEO Mills said in an interview last month that SpiceJet
would be “attractive” to foreign investors. He also said the
company had received interest from two private-equity funds and
that it was in “no rush” for new investment. The airline has
10 billion rupees of short and long-term  debt , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Potential investors would look for a robust balance sheet
and a robust business model,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an
analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. “Both exist for
SpiceJet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Vipin Nair in Mumbai at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  