-- Iran Revolutionary Guard Has ‘Advisers’ in Syria, Lebanon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-09-16T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/iran-revolutionary-guard-has-advisers-in-syria-lebanon.html
The top commander of  Iran ’s Islamic
Revolutionary Guard said members of his forces are in  Syria  as
“advisers.”  General Mohammad Ali Jafari said it was an “honor” to
“provide the Syrian government with any kind of consultation to
defend Syria which is in the resistance circle,” al-Jazeera
television reported yesterday.  International efforts to end the 18-month conflict in Syria
have failed to stop the violence, which the opposition U.K.-
based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights claims has killed more
than 26,000 people.  Jafari said his forces are in Lebanon as well. Divisions
between the majority  Sunni Muslims  and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s Alawite leadership have spilled across Syria’s
borders, with clashes between Sunnis and Alawites in Lebanon
during the past few months.  Assad and most top Syrian officials come from the Alawite
sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam, while the majority of
Syria’s population and many leaders of the armed uprising are
Sunni.  The U.S. has imposed financial sanctions against leaders of
the Lebanon-based Shiite Muslim group Hezbollah for providing
support to Assad. The group is a major militia force and
political party in Lebanon and is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S.  Conflict Getting Worse  United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi said the
Syrian conflict is “getting worse” as government forces and
rebels battled across the country.  The crisis “has serious consequences on the Syrian people,
the region and the entire world,” Brahimi, who spoke at a
televised news conference, said following a meeting with Assad
in Damascus Sept. 15.  Brahimi, who succeeded  Kofi Annan , the former UN secretary-
general who ended his mission last month without making any
progress on resolving the crisis, told reporters he had “no
plan” now to solve the conflict.  “We, however, will set the plan that we will follow after
listening to all internal, regional and international parties,”
he said in an e-mailed statement. This may “manage to open
channels towards ending the crisis.”  The head of the rebels’ military council in Aleppo and its
suburbs, Colonel Abdel Jabbar al-Ageidi, said that Brahimi’s
mission would fail. He spoke yesterday to al-Arabiya television
after meeting with Brahimi, the UN envoy to Syria and other
rebel leaders via Skype.  No Solutions Offered  “Mr. Brahimi wanted to learn about the situation on the
ground but he didn’t have any solutions to offer,” al-Ageidi
said. Al-Ageidi also said the international community is
supporting the Syrian regime under the table while condemning it
to the media.  As Brahimi held talks with the government, representatives
of the opposition and civil society, fighting raged across the
country. Syrian government forces killed 155 people across the
country, including 49 in Aleppo and 59 in and around the capital
Damascus, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in
an e-mailed statement.  Nine government personnel died in the fighting, the
opposition Syrian Observatory said in an e-mailed statement. In
Aleppo, the country’s largest city, Assad’s forces used attack
helicopters against rebel-held neighborhoods and a large number
of regime forces tried to storm the Hajar al-Aswad neighborhood
in the capital, the group said on its Facebook page. Clashes
also took place in other cities, including Homs and Hama, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ; 