-- Is Turkey Ready to Become the Dubai of Europe? Not Yet.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-16T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/is-turkey-ready-to-become-the-dubai-of-europe-not-yet-.html
Istanbul hopes to snatch some of
the jobs and wealth that come with hosting a global financial
center -- a good dream to have when established centers such as
London face reputational damage and regulatory uncertainty. But
the city has a mountain to climb.  Turkey’s economic performance has been impressive in recent
years, as detailed in an article in this month’s Bloomberg
Markets. The country has a sizable domestic market, a population
(about 75 million) that’s young, and plenty of catching-up to do
in financial services penetration. All of that spells growth.  The government’s hyperactive foreign policies have also
created a potential ex-Ottoman hinterland to serve with
financial products, from the Balkans to the  Middle East . The
banking system is stable; labor is relatively cheap; flight
connections are good.  But these are not the assets that count most in creating
the next Dubai. It’s more important to establish the right tax,
regulatory and legal environment to attract finance chiefs and
to provide them a skilled, English-speaking workforce. Turkey
doesn’t yet have those prerequisites, which is why it falls so
low on indexes that try to measure finance centers.  The Z/Yen Group, for example, compiles an  annual index  of
77 financial centers around the world. The 2012 index ranks
Istanbul 61st -- below  Prague , Warsaw, and Glasgow,  Scotland .
Dubai came in 29th. The more broadly based World Economic Forum
 Financial Development Report  this year put Turkey’s financial
sector 43rd of 60 ranked.  Turkey is certainly trying. The government’s 2009  action
plan  to develop Istanbul as a financial center contains 71
points and reads like a to-do list the  World Bank  might
prescribe. Highlights include setting up specialist courts to
efficiently resolve disputes, making it easier for foreigners to
get work visas, reducing and simplifying taxes, and improving
English-language education in schools and universities.  According to the Z/Yen report’s author, Mark Yeandle, the
plan will probably move Istanbul up to a mid-50s rank in next
year’s index -- not because these goals will have been achieved,
but because the effort is raising Istanbul’s profile in the
finance sector.  Still, it’s far from clear the government is willing to do
everything it would take. Just as an example of the competitive
challenges Istanbul faces, Dubai offers a zero percent income
tax rate for foreigners, compared with  Turkey ’s 35 percent upper
rate. More important, the government’s poor record on Internet
and media freedoms, a series of legally questionable high-
profile trials, and a barely concealed nexus of politics and
business have left a cloud of suspicion over Turkey as a
predictable marketplace with a level playing field.  Still, as with Turkey’s troubled bid to join the European
Union, whether it succeeds is less important than that it tries.
Every step taken to make Istanbul a more inviting place for
global companies will be good for Turkey’s economy as a whole.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the mad  expansion of
occupational licensing  and on  India’s bold reforms ;  Albert R.
Hunt  on Mitt  Romney’s tax plan ;  Simon Johnson  on  Deutsche Bank
and the German taxpayer ;  Virginia Postrel  on  middle-class job
security ; Dorothy A. Brown on why  Harry Reid  should  release his
tax returns .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 