-- New Zealand Consumers Less Pessimistic About Economy, Spending
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-09-16T22:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/new-zealand-consumers-less-pessimistic-about-economy-spending.html
New Zealand consumers are less
pessimistic about the economy and are more willing to spend on a
major household item, a private survey showed.  An index of sentiment rose to 102.5 in the third quarter
from 99.9 in the three months through June,  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  and McDermott Miller Ltd. said in a statement today.
That’s below the average of about 106 in the past five years.
The proportion of people saying it is a good time to buy a large
household item was the highest in a year.  “While it’s concerning that overall confidence remains so
low, the improvement in people’s willingness to spend has gone
hand in hand with a genuine pick up in retail activity in the
first half,” said Westpac New Zealand Chief Economist Dominick Stephens. “Spending should continue to see modest upward
momentum.”  Improving confidence may bolster Zealand’s economic
recovery as the central bank holds  interest rates  at a record
low. Graeme Wheeler, who takes over as  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand governor next week, will leave borrowing costs unchanged
until at least March, according to all 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Pessimism about the economy eased, with 23 percent of
consumers expecting a deterioration in the year ahead, down from
29 percent in the second quarter, today’s report showed.  Still, 22 percent of households said their current
financial situation had deteriorated, the most in three years,
and 2 percent expect their position to improve over the next 12
months.  The survey was conducted Sept. 1-9 with 1,553 consumers
interviewed. The margin of error is 2.5 percent, according to
Westpac.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  