-- NHL Owners Lock Out Hockey Players After Labor Contract Expires
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-16T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/nhl-owners-lock-out-hockey-players-after-labor-contract-expires.html
The  National Hockey League  locked
out its players after a new collective bargaining agreement
couldn’t be reached before last night’s deadline.  It’s the second lockout in the past seven seasons and the
third since the 1994-95 campaign, which was shortened to 48
games. In the previous lockout, the 2004-05 season was canceled
and the  Stanley Cup  wasn’t awarded for the first time since
1919.  John Dellapina, a spokesman for the league, said in an e-
mail last night that barring an unforeseen development the
players would be locked out at midnight and that the NHL would
not issue a statement announcing the decision.  NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman and Don Fehr, executive
director of the NHL Players’ Association, were unable to come to
an agreement after exchanging contract proposals during meetings
in  New York City  over the past four days.  “We spoke today and determined that there was no point in
convening a formal bargaining session in light of the fact that
neither side is in a position to move off of its last
proposal,” Bill Daly, the NHL’s deputy commissioner, said
yesterday in a statement. “I’m sure we will keep in touch in
the coming days and schedule meetings to the extent they might
be useful or appropriate. We are sorry for where we are. Not
what we hoped or expected.”  The players’ union was prepared to meet yesterday prior to
the deadline, said Steve Fehr, special counsel to the NHLPA.  “The NHL said that it saw no purpose in having a formal
meeting,” Fehr said in an e-mailed statement. “There have been
and continue to be private, informal discussions between
representatives of both sides.”  Scheduled Start  The season is scheduled to begin Oct. 11, and the sides are
arguing over player compensation and revenue sharing.  On Sept. 12, owners offered players 47 percent of hockey-
related revenue, with a loss of about $256 million in player
salaries next year. The offer was one percentage point more than
in their previous proposal, Fehr said. Under the latest deal,
players received 57 percent.  The union’s Sept. 12 offer, according to Fehr, tied the
players’ share to revenue growth, with the proportion decreasing
as hockey-related revenue increased. Under the plan, should
league revenue grow at the same rate as the past 10 years, the
players’ share would decrease to 54.3 percent in the first year,
then 52.5 percent, 52.0 percent and rise to 52.3 percent in the
fourth year, Fehr said.  Other contentious issues include salary arbitration and the
length of unrestricted free agency.  The league’s total revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion
television contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, swelled to an
estimated record $3.2 billion last season from $2.2 billion in
2006, according to the NHL. The league hasn’t said how much of
this year’s revenue is profit.  Player Salaries  Before the start of the 2011-12 season, the average NHL
player salary was $2.4 million, up from about $1.5 million when
the agreement began at the start of the 2005-06 season.  In comparison, the average National Basketball Association
player salary was $5.15 million, the highest among the U.S.’s
four major sports leagues, for 2011-12. The average salary for a
National Football League player was $1.9 million, the lowest of
the four leagues, with  Major League Baseball ’s $3.3 million
average salary ranking second behind the NBA.  The current collective bargaining agreement was reached
after the 2004-05 season was wiped out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  