-- Noda Says China Must Ensure Safety of Japanese Amid Protests
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-09-16T06:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/noda-will-urge-china-to-ensure-safety-of-japanese-amid-protests.html
Japan ’s Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda will tell  China  to ensure the safety of Japanese citizens
after protests in Chinese cities over disputed islands, 
including at facilities of  Panasonic (6752)  Corp. and  Toyota (7203)  Motor Corp.  “I intend to strongly demand that the Chinese government
ensure security” of Japanese citizens, Noda said today on
public broadcaster NHK’s “Sunday Debate” program. “I strongly
object” to the burning of Japanese flags and the protests.  Panasonic’s factory and a Toyota dealership in the port
city of Qingdao were damaged by fire, while military police had
to be called in to control thousands demonstrating at the
Japanese consulate in Shanghai as protests escalated.  Tensions between  Asia ’s two largest economies increased
last week after China dispatched six government vessels near
disputed islands in the  East China Sea  known as Senkaku in Japan
and Diaoyu in China.  “We intend to react calmly and firmly,” Noda said. “We
will act firmly and securely protect the Senkaku islands.”  Japan has called China’s move a “provocation.” China sent
the ships after Noda’s government said Sept. 10 that his country
would purchase the islands from their private Japanese owner.  The row takes place as both countries grapple with a global
economic slowdown and China’s Communist Party prepares for a
generational leadership change.  Chinese Protests  Protests occurred in Qingdao, Xi’an, Guangzhou and  Hong
Kong  yesterday as more than 1,000 demonstrators gathered outside
the Embassy of Japan in Beijing. Japan’s Kyodo News said more
than 40,000 people joined demonstrations in 20 Chinese cities.  In Shanghai today, hundreds of military police were brought
in to separate groups of protesters outside the Japanese
consulate chanting, “down with Japan devils, boycott Japanese
goods, give back Diaoyu.” There were no reports of injuries.  “Japan is becoming more and more arrogant and the feelings
of Chinese are increasingly being oppressed,” said Xiao Feng,
26, an office worker who came to Shanghai to join a few hundred
other protesters from Jiangxi province. “We need to step up and
make our feelings known that they can’t just have their way.”  Activists from Hong Kong plan to sail to the islands on
Sept. 18, China National Radio reported on its website yesterday.
Japan last month arrested and deported a group that departed
from Hong Kong and landed on the islets to assert China’s claim.  Japan’s incoming envoy Shinichi Nishimiya died this morning
after an illness, the Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. Nishimiya was sent to the hospital for an unspecified
illness two days after his appointment, the ministry said on
Sept. 13.  Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  and Defense Minister
Satoshi Morimoto returned to Tokyo yesterday after cutting short
a visit to Australia, public broadcaster NHK reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  