-- Modifying Human Embryos to Thwart Disease Weighed in U.K.
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/modifying-human-embryos-to-thwart-disease-weighed-in-u-k-.html
Should parents concerned about
passing on genetic diseases to their children be allowed to swap
DNA with a donor’s?  A U.K. regulatory agency is posing the question to the
public starting today as the government explores whether to
allow genetic modification of human embryos to prevent some
diseases. The  Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority , or
HFEA, will report findings to the  Department of Health  in March,
the agency said in a statement today.  The procedure, which isn’t available in the U.S., involves
transferring healthy nuclear DNA from one fertilized human egg
with unhealthy mitochondrial DNA to a donor embryo with disease-
free mitochondria. The approach may prevent genetic disorders
such as learning disabilities,  heart disease  and diabetes.
Serious forms of mitochondrial disease affect one in every 6,500
children.  “This is uncharted territory,” Lisa Jardine, chairwoman
of the HFEA, told reporters in  London  last week. “Once we have
genetic modification, we have to be damn sure that we are happy.
It’s about many generations down the line what the consequences
might be.”  In the U.K., the procedure, known as mitochondrial
replacement, is legal in the laboratory, though the resulting
embryos can’t be implanted in women.  Family Dynamics  The consultation will gauge how the public views the
treatment ethically, Jardine said. It raises questions about the
legal status of women who donate their eggs, as well as how it
will affect family dynamics between the child, parents and
donor, she said.  In April 2010, a team of scientists led by Doug Turnbull at
Newcastle University in northern  England  published research on
mitochondrial replacement in the journal Nature. They created 80
fertilized eggs using the technique and grew them in a
laboratory for six to eight days. That showed for the first time
that eggs produced in this way could reach the stage at which
they each had divided into about 100 cells.  “The work of Professor Turnbull and colleagues holds great
promise for preventing previously incurable disease,” Mark
Walport, director of the  Wellcome Trust , said in a statement
last week. “The HFEA consultation provides an important
opportunity for us to discuss with the public why we believe
this technique is essential and to listen to any concerns they
may have.”  Not in U.S.  In the U.S., mitochondrial replacement isn’t a procedure
approved by the  Food and Drug Administration , said Sean Tipton,
a spokesman in  Washington , D.C., for the  American Society for
Reproductive Medicine . If the scientific evidence shows that
mitochondrial replacement is safe and effective, it should be
made available, he said.  The issue may also be conflated with politically
controversial research using  stem cells  taken from human
embryos, Tipton said.  “Many people hear ’embryo’ and ’genes’ and very frequently
over-react,” he said. “The treatment should be assessed based
on science, not science-fiction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  