-- Oil Trades Near Four-Month High on Signs of Improving Economy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-17T07:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/oil-trades-near-four-month-high-before-reports-on-u-s-economy.html
Oil traded near the highest price
in four months before reports forecast to show a strengthening
economy in the U.S., the world’s biggest consumer of crude.  Futures were little changed in  New York  after surging as
high as $100.42 a barrel on Sept. 14 as the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to start buying U.S. mortgage securities. New home
construction and sales of previously owned houses rose in August,
economists said before U.S. data due Sept. 19. Current crude
prices aren’t a threat to the world economy, said Mohammad Ali Khatibi, Iran’s governor to OPEC, according to the Oil
Ministry’s news website.  “We’ve seen an ongoing and relatively positive reaction to
the Fed’s easing plan,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “That reflects the relatively
open-ended nature of the proposed easing.”  Oil for October delivery dropped 23 cent to $98.77 a barrel
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
3:37 p.m. Singapore time. The contract rose 0.7 percent to close
at $99 on Sept. 14, the highest since May 3. Prices are up 0.2
percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement was at $116.50 a barrel,
down 16 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The front-month premium for the European benchmark contract to
West Texas Intermediate was at $17.35, up from $17.33.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on oil to a four-month high
before futures surged on Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan for a new round of measures to boost economic
growth. Money managers increased  net-long positions , or wagers
on rising prices, by 5 percent in the seven days ended Sept. 11,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on Sept. 14. They were at the
highest level since the week ended May 1.  U.S. housing starts in August increased to an annual rate
of 765,000, the fastest in almost four years, from 746,000 in
July, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
before the Commerce Department report. Existing-home purchases
advanced to a three-month high, economists said before data from
the National Association of Realtors.  Most oil-consuming nations consider prices at $100 a barrel
to be “fair,” Khatibi said in a report published by the Shana
website yesterday.  Iran , the third largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is grappling with
international sanctions imposed by Western countries that allege
the nation is building nuclear weapons.  Iranian Imports  South Korea  stopped buying crude from Iran in August after
its refiners lost insurance coverage on ships carrying supplies
from the Persian Gulf nation.  Purchases fell to zero last month, reducing imports from
Iran for the first eight months of this year by 34 percent from
a year earlier to 5.39 million metric tons, according to data
posted on the Customs Service’s website Sept. 15. South Korea
bought 1.14 million tons of crude oil, or about 270,000 barrels
a day, in August 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  