-- Hong Kong Adds Curbs to Cool Home Prices as Fed Starts QE3
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-09-17T09:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/hong-kong-adds-curbs-to-cool-home-prices-as-bernanke-starts-qe3.html
Hong Kong  has widened efforts to
cool home prices that have gained almost 90 percent since early
2009, as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of quantitative
easing risks fueling asset bubbles in the city.  The  Hong Kong Monetary Authority  will limit the maximum
term on all new mortgages to 30 years,  Norman Chan , the de-facto
central bank’s chief executive, told reporters on Sept. 14.
Mortgage payments for investment properties can’t be more than
40 percent of buyers’ monthly incomes, from the current 50
percent, he said.  The curbs came after the Hang Seng Property Index completed
a six-day, 11 percent rally on optimism the Fed’s QE3 program
would fuel inflows to the city, which tracks U.S. monetary
policy because of a currency peg to the dollar. Record low
mortgage rates, an influx of buyers from other parts of  China 
and a lack of new supply have underpinned the housing market,
prompting Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying to announce
plans in the past month to accelerate land sales and give
preference to local buyers in some projects.  “Recent renewed signs of heating in the  property market 
have been acknowledged by the HKMA,” Kelvin Lau, an economist
of Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong, said. “It remains to be
seen whether this will be enough to defuse medium-term upside
price pressures, especially in view of the perceived supply
shortage, still-ample liquidity, and strong domestic and cross-
border fundamentals.”  Shares Rise  The nine-member Hang Seng Property Index fell 0.5 percent
at the close, after rising as much as 1.1 percent. It has
advanced 27 percent this year, more than double the 12 percent
advance in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  over the period.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., the city’s second-biggest
developer by market value, rose 0.1 percent to HK$114.10.
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the biggest, advanced 0.9 percent
to HK$112.80.  The introduction of QE3 “will create the potential for
renewed influx of capital into Hong Kong,” Chan said. “We have
to stand ready for it.”  The central bank  also raised the minimum down payment on
investment properties for buyers who derive their income from
outside Hong Kong. Investors using their assets -- not income --
to borrow can now only take out loans for as much as 30 percent
of a property’s value, Chan said. The restrictions are effective
immediately.  “The new measure will deter speculative and investment
demand and the yield for property investors will be lower,”
said Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Weekend Sales  The city’s Financial Secretary  John Tsang  also said on Sept.
14 that QE3 may push up Hong Kong home prices and the government
won’t hesitate to introduce more property curbs if needed.  The 15 largest estates in the city recorded 44 second-hand
sale transactions over the weekend, compared with 30 the prior
weekend,  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200) , Hong Kong’s biggest publicly
traded real estate company, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The low-interest environment, extended by the
introduction of QE3, is encouraging renters to buy, executive
director Vincent Chan said in the statement.  Restricting Homebuyers  Buyers from other parts of China made up 36.8 percent of
all new sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to Midland
estimates. The proportion reached 53.9 percent in the third
quarter last year, the realtor said.  Leung said on Sept. 6 he will restrict homebuyers of two
building sites the government plans to sell to local residents,
a week after announcing a 10-point package to rein in prices
including making more land available to developers and speeding
up the building of public housing.  “Without policy intervention, QE3 will further heat up the
Hong Kong property market,”  David Ng , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Macquarie Securities Ltd., wrote in a note after the HKMA’s
announcement. “Excessive price growth not only hurts
affordability, but will further weaken the political clout of
the government.”  The city’s chief executive, who was elected in March by a
committee of mostly businessmen, professionals and lawmakers,
has pledged during his campaign to address a widening wealth gap
and concerns that housing is becoming unaffordable for the
general public.  1997 Peak  The government has had to tweak demand and supply through
additional property transaction taxes, higher mortgage down
payments and by releasing more land to developers as Hong Kong’s
currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  pushed borrowing costs to a
record low and prevents the de-facto central bank from using
monetary policy.  The number of home transactions rose 42 percent in August
from a month earlier, the biggest increase since March.  The central bank raised the minimum down payment for some
mortgages in June last year, the third time since August 2010,
with borrowers now having to put down 40 percent for homes
costing more than HK$7 million ($902,000). In 2010, the
government introduced an additional stamp duty on residential
units sold within two years of purchase.  Hong Kong  home prices  have risen 14 percent this year,
according to a Centaline Property Agency Ltd. index. They fell 4
percent in the last three months of 2011, the biggest quarterly
drop since the global credit crisis, after the government’s
mortgage restrictions and as  China’s economy  began to slow.  Hong Kong’s  home prices  have now surpassed their peak in
October 1997, which marked the start of a 70 percent decline to
August 2003, according to the Centaline index. They have soared
240 percent since that trough nine years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  