-- Defoe Fires Spurs to First League Win to Ease Pressure on Coach
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/tottenham-defeats-reading-3-1-for-first-league-win-of-season.html
Jermain Defoe  got two goals as
Tottenham beat Reading 3-1 in soccer’s Premier League to ease
early-season pressure on coach Andre Villas-Boas.  Gareth Bale also scored at Reading’s Madejski Stadium
yesterday for Spurs, who climbed to 10th. Hal Robson-Kanu
replied in the 90th minute for 19th-place Reading.  “We’ve been chasing this win for quite some time and it’s
important for everybody,” Villas-Boas told  Sky Sports .
“Hopefully we can push on from now.”  Tottenham has five points from four matches, five behind
first-place Chelsea. Reading, which has played only three games,
remains on one point. Only Southampton is below the Royals in
the table.  U.K. newspaper The People said yesterday that Villas-Boas,
who was appointed two months ago, had three matches to save his
job. Following the win, bookmaker William Hill lengthened its
odds on the Portuguese coach leaving the club before the end of
the season to 11-2 from 7-2.  Spurs made a positive start, forcing goalkeeper Alex
McCarthy, who was making his Premier League debut, into a save
on six minutes when former Reading midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson
met a free kick with a header.  Bale fired a shot just past McCarthy’s post two minutes
later.  Penalty Appeal  Reading appealed for a penalty kick when the ball appeared
to hit the arm of Tottenham defender  Kyle Walker  in the 12th
minute. Instead, a free kick was awarded for a foul on Walker.  It was still Spurs on the attack for most of the opening
stages and Defoe put the Londoners ahead on 17 minutes.  Aaron Lennon  collected the ball from Sigurdsson and crossed for Defoe
to strike a low shot into the corner of the net.  Sandro tested McCarthy with a long-range shot a few minutes
later, then Defoe brought down a long ball forward before
hitting a shot wide.  Defoe stole the ball from McCarthy after 32 minutes, but
Sigurdsson’s goal-bound shot was cleared off the line by Alex
Pearce.  Defoe and Sigurdsson had further chances before halftime,
with Reading having a rare opportunity from a Pavel Pogrebnyak
shot that was blocked.  The Royals, back in the top division for a first time since
2008, made an attacking change at halftime by introducing Adam
Le Fondre for Jem Karacan.  More Possession  They started to gain more possession, although Tottenham
was still a threat on the break and appeared more likely to
score. The visitors pushed for a second goal, aware that
allowing a late goal in each of their last two matches had
resulted in 1-1 ties.  Bale finally made Tottenham’s dominance count after 71
minutes with a shot that looped over the goalkeeper from about
10 yards. Any chance of a Reading comeback was ended three
minutes later as Defoe was allowed to run forward before firing
past McCarthy.  “We created a lot of chances and could have scored more,
but the lads did well,” Defoe told Sky Sports. “Our season can
start now.”  Reading pushed for a goal in the last five minutes, with an
effort from Le Fondre cleared off the line by  William Gallas .
Substitute Robson-Kanu volleyed into the net as the game entered
injury time.  Chelsea tops the standings, even after it was held to a 0-0
tie at west  London  rival Queens Park Rangers two days ago.
 Manchester United  has nine points, with Arsenal and  Manchester
City  on eight.  United beat Wigan 4-0, Arsenal defeated Southampton 6-1,
while City tied 1-1 at Stoke.  In other games,  Aston Villa  won 2-0 against Swansea, Fulham
beat West Bromwich Albion 3-0, Sunderland and Liverpool drew 1-
1, and the match between Norwich and West Ham was scoreless.
Today, Everton hosts Newcastle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 