-- Panasonic, Toyota Report Damages in China as Protests Widen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-16T11:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/panasonic-plant-in-china-on-fire-as-anti-japan-protests-escalate.html
A  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  factory and a
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  dealership in  China  were damaged by fire as
anti-Japanese demonstrations spread across the country,
prompting Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to urge the Chinese
government to ensure the safety of its citizens.  Smoke and flames were reported as coming from Panasonic’s
electronic-parts plant in eastern Shandong province’s Qingdao
city, said Atsushi Hinoki, a Tokyo-based Panasonic spokesman.
Keisuke Kirimoto, a Toyota spokesman, said an auto dealership in
the same port city was damaged, and the company was checking for
losses in other cities.  Tensions between Asia’s two largest economies escalated
after Noda’s government said last week his country would
purchase disputed islands in the  East China Sea  from their
private Japanese owner, prompting China to dispatch government
vessels near the islands known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu
in Chinese. The row takes place as both countries grapple with a
global economic slowdown and China’s Communist Party prepares
for a generational leadership change.  More than 10,000 people marched in the southern Chinese
city of Guangzhou, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.
Mass protests were also held in the cities of Harbin, Nanjing,
Hohhot, Changchun and Wuhan, with demonstrations largely
peaceful and few instances of looting and vandalism, it said.  The protesters said they were responding to calls posted on
online forums or  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s messaging service QQ,
Xinhua said. In Shenzhen, police used tear gas and water cannons
to drive back thousands of anti- Japan  protesters occupying a
major street,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported.  ‘Down with Japan Devils’  “I intend to strongly demand that the Chinese government
ensure security” of Japanese citizens, Noda said today on
public broadcaster NHK’s “Sunday Debate” program. “I strongly
object” to the burning of Japanese flags and the protests.  Japan’s Foreign Minister Koichiro Gemba returned to  Tokyo 
after cutting short a visit to  Australia , while the nation’s new
ambassador to China died today after an illness.  In  Shanghai , hundreds of riot police separated groups of
protesters as they gathered outside the Japanese consulate
chanting, “down with Japan devils, boycott Japanese goods, give
back Diaoyu.” There were no reports of injuries in the largely
peaceful protests.  “Japan is becoming more and more arrogant and the feelings
of Chinese are increasingly being oppressed,” said Xiao Feng,
26, an office worker who came to Shanghai to join a few hundred
other protesters from Jiangxi province. “We need to step up and
make our feelings known that they can’t just have their way.”  Fishing to Resume  Protests occurred in Qingdao, Xi’an, Guangzhou and  Hong
Kong  yesterday as more than 1,000 demonstrators gathered outside
the Embassy of Japan in Beijing. Japan’s Kyodo News said more
than 40,000 people joined the demonstrations in 20 Chinese
cities. Overseas Chinese in Houston and Chicago also protested
the Japanese government’s purchase of the islands, Xinhua
reported.  Chinese fishermen from Fujian and Zhejiang provinces may
resume their activities near disputed islands with Japan today
after a three-month seasonal moratorium, China National Radio
reported. More than 1,000 fishing boats go there every year,
according to CNR.  Activists from Hong Kong plan to sail to the islands on
Sept. 18, China National Radio reported on its website
yesterday. Japan last month arrested and deported a group that
departed from Hong Kong and landed on the islets to assert
China’s claim.  Japan’s incoming envoy Shinichi Nishimiya died this morning
after an illness, the Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. Nishimiya was sent to the hospital for an unspecified
illness two days after his appointment, the ministry said on
Sept. 13.  Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  and Defense Minister
Satoshi Morimoto returned to Tokyo yesterday after cutting short
a visit to Australia, public broadcaster NHK reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  