-- Panetta Says Protests in Middle East ‘Leveling Off’
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-16T11:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/panetta-says-violent-protests-in-middle-east-leveling-off-.html
(Corrects to add State Department role in fourth paragraph
of story originally published Sept. 15.)  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said the level of violence has declined the past few days in
protests in the Islamic world sparked by an anti-Muslim video.  “Today, there continue to be some demonstrations but it
would appear there’s some leveling off on the violence that we
thought might take place,” Panetta told reporters aboard a U.S.
military plane on his way to  Asia . “Having said that, we have
to continue to be very vigilant because these demonstrations are
likely to continue over the next few days, if not longer.”  U.S. military forces deployed in the  Middle East  are
“prepared to respond to any request we receive to be able to
protect our personnel and American property” if they’re
threatened by demonstrators, Panetta said.  The U.S. State Department must make a request, which must
be approved by a host nation’s government, before American
troops can be deployed to any country to protect diplomatic
missions, Panetta said. Sudan has decided that its own forces
can provide security to U.S. personnel and property without
inviting U.S. military personnel, he said.  Last week, demonstrations outside a U.S. diplomatic
mission in Benghazi,  Libya , turned violent and a group of
attackers armed with rocket-launchers and guns entered the
compound and set fire to buildings, killing U.S. Ambassador to
Libya Chris Stevens and three other U.S. State Department
employees.  Investigations are still under way to determine who or
which groups carried out the attack in Libya, Panetta said,
adding that the government of Libya is assisting in the effort.  Terrorist groups affiliated with al-Qaeda continue to
threaten U.S. interests in Yemen, Somalia, North Africa and
elsewhere, Panetta said.  “They continue to try to inspire violence and undermine
stability, and continue to represent a threat to the U.S., so
for that reason we’ve to continue to go after them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  