-- Qatar MBA Grad Outflanking Glencore Shows Ambitions of State
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-09-17T16:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/qatar-mba-grad-outflanking-glencore-signals-ambitions-of-state.html
The late-night negotiating session
that led to a sweetened takeover offer by  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN)  for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  on Sept. 7 included a former British prime
minister and a swashbuckling commodity-trading billionaire. It’s
possible neither was the most influential man in the room at
 London ’s Claridge’s Hotel.  That distinction might instead go to the two executives who
run the $100 billion Qatari sovereign wealth fund --  Qatar  Prime
Minister Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr Al-Thani, 52, owner of one of
the world’s biggest yachts, and Qatar Holding LLC Chief
Executive Officer  Ahmad Mohamed Al-Sayed , who was named to head
the fund in 2008 at the age of 32, after attending law and
business schools in the U.S.  Their insistence on a higher price from Glencore, the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, was a rare example
of a sovereign wealth fund injecting itself into a merger of
such scale, said Rachel Ziemba, an analyst at Roubini Global
Economics in London. It underscored Qatar’s new, outsized role
in global politics and business, evidenced by stakes in French
oil giant  Total SA (FP) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and Al Jazeera, the
global news channel.  “This is part of a willingness and even desire of members
of the royal family to be more visible,” and to use their
investment muscle to generate greater returns, Ziemba said.  Sheikh Hamad, who is also the wealth fund’s chairman, and
Al-Sayed hammered out the agreement Sept. 6 at Claridge’s with
Glencore’s hard-charging CEO, Ivan Glasenberg, and a few
advisers, according to a person with knowledge of the meeting.  Tony Blair  Mediating was former U.K. prime minister  Tony Blair , a
senior adviser to JPMorgan Chase & Co., which is advising mining
company Xstrata. Claridge’s is a few blocks from Glencore’s
London offices -- more convenient, perhaps, than the Shangri-La
Hotel in the 72-story, Qatari-owned Shard skyscraper about a
mile away.  Qatar, whose 12 percent stake in Xstrata made it Glencore’s
largest obstacle, had objected to the original terms announced
in February. On June 26 the Qataris asked for a 16-percent-
higher price, setting off a new round of negotiations. Still
unhappy, the Qataris said Aug. 30 the fund intended to vote
against Glencore’s proposal of 2.8 shares for each Xstrata
share.  That opposition eventually led to the Claridge’s showdown,
resulting in Glencore raising its all-share bid to 3.05 shares,
valued at a total of 22 billion pounds ($35 billion), the
biggest announced merger this year. Qatar compromised from its
sought-after ratio of 3.25.  Beyond Harrods  Xstrata’s board may soon recommend its support of the
offer, people familiar with the situation have said, and has set
a deadline of Sept. 24 to respond formally. Qatar is likely to
let Xstrata’s decision guide its own, two people said.  Xstrata shares have risen 3.9 percent since the new offer,
and declined 0.7 percent to 1,053.5 pence in London today.
Glencore shares fell 2.1 percent to 371 pence at the close.  Qatar Holding is the world’s 12th-largest  sovereign wealth
fund , according to the Las Vegas-based SWF Institute, well
behind such funds as  Abu Dhabi ’s $627 billion Investment
Authority. Its riches are a function of gas reserves -- the
world’s fourth-largest -- and a population of just 2 million,
who inhabit a country about the size of  Connecticut .  Prior to this year, many of the fund’s investments were in
trophy assets like London’s Harrods department store and a stake
in the owner of the skyscraping Canary Wharf financial district.  As both chairman of Qatar Holding and prime minister,
Sheikh Hamad, a cousin of the ruling Emir, plays a critical
role, said Kristian Coates Ulrichsen, a professor of Middle East
politics at the  London School  of Economics.  Power Base  Qatar Holding is “the vehicle” of the prime minister, who
is seeking to increase his influence while Qatar’s crown prince,
Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, builds his own power base by
shepherding events such as the planned 2022 World Cup of soccer
in Qatar, Ulrichsen said. That makes further high-profile deals
likely as they jockey for leadership, he added.  A long-time civil servant,  Sheikh Hamad  has served as the
country’s minister of municipal affairs and minister of foreign
affairs. He became prime minister in 2007. He also chairs the
international advisory council for the Brookings Doha Center,
the Middle East branch of the Washington-based think tank.  His yacht, named  Al Mirqab , is 133 meters (436 feet) long.
In 2007 he paid a then-record 100 million pounds for a 20,000
square-foot penthouse London apartment, according to the London-
based Times.  Bloodless Coup  Al-Sayed has risen quickly. He received a bachelor’s degree
in law from Qatar University before getting a law degree from
 Boston University  and an MBA from  New York University . He serves
on numerous boards, including those of Harrods Group Trustees
Ltd, Canary Wharf Group Plc, Qatar National Bank and the Qatar
Exchange, which is 20 percent owned by NYSE Euronext.  Qatar’s current Emir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa  Al Thani ,
has steadily expanded Qatar’s role as a global investor since
overthrowing his father in a bloodless coup in 1995.  The country’s high-profile deals this year have occurred
across a broad range of industries. In August it agreed to spend
$1.45 billion for a 20 percent stake in BAA Ltd., the owner of
London’s  Heathrow airport . That followed a deal in June to take
a 49 percent stake in AUX, a Brazilian gold-mining business, for
about $2 billion from billionaire  Eike Batista , according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction. It also acquired a 3
percent stake in Total, now worth about $3.7 billion, and a
stake in Royal Dutch Shell.  Qatar’s eagerness for the spotlight extends beyond finance.
The Qatari state continues to bankroll  Al Jazeera  and also
played a key role in the uprisings of the Arab Spring, backing
rebel groups in Libya and  Syria  and using its financial muscle
to support  Egypt ’s new government, which is dominated by the
Muslim Brotherhood.  Those interventions are themselves likely to lead to
further deals for Qatar as the countries rebuild and open up to
foreign investment, Ziemba said. “The politics and the
economics go hand in hand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  