-- Romney’s Tax Cuts May Be a Hard Sell With Voters
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-09-16T15:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/romney-s-tax-cuts-may-be-a-hard-sell-with-voters.html
In U.S. national politics,
Republicans flourish when the focus is on  tax cuts ; they suffer
when Medicare is the focus. It looks like it’ll be different
this year.  Mitt Romney  has proposed huge tax cuts that principally
benefit the wealthy, while refusing to say how he’d pay for them
by closing unspecified loopholes. This lacks credibility and may
become one of the rare  tax-cut  promises that is a political
loser.  On Medicare, Romney and his running mate, Representative
 Paul Ryan , have put forth a plan that ultimately would turn the
federal health-insurance program for the elderly into a premium
support, or voucher, program. Democrats are winning on the issue
in Florida and elsewhere.  There are two reasons this is no longer the third rail for
Republicans. One, a counterattack charging, speciously, that
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care measure cuts benefits for
Medicare recipients. The other is a general recognition that
changes need to be made in the program and whatever the problems
with the Romney-Ryan proposals, the president has ducked the
issue.  Capital Gains  On  taxes , it’s Romney who’s ducking. He has proposed a tax
cut of more than $4 trillion over 10 years, an across-the-board
20 percent reduction in individual income-tax rates, the
elimination of the estate tax, the alternative minimum tax and
taxes on  capital gains , dividends and interest for those earning
less than $200,000. The corporate rate tax rate would come down
to 25 percent from 35 percent.  He insists this can be achieved without raising revenue, by
limiting tax preferences. He refuses to specify any. The
candidate cites Republican experts such as the Princeton
University economist Harvey Rosen. However, Rosen says this is
feasible if Romney eliminates the popular  tax deductions  for
items such as home mortgages and charitable contributions for
those making more than $100,000 a year.  That’s a nonstarter for many Republicans, even with the
trade-off of lower rates.  Thus, most tax experts say the Romney plan is a mirage.  “You can’t get enough base-broadening to finance his rate
reductions,” says Michael Graetz, a Columbia Law School
professor who was a top tax official in President  George H.W. Bush ’s Treasury Department. “Romney says what he will do on tax
cuts but he’s not prepared to say what he would do on the hard
stuff.”  Moreover, Graetz asks, “Do we believe that Mitt Romney
will make tithes to the Mormon Church and other charitable
outfits non-deductible?” In the two years of tax returns Romney
has released, he made $42.6 million and gave $7 million to
charity, mostly to his Mormon Church.  Promises for a revenue-neutral plan in which the middle
class and small businesses get a net tax cut suggest higher
overall taxes for either the poor or the rich. The Romney
campaign refuses to comment.  Romney’s tax problem is further compounded when he insists
his plan wouldn’t change the progressivity of the  tax code . He
cites  Ronald Reagan ’s 1986 tax-reform bill and the
recommendations of the 2010 Bowles-Simpson deficit-reduction
panel as models for cutting tax rates and broadening the base in
a non-regressive manner.  What Romney doesn’t say is how this was achieved. Capital-
gains taxes were increased and treated as ordinary income in
both the 1986 Tax Reform Act and the Bowles-Simpson plan. Romney
has ruled out any increase of those levies.  Wealthy Benefit  Many of Romney’s proposed tax cuts benefit the wealthy, and
tax experts say it would be exceedingly difficult to retain the
current progressivity if higher capital-gains rates are taken
off the table.  Moreover, Reagan financed the lower individual rates with
sizeable increases in corporate taxes, such as the elimination
of the investment tax credit. Romney wants to cut, not increase,
corporate taxes.  Reagan and  George W. Bush  gained the upper hand in the tax
debate with promises of big cuts. Neither talked about any
offsetting revenue increases.  A simple look at the  budget deficit  explains why the
situation was different then. In 1980, the federal deficit was
$60 billion; the public was frustrated about stagflation, a
stagnant economy with soaring prices.  Twelve years ago, the second President Bush promised a tax
cut because his predecessor, President  Bill Clinton , left him a
$240 billion  budget surplus .  The deficit is projected to reach $1.3 trillion this year,
and this is a centerpiece of the Romney-Ryan attack on Obama’s
economic performance.  Research by Democrats shows that undecided or persuadable
voters -- disproportionately white, younger and not college-
educated -- are turned off by what they see as the unfairness of
the Romney tax plan. A current Obama ad charges the Republican
would  increase taxes  on the middle class by $2,000 to pay for a
tax cut for millionaires. While this is conjecture, the Romney
camp has no specifics to refute it.  Democrats are plotting ways to accentuate the lack of
transparency in Romney’s plan. One notion is to tie it to his
refusal to release more than a few years of his own tax returns
with the charge: He won’t tell you what he did pay or what
you’re going to pay.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 