-- Rushdie Ducked Fatwa in $57,000 Armored ‘Bimbomobile’
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-09-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/rushdie-ducked-fatwa-in-57-000-armored-bimbomobile-review.html
After Ayatollah Khomeini’s fatwa
forced  Salman Rushdie  underground 23 years ago, his police
protection team insisted on an alias. He chose Joseph Anton,
uniting the first names of two favorite writers, Conrad and
Chekhov.  He lived with that name for more than a decade. Now it’s
the title of a memoir in which he reports from the frontline of
the battle for freedom of speech, revealing exactly what those
fearful years were like.  “ Joseph Anton ” opens as news of the Iranian death
sentence reached Rushdie on February 14, 1989. “ The Satanic
Verses ,” the novel deemed blasphemous by Islamic clerics, had
already been banned in  India  and  South Africa , and inspired a
scattering of protests around the world.  The fatwa ratcheted up the risk level, catapulting the
Booker Prize winner into a plot better suited to an airport
blockbuster.  In the “blaring, terrible days” that followed, Rushdie
was compelled to make himself invisible, moving from address to
address with a “prot” team present at all times. Glimpses of
friends and family were rare and public appearances off-limits.  In the outside world, he ceased being “Salman” and became
instead the “Rushdie” of news reports or “Satan Rushdy,” as
misspelled placards insisted.  As if to underscore this loss of self, he tells his story
in the third person, referring to himself as “the writer”
throughout the memoir. That’s an off-putting choice, striking an
evasive note and keeping the reader at a distance.  Good Friends  The irony of having become the focus of so much hatred on
Valentine’s Day is not lost on Rushdie. Yet “Joseph Anton” is,
he insists, “a tale of loving friendship.” The international
literary community erected a ring of steel around him. Writers
including Margaret Drabble, Paul Auster and  Christopher Hitchens 
loaned him houses, signed petitions and leaned on publishers who
were suddenly skittish about having his books on their lists.  Not everyone was on his side, though. U.K. newspapers
moaned about the money his security was costing taxpayers.
Certain fellow authors felt he’d wooed controversy. He names and
shames some of these appeasers:  Rupert Murdoch  and the Swedish
Academy, John le Carre and Roald Dahl, who is described as “a
long, unpleasant man with huge strangler’s hands.”  As months became years, Rushdie’s anger gave way to gloom
and self-doubt. He worried about his young son, whose childhood
he largely missed. His second marriage, to writer Marianne
Wiggins, was barely a year old and already under strain when the
fatwa was declared. It broke down completely when he caught her
in too many strange and damaging lies, he says.  Wife, Baby  He couldn’t exactly date, though he fortuitously met
Elizabeth West, an editor 14 years his junior, while staying at
an old friend’s house. She became his third wife and mother of
his second child, the “prot” team’s first baby.  There were moments of farce, too. In a house in Wales, he
had to cower beneath the kitchen table when a neighboring farmer
popped by unannounced. Talked into trying out a wig, he heard a
passerby say, “There’s that bastard Rushdie in a wig.” And the
bounty on his head was increased to cover “expenses.”  Rushdie’s own expenses included an armored BMW bought
secondhand from Ralph Halpern, the founder of Topshop, for
35,000 pounds ($57,000). It was nicknamed the “bimbomobile”
after Halpern’s racy escapades.  Meanwhile, bookstores were being firebombed in  London ,
Sydney, Berkeley. His Japanese translator was murdered. In
 Turkey , 37 people were killed in what the media dubbed a
“Rushdie riot.”  After Bombay  Unsurprisingly, there is an insular feel to large chunks of
this long book. Not its early sections, though. They chart
Rushdie’s journey from Bombay to bestsellerdom with a beguiling
briskness.  His first fictions were happy letters home from boarding
school, where he was miserable. At Cambridge he played croquet
with E.M. Forster on the day Evelyn Waugh died.  As a history major, he learned about the satanic verses,
supposedly given to the prophet Muhammad by the devil disguised
as the archangel Gabriel. “Good story,” he thought.  While contemporaries like Martin Amis and Ian McEwan found
early fame, Rushdie became an advertising copywriter. He also
found time to write “unbearable amounts of garbage,” though
his literary ambition remained fierce.  Fatwa Ends  Ultimately, it was behind-the-scenes diplomacy by U.K.
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook and  Iran ’s President Mohammad Khatami that made it safe enough for the “prot” team to leave
Rushdie’s life in 2002, though his earlier determination to
begin traveling again, facing down fear and pressing for action,
sent a powerful message.  Toward the memoir’s end, that message tends to get lost
amid star-studded gatherings. There’s Bono, recording a song
they wrote together;  Bill Clinton  is “even bigger and pinker”
than his pictures suggest; and Madonna only wants to talk about
London property prices. Then along comes Padma Lakshmi -- his
fourth wife and the woman he dubs “the Illusion.”  Oddly, it is Rushdie’s weaknesses -- revealed both
intentionally and unintentionally -- that highlight his heroism.
He is, after all, just another male novelist. Yet while he shows
himself to be at times a terrible husband and a selfish father,
as a writer he does, after a wobble or two, do the right thing.
He finds his voice again and he speaks up.  “Joseph Anton” is published by  Random House  in the U.S.
and Jonathan Cape in the U.K. (636 pages, $30, 25 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 