-- S. Korea Main Opposition Nominates Moon Jae In for President
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-09-16T09:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/s-korea-main-opposition-nominates-moon-jae-in-for-president-1-.html
South Korean lawmaker and human
rights activist Moon Jae In won the nomination today as the main
opposition party’s candidate trying to win back the nation’s
presidency in the December election.  Moon, 59, won the district of  Seoul , the final of 13 local
races held over the past three weeks as part of the Democratic
United Party’s nomination contest. He garnered 56.52 percent of
the ballots cast since the open primary began in Aug. 25 and won
the previous 12 ballots.  “The driving force behind my victory today is the people’s
thirst for change,” he said today in his acceptance speech at a
stadium in a Seoul suburb. “I promise you victory and a regime
change this December!”  The former chief of staff to late President Roh Moo Hyun
and first-term lawmaker trails in opinion polls for the Dec. 17
presidential race behind ruling New Frontier Party nominee Park Geun Hye and independent software executive Ahn Cheol Soo, who
has yet to announce his candidacy. Moon and his party have
struggled to draw public attention away from Park, who boasts an
unmatched political career and legacy as the daughter of South
Korea’s longest serving dictator, President Park Chung Hee.  “Moon hasn’t been able to formulate his own brand that’s
strong enough stand against those of other juggernauts like
President Roh and Ahn,” said Sonn Ho Chul, a political science
professor at Sogang University Seoul. ’’He will need to ride on
today’s success and the nomination to prove that he has the
ability to lead, and the best way to do that will be in showing
how wisely he can handle the Ahn Cheol Soo variable.’’  Regime Change  The winner of the December race will succeed President  Lee
Myung Bak , whose approval ratings have more than halved since he
took office in 2008. His single five-year term comes to a close
in February as he faces mounting discontent for failing to
deliver on election promises to boost economic growth to an
annual 7 percent and per-capita income to $40,000 by 2017.  Moon, who was jailed in 1975 for taking part in
demonstrations against Park’s 18-year rule, began his career as
a human rights lawyer in 1982 before serving as chief of staff
during Roh’s 2003-2008 presidency. Roh leapt to his death in
2009 amid a bribery investigation.  Moon campaigns under the slogan “People First,” calling
for an expanded welfare state and stronger regulation against
chaebols, family-run multinational businesses like the Samsung
and Hyundai Groups. He promises to reduce  South Korea ’s reliance
on nuclear energy by 20 percent until 2030, replacing it with
new sustainable energy.  North Korea Engagement  Consistent with his reputation as one of the architects of
the “Sunshine Policy” of engagement with  North Korea , Moon
says he will work for inter-Korean summit talks next year and
begin additional economic projects with North Korea to thaw
relations. He pledged in his nomination acceptance speech today
to send a special envoy to invite North Korea to his
inauguration if he becomes president.  Moon’s biggest threat in the Dec. 19 race is the
independent software mogul Ahn, who emerged as a possible
candidate last October after the man he backed won the Seoul
mayoral election.  Ahn’s relative youth at age 50, his success as founder of
South Korea’s biggest antivirus software maker  Ahnlab Inc. (053800)  and
donations to charity increase his appeal to younger voters and
people dissatisfied with the ruling party and current
politicians. While he hasn’t overtly commented on his interest
in running for president, he published a book on July 19,
outlining his vision for the economy and national security.  The Ahn Factor  Ahn, who currently serves as a dean at Seoul National
University, has never run for public office and has openly
criticized Lee’s government and both ruling and opposition
parties. He said he’ll announce his position on whether he will
run for president “within days” of the DUP nomination,
according to an e-mailed statement on Sept. 11 from Ahn’s
personal spokesman Yu Min Yeong.  Analysts including Jeong Han Wool of East Asia Institute in
Seoul say Ahn is likely to play king-maker again, instead of
running for president against Park and Moon. He isn’t likely to
join an existing political party or create one, as his
popularity is founded upon his disassociation from the political
establishment, said Jeong, who heads EAI’s Center for Public
Opinion Research.  “Ahn could look like a hypocrite to join the party he
bashed or create a new party of his own,” he said.  A Sept. 3-7 poll by Seoul-based Realmeter put support for
Ahn at 23.4 percent, behind Park’s 41 percent and ahead of Moon
at 17.7 percent. The survey of 3,750 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 1.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  