-- San Miguel Lures Funds With Yields Amid Record-Low Rates
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-16T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/san-miguel-lures-investors-amid-record-low-rates-southeast-asia.html
San Miguel  Corp.’s preferred shares
were snapped up by investors including state-owned funds
managing pensions for 30 million people as they offer returns
that are 60 percent higher than similar-dated  government bonds .  Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. (MBT) ,  Union Bank of the
Philippines  and  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  said they bought
the Manila-based company’s shares. Their purchases will help the
nation’s biggest company and sole issue manager  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  sell 80 billion pesos ($1.9 billion) of securities, the
country’s largest share sale. The offer closed Sept. 14.  San Miguel, the brewer that expanded into oil refining and
aviation, will use the funds to redeem preferred shares held
mostly by the government. It will pay dividends of 7.5 percent
to 8 percent on the shares, which are callable in five to 10
years. The yield on benchmark 10-year government debt fell to
4.87 percent on Sept. 13, the lowest since 1998 when Bloomberg
started compiling the data. The same day, the central bank kept
its benchmark rate at a record-low 3.75 percent.  “The yield is quite superior relative to what the market
has to offer,” said Victor Valdepenas, president of  Union Bank (UBP) ,
which is underwriting 6 billion pesos of the offering. “There’s
a lot of interest from individual investors. We’re also happy to
have it as our own investment.”  Metropolitan Bank also bought some shares because of the
dividend yields, said Allan Yu, who helps manage about $9.4
billion at the nation’s second-largest lender.  Flexibility Premium  San Miguel is offering a higher dividend because the
preferred shares are perpetual in nature, leaving it with the
choice to call them if it can access cheaper financing or to
leave them if the cost of financing rises, Valdepenas said.  “This option is something that works for San Miguel
because it gives them flexibility from a funding standpoint,”
he said. “To entice investors, you have to pay a premium for
that, and that is built into the price of San Miguel.”  The preferred shares “allow you to get yield enhancement
with the possibility of capital market appreciation especially
now that most of the preferred shares are listed,” said Rico Gomez, who helps manage 84 billion pesos at Manila-based Rizal.  San Miguel, which started as a brewer eight years before
the  Philippines  declared independence in 1898, has expanded into
oil, power, infrastructure, mining and aviation to triple the
return on equity of about 7 percent it has been earning from the
food and beverage businesses, President Ramon Ang has said.  Infrastructure Story  The company  seeks to boost sales to $30 billion by 2017
from a forecast $20 billion this year, at least three years
ahead of target, Ang, 58, said in an interview in April. Second-
quarter net income jumped 54 percent to 5.62 billion pesos, the
most in a year.  “This company provides investors an infrastructure story
that jives with the targets we’ve set for the economy,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , BDO Unibank’s chief market strategist.  The preferred shares were sold at 75 pesos each in batches
as small as 500 shares per order. The proceeds will be used to
redeem 73 billion pesos of similar securities, according to the
prospectus posted on the company website. San Miguel will redeem
the government’s stake, Ang said on June 14. The government
holds the equivalent of about 23 percent of San Miguel’s common
and preferred stock, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The preferred shares held by the government, which were
issued in 2009, also yield 8 percent.  ‘Strike a Balance’  “San Miguel has to strike a balance between attracting
retail investors and saving on the cost of money related to the
preferred shares series 1,” said Bernard Avinante, an analyst
at Wealth Securities Inc. in Manila, referring to the stake held
by the government.  The securities being sold are non-voting and cannot be
converted into common shares, according to the terms. Purchases
of local companies are tax-exempt, while those by individuals
are subject to a 10 percent withholding tax. That compares with
a 20 percent levy on local buyers of  government securities .  “It is no secret that our demands are for longer-yielding
assets,” said Robert Vergara, president of Government Service
Insurance System, the nation’s biggest state-owned fund that
manages pensions for more than a million workers. The fund is
“looking” at the security, he said Sept. 11.  Social Security 
System, the state-run fund for private-sector workers, applied
to buy shares, Commissioner Diana Pardo-Aguilar, who also chairs
the investment oversight committee, said on Sept. 15.  Risk Factors  Government Service seeks to earn 9 percent annually from
investments to provide retirement,  life insurance  and health-
care benefits to government workers, while Social Security
requires 7 percent.  Low  interest rates  “make our job very, very challenging to
deliver the kind of returns that maintain our actuarial
viability,” Vergara said.  San Miguel’s attractive yield also comes with certain
risks, said Astro del Castillo, managing director at First Grade
Finance Inc.  Dividends may “be declared at the discretion of the board
of directors and will depend upon SMC’s future results of
operations,” according to the prospectus. San Miguel will need
to pay at least 300 basis points more than longer-dated
benchmark debt if it’s unable to redeem the securities on the
fifth, seventh and 10th years.  “While San Miguel has a track record of paying dividends,
there are also uncertainties beyond the company’s control,” del
Castillo said. The preferred shares are competing with common
shares in the stock market, which can offer higher returns near-
term because of the positive outlook, he said.  The benchmark  stock index  had risen 22 percent this year.  HSBC Ranking  The deal will help HSBC keep its ranking as the nation’s
top debt arranger for a second year, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. It will surpass  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which had
underwritten 41.4 billion pesos worth of deals that accounted
for 28 percent of the total so far this year. That’s double the
value of deals HSBC arranged prior to San Miguel, data show.  The amount has been fully underwritten, with sole issue
manager HSBC committed to 58.5 billion pesos, and BDO Capital &
Investment committed to 5 billion pesos. The rest of the
bookrunners are underwriting as much as 2 billion pesos each,
according to the prospectus.  “It’s an issue that is easily absorbed by the market given
the liquidity in the system,” Union Bank’s Valdepenas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  