-- Sara Lee Spinoff Sees Bean Coffee Machine Toppling Kraft
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-09-16T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/sara-lee-spinoff-sees-bean-coffee-machine-toppling-kraft.html
After years of development, Sara
Lee Corp. mothballed a machine that makes cups of coffee from
freshly ground beans. Now, managers of Sara Lee spinoff D.E
Master Blenders 1753 NV are counting on the machine to help turn
the company around and unseat  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  as the world’s
No.2 coffee maker.  “I have seriously great hopes about it,” Master Blenders
Chief Executive Officer Michiel Herkemij said in an interview.
Orders from retailers for the system, called Sarista, have been
double the Amsterdam-based company’s expectations, according to
the CEO. The machines go on sale in the Netherlands next month.  Master Blenders’s market share is less than half that of
Kraft and a quarter of  Nestle SA (NESN) , whose Nespresso is the biggest
single-serve brand in the $45 billion global coffee business.
The CEO says product innovation, missing under Sara Lee’s
stewardship, will help close the gap on those rivals.  Sarista makes cups and pots of coffee from roasted beans
vacuum-sealed in interchangeable canisters that the company
calls bean-funnels. That’s different from most single-serve
systems, which use pre-packaged pods or capsules of ground
coffee in their own filter.  The name is a mashup of “barista” and Master Blenders’s
 Senseo  brand of single-serve coffee machines. Sarista uses
patented technology co-developed by  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) 
to make either single cups or a pot of freshly-brewed coffee in
six blends. It will initially sell for 249 euros ($320) and cost
coffee lovers about 24 euro cents per cup, versus about 35 euro
cents for a cup of Nespresso.  Bean Fetish  To succeed, Herkemij needs Europeans to develop the same
fresh-bean fetish that  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  has cultivated among
Americans. Sarista enables Master Blenders to combine its
strength in roast and ground coffee -- which  Liberum Capital 
says accounts for about half its 2.8 billion euros in sales --
with single-serve, the fastest-growing part of the business.
About one-fifth of Master Blenders’ sales come from single-serve
coffee, Liberum estimates.  The $4.3 billion market for single-serve coffee is growing
about 30 percent annually, according to data tracker  Euromonitor
International . Expansion in the full-bean market trails at about
11 percent a year, yet that segment still outpaces the overall
coffee market’s 7 percent.  “Grinding your own coffee, there’s something there that’s
powerful and has great potential,” said Herkemij, a former
Heineken NV executive who was hired by chairman and fellow
Dutchman Jan Bennink a year ago. He hasn’t set a date for
boosting Master Blenders’ 5.9 percent share of the global coffee
market beyond Kraft’s 13 percent. Nestle is leader with 23
percent, Euromonitor reports.  ‘A Distraction’  Beans have fueled U.S. coffee sales, thanks largely to
efforts by Starbucks, “but this has not yet happened in Western
 Europe ,” a region that accounts for about two-thirds of Master
Blenders’ sales, said  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at Liberum
Capital in  New York .  Indeed, Sarista could become “a distraction,” Zuanic said
in a Sept. 7 note, adding that the Senseo brand will be “a lot
more important” in the next two years.  While Sarista is a good idea and makes quality coffee,
Master Blenders needs much more than a new machine to meet its
ambitious growth targets, said Jonny Forsyth, a beverage analyst
at Mintel in  London .  “I’d say there’s a less than 50 percent chance” of Master
Blenders overtaking Kraft, Forsyth said. “The market share
differential is massive. I’m a little bit skeptical.”  Appliance Overload  Nestle tops the single-serve market in western Europe with
a 38 percent share, according to Euromonitor, followed by Master
Blenders with 22 percent and Kraft at 8.4 percent. Competition
in single-serve is heating up, with Starbucks and  Green Mountain
Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  of the U.S., and Tchibo GmbH of  Germany  all
introducing new machines this year.  “The retail price is very high” for Sarista, said Lorenza
Della Santa, a consumer appliance analyst at Euromonitor in
London. “It’s not impossible but it will be challenging for
this type of hybrid coffee machine to gain share.”  Herkemij acknowledges that a key challenge will be to
persuade coffee-lovers to embrace a new system, though he
believes sampling in supermarkets will be key to winning over
shoppers. The machine will be sold by electronics retailers and
department stores, and marketing will be expanded over time to
sell the system to small businesses for use in company canteens
and conference rooms. More roll-outs of Sarista are planned in
other countries, Herkemij said, without giving details.  ’Game Changer’  The availability of Sarista containers in supermarkets
could give it an edge over Nespresso, which must be bought
online or in dedicated boutiques. Kepler  Capital Markets 
estimates that Master Blenders may generate 30 million euros to
40 million euros in revenue from Sarista containers over the
current financial year.  “Sarista could be a game changer in the European coffee
space,” said Jon Cox, a consumer industries analyst at Kepler
in Zurich. “You’ll get the cleanliness and functionality of a
Nespresso and the quality standard that you’d get in a café, so
it will be a challenge to other systems.”  Sarista sales will boost Master Blenders’s profitability,
said Herkemij, who aims to eventually get operating margins into
the 15-17 percent range, versus last year’s level of 12.3
percent.  Bumpy Road  Jamie Isenwater , a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in London, said
he expects Sarista to be a “major contributor” to Master
Blenders’ profit growth, and estimates margins will widen to
15.9 percent by 2015.  The company’s early days as a standalone entity have been
rough. In August, its shares plummeted after the coffee maker
said it would restate earnings because of accounting
irregularities in  Brazil . And its fourth-quarter results were
“disappointing,” according to analysts at both Deutsche Bank
and Nomura, with profit forecasts for 2013 falling below some
analysts’  estimates . The shares have  fallen  2.8 percent since
official trading began in Amsterdam July 9, compared with an 8.9
percent rise in the Stoxx Europe 600 index.  One thing Herkemij says he won’t do is try to goose sales
by hiring a celebrity spokesman for its advertising, as
Nespresso has done with actor  George Clooney .  “Clooney’s getting old,” he said. “I believe more in
real people. We’re going back to the roots -- back to coffee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  