-- Saudi Arabia Not at Risk of Being Oil Importer, Analyst Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-09-16T13:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/saudi-arabia-not-at-risk-of-becoming-oil-importer-analyst-says.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s No. 1
crude exporter, can boost its output capacity and isn’t at risk
of becoming a net importer of oil, an energy analyst said,
rebutting a report by Citigroup Inc.  Mohammad Al-Sabban said a Citigroup study published on
Sept. 4 assumes that Saudi Arabia will maintain its production
capacity for years at the current level of 12.5 million barrels
a day. Such a forecast is “unrealistic,” said al-Sabban, who
also works as his nation’s chief negotiator on climate-control
issues.  “The kingdom’s production capacity changed in the past,
and it’s changing according to the needs of global demand,” he
said yesterday by telephone from Riyadh. “It was never fixed
for a very long period at a certain level.”  New York-based Citigroup said Saudi Arabia may need to
import oil by 2030 if the country’s domestic crude use continues
to outpace gains in production. Official subsidies encouraging
oil consumption are a main reason for this potential outcome,
the bank said. Saudi Arabia depends on oil for 86 percent of its
annual revenue and is accelerating exploration for natural gas
and planning to develop solar and nuclear power to preserve more
of its valuable crude for export.  Al-Sabban acknowledged that fuel subsidies are contributing
to higher Saudi oil use and said Saudi Arabia is not opposed to
reviewing local pricing. Any decision to reduce subsidies would
need to take into account the possible impact on the
competitiveness of Saudi exports, he said.  Gas-Fired Plants  Saudi Arabian power providers pay $5 to $15 a barrel for
fuel from state-owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co., according to
Citigroup.  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half the
world’s oil, closed on Sept. 14 at $116.66 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe Exchange.  Saudi Arabia plans to gradually replace crude with gas as
fuel for power stations, and this will help free more oil for
export, al-Sabban said. The country has refused to import gas,
unlike neighboring producers such as  Kuwait  and the  United Arab
Emirates  that also lack fuel to generate power.  The desert Kingdom is using natural gas to fuel 50 percent
of its  power plants  currently, while crude oil, heavy  fuel oil ,
and distillates make up the other 50 percent, Electricity & Co-
Generation Regulatory Authority Governor Abdullah Al-Shehri said
today in an interview in  Riyadh . “We will keep replacing crude
with gas as fuel depending on the availability,” he said.  Insulating Houses  The country is currently forcing all new houses to use
insulation and it’s no longer importing electrical equipment
that uses power inefficiently, al-Shehri said in the interview.
These two steps will slash peak-demand for electricity by half
in coming years, he said.  While there are 6 million buildings in the country that
aren’t properly insulated, the government is targeting new
housing and he expects to see 400,000 units built every year.  Saudi Arabia may burn 850 million barrels of oil a year, or
30 percent of its crude output, to generate electricity by 2030
if doesn’t become efficient in energy consumption, al-Shehri
said in a presentation in Riyadh May 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  