-- South African Mine Violence Exposes Unions’ Weaker Grip
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-09-17T13:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/south-african-mine-violence-exposes-unions-weaker-grip.html
“We are sick and tired of the
unions; they are liars,” says Adam Thlolwe, a worker at the
world’s second-biggest platinum mining complex near Rustenburg,
 South Africa .  As Thlolwe and more than 40,000 workers defy the main labor
unions and cripple the world’s biggest platinum industry,
officials at the  Congress of South African Trade Unions  gather
in Johannesburg today, facing accusations that they are too
close to the government and companies to represent members’
interests.  “Cosatu’s leadership is in for a real grilling,” said
William Gumede, the author of ‘Restless Nation: Making Sense of
Troubled Times,’ who worked for the group from 1986 to 1995.
“The difference between them and ordinary members, the gap is
so wide. Senior leaders are essentially a part of the
establishment, while ordinary workers are really struggling.”  The strikes over pay and working conditions, which are
opposed by the  National Union of Mineworkers , a Cosatu member,
shut down operations at  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the three biggest platinum
producers, and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  At least 45 people have died at
Lonmin’s Marikana mine, 34 of them killed by police on Aug. 16
when they opened fire at protesters.  The strikes have cost the economy 4.5 billion rand ($547
million), President  Jacob Zuma  told the conference today.  Union Power  “Employers and employees have the mechanisms to manage
relations in the workplace; there is no need to resort to
violence,” Zuma said. “History will tell you that un-unionized
workers will become victims in the history of our system.
Unionization is the only way for the workers to guarantee their
conditions in the future.”  Cosatu, which has 2 million members, also faces a major
debate at its four-day conference over whether to support
President  at the ANC’s elective conference in December. The
group helped him oust  Thabo Mbeki  as party president in 2007.  “There may be a groundswell from the union members for
change in the ANC leadership,” Gumede said. “Marikana is a
symptom of all the frustrations that are going on in the
country. The president has become a symbol of that.”  Cosatu President S’Dumo Dlamini told the meeting that the
labor body must push for wealth distribution and
“nationalization for the commanding heights of the economy” to
thwart an attack from “the right wing and the demagogues”
who’re trying to divide the alliance with the ANC.  ‘Continued Exploitation’  “The problem in Marikana is not rivalry between unions nor
can it simply be put as being a widening gap between leaders and
members,” he said today in an e-mailed copy of his opening
address to the meeting. “The central issue is that workers in
the mines are rising against their continued exploitation by
employers.”  The South African rand fell as much as 2.9 percent against
the dollar after the Aug. 16 shootings, while the cost of
protecting the nation’s debt using credit default swaps over
five years rose 23 basis points between Aug. 15 and Aug. 31 to
152.  General-Secretary  Zwelinzima Vavi  and Dlamini were re-
elected to five-year terms by the 3,000 delegates from Cosatu’s
21 affiliate unions after they were nominated unopposed, Stuart
Murphy, an official from South Africa’s Independent  Electoral
Commission , said in an interview today.  Anti-Apartheid Struggle  Cosatu was formed by black trade unions in 1985 as they
joined the ANC’s fight against white minority rule. Many of its
members have risen to senior government positions. Deputy
President  Kgalema Motlanthe  is a former head of the NUM, while
 Cyril Ramaphosa , who remains on the ANC’s top decision-making
body and is one of the country’s richest businessmen, founded
the union.  Ramaphosa is a non-executive director of Lonmin and has
stakes in the company’s mines. Through his companies he owns the
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  franchise in South Africa, a stake in a coal-
mining venture with  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN) , and is the
chairman of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone
company, and  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)   The mineworkers’ rejection of their traditional negotiators
has allowed rivals such as the Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union and the Committee for Workers International,
a communist group, to recruit platinum miners and lead the
strikes.  Low Salaries  “I’m not happy with NUM, they don’t represent us
anymore,” said Mcdonald Motsaathebe, a 35-year-old worker at
Anglo Platinum who says he earns 5,500 rand ($715) a month with
a 1,700 rand housing allowance to care for his wife and seven-
year-old daughter. “Our salary is low, our houses are bad. We
will go to negotiate as the workers, we have our own leaders.”  Since the killings at Marikana,  Julius Malema , the ANC’s
former youth leader who has become one of Zuma’s strongest
critics, has held rallies at mines urging workers to make the
industry “ungovernable” and saying the traditional unions no
longer represent workers.  “They have lost the plot,” Malema, who has campaigned for
the nationalization of the  mining industry , said in an
interview. “NUM is representing the employer instead of
representing the workers. They’re not interested in workers, but
in investors.”  Vavi, the Cosatu general-secretary, says Malema and the
AMCU are populists seeking to capitalize on the labor unrest.  ‘Opportunist Game’  “They are now able to play an opportunist game because
they see a vacuum” in Cosatu affiliates’ leadership, Vavi said
in an interview broadcast on Johannesburg-based SAFM today.
“There are just too many unions that are facing a split from
within.”  While the AMCU was formed by former NUM members, the South
African Transport and Allied Workers Union and the Chemical
Energy Paper Printing Wood and Allied Workers Union are losing
members to a splinter group, he said.  Gumede foresees further divisions in the  labor movement 
because of the perceived disconnect between the workers and the
union bosses.  “We’re entering a period with extreme labor instability,”
he said. 