-- U.S. Leads Biggest Gulf Mine Exercise in Signal to Iran
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-17T15:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/u-s-leads-biggest-gulf-mine-exercise-in-signal-to-iran.html
The U.S. and 29 other nations have
begun the biggest mine-clearing exercise in the Persian Gulf
region, a show of force as tensions escalate over a threatened
Israeli attack on  Iran ’s nuclear facilities.  The 12-day exercise that started yesterday involves Western
nations such as the U.K. and France, as well as participants as
varied as Japan, Yemen, Jordan, New Zealand and Estonia,
according to the U.S. Navy. In an effort to avoid a showdown
with the Islamic Republic, it won’t extend into the Strait of
Hormuz, the waterway between Iran and Oman through which as much
as a fifth of the world’s traded oil is shipped daily.  In addition to serving as a warning to Iran, the display of
power will “signal to  Israel  that the United States has a
military option available” and show “U.S. resolve to its
Persian Gulf allies, especially in the face of repeated Iranian
threats to try to close the Strait of Hormuz,” according to
 Kenneth Katzman , a  Middle East  specialist for the nonpartisan
 Congressional Research Service  in  Washington .  Participating nations will conduct mine-hunting and mine-
countermeasure operations with MH-53E Sea Dragon helicopters, as
well as explosive ordnance disposal, diving, and small-boat
exercises and port-clearance operations focused on underwater
improvised explosive devices, according to the U.S. Navy 5th
Fleet, which is headquartered in Bahrain.  The exercise will focus “on a hypothetical threat to mine
the international strategic waterways of the Middle East,
including the Red Sea, the  Gulf of Aden , the  Gulf of Oman , and
the Persian Gulf,” the U.S. Central Command in Tampa,  Florida ,
said in a statement.  Threats on Strait  Iranian officials have periodically threatened to close the
Strait, which is 21 miles (34 kilometers) wide at its narrowest
point, in retaliation for tightening international sanctions
aimed at dissuading them from developing a nuclear weapon.
Laying mines or sinking a ship in the Strait would disrupt
tanker traffic and also prompt insurance companies to raise
rates on tankers, leading at least temporarily to higher oil
prices.  “If a war takes place in the Persian Gulf with one side
being the U.S. and the West, it is natural that the security of
the  Strait of Hormuz  will be harmed,” the commander-in-chief of
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari, said yesterday, according to the  Islamic Republic
News Agency . He also said that “nothing will remain” of Israel
if it attacks.  Oil Price  Brent oil for October settlement closed at $116.66 a barrel
on Sept. 14 in trading on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract, a benchmark for more than half of the
world’s crude, has gained 8.6 percent this year.  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said last month he wants
global oil prices to rise to at least $130 a barrel.  Iran plans to hold a “security, defensive and rescue
drill” in the Iranian capital, Mohsen Kazemeini, the commander
of the Guards’ Rassoul-Allah division, said today, according to
state-run  Press TV . He said the two-day operation would be part
of Iran’s annual Sacred Defense Week, without giving details.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  have said Israel may have no choice but to
launch a strike against Iran’s nuclear facilities as
international negotiations stall over the program.  ‘Red Line’  Iran’s effort to develop nuclear weapons is now in a “red
zone,” and the U.S. must set a clear “red line” that Iran
can’t cross without risking a military attack, Netanyahu said
yesterday on the NBC News program “Meet The Press.”  Netanyahu has become more vocal in demanding that the U.S.
define clear limits since Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said in a Bloomberg Radio interview on Sept. 9 that the U.S. is
“not setting deadlines” on negotiations with Iran.  In addition to the mine-sweeping exercise, the U.S. has two
aircraft carrier strike groups in the region, with the USS
Enterprise in the Arabian Sea and the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower
in the Persian Gulf.  The carriers’ presence tells Iran the U.S. “can easily
project devastating power onto Iranian soil at a moment’s
notice,” Katzman of the Congressional Research Service said in
an e-mail.  ‘Not Alone’  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told CBS’s “This Morning”
on Sept. 11 that “we have the forces in place to be able to not
only defend ourselves, but to do what we have to do to try to
stop them from developing a nuclear weapon.” Iran says its
nuclear program is for civilian purposes.  The mine-clearing exercise’s multinational participation
shows “we are not alone -- it’s just not the United States
‘bullying’ Iran,”  Michael Eisenstadt , director of military
studies at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said
in a phone interview.  The exercise signals resolve among many countries that “if
you try to disrupt freedom of navigation, we have the capability
in place to, within a few days to a few weeks, resolve that and
you’ll pay a heavy price,” Eisenstadt said.  The U.S. has been bolstering its capabilities in the region
this year, doubling to eight the number of naval minesweepers
and MH-53 helicopters, made by the Sikorsky Aircraft unit of
Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  for the
mission, and introducing a new underwater drone for mine
detection and neutralization.  Missile Launchers  The drone, called the Seafox, is being developed for
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda, Maryland, by a unit of
Bremen, Germany-based Atlas Elektronik GmbH.  The Pentagon in June requested congressional approval to
spend $9.6 million extra to buy missile launchers for five ships
from  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  That would allow installation of Griffin
missiles on U.S. patrol boats “to protect vessels and personnel
from the increased threat of hostile fast-attack craft” used by
Iran.  The “reprogramming” request also included $6.4 million to
buy 40 additional Griffin missiles for installation on the
patrol craft. The Pentagon plans to spend $30.2 million on the
Raytheon system through 2017 because it was urgently requested
by the U.S. Central Command.  Iran’s inventory of mines has grown to more than 5,000,
military historian David Crist wrote in “The Twilight War: The
Secret History of America’s Thirty-Year Conflict with Iran.”  Iran’s Mines  That compares with 1,000 mines in the 1980s during its
conflict with  Iraq  and its “tanker war” with the West. In 1987
and 1988, Iran battled the U.S. Navy after its mines damaged
American vessels.  Given the threat from Iran, “more such exercises are
needed to improve our ability to operate with our international
partners,” Mark Gunzinger, an analyst with the  Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in Washington, said in an e-
mail. “It’s also a very clear signal that we have the
capabilities and the will to maintain freedom of navigation.”  Still, “the United States recognizes the importance of not
overreacting to Iranian threats regarding the Strait, which
would give them more credit and influence than they deserve,”
said  Caitlin Talmadge , an Iran specialist and associate
professor at George Washington University in Washington.  The U.S. “wants to clearly and publicly remind Iran that
implementing these threats won’t have a good outcome for anyone,
especially Iran,” she said in an e-mail. For all its occasional
bluster, “Iran has generally avoided picking fights with the
U.S. Navy since the  Iran-Iraq War ,” Talmadge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  