-- U.S. Consulate Attack Turning Point for Libya, Magariaf Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-09-16T17:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/u-s-consulate-attack-turning-point-for-libya-magariaf-says-1-.html
Libya  must take on the militants
believed to be involved in the attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi, according to the head of the country’s legislature,
who said the assault that left four Americans dead was part of a
wider plan to destabilize the nation.  Mohammed Yussef Magariaf, the recently elected head of the
General National Congress, said in an interview in Benghazi that
communications intercepted by the U.S. ahead of the attack
linked al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb to another Islamist
brigade known as Ansar al-Shariah.  The attacks on U.S. and other diplomatic mission in Libya,
 Egypt ,  Tunisia ,  Sudan  and  Yemen  over the past few days were
largely sparked by a film denigrating Islam’s prophet. The
incidents also laid bare the challenges confronting many of
these nations as they emerge from the so-called Arab Spring
uprisings.  “This is a  turning point  for the country,”  Magariaf
said, referring to the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi that left the U.S. ambassador and three others dead.
“Confrontation is necessary and inevitable with these elements.
Today, it is the Americans, tomorrow it is going to be the
Libyans.”  Magariaf said the assault on the U.S. mission was part of a
wider campaign to destabilize Libya, and the militants must be
“confronted” by pro-government forces.  Arrests for Attack  The legislature’s head said separately on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program today that about 50 arrests have been made in
connection with the attack.  The spokesman for Libya’s Supreme Security Committee said
by phone that the names of as many as 50 people had been given
to Libyan border posts, “but some may have escaped to Egypt.”  The disparity in information about the arrests in Libya,
coupled with questions about whether the attack was preplanned
or spontaneous, reflected the state of uncertainty and
instability in Libya, where the new prime minister has yet to
appoint a government and the country has been mired in violence
since Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster last year.  The attack in Benghazi was the deadliest of the assaults on
U.S. missions in several Arab nations. Egypt’s  Interior Ministry 
said 417 people had been arrested in connection with about five
days of protests that began on Sept. 11. In Tunisia, 75 were
arrested in connection with attacks on the U.S. embassy on Sept.
14. The attack there included several thousand Salafis, who
adhere to an ultraconservative interpretation of Islam,
protesting near the mission, burning vehicles in the embassy
compound and torching the American school.  Rifts Among Militants  Magariaf said in the interview there appeared to be rifts
even with the militants believed to be involved in the attack,
with some of the Benghazi-based Ansar al-Sharia “for
participation, some against.”  In either case, “it’s a deliberate, calculated action by a
group working in collaboration with non-Libyan extremists,” he
said. “I would not be surprised if it’s another country, but
it’s not  Saudi Arabia  or Qatar, I’m sure.”  The Ansar al-Shariah brigade remains in its base in
Benghazi, and its forces are guarding one of the city’s three
main hospitals. Brigade members at both locations declined to be
interviewed when approached by a Bloomberg reporter.  The U.S.’s ambassador to the  United Nations ,  Susan Rice ,
said the Benghazi protests were “hijacked” by extremists,
leading to the violence.  McCain, Rice  The protest appears to have begun as “a spontaneous, not a
premeditated, response” to protests in Cairo over a “very
offensive video” about Islam, she said, speaking today on ABC
News’s “This Week.”  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the most senior Republican on
the Senate Armed Services Committee, disputed Rice’s contention
about a spontaneous attack.  “How spontaneous is a demonstration when people bring
rocket-propelled grenades and heavy weapons?” McCain asked on
“Face the Nation,” adding there is “no doubt” the attack was
waged by “extremists,” though he didn’t know how long it had
been planned.  With the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation planning a probe
into the attack, Magariaf urged the U.S. to not act
unilaterally, for fear such a step would inflame public
sentiment.  “We will not hesitate to act -- to do what is our duty,”
he said. “Let us start first, by ourselves, and if we are not
capable” then others can help.  U.S. Intelligence  U.S. officials said today that American intelligence so far
supports Magariaf’s contention that the main battles in Libya,
Egypt, and Tunisia are between hard-line militant groups backed
or encouraged by al-Qaeda’s North African affiliate and more
moderate Islamic governments, including Libya, in the wake of
the Arab Spring revolutions. The officials spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss intelligence matters.  The extremists have tried to exploit what they called an
amateurish anti-Muslim hate video distributed via  YouTube  to
incite violence that would bring harsh government crackdowns,
two officials said. The extremists hoped that, in turn, would
discredit the new and unsteady governments and make them appear
to be pawns of the U.S., where the video originated. So far,
those officials said, the extremists appear to have what one
called very limited success.  Rushing American forces or investigators to the scenes of
trouble or vowing revenge could exacerbate the moderate regimes’
difficulties, one of the officials said.  “While it is prudent to dispatch military forces to the
area, action should follow solid evidence,” Patrick M. Cronin
of the Center for a New American Security, a Washington policy
research institute, and Audrey Kurth Cronin, a professor at the
George Mason University School of Public Policy in Fairfax,
 Virginia , wrote today in the Global Times. “Until we know
exactly who did what, this kind of unsophisticated reaction
merely perpetuates the al-Qaeda brand, empowers terrorists and
undermines our interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  