-- U.S. Banks Ignore Europe’s Lesson on Greed
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-09-16T22:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/u-s-banks-ignore-europe-s-lesson-on-greed.html
Four years after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the near-total paralysis of
capitalism’s central nervous system -- the moment fear
completely overwhelmed greed on Wall Street -- we are starting
to see a few glimmers of hope.  The good news: Several big banks have finally started
taking steps to reform Wall Street’s out-of-control compensation
system, which rewards bankers and traders with big bonuses for
taking insane risks with other people’s money. The bad news:
These banks are in Europe, and most of their U.S. cousins still
just don’t get it.  In recent days, both  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  announced
plans to change their compensation systems. Deutsche Bank said
that the portion of the pay its top 150 managing directors
receive in the form of deferred stock would vest after five
years, instead of three, which should concentrate their minds
for a bit longer. The bank also appointed an outside committee
to examine its pay practices generally, and pledged to be at the
forefront of change in the industry. While not yet the sort of
extensive transformation that will protect the rest of us from
bankers’ bad behavior, the Deutsche Bank proposals at least
prove the old saw that in the land of the blind, the one-eyed
man remains king.  Bonus Caps  UBS, for its part, said it is considering capping banker
and trader bonuses and making them a function of the executives’
fixed salaries or of the bank’s profitability. UBS also said it
was examining a five-year vesting option for stock awards, along
the line of Deutsche Bank’s proposal.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 HSBC Holdings PLC (HSBA)  have also taken baby steps in the direction of
compensation reform.  In the U.S., though, there has been virtual silence on the
topic. Bankers and traders on  Wall Street  still get rewarded
with big bonuses solely based upon the revenue they generate
from the products they sell. Just as before the financial crisis
and unlike almost every other business on Earth, about 50
percent of every dollar of revenue generated on Wall Street goes
right back out the door in the form of compensation. Not
surprisingly, this absurd compensation system encourages bankers
and traders to keep selling and trading, giving very little
thought to the consequences on the rest of us for the products
they sell or the big trading bets they make. As for
accountability, forget it.  Worse, neither  Lloyd Blankfein , the chief executive officer
of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , or  Jamie Dimon , his counterpart at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  -- Wall Street’s highest-profile leaders --
have said anything about changing this flawed system, while
continuing to be paid tens of millions in annual compensation.
Instead, Goldman cut corners by eliminating its two-year analyst
program for college seniors. This is not leadership.  To his credit,  James Gorman , the CEO of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , has
at least addressed the flawed Wall Street compensation system:
In 2011, Morgan Stanley’s bankers and traders had their cash
bonuses capped at $125,000. Gorman  said publicly , at the  World
Economic Forum  in January, if they didn’t like it, they could
just leave. Few have, and why would they? Where else but Wall
Street can they get paid so much for risking none of their own
money?  And just as the basic compensation structure on Wall Street
remains for the most part unchanged, so too does its behavior,
despite the passage of the  Dodd-Frank law  and the ceaseless
writing and rewriting of the new regulations it mandated.  London Whale  Look at the recent past. Who could forget JPMorgan Chase’s
London Whale debacle, where close to $6 billion was lost by the
unit that invests surplus deposits in an ill-advised, obscure
proprietary bet on the direction of  interest rates ? (The bank
points out that no depositor will end up losing money.) Or the
devastating loss of confidence in the markets caused by the big
banks’ manipulation of the London interbank offered rate? Or
HSBC’s money-laundering scandal? Or  Standard Chartered PLC (STAN) ’s
bookkeeping shenanigans to help Iran? Or  Nomura Holding Inc. (8604) ’s
insider-trading scandal? These happened after the financial
crisis laid bare a Wall Street culture that more closely
resembled La Cosa Nostra than anything else.  Why has there been so little change, even though individual
bankers, traders and executives seem to be falling over
themselves in recent days to sort of accept blame for what went
wrong? (The most recent example came from Anshu Jain, one of two
new leaders of Deutsche Bank, who laid out a plan for an
internal change of culture with the admission that “tremendous
mistakes have been made. We can see times have changed and we
need to change and change rapidly.”)  Part of the answer, perhaps, is that Wall Street behavior
merely reflects the latest acceptable norms in society as a
whole, which sadly has seen a steady decline in ethics,
morality, compliance and leadership in the last generation.  Wall Street has taught Main Street the wonders of  stock
options  and “golden parachutes” and excessive executive
compensation, among other things, all of which are designed to
enrich the few at the top with a minimal amount of
accountability for their behavior.  We have also been inundated in the last year -- thanks to
Mitt Romney’s presidential quest -- with the facts of just how
easy it is for private-equity and hedge-fund moguls to make
fortunes using other people’s money while minimizing the amount
of taxes they pay. It’s great work if you can get it. But it all
adds up to a steady stream of messages that amount to,
paraphrasing the actor  Michael Douglas : Greed is Good.  If the financial crisis and its aftermath have taught us
anything, though, it is that greed is not always good. Not even
close. If I were a Wall Street CEO, hauling in tens of millions
of dollars a year, I would be embarrassed to call myself a
leader while perpetuating a compensation system that continues
to reward bad behavior at my firm. Until Wall Street’s leaders
again have their full net worth on the line every day -- as they
did two generations ago when Wall Street was a series of small,
private partnerships -- the idea of real change on Wall Street
remains a joke.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the mad  expansion of
occupational licensing , on  India’s bold reforms  and on
 Istanbul’s potential  to be a financial hub; William D. Cohan on
the fourth anniversary of the  Lehman Brothers collapse ;  Albert
R. Hunt  on Mitt  Romney’s tax plan ;  Simon Johnson  on  Deutsche
Bank and the German taxpayer ; Virginia Postrel on  middle-class
job security ; Dorothy A. Brown on why  Harry Reid  should  release
his tax returns .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 