-- Vodafone Considers $2.2 Billion Tax Provision on Indian Law
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-09-17T09:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/vodafone-considers-2-2-billion-india-provision-after-law-change.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which has
resisted setting aside money for a $2.2 billion tax bill in
India, may make a provision to cover the legal risks, Chief
Financial Officer Andy Halford said in an interview.  The world’s second-largest mobile-phone operator is
consulting on the need for a provision after an amendment by
India’s government to its tax law made the company potentially
liable for the payment, Halford said. A decision will be made by
November, he said.  “The situation has changed and we are looking at it,”
Halford said from Vodafone’s headquarters in Newbury, England.
The company’s test over whether to take a provision “is now
being applied differently against a recently introduced, albeit
retrospective, legislation.”  The potential tax payment would add to Vodafone’s costs of
investing in the second-largest wireless market. The operator in
January defeated the initial government demand for taxes
stemming from its 2007 acquisition of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
Indian operations in the country’s top court. In March, the
government unveiled an amendment to the law to retrospectively
tax cross-border transactions dating back to April 1, 1962.  Vodafone’s shares fell as much as 1.5 percent to 173.30
pence and traded 1.3 percent lower as of 10:24 a.m. in London.
The stock is the biggest decliner by index points on the  FTSE
100 Index (UKX) , which slipped 0.4 percent.  Spectrum Costs  The British operator, which also faces increased costs for
radio frequencies in India, is relying on fast-growing markets
such as India as consumers cut spending in debt-stricken Europe,
where the operator derives as much as 70 percent of its revenue.
Vodafone had refused to take a provision as it waited for the
court ruling, saying it wasn’t liable for the bill.  “They continue to argue they’re in the right but if the
rules are changed and they get undermined, then they’ll have to
include it,” said Andrew Hogley, an analyst at Espirito Santo
in London, who values the liability at 1.3 billion pounds.  India initially had planned to implement the tax amendment
in 2013. In September, a panel set up by India’s prime minister
recommended deferring the implementation by three years on
“administrative grounds.” The body is scheduled to submit
final recommendations at the end of September.  The operator is scheduled to report first-half earnings in
November. For the 12 months through March 2013, Vodafone is
predicted to report net income of 7.9 billion pounds ($12.8
billion), according to 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  is the world’s biggest wireless carrier.  ‘Backing Off?’  Vodafone and operators including Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and
Sunil Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  contributed to building the
world’s second-biggest mobile-phone market after India opened up
the industry in the 1990s. Subscribers have grown 158 times to
more than 900 million since 2001, and competition means users
enjoy some of the world’s cheapest calls.  Vodafone may have to pay as much as $4 billion in spectrum
costs at the upcoming Indian auction, Hogley said.  Vodafone said in May it has invested more than 500 billion
rupees ($9.3 billion) in India since 2007. The carrier has said
it will pursue international arbitration if it is found liable
for the taxes even as the government started making “more
conciliatory comments,” Halford said.  “We would be foolhardy to go backing off,” Halford said
by phone on Sept. 14. “Because it is mid flow and it is big we
obviously need to avail ourselves of all the options that are in
front of us.”  Offshore Transaction  Vodafone and Hutchison conducted their $10.7 billion
transaction offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch subsidiary, Vodafone
International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP Ltd., a Cayman Islands
company controlled by Hong Kong-based Hutchison.  Halford made the comments the same day India threw open its
retail and aviation industries to foreign investment as a newly
assertive government bids to shake off a sense of crisis over
the slowing economy and a stalled agenda.  Vodafone’s U.K. corporation tax, which accounts for 4
percent of group  profits , will remain low as the company
increases spending in the country on a faster wireless network,
Halford said. Vodafone offsets costs from its purchase of
spectrum as well as interest costs on network deployment in the
U.K. and elsewhere.  “A business that has made disproportionate contributions
to the U.K. and is allowed to offset a large part of its overall
group debt against its U.K. earnings is not going to be a high
taxpayer, it may be a zero taxpayer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  