-- Why Is It So Hard to Become a Cosmetologist in America?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-16T22:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/why-is-it-so-hard-to-become-a-cosmetologist-in-america-.html
The average cosmetologist in the
U.S. trains for 372 days before earning a license. The average
emergency medical technician spends 33 days in training. From
this, one might conclude that Americans are obsessed with
primping but tragically unprepared for emergencies.  Actually, the disparity merely confirms what a muddle the
process of occupational licensing is. In 1952, fewer than 5
percent of U.S. workers required a state license. By 2006,
according to a  survey  that year by the Gallup Organization, 29
percent of workers said they needed a government-issued license
to do their job.  A  study  released in May by the libertarian Institute for
Justice makes a compelling case that occupational licensing
requirements in many states have run amok. Some licensees,
including EMTs, have life-or-death responsibility. Others handle
hazardous chemicals. Too many, however, are in occupations for
which a natural inclination and a short apprenticeship should
provide more than sufficient preparation. Why, for example, do
florists, funeral attendants or shampooers need a license to
work?  There is no consensus among states about which trades
require licensing: Only 15 of 102 occupations evaluated by the
researchers required licensing in 40 states or more. Nor does
the regulatory overreach conform to red state/blue state
stereotypes. Louisiana,  Arizona  and California subject the most
occupations to licensing;  Wyoming ,  Vermont  and Kentucky the
fewest.  Nevada  requires more than two years of training for
barbers along with $140 in fees.  Alabama  requires nothing but a
pair of scissors. One state or the other is deeply mistaken
about the nature of the job.  In the Middle Ages, guilds emerged to establish quality
standards for crafts, and to protect the craftsmen from
competition. A similar phenomenon -- regulatory capture -- is at
work in some state capitals, with occupational guilds lobbying
pliant legislatures to restrict access to their fields.
According to a 2009  study  by the economists Morris Kleiner and
Alan Krueger, an occupational license provides a wage boost of
about 14 percent, roughly similar to the increase attributable
to union membership.  Given the need for higher wages, especially among non-
college-educated workers, such a boost may seem welcome.
However, much of the work that genuinely warrants a license --
nurses are among the most commonly licensed professionals --
requires a college or associate’s degree. By imposing similarly
onerous licensing restrictions on trades that are neither
dangerous nor complex, state governments erect additional
barriers to the prosperity of their poorest and least-educated
citizens, who also end up paying higher costs as consumers of
licensed services.  A dynamic economy requires regulations to keep commerce
flowing smoothly. It also requires sufficient leeway to
encourage small-business formation and entrepreneurship. That
balance between regulation and free enterprise must be
recalibrated from time to time. If it takes two years to get a
barber’s license in your state, it’s time.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s bold reforms  and on
 Istanbul’s potential  to be a financial hub;  Albert R. Hunt  on
Mitt  Romney’s tax plan ;  Simon Johnson  on  Deutsche Bank and the
German taxpayer ;  Virginia Postrel  on  middle-class job security ;
Dorothy A. Brown on why  Harry Reid  should  release his tax
returns .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 