-- Will Germans Pick Up the Tab for Deutsche Bank, Too?
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-09-16T22:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/will-germans-pick-up-the-tab-for-deutsche-bank-too-.html
Pity the German taxpayer.  Recent weeks have brought a slew of bad news in terms of
contingent liabilities for the German state -- meaning that
taxpayers are potentially on the hook for increasing amounts.
Two weeks ago, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
affirmed his willingness to commit the ECB -- partly owned by
 Germany  -- to take on added sovereign-debt risk.  And last week
the German constitutional court confirmed that the European
Stability Mechanism is consistent with German law, allowing
further fiscal transfers to the euro-area periphery.  And most recently,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unveiled its revamped
strategy, with a new vision for its organization and growth.
The German taxpayer should be very worried.  Deutsche Bank cannot fail -- in the sense of experiencing a
Lehman Brothers-type bankruptcy. The German government wouldn’t
allow it. With a balance sheet equivalent to about 80 percent of
Germany’s  gross domestic product , Deutsche Bank is too big to
fail both in terms of its direct involvement with the national
economy and the potential knock-on effect on confidence in
German industry.  But the bank can fail in the sense that it could require
future taxpayer assistance. To determine how likely this is --
and the scale of potential losses at any bank -- you need to
answer three questions.  Equity Financing  First and foremost, how much  capital  does the bank have?
In this context, capital is a synonym for equity financing, so
the right question is: How much is the bank financed with
shareholder equity rather than any form of debt? Sometimes
people speak of a bank “holding” capital, but this is the wrong
verb; it implies that capital is a type of asset, when it is
actually a form of liability.  As taxpayers view banks, equity capital is critically
important because it is the buffer that absorbs losses. If
losses exceed the value of  equity , the bank is insolvent and --
assuming there is a rescue -- the difference becomes a taxpayer
responsibility.  Seen in this light, Deutsche Bank has long been a worry
because it is one of the more thinly capitalized global 
megabanks.  Its official  capital ratios  might seem respectable to a
casual observer: At the end of the second quarter, it reported a
core Tier 1 capital ratio (a regulatory measure of equity) of
10.2 percent of total assets.  The problem with this measure is that it uses risk-weighted
 assets . In other words, if a bank can convince itself and its
regulators that it can apply lower risk weights to a given
portfolio, its capital ratio will look higher.  What is considered to be a low-risk asset in the context of
European banks? Typically, the sovereign debt of euro-area
countries has been regarded as very low risk. But Draghi is
being forced into extraordinary measures and the German
constitutional court is being asked to rule on the ESM and other
bailout measures precisely because sovereign debt for some euro
countries has become so risky. And if you think there is a non-
zero probability of the euro area breaking up, then risk-free
assets have become a meaningless concept in  Europe .  To evaluate any global bank today, it is much more
advisable to look at its  leverage ratio , the total size of its
 balance sheet  relative to its equity, without any risk
adjustments.  At the end of the second quarter, Deutsche Bank had total
assets of 2.241 trillion euros ($2.93 trillion). Its total
shareholder equity capital was 55.75 billion euros -- a little
less than 2.5 percent of total assets. That is a lot of
leverage.  Bloomberg News reported  that this is the least equity
(and most leverage) “among the 24 biggest European banks.”  Risk Management  Second, does the bank have a good grip on risk  management ?
None of the recent statements from the new co-chief executive
officers,  Juergen Fitschen  and Anshu Jain, are reassuring,
primarily because they don’t address the issue of Deutsche
Bank’s very high leverage. If you believe a global $2.9 trillion
portfolio cannot suffer more than 3 percent losses, I have some
U.S. mortgage-backed securities, euro-periphery debt, and
Chinese bridges to nowhere to sell you. Or you can talk to the
people at  UBS AG (UBSN)  who lost their jobs for this kind of hubris.  Third, does management have a convincing vision for staying
out of trouble? The really worrying issue in this regard is that
Fitschen and Jain remain focused on hitting a return-on-equity
target.  They have set a target of a 12 percent after-tax return, a
headline number that the bank says is comparable to the 25
percent pretax target set when  Josef Ackermann  was CEO, but may
end up being sharply lower. But as Anat Admati of  Stanford
University  and her colleagues have explained at length in recent
years, ROE is a completely flawed target for banks, precisely
because it doesn’t capture the  associated risks .  “Since investors must be compensated for bearing risk,
higher leverage increases the required, or expected, return on
equity. To judge whether a manager has created value, one cannot
simply look at the return on equity; one must adjust for risk,”
Admati wrote in the  New York Times . “A bank manager can attempt
to reach a ‘target return on equity’ by taking on more risk and
by using more leverage, but this, in and of itself, does not
create value. It does, however, increase fragility and systemic
risk.”  If you invest in banks and haven’t followed this debate,
you really need to catch up. The full set of Admati papers is
 here .  Germany has deep pockets, and many people lined up to put
their hands in. But the wealth and the patience of the German
people is limited. The country’s gross general government debt
is already almost 80 percent of GDP while net debt is 54 percent
of GDP, according to the International Monetary Fund’s spring
2012 fiscal monitor. German GDP is 2.65 trillion euros.  Euro Rescue  The even bigger threat is to Germany’s influence in the
escalating  intra-European struggle  over how to save the euro
area and who will pay that bill. In the next round -- the
argument about potential conditionality that may be attached to
ECB and ESM support -- expect Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to make the point that reckless German banks, including
state-backed Landesbanken, contributed to the debt mess on the
periphery. Northern lenders, pursuing foolish ROE targets, were
not careful and pushed cheap credit on real-estate developers
and governments alike.  Allowing German banks to lend recklessly within the euro
area will prove to be a costly mistake, no matter who pays the
final bill. Why go down the road again of pursuing high return
on equity while mismeasuring credit risk?  Deutsche Bank should be instructed to raise more capital,
exactly as UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  have been recently
compelled to do. The Swiss authorities recognized that to act
otherwise would be fiscally irresponsible. German taxpayers
should be clamoring for their government to come to the same
realization.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the mad  expansion of
occupational licensing , on  India’s bold reforms  and on
 Istanbul’s potential  to be a financial hub;  Albert R. Hunt  on
Mitt  Romney’s tax plan ;  Virginia Postrel  on  middle-class job
security ; Dorothy A. Brown on why  Harry Reid  should  release his
tax returns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  