-- Xi Jinping Appears in Beijing After Two-Week Public Absence
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-16T06:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/xi-jinping-appears-in-beijing-after-two-week-public-absence-1-.html
Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping 
appeared in public for the first time in two weeks, ending an
absence that fueled speculation about his health and prospects
for succeeding  Hu Jintao  as the nation’s leader.  Xi visited an exhibition at the  China  Agricultural
University in Beijing at about 9:30 a.m. yesterday, according to
the official Xinhua News Agency.  China Central Television  showed
footage of the 59-year-old smiling and shaking hands with
children while taking part in activities to mark National
Science Popularization Day, and China National Radio broadcast
Xi’s voice as he delivered a speech during the event.  The appearance of Xi may alleviate concern about the
leadership succession in China, where the Communist Party is
likely to meet as early as next month ahead of a once-in-a-
decade transfer of power. Chinese officials had declined to
comment on reasons for Xi’s cancellation of meetings this month
with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Singaporean
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.  “The photo and news release from Xinhua aren’t enough to
end all the rumors and doubts about Xi,” Linda Li, a professor
of political science at  City University  of Hong Kong, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “This can only show that Xi’s
situation isn’t deteriorating. If China wants to further allay
speculation over his health and uncertainties over leadership
transition, it might need to release more information on Xi’s
schedule in the near term.”  Leadership Succession  The cancellation of meetings with foreign leaders this
month raised questions about a leadership succession that had
already been clouded by the scandal surrounding ousted Politburo
member Bo Xilai. The party still hasn’t announced the date of
the congress when the handover to a new generation of leaders
will begin.  Xi was accompanied yesterday by senior government officials
including Wang Zhaoguo and Han Qide, vice chairmen of China’s
top lawmaking body, and Liu Yunshan, head of the Communist
Party’s publicity department, according to  Xinhua.   He toured an exhibit on China’s self-cultivated pest- and
drought-resistant corn, and also participated in testing for
melamine in milk, Xinhua said. China needs the entire country to
participate and care about  food safety , which is an important
issue, Xi was cited as saying in the report.  Looking Healthy  CCTV’s  evening news program showed Xi, who wore a dark
jacket with a light shirt, picking up and studying two ears of
corn at an exhibit and observing children conducting laboratory
experiments. He was later shown delivering a speech to at least
30 people on the program, which didn’t carry his voice.  Separately, the evening radio news aired a clip of Xi
advising children to develop good dietary habits and exhorting
them to conduct more scientific experiments.  A volunteer at the university said Xi looked healthy and
was smiling when he visited the exhibition. The student declined
to provide her name, saying that she isn’t a spokeswoman for the
university. Xi left the event in less than an hour, according to
another volunteer, who also didn’t want to be identified.  Xi will attend the 9th China-ASEAN Expo that starts on Sept.
21 in the southwestern city of Nanning, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei announced in a statement posted on the
ministry’s website today.  Media reports published since Xi’s absence said variously
he may have suffered a heart attack or sustained a back injury,
either while playing soccer or swimming. Citing unidentified
people from China, the  Hong Kong Economic Times  reported on Sept.
14 that he has only a minor injury, amid speculation that he may
have cancer or been in a car accident.  Details Sought  Prior to his appearance yesterday, Xi was last seen in
public speaking at the Party School of the Communist Party on
Sept. 1. The official Guangxi Daily also reported on Sept. 13
that the vice president joined other top Chinese officials in
sending condolences to the family of a top party member who died
on Sept. 6.  Hong said last week the cancellations of meetings with
foreign leaders were a “normal adjustment” and declined to
address Xi’s health.  “If China doesn’t release more details officially, this
will continue to raise speculation over Xi,” Ming Sing, an
associate professor at the  Hong Kong  University of Science and
Technology’s division of social science, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It is important for the Chinese
government to come out and clarify all the doubts as investors
and the public have been expecting Xi to be the leader of China
in the next five to 10 years.”  Career History  Xi is the son of a former vice premier and ran coastal
Zhejiang province from 2002 to 2007. He was party secretary in
 Shanghai  in 2007 before being appointed to the Politburo
Standing Committee at the 17th party congress during the fall of
that year. On a trip to the U.S. in February, he met with
President  Barack Obama  in  Washington  and toured rural Muscatine,
 Iowa , which he had visited as an agricultural official 27 years
before.  “The leadership will need to explain the absence still in
order to stabilize expectations,”  Noah Feldman , a Harvard
University law professor and a columnist for Bloomberg View,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “Otherwise there will still be a
meaningful cost to legitimacy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  