-- Yankees Beat Rays to Maintain AL East Lead as Orioles Top A’s
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/yankees-beat-rays-6-4-to-extend-lead-atop-al-eastern-division.html
The  New York Yankees  maintained
their one-game division lead over the  Baltimore Orioles  with a
6-4 defeat of the visiting Tampa Bay Rays in the finale of a
three-game series. The Orioles beat the Oakland Athletics 9-5.  Russell Martin  hit a three-run homer to cap New York’s
five-run third inning yesterday at Yankee Stadium.  Alex Rodriguez  drove in a pair of runs for the Yankees, while  Hiroki Kuroda  (14-10) got the win with 10 strikeouts in six innings.  The Yankees improved to 83-63 atop Major League Baseball’s
American League East division, while the Orioles are 82-64 after
halting a two-game losing streak in Oakland.  Matt Wieters hit two homers to help Baltimore take a 4-2
lead before the Orioles struck for three runs in the seventh
inning and added two more runs in the ninth.  The Athletics (84-62) and Orioles are in position for the
AL’s two wild-card playoff berths given to non-division winners.  The Yankees won the final two games of their three-game
series against Tampa Bay and have won four of their past five
games overall. The Rays fell to 78-68 and are now five games
behind the Yankees in the AL East.  The Yankees are off today before beginning a three-game
series at home tomorrow against the Toronto Blue Jays. The
Orioles begin a three-game series in Seattle today.  The  Chicago White Sox  pushed their lead over Detroit atop
the AL Central to two games yesterday, as the White Sox (79-66)
beat the Minnesota Twins 9-2 and the Tigers (77-68) lost to the
Cleveland Indians 7-6. Chicago hosts Detroit today in the makeup
of a game that was rained out last week.  The Atlanta Braves and St. Louis Cardinals sit atop the
National League’s wild-card race. The Cardinals have a one-game
lead over the  Los Angeles  Dodgers for the second wild-card spot
after a 5-2 win in 12 innings yesterday at Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net  