-- Myanmar Gets Record Investment After Years of Isolation: Energy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-09-17T08:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-16/myanmar-gets-record-investment-after-years-of-isolation-energy.html
Myanmar, shunned since the 1990s
for tolerating corruption and human trafficking, is set for
record foreign investment in 2012 led by  oil companies  after the
southeast Asian nation took its first steps toward democracy.  The country plans its biggest auction of exploration blocks
for oil and gas by year-end.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  of India
probably will bid, an ONGC executive said in an interview. This
month France’s  Total SA (FP) , one of the few foreign companies that
operated under the old dictatorship, said it bought 40 percent
of an offshore permit, while Coca-Cola Co. made its first
shipment in more than 60 years to Yangon, the biggest city.  “Myanmar is very under-explored,” said Managing Director
D.K. Sarraf of ONGC Videsh Ltd., the Indian oil company’s
overseas unit. “We think there are large reserves of both oil
and gas that are yet to be found,” Sarraf said by phone from
New Delhi. “We expect intense competition for assets there.”  The U.S. dropped economic sanctions in July after elections
and other democratic moves, and the International Monetary Fund
forecast direct foreign investment into the country formerly
known as  Burma  will rise 40 percent to a record $3.99 billion
this year. Natural gas is Myanmar’s biggest revenue earner, and
without new discoveries it will struggle to reverse an average
15 percent annual depletion in reserves of the commodity.  Cameron Visit  President  Barack Obama  in July authorized U.S. businesses
to invest in Myanmar after President Thein Sein started a
democratic process that saw opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi
elected to parliament following years of house arrest and
prompted visits by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and India’s
 Manmohan Singh .  The deals carry extra risk for investors in a nation
sandwiched between China and India that’s seeking to emerge from
50 years of economic and political isolation. Ranked  No. 180  of
183 nations in Transparency International’s 2011 corruption
index, Thein Sein’s government will be challenged to find a balance
between attracting capital and limiting a flood of money from
mostly benefiting an elite.  “Companies will be careful before investing because many
policies are still very uncertain, and once in place there’s no
certainty they won’t change,” Andrew Gilholm, Singapore-based
head of Asia analysis at Control Risks, a global business risk
consultancy which also advises companies investing in Myanmar,
said in an interview in New Delhi Sept. 13. “A stable and
secure investment environment is a long-term project.”  Disclose Payments  Myanmar plans to implement the  Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative , which calls for governments to disclose
all payments from oil, gas and mining companies, Industry
Minister Soe Thane said June 8.  “Pressing the button on transparency will help attract
major western companies to invest in Myanmar to a certain
degree. It shows the willingness of Myanmar’s authorities
to fight widespread corruption and provide much-needed regulatory
clarity for foreign investors,” said Siddik Bakir, a London-
based energy analyst for the  Middle East  and South Asia at IHS
Energy. “Western oil companies interested in Myanmar’s
hydrocarbons industry need safety because they know the risks
involved.”  With existing drillers Total and competitors such as
Thailand’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  pumping more gas
than they’re discovering, Myanmar’s known  reserves  dropped an
average 15 percent from 2007 to 2011, to 7.8 trillion cubic feet
from 21.2 trillion cubic feet, BP Statistical Review 2012 data
show. Production declined 8.2 percent to 11.2 million metric
tons of oil equivalent in the period, according to the data.  Economic Frontier  Myanmar, called Asia’s “next economic frontier” by the
IMF, is trying to fund the government better by luring companies
from  BP Plc (BP/)  to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  OAO Gazprom, the world’s
biggest gas producer, is in discussions with the Myanmar
government to  participate in energy projects  in the country,
according to the Moscow-based company’s website, without giving
details.  Hundreds of foreign investors met in Myanmar’s capital last
week as they scout opportunities in the country even as Coca-
Cola Co. and MasterCard Inc. increase their presence.  Fifteen years ago, companies were rushing out. PepsiCo
Inc., under pressure from shareholders and activists to withdraw
from Myanmar because of human rights violations there, stopped
operations in 1997. Apple Computer Inc., Carlsberg A/S, the Walt
Disney Co. and Hewlett-Packard Co. were among companies that
also pulled out at that time.  Ruby Ban  The U.S. banned the import of rubies from Myanmar in 2008
to protest human rights violations. The ban still exists. The
southeast Asian nation is potentially the world’s greatest
source of high-quality rubies and jadeite jade.  “Foreign investment is crucial for Myanmar’s economic
growth,” Ba Hla Aya, Charge d’Affaires of the Myanmar embassy
in New Delhi, said at a conference in India’s capital city Sept.
13. “But the economy faces challenges in terms of shortage of
human resources, lack of efficient services and non-availability
of adequate financing facilitates.” He said auctions of
exploration blocks this year should rise to a record.  Myanmar had its most inclusive elections in two decades on
April 1, lawmakers are revamping the financial system and
President  Thein Sein , who took over from Than Shwe in March 2011,
signed a preliminary cease-fire with the country’s largest armed
rebel force in a move to end the world’s longest civil war.  House Arrest  Suu Kyi, who was under house arrest for 15 of the last 20
years before she was elected to parliament in April, said during
a visit to Europe in June that “transparency is the key” to
attracting investments in the oil and gas sector.  She cautioned
companies from entering into joint ventures with Myanmar Oil &
Gas Enterprise, the national oil monopoly, which she said lacked
transparency.  Myanmar was listed last year among nations that do not
comply with minimum standards in combating human trafficking in
an annual U.S. State Department report along with 22 other
countries including North Korea, Iran and Yemen. Tension among
its more than 100 ethnic groups “remains a potentially
destabilizing factor,” the  Asian Development Bank  said in an
Aug. 20 report.  Natural gas exports increased to about $3 billion last year
and are set to rise in 2013 as more gas fields and pipelines
become operational, according to the Asian Development Bank.
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total and China National Petroleum Corp. are
among companies with oil and gas investments in Myanmar.  Offshore Project  Myanmar is estimated to hold between 11 trillion and 23
trillion cubic feet of natural gas and currently produces around
19,600 barrels per day of oil and 1.475 billion cubic feet
(41.77 million cubic meters) per day of gas, IHS Energy’s Bakir
said. Output may rise by 300 million cubic feet a day next year
when PTT Exploration & Production starts the offshore Zawtika
project. Projects operated by South Korea’s Daewoo International
Corp. in the Rakhine Basin may add 500 million cubic feet a day
at a peak rate, he said.  The economy may expand 6 percent this year from 5.5 percent
in 2011, the IMF said in its April 2012 World Economic Outlook
Report. That compares with 4.4 percent in  Malaysia , 5.6 percent
growth in  Vietnam  and 6.1 in  Indonesia . China’s is projected to
expand 8.2 percent this year, according to IMF.  Myanmar was under military rule for about five decades
until President Thein Sein took office last year. The dictatorship led
to economic sanctions by the U.S. and the European Union. This
resulted in economies including  Singapore  and Thailand outpacing
Myanmar, which became Southeast Asia’s poorest nation.  In 2011, the  gross domestic product  of Myanmar, with a
population of 62 million, was $54.8 billion, while Singapore
with 5.2 million people had $180 billion. Back in 1969 Myanmar’s
GDP was about $6 billion, compared with $8.8 billion for
Singapore, according to  World Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund  data.  Backtracking on Democracy  President Thein Sein’s attempt to open the economy to foreign
investments is not the first time Myanmar’s leadership has taken
steps toward restoring a democracy only to backtrack. The junta
released Suu Kyi from house arrest in May 2002, prompting the UN  to call it a “major development” toward national
  reconciliation. By June 2003, Suu Kyi was back in detention.  In September, Thein Sein halted work on the $3.6 billion Myitsone
hydropower dam across the Irrawaddy being built with China Power
Investment Corp., saying the project was against the will of the
people.  “The Myanmar government is genuinely keen to carry out the
reform and opening-up process the right way,” Gilholm of
Control Risks said. “They want top energy companies to come in
with their technology and expertise, not only to explore and
exploit resources but also to pass on best practice know-how.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  