-- 
`Price of Doing Stuff' for Liberal Democrats Is Abuse, Protests

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-14T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/-price-of-doing-stuff-for-liberal-democrats-is-abuse-protests.html
Britain’s Liberal Democrats, in
government for the first time since World War II, experienced
both sides of power at their party conference, sipping champagne
at the hotel bar as police kept demonstrators at bay.  Since the party signed on as junior partners in a coalition
with the Conservatives last year, their support has sunk to
single digits in polls. Members spent the three-day event that
ended yesterday wrestling with the transformation of their party
from one that protested everything from the sale of goldfish to
the Iraq War to being the object of protests.  “Rather than simply opposing, which is what we’ve been
effective at, we are actually doing stuff,” said Steven Webb,
the pensions minister. “This is the price of doing stuff.”  As he spoke, he was standing on the steps of the City Hall
in Sheffield, northern  England , taking in the lines of police
separating him from thousands of protesters, some shouting abuse
and rattling the eight-foot steel barrier keeping them out.  Police estimated 5,000 people joined the union-organized
march through the city March 12 to protest the government’s
austerity program. Hundreds of extra officers were brought in
from around the country to protect the conference.  The ring of steel was a change for delegates used to more
informal security checks by volunteers at previous conferences.
One reminisced about the days when their meetings would attract
a single demonstrator, who was campaigning for a ban on tobacco.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the Liberal leader, was
the target of much of the ire. He represents Sheffield Hallam, a
wealthy district on the southern edge of the city. Protesters
accused Clegg of being a liar for reneging on a promise to vote
against an increase in university tuition fees.  ‘Broken Promise’  “I voted for him because he put himself forward as the
alternative to the Tories,” said Lesley Price, 63, a retired
teacher and constituent of Clegg who joined the march, using the
slang name of the Conservatives. “The first broken promise for
me was allowing the Tories into power.”  Patrick Streeter, a Liberal Democrat who tried to address
the march as it was gathering, needed a police escort away, as
demonstrators shouting “Tory scum” surrounded him.  Clegg told the conference not to regret their decision to
enter government with the Conservatives. “Clinging to the
comfort blanket of opposition would not have made life more
comfortable for our fellow citizens,” he said yesterday. “It
would have been an abdication of responsibility.”  Still, the party is looking for ways to keep its own
identity. In conference votes, activists passed motions against
changes to the  National Health Service  and agreements on bank
lending and bonuses as “weak and hard to enforce.”  ‘Be Stroppy’  The motions authorized lawmakers to oppose the government,
said Evan Harris, who lost his Parliamentary seat in the 2010
election. “They now have permission to be stroppy,” he said.  In a sign that the party kept some of its habits learned in
opposition, Ed Davey, the business minister, took an unusual
step for a member of the government by passing around a petition
calling on the chief executives of  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5)  to offer banking services in British post offices.  The party, which won 23 percent of the May 2010 vote, saw
its poll rating fall as low as 7 percent in two YouGov Plc
surveys in January. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  told
activists there had been “a communication failure” over
tuition fees.  “I apologize to you for my part in that,” he said. “An
enormous amount of energy was turned inwards, devoted to talking
to our colleagues and coalition partners. Not enough was devoted
to talking to the public.”  Outside the city hall, Webb said that by the time of the
next election, fixed in the coalition agreement as 2015, voters
will feel the benefit of government actions on welfare,
pensions, civil liberties and support for poorer children.  “A lot of what we are doing will take a bit of time for
people to appreciate,” he said. “But thanks to the five-year
fixed-term parliament, rather than just talking about it people
will be able to see what we’ve done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Sheffield at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Sheffield at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  