-- 
Abortion Bill Has Republicans Heading Off Rails: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-03-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/abortion-bill-leading-republicans-off-rails-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Do so-called pro-life activists
want to posture about abortion or actually reduce the number of
aborted fetuses each year? If it’s the latter, they should be
trying to expand Planned Parenthood, not kill it.  It’s clear Capitol Hill conservatives now see defunding the
organization as a top priority. In the middle of a budget fight,
when Americans want action on jobs, Republicans are taking a
page from the Democrats in 2009 and going off the rails on
health care, pressing an ideological proposal that has been on
their agenda for years.  Last month, the  House of Representatives  approved the Pence
Amendment. The bill, sponsored by Indiana Representative Mike Pence, would prevent 830 Planned Parenthood health centers from
distributing birth control and offering pregnancy tests, tests
for sexually transmitted diseases, breast exams, and cancer
screening, among other  health services , unless the venerable
family-planning organization refuses to discuss abortion as an
option. Planned Parenthood doesn’t explicitly advocate abortion,
but can help arrange for one if the woman so chooses.  In recent decades it has become a major delivery system for
women’s health and contraception, serving more than 2 million
women (and some men) a year. Ask an American woman where she
first went for birth control and the chances are good she will
remember her visit to Planned Parenthood.  $1 Billion  There was a time when  Planned Parenthood  could survive
without federal funds. But today, out of an annual budget of
about $1 billion a year, about a third of Planned Parenthood’s
support comes from the U.S. government, a third from co-pays and
a third from private donations that couldn’t possibly make up
the difference.  The Pence Amendment sounds reasonable in budget terms --
everyone has to sacrifice -- but it doesn’t save taxpayers the
$360 million it claims. It might even increase the deficit
because uninsured women or those on Medicaid would delay going
to the doctor until their ailments had worsened and were thus
more expensive to treat. And Planned Parenthood is more
efficient and is reimbursed less than other providers, which
saves the government money.  “For most of these women, who tend to be younger, we’re
the only doctor they see,” says Cecile Richards, president of
Planned Parenthood. Sixty percent of the women who visit Planned
Parenthood clinics report seeing no other doctors at all,
Richards says. The Pap smears alone have saved tens of thousands
of lives over the years. “This is about women’s health more
than abortion,” she says.  Stand on Principle  But abortion is the centerpiece of the debate. While
funding for  abortions  constitutes only 3 percent of her budget,
Richards says there’s no discussion inside the organization of
jettisoning that portion of the operation in the name of
maintaining federal funding. With the $500 cost of an abortion
beyond the reach of poor women and with abortion clinics closing
all over the country under pressure from anti-abortion
activists, Planned Parenthood will stand on principle that women
should have the full array of legal choices.  The principle for abortion foes also seems simple: that
taxpayers shouldn’t see any of their money go for a procedure
that they deplore. But the pro-life principle is more
complicated than the seemingly predictable furrows of the
abortion debate would suggest.  ‘Collateral Damage’  We know the U.S. government often funds things that a
portion of the public considers immoral. For instance, Predator
drones targeting terrorists sometimes kill innocent women and
children. Society views this “collateral damage” as tragic,
but an acceptable price to pay for eliminating terrorists. Why
shouldn’t there be a similar balancing test when it comes to
federal financing for Planned Parenthood?  There’s also what I call “The Statistic.” According to
the best available studies (from the  Guttmacher Institute , named
after a former Planned Parenthood chief), the  birth control 
handed out by the organization prevents more than 600,000
unwanted pregnancies a year. Think about that number: At least
600,000 women a year go in for birth-control pills or condoms
and end up not getting pregnant. Given that a large percentage
would have an abortion if impregnated, it’s fair to say that
Planned Parenthood prevents a few hundred thousand abortions a
year.  Good news, right? Not for anti-abortion conservatives.
They’re against not just abortion, but birth control more
broadly. Women’s health issues don’t register with them. But
they do with their constituents.  Democrats see the vote on the Pence Amendment as great news
for them in 2012. Anyone who voted for it in the House will be
depicted as opposing cancer screening for women. With one in
five American women having visited a Planned Parenthood clinic
at some point, this vote could boomerang badly on Republicans.  The vast majority of Americans are uncomfortable with
abortion. They welcome programs that lead to fewer of them. As
the bill moves to the Senate, this basic logic must prevail.  (Jonathan Alter is a national correspondent for  Newsweek 
and author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
views expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  