-- 
AfDB Considers $370 Million Eskom Loan for Green Projects in South Africa

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-14T10:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/afdb-considers-370-million-eskom-loan-for-green-projects-in-south-africa.html
The  African Development Bank  will
probably lend Eskom Holdings Ltd.,  South Africa ’s power utility,
$370 million for green energy projects as the country tries to
build its capacity and prevent outages, the bank said.  The Tunis-based AfDB’s board will consider the loan in June
and there is a “substantial probability” it will be approved,
Hela Cheikhrouhou, the lender’s climate change and energy
director, said in an interview today in Pretoria, South  Africa ’s
capital. The loan and concessional debt facility will be for a
200 megawatt wind turbine project in Africa’s largest carbon
emitter’s Western Cape province, and a 100 megawatt solar energy
facility in the Northern Cape province, she said.  “This would be the initial large scale foray of Eskom into
renewable” energy, Cheikhrouhou told reporters in Pretoria. The
step will allow Africa’s biggest economy to move away from a
reliance on coal, she said.  State-run Eskom currently has capacity of about 40,000
megawatts at its  power plants , more than 80 percent of which are
coal fired, according to the company. The Johannesburg-based
company supplies power to Xstrata Plc’s ferrochrome furnaces,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s gold mines and BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
aluminum smelters in South Africa. The utility, one of the 10
largest in the world by capacity, has struggled to fund a 485
billion rand ($70.7 billion) expansion to prevent a repetition
of power blackouts that hit mines, factories and cities in 2008.  Eskom, which supplies 95 percent of South Africa’s
electricity, was given a $3.75 billion World Bank loan in April
last year for its expansion plans, on condition the company
introduces renewable energy projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  