-- 
African Girls Getting World Bank Cash Deters Sugar Daddies

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-03-15T08:28:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/african-girls-selling-sex-to-sugar-daddies-get-world-bank-cash-for-school.html
Sandra Tembo walks past a billboard
on her way to Mbare vegetable market in Harare,  Zimbabwe , that
gives advice she says friends can’t afford to follow: “Your
future is brighter without a sugar daddy.”  “I’m sure they realize the risk,” Tembo, a 20-year-old
dressmaking student, said of the friends. “But they say being
broke all the time also has its dangers, as you could starve.”  African girls who sell themselves for sex to older men,
known as sugar daddies, are fueling an AIDS epidemic in Sub-
Saharan  Africa , home to two-thirds of all people infected with
the HIV virus. Young women in the region have HIV infection
rates  three times higher  than young men: 3.4 percent of women
aged 15 to 24 and 1.4 percent for men in the same age group.  Now the  World Bank  is proposing to pay girls like Tembo’s
friends as an incentive to keep them in school and prevent AIDS.
Cash may be the “ethical policy instrument” of the 21st
century, said Mead Over, a health economist at the Center for
Global Development, a research organization in  Washington .  “It is obvious, but it never occurred to anybody to give
girls cash to help prevent transactional sex,” Mayra Buvinic,
the World Bank’s director of gender and development, said in an
interview. “They needed money and, you know, since they got
money, they didn’t need to interact with older men.”  The World Bank led a study in Malawi, where about one in
eight adults has the incurable illness. About 3,800 schoolgirls
and school dropouts aged 13 to 22 were enrolled.  Lower Rates  One group got an average of $10 a month and payment for
school fees if they regularly attended class. The others got
nothing. A year and a half after the program began, infection
rates were 60 percent lower among schoolgirls who got cash: 1.2
percent, compared with 3 percent.  Buvinic said the payouts are the first non-biomedical
approach to AIDS prevention that she knows of that had a
“significant effect.” Biomedical techniques like male
circumcision have been shown to reduce the risk of infection.  In the  Malawi study , 25 percent of the girls who were
sexually active at the start of the program said they had
relationships because they “needed his assistance” or “wanted
gifts/money.” Nine out of 10 of the sexually active schoolgirls
said they got an average of $6.50 a month from male sexual
partners. Malawi’s gross domestic product per person was $339 in
2009, compared with $45,934 in the U.S., according to the IMF.  Less Activity  The program found a delay in the onset of sexual activity
among beneficiaries and a reduction in the number of partners
among those who remained sexually active. The frequency of
sexual activity was also reduced among beneficiaries, according
to the  World Bank   report . After a year, schoolgirls receiving
payments had men as partners who were two years older on
average, rather than three years for the control group.  HIV prevalence rises from less than 5 percent among 15 to
19-year-old Malawian and Zimbabwean males to about 20 percent
among 30 to 34-year-old Malawian men and about 30 percent among
Zimbabwean men in that age group, according to the U.S.  Agency
for International Development .  The World Bank wants to repeat the test elsewhere in
Africa, Buvinic said: “The potential could be huge to reduce
HIV rates in teenage girls.”  The bank announced at the International AIDS Conference in
Vienna last July that it had carried out cash-incentive programs
to prevent AIDS in Malawi and Tanzania. While the Malawi test
compensated girls for staying in school, the Tanzania test
incentivized adults by paying cash when they tested negative for
a group of sexually transmitted diseases.  ‘Significant’ Contribution  Berk Ozler, the World Bank economist who worked on the
Malawi project with Sarah Baird of George Washington University
and Craig McIntosh at the  University of California ,  San Diego ,
declined to comment for this story because a peer-reviewed
journal is assessing the results, spokeswoman Jane Zhang said.  Girls who have sex with older men “contribute
significantly” to the spread of AIDS because they have a much
greater risk of infection, said Esther Etkin of  loveLife ,  South
Africa ’s biggest AIDS-campaigning organization. Men who have
multiple partners, prostitution and women forced to have sex
against their consent are also causes of infection, she said.  Some girls also have relationships with older men because
of peer pressure from friends “who seem to be enjoying” such
partnerships, said Chrissie Gondwe, a nurse who works in Malawi
for Canadian non-profit  Dignitas International .  Married Boyfriends  Rosemary Zulu recalls how married men in her native Zambia
would show up at the end of the day at high school in Lusaka to
chauffeur away teenage girls who were sleeping with them in
exchange for gifts of clothes, cash and mobile phones.  “It takes a very strong teenager to take the pressure,”
said Zulu, 26, who trains young Zambians to teach sexual and
reproductive health for  Restless Development , a London-based
non-profit. “Even taxi drivers come with gifts for girls in
return for sleeping with them.”  Zulu and loveLife’s Etkin are wary of financial incentives.  “We try to get people to tap into their own sense of self
worth and intrinsic motivation rather than wait for handouts,”
Etkin said.  The subject draws strong feelings on both sides. More than
350 people viewed a Feb. 14 online debate at the World Bank
entitled “ The Ethics of Material Incentives for HIV
Prevention .”  Cash incentives may be cost-effective when measured against
the estimated $500 billion that donors have committed to treat
the AIDS epidemic through 2050, the Center for Global
Development’s Over said.  ‘Money Matters’  “Material incentives can bring the rewards of the distant
future more tangibly into the present,” said Julia Kim, an
expert at the  United Nations Development Programme . “Money
matters.”  Peter Lamptey from  Ghana  in West Africa disputed Kim and
Over’s view. Lamptey, a public health physician at the non-
profit group Family Health International, said Africa can’t
afford cash payouts.  “Medical incentives aren’t for us,” Lamptey said. “You
can keep them in Washington. We could end up creating an
environment of dependency that cannot be sustained.”  Using money to achieve health and educational goals has
been employed in countries from  Mexico  to  Brazil  and has won
unlikely advocates, including Dambisa Moyo, the Zambian former
World Bank and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  economist.  Challenging Bono  In Moyo’s 2009 book “ Dead Aid ,” she challenged the
African aid lobby, led by rock stars such as Bono and Bob Geldof, by arguing that trade rather than handouts will lift
Africans from poverty. This kind of payout, she says, may be
different.  “There are a lot of reasons why we would find such a
system abhorrent,” Moyo said of so-called conditional cash
transfers at a Feb. 1 lecture in London. “Given where we’ve got
today, nothing is off the table.”  Applying the incentive to influence sexual behavior may be
“massively dangerous,” according to Sophie Harman, a senior
lecturer in international politics at London’s  City University 
who has studied World Bank AIDS policies.  Harman was visiting the World Bank’s office in  Dar es
Salaam , Tanzania, in 2009 where she saw a confidential report on
the Tanzanian test to incentivize adults.  “I was shocked,” Harman said. “Paying people to
influence their sexual behavior won’t solve the wider problems
of abuse, esteem, neglect and inequality that cause them to get
HIV.”  The Zimbabwe billboard near the densely populated township
of Mbare was put up by Washington-based non-profit group
Population Services International. “Only you can stop the
sexual network. You can do it,” the advertisement says.  Advertising the problem isn’t enough, said Tembo, the
Zimbabwean dressmaking student.  “They only show that sugar daddies are a problem, without
offering solutions to the problems that make the sugar daddies
attractive to the girls,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in  London  at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Kassenaar in New York at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net  