-- 
Mahler’s Loves, Rivals, Baton Captivate in Paris Show: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-03-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/mahler-s-loves-rivals-baton-captivate-in-paris-show-review.html
The  Musee d’Orsay  in Paris has
mounted a small though endearing exhibition to commemorate the
centennial of Gustav Mahler’s death (on May 18).  Most of the 100 or so pieces come from two sources -- the
 Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde  in Vienna and the collection of
Henry-Louis de La Grange, author of a three-volume biography of
the Austrian composer.  In the first of three sections, you find portraits of
Mahler’s fellow composers Johannes Brahms, Anton Bruckner and
Hugo Wolf, views of the landscapes around Vienna that inspired
him and of the country houses where he wrote his symphonies.  Alma, his wife, appears in a youthful photo and, at the end
of her life, in a television interview reminiscing about her
marriages with Mahler, Walter Gropius and Franz Werfel.  That she wasn’t the only woman in Mahler’s life you may
infer from a letter -- just the envelope, alas -- to the soprano
Anna von Mildenburg and a couple of striking photos. When she
gossiped about the affair, Mahler quickly ended it.  The most amusing item in that first part is a fan signed by
Brahms, Mahler, Johann Strauss and other musicians.  The second section, devoted to Mahler the conductor and
opera director, includes a manuscript of Alma’s notorious
memoirs (with corrections), Mahler’s handwritten draft for three
concerts with the  New York Philharmonic  and drawings by the set
designer Alfred Roller for a production of Wagner’s “Das
Rheingold” at the Vienna Court Opera.  Timid Adolf  Young  Adolf Hitler  had a letter of introduction to Roller
and walked up to his apartment yet didn’t dare ring the bell.
Had he been less shy, world history might have taken a different
course.  The show’s last section includes scores of symphonies,
caricatures, Mahler’s glasses, his pen and his last baton.  The exhibition comes paired with one from the  National
Gallery  in  Washington , D.C.: “A Ballad of Love and Death: Pre-
Raphaelite Photography in  Great Britain  1848-1875.”  To the modern eye, the literary pretensions and historical
masquerades of those early photographers often are
unintentionally funny. It’s hard to take portraits seriously in
which the sitter is disguised as the Virgin Mary, a minstrel or  King Lear .  Yet there’s no denying that Julia Margaret Cameron, Henry
Peach Robinson and Charles Dodgson (better known by his
pseudonym Lewis Carroll), to mention but a few, were important
names in the history of photography.  Their pictures fit perfectly with works of the academic
“pompiers,” the 19th-century “Fireman Artists” that abound
at the Musee d’Orsay.  Both shows run through May 29. Information:
 http://www.musee-orsay.fr  or +33-1-4049-4814.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 