-- 
Thai Exports May Be Hit Short-Term by Quake, Official Says

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-03-14T11:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/thai-exports-may-be-hit-short-term-by-quake-official-says-1-.html
The Bank of  Thailand  said the
nation’s exports may be hurt in the short term by the impact of
the earthquake in  Japan .  Another risk is the outlook for foreign direct investment
as Japan is the largest investor in Thailand, Songtham Pinto,
director of the central bank’s office of macroeconomics, told
reporters in Bangkok today. The hit to exports may be minimal in
the long term as the Japanese economy is expected to recover
quickly from the disaster, he said.  Workers battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown after a
second hydrogen explosion rocked an atomic plant north of  Tokyo 
following Japan’s strongest quake on record, while officials
said the death toll from the temblor and ensuing tsunami last
week may top 10,000. The Thai cabinet today approved 15,000 tons
of rice and 200 million baht ($6.6 million) for  disaster relief .  “Thailand may feel the short-term impact from delays in
exports and imports,” Pornthep Jubandhu, a senior economist at
Bangkok-based Siam Commercial Bank Pcl, said in a research note
today. “More worrisome is the long-term problem for foreign
direct investment. This event may prompt many companies in Japan
to focus on the reconstruction of local operations.”  The earthquake will also “significantly affect” the
tourism sector by potentially hindering Japanese travelers, he
said. Last year, one million Japanese visited Thailand,
accounting for about 6 percent of the 15 million in total
tourist arrivals, according to the research note.  Investment applications from Japanese investors from 2005
through 2010 totaled 719.7 billion baht, of which half was in
the automobile business, according to a statement by Thailand’s
Board of Investment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  