-- 
Barbour Criticizes Obama’s Economic Policy on Way to Iowa Stop

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/haley-barbour-criticizes-economic-policy-in-obama-hometown-stop.html
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour ,
a potential 2012 Republican presidential candidate, stopped in
Barack Obama’s adopted hometown yesterday to criticize the
president’s stewardship of the  U.S. economy  as he prepared to
take his message to Iowa.  “For more than two years, this administration and its
Congress have pursued policy after policy that created economic
uncertainty or directly hurt the economy,” said Barbour, a
former lobbyist and onetime chairman of the  Republican National
Committee .  In his remarks to the  Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce ,
Barbour condemned Obama for what he called “explosive spending,
skyrocketing deficits, gargantuan debt, calls for record tax
increases, government-run health care, out-of-control
regulations and anti-growth energy policy.”  Barbour, 63, is speaking today at a party fundraising
dinner in Davenport,  Iowa , the state where the first
presidential nomination voting is planned in less than 11
months.  He is the latest potential Republican challenger to Obama’s
re-election bid to make speeches recently in Chicago. Others who
preceded him during the past five weeks include former  Minnesota 
Governor Tim Pawlenty, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of
Georgia and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania.  ‘No Trust’  “The policies embraced by the White House show very little
understanding of how our economy actually works,” Barbour said.
“They seem to have no trust in business. No sense of how
entrepreneurs build new companies. No insight into how small
businesses create jobs. Think about it: Is there anybody in the
current administration who ever signed the front side of a
paycheck?”  William M. Daley, a former investment banker, was hired as
White House chief of staff in January to try to address
complaints that the administration needs stronger ties to the
business community. Daley, the son and brother of mayors of
Chicago, previously was vice chairman of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and president of SBC Communications Inc., now  AT&T Inc. (T)  He also
served on the boards of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Abbott Laboratories. (ABT)   National polls  of Republicans have shown Barbour barely
registering as a presidential candidate, typically receiving 3
or fewer percentage points of support.  Racial Issues  Along with building his backing, Barbour would need to
address criticism about comments he has made on racial matters,
an inescapable issue in his home state where segregationist
policies and violence disenfranchised blacks for generations.  The Dec. 27 issue of the Weekly Standard magazine  quoted 
Barbour saying that as a teenager he found watching girls more
important than hearing Martin Luther King Jr. speak. He said the
whites-only Citizens Council kept the peace in his hometown.  Shortly after the magazine article surfaced, he ordered the
Jan. 7 release of two black sisters imprisoned since 1994 for
stealing what their supporters say was $11. His stipulation: One
must give the other a kidney to spare the state the cost of
dialysis.  Yesterday, Barbour’s press secretary, Dan Taylor, resigned
after remarks he meant as jokes about the earthquake in  Japan 
and former Attorney General Janet Reno were made public, the  Associated Press  reported. The comments, included in a daily e-
mailed news digest Taylor prepared, were parenthetical remarks
about events from a website listing historic occasions that
occurred on a specific day, the AP said. Taylor told the AP he
was stepping down because he did not want his poor decisions to
reflect on Barbour.  Katrina, Oil Spill  Barbour, who became governor in January 2004, helped his
state through the recovery from Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and
2010’s Gulf Coast oil spill. He has lured employers, including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , to expand in
Mississippi. Still, the state traditionally ranks last or near
last in per-capita income and educational attainment.  In January, Mississippi’s unemployment was 10.1 percent,
above the national unemployment rate of 8.9 percent in February.  Barbour in his Chicago speech called for corporate tax
cuts, and also said U.S. energy exploration needs to be
expanded.  “We need an administration that’s committed to more
American energy, not strangling our own supplies, putting us
even further at the mercy of often-hostile overseas oil
producers,” he said.  Barbour earned a law degree from the University of
Mississippi in 1973 and spent part of his  career  as a lobbyist
with the Washington-based Barbour, Griffith & Rogers Inc., now
called  BGR Group . He also worked in President Ronald Reagan’s
White House and was chairman of the  Republican National
Committee  from 1993 to 1997.  “I saw the sausage factory up close,” he said, referring
to  Washington ’s legislative and policy process.  Governorship Gains  As chairman of the Republican Governors Association,
Barbour helped his party capture the governorships of 11 states
from Democrats in last November’s elections.  Barbour, who spoke with the help of a teleprompter, mocked
Obama’s routine use of the machines.  “I hope you’ll forgive the teleprompter, but this is
President Obama’s hometown, and, when in Rome, right?” he said.  No well-known Republicans have formally declared for the
2012 race, although Gingrich said on March 3 that he was
starting a  website  to raise money and explore a run.  Four years ago, when no incumbent was in the presidential
contest, a total of 17 Republicans and Democrats had signaled
their candidacies or set up exploratory committees by the end of
January 2007, including Obama, a native of Hawaii, and then-
Senator  Hillary Clinton  of  New York , who now serves as secretary
of state.  Other Prospects  Some of this cycle’s other prospective Republican
candidates include former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who
won the Iowa caucuses in 2008, former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, Governor Mitch Daniels of Indiana, and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who
is stepping down as ambassador to  China  in April.  The lack of a clear Republican frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
a Tea Party favorite, to position themselves for potential runs.  As he finished his speech yesterday, Barbour quoted one of
Obama’s political heroes, Abraham Lincoln.  “A different American president from Illinois, a truly
great one, once made a simple, yet profound statement about the
proper course of economic policy in America: “I don’t believe
in a law to prevent a man from getting rich; it would do more
harm than good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 