-- 
Alwaleed Proposal May Pave Way for Etisalat's $12 Billion Offer for Zain

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-14T13:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/alwaleed-s-saudi-offer-may-pave-way-for-etisalat-s-12-billion-zain-bid.html
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal’s bid to
join with a partner to buy Zain’s holding in its Saudi unit may
clear the way for Etisalat’s $12 billion offer for a majority
stake in Kuwait’s biggest phone operator.    Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , controlled by Saudi Prince Alwaleed,
and Bahrain Telecommunications Co. offered $950 million for the
25 percent stake held by Zain, as Mobile Telecommunication Co.
is known, in Zain Saudi Arabia, the partners said today in a
statement. The non-binding offer doesn’t include the $3.8
billion of Zain Saudi’s debt and has received preliminary
acceptance by the board of Zain Kuwait, the statement said.  “The bid will lead to increased optimism of a deal finally
happening between Etisalat and Zain,” said  Julian Bruce ,
director of equity sales at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp., or Etisalat, last month
missed a second deadline in its attempt to acquire a majority
stake in Zain. Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said March 2 it is still
interested in buying a majority holding. The purchase had been
contingent on a timely sale of Zain’s stake in its Saudi unit.  Zain’s second-biggest shareholder, Al-Khair National for
Stocks & Real Estate Co., which is owned by  Kuwait ’s Kharafi
Group, was leading discussions with Etisalat on its bid for
Zain. Etisalat declined to comment today on the status of talks.  ‘Best of Both Worlds’  Kingdom Holding and Bahrain Telecommunications, the Persian
Gulf state’s biggest phone company known as Batelco, expect to
submit a binding offer by mid-May, subject to successful
completion of due diligence, Batelco Chief Executive Officer
Peter George Kaliaropoulos said in the statement today. Due
diligence could take at least six weeks, the statement said.  “The combination of Batelco and Kingdom offers the best of
both worlds, operating experience combined with influence and
track record in KSA,” Bruce said.  Zain Saudi jumped to the highest price in almost a month,
surging 6.3 percent to 7.60 riyals. Kingdom rose 2.2 percent to
9.50 riyals, the highest since Feb. 16.  “It’s a generous offer,” said Irfan Ellam, an analyst at
 Al Mal Capital PJSC  in Dubai. “It means Etisalat’s bid for Zain
Group can go through once this happens.”  Etisalat’s purchase of Zain would “create a company with
the best footprint in the Middle East, an Arabian company that
stands on the world stage of telecoms,” he said.  Expanded Reach  If completed, the deal will extend Etisalat’s reach in the
Middle East, where Zain operates in countries including Kuwait
and  Iraq . Etisalat offers telecommunications services in 18
countries in the Middle East,  Africa  and  Asia , counting more
than 100 million customers, according to  its website.   Etisalat plans to finance its $12 billion offer for control
of Zain in three stages of loans, with the first $6 billion as a
bridge loan payable in 18 months, Etisalat Chief Financial
Officer Salem al-Sharhan said in a phone interview in January.
Etisalat would also borrow $3 billion payable in three years and
another $3 billion payable in five years, al-Sharhan said.  Zain’s board last month rejected separate offers from
Kingdom and Batelco to buy the stake in its Saudi unit. The
decision was seen as thwarting Etisalat’s bid for a 46 percent
stake in Zain as the Emirati company had said Zain needed to
sell its stake in the Saudi unit in a “timely fashion” for
the deal to proceed.  “The offer was reasonable to all parties,” Prince
Alwaleed said in today’s statement. “Our investment in Zain  Saudi Arabia  is a strategic  investment decision  by KHC to enter
the telecommunications sector in a large and promising market
such as Saudi Arabia, making this deal our initial entry for
future expansion in the telecommunications sector regionally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  