-- 
American, United Agree to Smaller O'Hare Plan With Chicago

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-14T17:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/american-united-agree-to-smaller-o-hare-plan-with-chicago.html
  American Airlines  and  United
Airlines  agreed with Chicago on a scaled-back $1.17 billion
expansion plan for O’Hare International, ending a legal battle
over growth at the nation’s second-busiest airport.  The agreement will allow work to begin on a new runway and
other airfield improvements, preventing an escalation of flight
delays at O’Hare, according to a statement today by Chicago
Mayor Richard Daley, the airlines and the U.S. Transportation
Department. It is the largest airfield modernization program in
the U.S., federal officials said.  American and United sued the city in January to block the
sale of bonds for the original $3.4 billion  expansion , arguing
demand didn’t justify the buildup and that Chicago didn’t
receive their required approval before proceeding. The city said
the airlines had no veto power and that the project was
important for economic growth and jobs in the  Chicago  area.  “This is a landmark achievement that will benefit air
travelers throughout the entire nation,” Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood said in the statement. “It will ensure one
of our busiest airports continues to thrive economically in the
future.”  Chicago delayed the planned February sale of about $1
billion of debt to help fund construction after the airlines
sued. The legal action will be dropped, said Michael Trevino, a
United spokesman, in an e-mail. The city hasn’t determined when
the airport bonds will be sold,  Pete Scales , a spokesman for the
city’s chief financial officer, said in an e-mail.  Remaining Portions  The airlines and Chicago officials agreed to meet no later
than March 1, 2013, to negotiate terms and timing for the
remaining portions of the original $3.4 billion plan.  The scaled-back plan “carefully balances the legitimate
concerns of all the parties, allows us to move forward in a
deliberate and prudent way and resolves our legal disputes,”
American Chief Executive Officer Gerard Arpey said in the
statement.  American, a unit of  Fort Worth , Texas-based  AMR Corp. (AMR) , and
Chicago-based United, a division of  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , are responsible for more than 80 percent of the passenger
traffic at O’Hare.  The airlines argued that the prolonged U.S. economic
decline removed the immediate need for the expansion, and said
the project would increase operating costs. Today’s agreement
allows the carriers to participate in growth “in a fiscally
responsible manner,” United Chief Executive Jeff Smisek said
today at a news conference at the airport.  O’Hare, one of Chicago’s two commercial airfields, is
managed by the Department of Aviation. The original $3.4 billion
expansion, the second phase of a broader  O’Hare Modernization
Program , included the creation of two new runways, extension of
a third and construction of a new terminal.  The case is United Air Lines v. City of Chicago, 11CH02081,
Cook County Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net  