-- 
American Superconductor to Expand Wind Business With $265 Million Purchase

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-03-14T20:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/american-superconductor-to-expand-wind-business-with-265-million-purchase.html
  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) 
agreed to buy  The Switch Engineering Oy  of  Finland  for 190
million euros ($265 million) taking advantage of growing demand
for advanced wind-turbine systems.  The Switch has developed permanent magnet generators, an
emerging technology that American Superconductor lacks, Jason
Fredette, a spokesman for the Devens, Massachusetts-based
turbine system developer, said today in an interview.  “The PMG technology is very important,” Fredette said.
“We see this being a big part of the business, and we didn’t
have any of that capability on our own.”  Permanent magnet generators are a “billion dollar a year
addressable market,” Greg Yurek, American Superconductor’s
founder and chief executive officer, said by telephone today.
The Switch’s  low-speed direct drive  permanent magnet generators
eliminate the need for gearboxes used in conventional turbines,
reducing wear and friction and producing more energy. The design
cuts operation and maintenance costs and provides “a much
faster return on investment for wind farm developers,” Yurek
said.  A 2-megawatt turbine with a permanent magnet generator
would produce about 8 percent more energy compared to a standard
turbine, Yurek said. The technology may also provide growth
opportunities in the offshore wind market, in which “gearboxes
tend to rust out,” he said.  New Customers  After the deal closes, which Yurek said is expected by Aug.
31, the companies together will be supplying components and
designs for  China ’s top three wind turbine companies. American
Superconductor, which licenses turbine designs through its
 Windtec  unit, already serves Sinovel Wind Group Co. and Dongfang
Electric Corp., China’s largest and third-largest manufacturers.
About 85 percent of The Switch’s $176 million in sales in 2010
were to Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., China’s
second largest second turbine maker, Yurek said.  “We’re inside of about 10 percent of  wind turbines 
today,” Yurek said. “With The Switch, we can get into about 30
percent,” he said. More wind turbines are expected to be
installed in China this year than anywhere else in the world,
resulting in about 18 gigawatts of new power generation
capacity, according to Yurek.  The acquisition would also add  General Electric Co. (GE)  as a
customer and other companies in Germany and Scandinavia that
assemble turbines and are already incorporating permanent magnet
systems, Yurek said.  American Superconductor reduced its guidance for the
current fiscal year, ending March 31, because of the expenses
related to the acquisition, according to a statement today. It
forecast net income of 91 cents to 95 cents a share, from an
earlier forecast of 99 cents to $1.04. Revenue is expected to
come in near the low end of its earlier forecast of between $430
million and $440 million.  American Superconductor fell $1.09, or about 4.5 percent,
to $23.19 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  