-- 
Apple May Have Sold 500,000 IPad 2 Tablets on Debut Weekend, Analyst Says

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-14T20:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/apple-may-have-sold-500-000-ipad-2-tablets-analyst-estimates.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may have sold more than
500,000 iPad 2 tablets as consumer demand left retailers bereft
of the device on its debut weekend, even as rival computer
makers ready more than 100 would-be competitors.  Piper Jaffray Cos. and Deutsche Bank AG analysts said Apple
may have sold half of a million units. Other estimates ran
higher, with Ticonderoga Securities LLC and Wedbush Morgan
Securities saying Cupertino, California-based Apple may have
sold closer to 1 million units of the iPad 2.  Stores run by Apple,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Best Buy Co. sold
out, analysts said, while online orders via Apple’s  site  are
taking up to a month for delivery, up from less than a week.
IPad purchasing was unhindered by the competing tablets on sale
or in development from more than 60 rivals including Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. Apple sold more than 300,000 units of the
first iPad in 24 hours after its April debut.  “IPads are sold out across virtually all channels,” Piper
Jaffray’s  Gene Munster  said in a March 13 research note. “We
were unable to find any availability.”  Munster said Apple will probably surpass his early
prediction that 5.5 million iPads would be sold this quarter,
which ends this month. Munster, based in  Minneapolis , said that
70 percent of the customers surveyed by his team were first-time
iPad buyers, signaling Apple is expanding its user base.  Apple rose $1.57 to $353.56 today in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares have climbed 9.6 percent this year.  Thinner, Lighter Model  Apple may have sold three times as many iPad 2s in the
debut as the first iPad, according to Trip Chowdhry, an analyst
with Global Equities Research. All of the Best Buy stores his
team surveyed sold out of the iPad in four minutes, he wrote.  The new model, which comes in white and black, is lighter,
thinner, includes a more powerful processor and has front and
rear cameras. It ranges in price from $499 for a base model to
$829 for the top-of-the-line version.  Materials used in the iPad 2 cost about $326.60, according
to research firm  IHS ISuppli , which based its analysis on a
version that has 32 gigabytes of memory and works with the
mobile phone standard know as global system for mobile
communications. That’s up from $320 for the earlier model.  Apple expanded the number of retail outlets where the
device was available, including 236 retails stores in the U.S.
and thousands of  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless , Best Buy,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , and Target stores.  102 Tablets in Works  “Demand for the next-generation iPad has been amazing and
we are working hard to get iPad 2 into the hands of every
customer who wants one as quickly as possible,” said  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Apple. The company hasn’t issued a
first-weekend sales figure for the iPad 2.  Apple similarly didn’t have enough of the iPhone 4 in the
days after its June introduction.  Through December, Apple had sold 14.8 million iPads,
generating $9.6 billion in sales, making it one of the fastest-
selling consumer-electronic devices in history.  Rivals including Motorola Mobility, Samsung Electronics
Co.,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  are
introducing tablet computers to compete with the iPad. Overall,
there are 102 tablets from 64 makers either on sale or in
development, according to consulting firm PRTM in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  Mark Moskowitz, an analyst at JPMorgan & Chase Co. said the
success of the iPad bodes ill for rival devices. Samsung and
Motorola Mobility have had “disappointing” results drawing
customers, a trend he expects to continue for other rivals.  ‘Gadget of the Year’  On March 11, hundreds of people lined up at the Fifth
Avenue store in New York. Store workers handed out free hot
chocolate and water to those waiting.  “I’m a student, and I hate carrying my laptop to school.
It’s like five pounds and the iPad is a lot lighter,” said Jay
Narang, 19, a sophomore at  Baruch College . “I was going to get
the first one, but I knew they were going to come out with one
with cameras, so why not just wait?”  Francis Degode, 44, lives outside of Brussels and said he
came to  New York  for the release because it would take too long
to get one at home. Degode got in line at 6 a.m. in the rain on
March 11 to get his first iPad.  “The iPad 2 is faster, and there are two cameras. It’s
very useful,” Degode said. “It’s the gadget of the year.”  The iPad 2 goes on sale in 26 more countries, including  Belgium  and elsewhere in  Europe , on March 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  