-- 
Stocks Fall on Concern Japan’s Quake to Hurt Growth; Treasuries, Euro Gain

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-14T20:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/asian-stocks-plunge-u-s-futures-drop-on-japan-earthquake-gold-yen-gain.html
Global stocks slid, following the
biggest drop in  Tokyo  since 2008, and Treasuries gained amid
concern  Japan ’s biggest earthquake on record will hurt economic
growth. The euro rallied as European leaders agreed to expand
the region’s rescue fund.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,296.39 at 4 p.m. in New York, paring a drop of as much as 1.4
percent as energy shares rebounded. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
plunged 6.2 percent, with about $285 billion in equity value
erased from the Japanese market. Ten-year Treasury yields lost 4
basis points to 3.37 percent. Oil reversed losses after dipping
below $99 a barrel. The euro rose against 15 of 16 major peers.  Companies that operate nuclear  power plants  or supply the
fuel helped lead stocks lower, with Entergy Corp. down 4.9
percent in New York and Cameco Corp. tumbling 13 percent in
Toronto, while natural gas rallied amid speculation that the
atomic-energy industry will suffer as Japan works to contain
radiation at damaged reactors. Tiffany & Co. and Coach Inc. lost
more than 5.2 percent for the biggest declines in the  S&P 500  on
concern sales of  luxury goods  in Japan will slow.  “There’s a whole world of worries now,” said  Mike Ryan ,
the New York-based head of wealth management research for the
Americas at UBS Financial Services Inc., which oversees about
$741 billion. “But the markets are actually being pretty
orderly considering we got the after-effects of the Japanese
earthquake, including the risk of a nuclear accident, which
would be a game-changing event.”  Tokyo Electric  The slump in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  pushed the index to the lowest
level in four months as the official death toll from the quake
reached 1,823, with 2,369 more missing. Tokyo Electric Power
Co., which is battling to contain radioactive material at its
damaged Fukushima nuclear plant, tumbled 24 percent. Toshiba
Corp., a maker of nuclear reactors, slid 16 percent.  Default swaps on Tokyo Electric Power soared 258 percent to
a record 146.5 basis points, while contracts on Japan jumped 11
to 94, the highest since July, according to CMA.  The  Bank of Japan  pumped a record 15 trillion yen ($183
billion) into the financial system and doubled the size of its
asset-buying program to shield the economy from the effects of
the quake.  “The market is pricing in a better understanding of the
enormity and complexity of the two natural disasters that struck
Japan,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co. “The immediate impact will be felt through lower global
aggregate demand, disrupted supply chains and funds flows into
Japan.”  Rethinking Nuclear  The S&P 500, the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities, dropped
for the third time in four days.  General Electric Co. (GE)  lost 2.2
percent. The incidents at the Japanese nuclear plants have
compelled  China  and  India  to review plans for atomic energy that
were set to provide a boon for suppliers such as GE. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  put government plans to prolong the
lifespan of the nation’s nuclear plants on hold for three months
pending the outcome of an inquiry into reactor safety.  Utility companies in the S&P 500 lost 1.4 percent as a
group. Exelon Corp., owner of the largest group of U.S. nuclear
power plants, fell 0.6 percent. The shares pared a plunge of as
much as 5.5 percent after the company said its plants are safe
given seismic patterns. Fifteen U.S. reactors use a similar
design to the General Electric unit at Tokyo Electric’s Daiichi
No. 1, Hugh Wynne, a New York-based analyst for Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note to clients today. “Exelon in
particular has relied heavily on this design.”  Insurers Slump  S&P 500 financial shares tumbled 1 percent collectively.
Hartford Financial Group Inc., which booked about 15 percent of
its revenue in Japan in 2009, lost 2.8 percent. Aflac Inc., the
provider of supplemental disability insurance which had 76
percent of sales in Japan in 2010, lost 3 percent.  Producers of uranium for nuclear plants also slumped, with
Canada’s Cameco tumbling as much as 23 percent for its biggest
intraday drop since going public in 1991 and Denison Mines Corp.
sinking 22 percent in Toronto. Solar and wind-energy companies
advanced, with First Solar Inc. climbing 5.1 percent on the
Nasdaq Stock Market  Lubrizol Corp., the world’s largest producer of lubricant
additives, rallied 28 percent after Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. agreed to buy the company for about $9 billion in
its second-biggest acquisition in the past five years.  The S&P 500 has retreated 3.5 percent from a 32-month high
on Feb. 18 amid concern a surge in  oil prices  will hinder the
economic recovery. The index is still up almost 92 percent from
a 12-year low in March 2009 and is trading at 15.2 times its
companies’ reported operating earnings, compared with an eight-
month high of 15.8 on Feb. 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Vulnerable to Correction’  “The U.S. market is a tad on the expensive side and it is
vulnerable to a correction,” said Tom Mangan, who helps oversee
$2.5 billion as a money manager at James Investment Research
Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio . “The events in Japan certainly helped push
it in that direction. On the other hand  Europe  seems to be
resolving some of its debt problems, while merger activity like
we saw today creates hope, but overall we’re due for a set-
back.”  Four stocks fell for every two that gained in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, which slid 1.1 percent to the lowest level
since Dec. 6. Swiss Reinsurance Co. and  Munich Re , the world’s
biggest reinsurers, lost more than 3.3 percent.  Burberry Group
Plc (BRBY)  sank 4.3 percent in  London , leading luxury-goods companies
lower amid speculation sales in Japan may suffer.  E.ON AG and RWE AG,  Germany ’s largest nuclear power plant
operators, fell more than 4.7 percent. Areva SA, the biggest
provider of nuclear equipment and services, sank 9.6 percent,
the most since November 2008.  European Bailout  Officials in Europe widened the scope of their 440 billion-
euro ($614 billion) bailout fund and eased the terms of Greek
rescue loans, even as they resisted calls to buy bonds in the
open market or finance buybacks.  Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest lender, led European
banks to the only gain among 19 industries in the Stoxx 600. The
euro climbed 0.7 percent to $1.3998, and jumped 0.5 percent
against the yen to 114.37. The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell against most counterparts.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Greek
10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds narrowed 39
basis points, with the Portugal-German spread contracting 17
basis points. The cost of insuring European sovereign debt
dropped, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
swaps on 15 governments falling 8.8 basis points to 179.7.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil for April delivery ended
up 3 cents at $101.19 a barrel. Earlier it slumped as low as
$98.47 as shutdowns of several Japanese refineries reduced
demand. Natural gas rallied 0.6 percent to $3.914 per million
British thermal units in  New York  as the Japanese nuclear
reactor shutdowns boosted demand for alternative fuels used to
make electricity.  Rubber for August delivery, a material used by carmakers,
plunged as much as 13 percent to 335 yen per kilogram on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  