-- 
Aussie Falls to Four-Month Low Versus Yen on Japan Nuclear Plant Concern

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-03-15T15:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/aussie-kiwi-hold-losses-on-slower-growth-outlook-after-japan-earthquake.html
The Australian dollar fell to the
weakest in more than four months against the yen after a fourth
explosion and a fire rocked a nuclear power plant north of
Tokyo, reducing demand for higher-yielding assets.  Australia’s currency also touched a two-month low versus
the the  U.S. dollar  after central bank minutes released today
showed policy makers viewed slower borrowing by households and
businesses offsetting mining investment. The  New Zealand dollar 
dropped against most of its major counterparts as Asian stocks
extended yesterday’s losses amid concern Japan’s biggest ever
earthquake will damp global growth.  “Markets are very much focused on what’s happening at the
nuclear plant,” said  Minoru Shioiri , chief manager of
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The
heightening risk aversion after the quake sparked buying of the
yen and selling of the high-yielding currencies.”  Australia’s dollar declined 1.9 percent to 99.06 U.S. cents
as of 11:53 a.m. in New York from $1.0097 yesterday. It touched
98.16, the weakest since Jan. 12. The currency fell 2.7 percent
to 80.17 yen, the lowest since Nov. 1, from 82.43 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar slid 1.1 percent to 73.12 U.S. cents
from 73.93. The kiwi, as the currency is nicknamed, depreciated
2 percent to 59.16 yen.  Nuclear Plant  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank 10.6 percent and the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of regional shares lost 5.2 percent.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for calm in a
televised address, saying his government was doing its utmost to
contain the radioactive leakage at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant following last week’s earthquake and
tsunami. Blasts have occurred at three of the station’s six
reactors since March 12 and a fire was discovered in a fourth
unit’s building today.  Australian policy makers saw the restraint in borrowing
“as a welcome development, particularly as  household debt 
remained at a historically high level and debt-servicing
requirements had recently increased,” according to minutes of
the March 1 meeting released in Sydney. A “mildly restrictive
stance of policy continued to be appropriate,” the minutes
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  