-- 
Bad Job Hurts Mental Health More Than Unemployment, Study Says

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-03-14T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/bad-job-hurts-mental-health-more-than-unemployment-study-says.html
Working in a job marked by low
control, high demands, complexity and the perception of unfair
pay may lead to worse mental health than being unemployed, a
study says.  Holding a job with little psychosocial quality doesn’t
provide any of the benefits of being employed in a more
satisfying position, according to the study published today in
the journal  Occupational Environmental Medicine .  Because paid work is linked to a defined role, structured
time and purpose, mental-health researchers have often seen any
kind of employment as beneficial. This study found, in contrast,
that moving from unemployment to a job of low quality could be
detrimental,  Peter Butterworth , of  Australian National
University  in Canberra, said in the paper.  People in the least-satisfying jobs saw their mental health
drop the most over time, the study said. The number of
unfavorable factors in working conditions was directly linked to
the mental health of the study’s participants, the researchers
said. The study used data gathered over seven years from 7,155
households in an annual Australian survey dubbed  HILDA .  “The mental health of those who were unemployed was
comparable or superior to those in jobs of the poorest
psychosocial quality,” the authors said in the paper.  Mental health was assessed using the five-item Mental
Health Inventory, which looks at an individual’s symptoms of
depression and anxiety as well as positive aspects of mental
health in the previous four weeks. Researchers measured job
quality by querying participants on factors of control, demands
and  job security .  Those who were employed had a mental-health score averaging
75.1 compared with a score of 68.5 for those without a job.
Shifting from unemployment to desirable work raised the score by
an average of 3.3 points, while taking a poor-quality job led to
a loss of 5.6 points from the average, compared with a 1.1-point
decline for those who remained unemployed.  The researchers received funding from the Australian
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  