-- 
Banco JBS Agrees to Buy Matone to Expand Financial Business

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-03-14T16:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/banco-jbs-agrees-to-buy-matone-to-expand-financial-business-1-.html
J&F Participacoes SA, which
controls  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef producer, agreed to
buy  Banco Matone SA  to expand the group’s financial businesses.  J&F and Matone Holding will merge Banco JBS SA with Banco
Matone, according to a statement distributed today in Sao Paulo.
Financial terms of the acquisition weren’t disclosed. The
companies will create a holding company to control the bank. J&F
will invest 200 million reais ($120.2 million) in Banco JBS and
Mantone Holding will put 100 million reais in its bank,
according to the statement.  “We have this growth impetus,” J&F President Joesley
Batista told reporters today. “This deal with Matone is one of
the first steps to our expansion in the financial area.” J&F
will seek more acquisitions and mergers in the financial area,
Batista said.    Brazil , Latin America’s largest economy, expanded
7.5 percent in 2010, the most in more than two decades. Growth
may be 4.1 percent this year, according to a central bank survey
of about 100 economists published  today . President  Dilma Rousseff , 63, has said Brazil will seek “sustainable” growth
of 4.5 percent to 5 percent a year.  Banco Matone, based in the southern state of  Rio Grande  do
Sul, focuses on payroll-deductible loans and Sao Paulo-based
Banco JBS specializes in farm lending. The two banks have total
loans of 2.5 billion reais, which should increase to 6 billion
reais in about 18 months, Batista said.  J&F will have 60 percent of the holding company that will
control the bank, and Matone Holding will have the remaining
40 percent, he said. Emerson Loureiro, chief executive officer
of Banco JBS, will head the merged lender. He said he expects
Brazil’s central bank to approve the deal within about 90 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Oliveira in  Sao Paulo  at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  