-- 
Bank of America Sells Debt Overcoming ‘Worst-Case Scenario’

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-14T20:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/bank-of-america-plans-debt-as-investors-seek-financial-bonds.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sold $1.5
billion of five-year notes as bond investors bet the biggest
U.S. lender by assets has overcome the worst of its problems
tied to soured mortgages.  The bank issued 3.625 percent notes today that yield 172
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender last sold five-year notes in August at a 230 basis-point
spread, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are no longer concerned about a worst-case
scenario and are beginning to demonstrate some more optimism
about B of A’s future,” said Allerton Smith, senior director of
the capital markets research group at Moody’s Corp. “There’s a
fair degree of optimism about the name.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , who last week
hosted Bank of America’s first investor day since 2007, is
seeking to assure markets the company will return to
profitability as the economy stabilizes and the lender resolves
disputes over soured mortgages. The cost to protect Bank of
America’s debt has eased relative to the average of the six
largest U.S. banks after climbing to the most on record at the
end of November.  Bank of America posted a net loss of $2.24 billion last
year on writedowns of credit-card and home-loan businesses. The
biggest housing slump since the Great Depression has pressured
Bank of America as mortgage-bond investors and insurers have
demanded the company repurchase loans, mostly originated before
2008, that may have been created based on faulty information.  Segregating Loans  Moynihan is segregating almost half the bank’s 13.9 million
mortgages into a “bad” bank comprised of its riskiest and
worst-performing “legacy” loans, Terry Laughlin, who is
running the new unit, said at the bank’s March 8 investor day.  The lender’s “mortgage-related items should eventually be
manageable for the BofA franchise,” CreditSights Inc. analysts
led by  David Hendler  wrote in a March 8 note. CreditSights has
an “overweight” recommendation on the bank’s bonds.  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America, which investors
use to hedge against losses on the company’s debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, have declined 34.2 basis points
since Dec. 16, the date of its last fixed-rate bond offering, to
144.6 basis points as of 10:59 a.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The average of contracts on Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has fallen 17.2 basis points through
yesterday, the data show. Credit-default swaps decline as
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  ‘More Challenged’  Swaps on Bank of America are at the widest of the six
biggest U.S. banks.  “The promise of improvement was enough to generate that
spread tightening,” Smith said. “The delivery of that promise
is what will move spreads into something more normalized versus
their peers.”  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets, sold $3
billion of 3.45 percent, 5-year notes on Feb. 17 at a 120 basis-
point spread, Bloomberg data show.  France ’s BNP Paribas SA also
offered five-year debt in the U.S. that day, selling $2 billion
of 3.6 percent notes at a 135 basis-point spread.  “When you compare and contrast Bank of America and
JPMorgan, we’re going to see BofA to have to issue at a
significantly more expensive cost than JPMorgan,” said Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “You’re taking one of the
industry bests versus one of the more challenged names.”  RBS Sale  Bank of America is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service
and A by  Standard & Poor’s . New York-based JPMorgan is graded
Aa3 by Moody’s and A+ by S&P.  Bank of America sold $1.5 billion of 3.7 percent, five-year
notes on Aug. 17, which priced at 99.876 cents on the dollar,
Bloomberg data show. Bank of America last sold bonds in January,
issuing $1.5 billion of floating-rate notes.  The lender is joined by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
the U.K.’s biggest government-controlled bank, in selling five-
year notes today. RBS issued $1.5 billion of debt at a spread of
243 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Investors are seeking higher returns than on government
debt and the safest corporate bonds as the  Federal Reserve 
maintains benchmark  interest rates  in a range between zero and
0.25 percent. Relative yields on bank debt of 186 basis points
are 55 basis points higher than industrial bonds, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “The hunt for yield remains one of the main themes in the
debt markets right now,” LeBas said. “Considering financials
offer greater yield than industrials, I would except to see good
demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  