-- 
Barclays to Open Israel R&D Center With State Incentives

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-14T14:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/barclays-to-open-israel-r-d-center-with-government-incentives.html
  Barclays Capital  plans to open a
research and development center in  Israel , where the government
is seeking to develop a technology hub for international
financial-services companies.  Barclays is the first company to take up Israel’s offer of
special incentives to financial-services companies that set up
research facilities in the country, Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said. The government will subsidize a portion of the
salaries of the planned 200 employees of the center, which will
be located in  Tel Aviv , during the first five years of
operation, ministry Director General Haim Shani said.  Israel wants to capitalize on its technology industry to
help boost growth following the world crisis. The plan to lure
financial-services companies to open research centers is part of
a program, unveiled in June, to bolster the country’s technology
industry through steps ranging from a plan to bring expatriate
scientists back to Israeli universities to a government “safety
net” for investment in venture-capital funds.  “This is an important day for the Israeli economy,”
Steinitz told journalists in  Jerusalem  today. “We are at the
beginning of a process whose aim is to turn Israel into a
financial-services center.”  Second Facility?  The government is in talks with other international
financial-services companies that are considering opening
research centers in Israel, Shani said, adding that he
“wouldn’t be surprised” if another firm “on the level of
Barclays” announced such a move by the end of the year. He
didn’t name companies with which the government is speaking.  The government is hoping that the development of a research
hub can be parlayed into the development of a center for
international financial services in Israel, including trading,
analysis and back-office activity, Shani said.  The global financial industry is the largest consumer of
technology and is responsible for 23 percent of the world’s
total annual expenditures on technology, the  Finance Ministry 
said in June. While many Israeli companies are already supplying
products to the industry in the fields of data storage, security
and communications, they don’t have a “significant” share of
the global market, the ministry said.  Ministry officials have met with representatives of
financial-services companies in  London ,  New York  and  Hong Kong 
in the past year in an effort to draw them to Israel.  The government will pay 40 percent of the wages of
employees, up to a maximum wage of 25,000 shekels, during the
first year of operation of the Barclays center, Shani said. This
amount will be gradually reduced to 25 percent by the fifth year
of operation. Companies that open research centers in outlying
areas of the country will enjoy higher subsidies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  