-- 
Bashneft Targets 41% Output Growth Before Tapping Arctic Fields

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-14T13:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/bashneft-targets-41-output-growth-before-tapping-arctic-fields.html
OAO Bashneft, the Russian oil
producer controlled by billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov ’s AFK
Sistema, plans to boost output by almost half through
acquisitions and existing fields before tapping the Arctic.  Production may rise as much as 41 percent to 20 million
metric tons a year by 2014 or 2015, Alexander Goncharuk,
Bashneft’s board chairman, told reporters in Moscow today. That
compares with output of 14.14 million tons last year, according
to the Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK statistics unit.  Bashneft, beat out OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second largest oil
producer, in a tender for the rights to develop the arctic Trebs
and Titov oil fields last year. The fields, which cost Bashneft
$587 million, may contain about 1.47 billion barrels of oil,
potentially boosting Bashneft’s reserves by as much as 70
percent.  Growth from the core Bashkir region will be more difficult
after this year, Goncharuk said. Production from the region grew
15.6 percent last year, according to the Energy Ministry.  “Growth certainly will not be organic,” said Artem Konchin, an oil and gas analyst at UniCredit SpA. “These are
some of the most mature fields in  Russia .”  Bashneft is also in talks about taking on an equity
investor. Sistema and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp., have
agreed to discuss forming a larger partnership that may include
shares in Bashneft, Sistema’s OAO Russneft and potentially
ONGC’s Russian unit Imperial Energy Plc.  Blocking Stake  India’s biggest energy explorer may be able to buy as much
as 25 percent of Bashneft, Goncharuk said. Bashneft has “no
problems” with its potential partner owning a blocking stake,
he said.  A scenario in which Bashneft gains shares in output from
Imperial Energy, Russneft or East Siberian Fields may allow
production to reach 20 million tons a year before it starts to
tap Trebs and Titov, he said.  Trebs and Titov will likely produce 8 million tons a year
after starting in 2015 or 2016, he said.  Goncharuk confirmed talks on a partnership to develop the
Trebs and Titov fields between the Ufa, Russia-based company and
Lukoil, which owns a neighboring pipeline and port.  “It’s unlikely to be more than one, it’s not rational,”
Goncharuk said regarding how many partners it may choose. He
expects talks with a potential partner to be completed “in the
near future.”  Bashneft retains plans to have a single share listing by
the end of the year and is near an agreement with minority
shareholders in refineries owned by the oil producer.  Government proposals to increase export duties on oil
products may affect the progress of those talks, according to
the company official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 