-- 
Batista Plans IPO of Colombian Gold Unit AUX in Bogota, Abandons EBX Offer

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-03-14T20:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/batista-plans-ipo-of-colombian-gold-unit-aux-in-bogota-abandons-ebx-offer.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista 
plans an initial public offering of a gold mining unit in
Colombia that he says is worth at least three times more than
the company’s current value.  Batista,  Brazil ’s richest person, will list his gold unit
AUX in Bogota,  London  and Sao Paulo in the next year, in
addition to the planned IPO of a Colombian coal-mining business,
he said today in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York . EBX Group Ltd., which controls Batista’s publicly
traded companies and he proposed selling last year, is “never
going public,” Batista said.  Batista will invest about $100 million in  Ventana Gold
Corp . and may consider buying more assets before selling shares
in the company. Ventana, based in  Vancouver  with assets in
Colombia, is worth at least $4.5 billion compared with the
valuation of C$1.54 billion ($1.58 billion) based on Batista’s
unsolicited offer, Batista said.  “The reason why we bought Ventana is that I see that the
assets are three times bigger than what people who owned it
thought it was,” Batista said.  Batista, who bought his first gold mine at age 24, controls
91 percent of Ventana as of March 3 after winning an unsolicited
offer for the company. He also plans to raise as much as $1.5
billion in an initial sale of CCX, as the Colombian coal unit is
known.  “Now I have two new companies that are going to go public
in a year from now,” he said.  Batista said he also aims to list all five of his Sao
Paulo-traded companies in London to help lure more international
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  