-- 
Berkshire Dangles $48 Auto Policies to Meet Buffett in India

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-03-14T18:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/berkshire-dangles-48-auto-policies-to-meet-buffett-in-india.html
Indian investors wanting to hear  Warren Buffett  no longer need to fly 8,218 miles across the
Atlantic Ocean. They can dole out $48 for car insurance to
secure an invite to meet the “Oracle of Omaha” in New Delhi.  Billionaire investor Buffett, chairman and chief executive
officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , will meet customers of
 berkshireinsurance.com  March 25 on his first visit to  India , the
Omaha, Nebraska-based company said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Invites, which aren’t transferable, are restricted to
one per policyholder and available on a first-come, first-served
basis, it said.  “It’s a great experience,” said N.G.N Puranik, a
managing director at Enam Securities Pvt. in  Mumbai , who spent
more than $4,000 to attend Berkshire’s 2007 annual meeting in
Omaha. “If people are getting an opportunity to meet him by
buying a policy, they should definitely do it.”  The New Delhi event may give Indian investors a chance to
hear Buffett’s home-spun wisdom and financial success that’s
turned the company’s annual meeting into a must-visit event,
with 40,000 attending last year. Buffett also will seek to
recruit affluent business leaders to his charity projects in a
nation that’s home to  Asia ’s richest billionaires.  “I was lucky to be seated just behind Warren Buffett at
the meeting,” said Puranik, who isn’t planning to buy a policy
because he will attend the annual shareholder gathering in Omaha
this year. “People who attend are normally an investing club
who love investing in Warren Buffett’s style.”  First Sales  Berkshire started selling insurance to Indian consumers via
the internet portal and by phone this month after forging an
agreement with Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, Berkshire said
March 2. Berkshire, whose insurance units include car-coverage
specialist Geico and re-insurer General Re, initially will focus
on the auto sector in the south Asian nation.  Buffett will meet policyholders at the Taj Palace Hotel in  New Delhi  from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on March 25, according to
Berkshire’s website.  New policies purchased through berkshireinsurance.com will
qualify for an invite, Kara Raiguel, a director of Berkshire
India, said in an e-mail. The price to insure a Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd. 800 built in 1996 would cost 2,163 rupees ($48),
according to the website.  “I’ve always wanted to attend one of Buffett’s meetings,”
said Monish Shah, a 27-year-old investor based in Mumbai. “If I
can buy a car policy for a future date, I will definitely get
one just for the opportunity to meet him.”  Transformed by Buffett  Buffett has transformed Berkshire over four decades, from a
failing textile maker to a $200 billion seller of insurance,
electrical power and  consumer goods . Berkshire doesn’t pay a
dividend or repurchase shares, leaving Buffett to invest the
firm’s earnings in stocks, bonds and takeovers. The company
yesterday said it will pay $9 billion for Lubrizol Corp., a
Wickliffe, Ohio-based maker of engine lubricants.  Buffett’s net worth was estimated at $50 billion by Forbes
magazine, which this month ranked him as the world’s third-
richest person after  Carlos Slim  and  Bill Gates . Buffett, who
has pledged most of his wealth to charity, raised a record $2.63
million for San Francisco-based Glide Foundation in his 11th
annual charity-lunch auction on EBay in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  