-- 
Berkshire Hathaway Will Acquire Lubrizol for About $9 Billion

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-03-14T12:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/berkshire-hathaway-to-acquire-lubrizol-in-transaction-valued-at-9-billion.html
  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to buy  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , the world’s largest producer
of lubricant additives, for about $9 billion in the cash-flush
investor’s second-biggest acquisition in the past five years.  Berkshire will pay $135 a share in cash, 28 percent more
than Lubrizol’s closing price on March 11, Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire said in a statement today. The purchase includes an
additional $700 million of net debt.  Buffett is using his almost $40 billion pile of cash to
pursue bigger acquisitions after Berkshire generated about $1
billion in free  cash flow  a month last year and as  interest rates 
near zero percent limited returns in fixed-income markets. The
80-year-old told investors last month that his “elephant gun
has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is itchy.” The
purchase is Buffett’s second-largest since 2006 after his
agreement in 2009 to buy Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Lubrizol is exactly the sort of company with which we
love to partner -- the global leader in several market
applications run by a talented chief executive officer, James Hambrick,” Buffett said in the statement.  The purchase will generate profits for Berkshire for
decades, though returns will be limited because Lubrizol shares
have already more than quadrupled from their 2009 lows, said
hedge-fund manager  Jeff Matthews .  ‘Around Forever’  “It’s going to be around forever because you need this
stuff to run the world,” said Matthews, who wrote “Pilgrimage to
Warren Buffett’s Omaha” and invests in Berkshire. “He’s not
stealing it.”  In his annual report to shareholders last month, Buffett
said he prefers “simple” businesses with pretax profit exceeding
$75 million, “consistent” earnings power, and “good” returns on
equity while employing little or no debt.  Lubrizol was one of about 40 companies with market
capitalization between $4 billion and $40 billion that had
capital expenses accounting for at least 5 percent of their net
fixed assets; a return on equity exceeding 10 percent; profit
growth in the past five years that ranked in the top 50 percent;
and an average price-earnings ratio in that span that was less
than the median in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Textile Manufacturer  Buffett built Berkshire over four decades of acquisitions
and stock picks, bringing the value of his personal stake in the
company to about $50 billion, almost all of which he has pledged
to charity. Berkshire was a failing textile manufacturer trading
at about $15 when Buffett took control in 1965. Its net income
last year climbed 61 percent to $13 billion, the highest since
2007. The shares closed at $128,000 on March 11.  Berkshire, which has a market value of $210 billion and
employed more than 260,000 people as of Dec. 31, owns 10
insurers including Geico and more than 60 other companies
ranging from food distributor McLane Co. and clothing-maker
Fruit of the Loom to toolmaker Iscar Metalworking Cos. and
utility MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.  Including debt, the Burlington Northern deal was valued at
$35.8 billion. Buffett’s second-largest purchase was reinsurer  General Re  in 1998, for $17.7 billion.  Berkshire and Lubrizol said they expect the purchase to be
completed in the third quarter. Lubrizol will operate as a
subsidiary of Berkshire and remain based in Wickliffe,  Ohio .
Lubrizol had revenue of $1.32 billion in the fourth quarter and
adjusted earnings per share in the period of $2.45, the company
said last month.  Citigroup Inc. and Evercore Partners were financial
advisers to Lubrizol, while  Jones Day  was legal counsel. Munger,
Tolles & Olson LLP was legal counsel for Berkshire Hathaway.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  