-- 
BG Group to Participate in Brazil Oil Block Bidding Rounds

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-03-14T21:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/bg-to-participate-in-brazil-oil-block-bidding-rounds-correct-.html
  BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest natural-gas producer, said it plans to bid for the
rights to explore for oil in upcoming auctions in Brazil as the
company accelerates investments.  BG plans to compete for exploration blocks on land and off
the coast of northern Brazil, Chairman Robert Wilson told
reporters today in Brasilia. BG plans to invest $30 billion in
Brazil by the end of the decade, an increase from the $5 billion
it has invested since 1994, he said.  Reading, England-based BG has stakes in some of Brazil’s
largest oil discoveries, including the 6.5-billion-barrel Lula
field, formerly known as Tupi. BG plans to produce 550,000
barrels a day in  Brazil  by 2020, or a third of the company’s
total production by the end of the decade.  Brazil is preparing to auction exploration areas in the
first half of this year as the country plans to double oil
production to 5 million barrels a day by 2020. Brazil also plans
to auction exploration areas in the so-called pre-salt region in
deep waters of the Atlantic where the Lula field is located.  BG has stakes in six exploration blocks in Brazil,
according to its website. The company expects output to exceed a
long-term goal following production startups in Brazil,
Australia and the U.S.  Production will increase 14 percent a year through 2015,
surpassing a target of 6 percent to 8 percent, BG Chief
Financial Officer Ashley Almanza said Feb. 8.  BG rose 3.7 percent to 1,514 pence in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  