-- 
BOJ Pours $183 Billion Into Japan Economy, Doubles Asset-Purchase on Quake

-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-14T06:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/boj-pours-183-billion-into-japan-economy-doubles-asset-purchase-on-quake.html
The  Bank of Japan  poured a record
amount of cash into the financial system and doubled the size of
its asset-purchase program to shield the economy from the
effects of the nation’s strongest earthquake on record.  The central bank pumped 15 trillion yen ($183 billion) into
money markets to assure financial stability amid a plunge in
stocks and surge in credit risk. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and
his board also increased their facility that buys assets from  government bonds  to exchange-traded funds to 10 trillion yen.  Today’s steps go beyond the forecast of analysts including
Takehiro Sato, chief Japan economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. The central bank said in its statement that
policy makers were concerned that corporate and household
sentiment will worsen, with production set to decline in the
aftermath of the temblor and the tsunami it produced.  “We are providing as much funds as needed to dispel
anxiety in financial markets,” Kazushige Kamiyama, an official
in charge of the central bank’s money market operations, said
before the policy announcement. “We will continue to add ample
funds to stabilize financial markets.”  The BOJ kept its benchmark interest rate at a range of zero
to 0.1 percent. Borrowing costs were already cut near zero last
year as officials sought to revive growth and end deflation.    Japan ’s Toll  Japan faces power blackouts, the risk of meltdowns at a
nuclear power station, and a predicted death toll of more than
10,000 after the 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami
devastated northeastern regions. More than 350,000 people are in
emergency shelters.  Besides the 15 trillion yen of emergency funds deployed in
the central bank’s biggest one-day operation, the Bank of Japan
offered to buy 3 trillion yen of government bonds from lenders
in  repurchase agreements  starting March 16.  The disaster may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture
north of  Tokyo , said Go Sugawara, a spokesman for the
prefectural police department. The official toll reached 1,597,
with 1,481 more missing and 1,683 injured, the  National Police
Agency  said.  Before the quake, Japan’s economy was showing signs of a
revival, after shrinking an annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  