-- 
BOJ Aims at Stability, Leaves Japan Economic Rebuilding for Kan

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-14T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/boj-aims-at-stability-leaves-japan-economic-rebuilding-for-kan.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s move to inject
record cash into money markets while limiting bond purchases,
signaled the central bank is limiting its role to securing
financial stability in the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday he'll keep pumping cash as needed after unleashing 15 
trillion yen ($183 billion) in one-day operations, and the bank 
added 5 trillion yen this morning. Officials yesterday also 
doubled an asset-purchase fund to 10 trillion yen, a rise that's 
about one-tenth the  Federal Reserve 's Treasuries-buying effort.  “The Bank of Japan is missing the chance of doing
something more aggressive,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief  Japan 
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, who used to work at
the central bank. “What the BOJ should do now is to anchor
investors’ sentiment” with accelerated purchases in its
program, he said.  Focus now shifts to the size of the fiscal package Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  will compile, its design and how it will be
paid for given that Shirakawa said yesterday the BOJ cannot
underwrite  government bonds . Morgan Stanley analysts estimated
the economic damage at hundreds of billions of dollars.  The liquidity injection helped reverse a climb in the yen,
which was little changed late yesterday in Tokyo at 81.90 per
dollar. The currency rose 1.4 percent on March 11 after the
quake spurred speculation Japan’s investors would repatriate
overseas assets, a phenomenon that sent it climbing 21 percent
in the three months after the January 1995 Kobe earthquake.  ‘Being Bold’    Jim O’Neill , the London-based chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, said the yen remains overvalued, giving the
BOJ cause for more robust monetary stimulus.  “There is now clearly a case for being bold to ensure a
speedy recovery from this tragedy,” O’Neill wrote in a note to
clients yesterday. “Events certainly require it.”  Stocks tumbled yesterday, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
losing 6.2 percent by the close, to 9,620.49. Benchmark 10-year
government bond yields slid 7 basis points to 1.2 percent as
investors sought a haven.  Manufacturers from Sony Corp. to Toyota Motor Corp. closed
plants yesterday, with Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, halting operation at 10 factories and two
research centers. Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, said it
closed all 12 factories in Japan through March 16.  Meltdown Risk  Tokyo Electric Power Co. battled to avert a meltdown in the
nuclear power plant damaged from the 8.9-magnitude temblor and
its aftermath. The company implemented rolling power cuts in
Tokyo and surrounding areas, a burden that, with the “ripple
effect on other industries,” may cut gross domestic product by
0.3 percent, Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts estimated.  Government officials said they were continuing to assess
the damage of the quake and it was too early to say how large a
spending package would be. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
reiterated that the government couldn’t compile the bill this
month. Lawmakers drafted a 2.7 trillion yen extra budget in May
1995 after the Kobe earthquake.  While Standard and Poor’s said the earthquake had no
immediate effect on the nation’s AA- sovereign credit rating,
Moody’s Investors Service said Japan may “at some point” reach
a fiscal “tipping point” if investors lose confidence in the
soundness of public finances and demand a  risk premium  on
government bonds, adding that such a crisis isn’t “imminent.”  Debt Concern  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan’s top official
indicated yesterday that the government could use funds for
lower-priority initiatives in the budget to pay for rescue and
reconstruction efforts, a sign officials are trying to balance
the need for extra money with the nation’s growing debt load.  “It would be questionable to use bond sales to pay for the
entire supplemental budget,”  Katsuya Okada , secretary general
of the DPJ, told reporters.  Shirakawa told reporters yesterday that cash injections
will continue as needed and it is “crucial” the central bank
stabilizes money markets, an indication it will take further
steps in coming days.  “We need money at the banks -- they shouldn’t be lacking
cash,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman at CIBC World Markets
Japan Inc. in  Tokyo . Trading is taking place as usual, he said.  The BOJ will increase buying of government debt in the fund
by 500 billion yen and boost purchases of short-term  government
securities  by 1 trillion yen. Corporate debt will rise by 1.5
trillion yen and it will also take on an additional 450 billion
yen in ETFs and 50 billion yen in Real Estate Investment Trusts.  ‘Defensive Move’  “Had the BOJ not acted today, they would have been blamed
for exacerbating the disruptions -- so this was basically a
defensive move,”  Robert Feldman , head of economic research at
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The move did help stabilize market
conditions, and so the BOJ does deserve credit for doing the
right thing. I hope that they do more of it.”  Before the quake, Japan’s economy was showing signs of a
revival, after shrinking an annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year. The BOJ yesterday maintained its
assessment that the economy is emerging from its deceleration.  Kanno at JPMorgan shaved 0.5 percentage point from his GDP
growth forecast for the first quarter, bringing it to 1.7
percent, and cut his second-quarter projection to 0.5 percent
from 2.2 percent. He anticipates rebound in the second half as
reconstruction occurs, with a 4 percent expansion in July to
September and 2.5 percent gain in the final three months of
2011.  “You wouldn’t expect a macro effect” from the BOJ’s steps
so far, said  Richard Jerram , chief economist at Macquarie
Securities Ltd. in  Singapore . “The liquidity supply was a
normal response to make sure the markets function in an orderly
fashion. It was nothing more than standard operating
procedure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  