-- 
Bovis Homes Profit Rises on Sales of Higher-Priced Homes

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-03-14T16:44:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/bovis-homes-profit-rises-on-sales-of-higher-priced-homes-2-.html
  Bovis Homes Group Plc (BVS) , the smallest
publicly traded U.K. homebuilder by volume, said full-year
profit quadrupled after the company sold more homes at higher
prices.  Net income climbed to 14 million pounds ($22.5 million)
from 3.49 million pounds a year earlier, the Longfield, England-
based company said in a statement today. That beat 13.7 million
pounds, the average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The average selling price rose by 3.9 percent to
160,700 pounds.  U.K. homebuilders are seeking to boost margins from each
sale by focusing on higher-end products as reduced lending
starves the market of buyers. Mortgage approvals fell by a more-
than-expected 29 percent in January, the  Council of Mortgage
Lenders  said last week.  Home prices  increased 0.3 percent in
February, Acadametrics Ltd. said in a report on March 11.  “The business is now in a position to grow without any
reliance on a housing-market recovery,” Chief Executive Officer
David Ritchie said by phone. “We are not assuming that things
are going to get much better.”  Bovis’s operating margin widened to 7.2 percent from 6.2
percent a year earlier. Revenue rose 6.1 percent to 298.6
million pounds and net cash fell to 51.7 million pounds from
112.3 million pounds a year ago.  Bovis was up 3 percent at 442.5 pence in London trading,
giving the company a market value of 589 million pounds. The
stock has climbed 18 percent in the last six months.  Government Issue  Homebuilders say sales are suffering because of mortgage
lending restrictions that make it easier for first-time buyers
to purchase secondhand properties than new ones. While a lack of
housing supply is supporting values, the market has been slowed
by fading  consumer confidence , government budget cuts and more
restrictive lending for all homebuyers.  Bovis sold 1,901 homes last year, an increase of 5 percent.
The company said today it has the capacity to supply more than
3,000 homes annually. Average selling prices are likely to
remain little changed this year, it said.  “We are only going to build houses if we can sell them,
and to do that there needs to be mortgage finance available for
our customers,” Ritchie said. “The government recognizes that
it’s an issue and they clearly have it near the top of the
agenda.”  Industry associations such as the Home Builders Federation
have lobbied the government to improve mortgage availability in
meetings with the housing minister Grant Shapps.  Government Help  Some homebuilders have called on the Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to use its ownership of stakes in retail
banks to pressure them into improving access to mortgage
finance. Others support the idea of mortgage indemnity insurance
for borrowers unable to provide large down payments.  Bovis’s Ritchie supports a system where first-time buyers
would provide a down payment of 5 percent of a property’s value,
borrow 95 percent and insure around 15 percent of the loan’s
value, Ritchie said.  “Banks are lending 80 percent loan-to-value without
insurance today,” the CEO said. “If we could find a way of
getting that up to 95 percent with insurance cover, then we
would certainly be there to help our customers through paying
for the premium.”  First-time buyers have plummeted to about 200,000 annually
from 600,000 a decade ago, according to the  Home Builders
Federation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 