-- 
Brady, Manning, Brees Take Super Bowl Leadership Into Court Against NFL

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/brady-manning-brees-take-super-bowl-leadership-into-court-against-nfl.html
  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees  have led National Football League teams to a combined five
Super Bowl titles. In coming weeks, they’ll lead 1,900 players
into a court fight with their employers in U.S.’s richest and
most popular sport.  The three quarterbacks are among the 10 named plaintiffs in
a group, or class-action, lawsuit that seeks to block a lockout
imposed by owners this weekend. The case was filed March 11
after the  NFL Players Association  abandoned its role in
collective bargaining and walked away from federal mediation on
how to divide the NFL’s $9 billion in annual revenue, the most
of any sports league.  The lawsuit, which comes about five weeks after the  Super
Bowl  telecast attracted the largest U.S. television audience in
history, moves the NFL labor dispute from the  Federal Mediation
and Conciliation Service’s  offices in  Washington  to a federal
courthouse in  Minnesota . Players may have more bargaining power
in court, according to Gary Roberts, dean of the Indiana
University School of Law in Indianapolis.  “They basically claim that all of the operating rules that
they agreed to in the now-expired collective bargaining
agreement are antitrust violations,” he said. “The players are
going into antitrust court because that will increase their
bargaining leverage. And that’s what it’s all about.”  Meanwhile, players won’t be paid. Teams can’t sign or trade
them and won’t pay for their health insurance. About 500 free
agents can’t get new jobs. Practices are canceled. The league’s
draft of college players, set to begin April 28, is now
the last scheduled football event of the year. And those drafted
players will be represented in the lawsuit’s class by Texas A&M
linebacker Von Miller.  Peace Ends  The work stoppage ends 24 years of labor peace. It also
threatens to empty stadiums financed with a combined $7 billion
in taxpayer money, interrupt the schedules of the largest U.S.
broadcasters and leave fans without a sport that, during the
2010 regular season, was watched by a record 207.7 million
people, according to Nielsen Co. data.  Andrew Brandt, who negotiated player contracts for the  Green Bay Packers  between 1999 and 2008, said owners and players
can still fight for months without affecting games in the 2011
season.  “If and when this is finally settled, the parties can work
out anything they want in terms of timing: a truncated free-
agency period, shortened training camp, playing into February,
etc.,” said Brandt, an ESPN analyst who lectures at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School and runs
 nationalfootballpost.com.  “They would make every effort to fit
everything in if at all possible.”  Revenue Lost  NFL executives including  Jeff Pash , chief negotiator in
talks with the union, and  Eric Grubman , executive vice president
for business operations, said before the Super Bowl that the
league would lose $120 million in ticket sales, sponsorship and
revenue if a deal weren’t reached by March and $1 billion if an
agreement takes until September. Each week of lost games would
cost the league about $400 million in revenue.  Players have access to about $60,000 each from a  reserve
fund  established by the union.  The  New York Jets  said in February that they would begin
furloughing employees if there were a lockout. Employees in
business operations will have to take one-week unpaid leave
every month until a new deal is reached. If no games are lost,
the Jets said they will reimburse the workers.  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the collective
bargaining agreement starting March 3, saying it didn’t account
for costs such as those of building stadiums. The union said
owners wanted to double to about $2 billion the amount of
revenue set aside for costs before calculating player payrolls.  Mediation Ends  On March 12, union officials left the mediation and said
the organization stopped representing players as a union.
Mediator George H. Cohen said that “no useful purpose would be
served” by continuing more than two weeks of talks.  The league said in a March 12 statement that it was
“taking the difficult but necessary step of exercising its
right under federal labor law to impose a lockout of the
union.”  According to the players’ complaint, the NFL is engaged in
a “patently unlawful group boycott” of their professional
services and wage-fixing.  “The NFL has a long history of violating federal antitrust
law in an effort to minimize its labor costs,” the players said
in the complaint. “The owners’ collective purpose in imposing
the ‘lockout’ is to force the non-unionized NFL players to agree
to the massive wage reductions and anticompetitive restrictions,
which the NFL defendants are seeking from the players.”  NFL Lawyers  The NFL said this weekend it had hired lawyers including  David Boies , who helped win the U.S. government’s antitrust
litigation against Microsoft Corp., and Paul Clement, the U.S.
Solicitor General from 2005 to 2008.  The plaintiffs include the NFL’s most popular and
successful players. Brady, a three-time Super Bowl winner and
last season’s most-valuable player, was also the  world’s best-
dressed man  in 2007, according to Esquire. He and Manning, a
four-time most-valuable player, often lead the rankings for
football players on Marketing Evaluation Inc.’s Q Scores, which
measure U.S. consumer awareness of celebrities and their
marketability.  Brees, who led the  New Orleans Saints  to the team’s first
Super Bowl championship about five years after  Hurricane Katrina ,
was Sports Illustrated’s 2010  sportsman of the year .  Roberts said the suit makes a “heads we win, tails you
lose” argument. After the union dissolves itself and ceases
representing the players in collective bargaining, anything the
league does to operate, including not operating, counts as a
restraint of trade.  Players Argument  “By definition all the teams have to act in a uniform
manner,” Roberts said. “So the players’ position is that even
if the league does nothing it’s a violation.  The NFL has already said that the union hasn’t really
surrendered its role in bargaining, calling the move “a sham”
in a complaint filed with the  National Labor Relations Board .
Roberts said the league may make the same argument in court.  The union used the same legal tactic two years after a 1987
strike broken by replacement players. The move triggered about
20 lawsuits, including one that helped establish free agency in
1993.  Roberts said this case may result in a negotiated
settlement, with sides now competing for leverage in court
instead of at mediation.  “This is classic labor bargaining,” he said. “And at the
end of the day, come August or September, the two parties will
have figured out what their risks are and they’ll sit down and
they’ll do a deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  