-- 
Brazil Debt May Be Hurt as Quake to Prompt Repatriation, Guggenheim Says

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-03-14T19:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/brazil-debt-may-be-under-pressure-as-japanese-investors-repatriate-funds.html
Debt linked to  Brazil ’s real may
fall as Japanese investors, the largest holders of the bonds,
bring funds home to pay for reconstruction following the
nation’s earthquake, according to Guggenheim Capital Markets.  Japanese investors hold at least $50 billion worth of real-
linked debts issued by the  World Bank , European Bank for
Reconstruction & Development and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
according to Andrew Brenner, managing director at Guggenheim, a
New-York based brokerage for institutional investors.  “Japanese mutual funds bought a huge amount of the
papers,” Brenner said in a telephone interview. “Those bonds
will be under pressure. Japanese will look at what they’ve got
and put more money in their own country for infrastructure.”  Japanese stocks fell the most in more than two years today
after the nation’s strongest earthquake killed an estimated
10,000 people, shut down factories and sparked the risk of a
meltdown at a nuclear power plant. Economic and Fiscal Policy
Minister  Kaoru Yosano  told reporters that the government may use
part of the 1.3 trillion yen ($16 billion) in discretionary
funds from the budget for the year through March 31 for quake
relief.  Brazil’s Treasury declined to comment on the impact on
domestic debt from Japan’s earthquake.  Yields on 9.25 percent real-linked bonds due in September
2012 and issued by the European Bank for Reconstruction &
Development fell 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, today
to 9.07 percent. The bonds’ return is tied to the performance of
the real, and the security is rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s ,
the highest investment grade.  Real’s Gains  The real has gained 39 percent against the dollar over the
past two years and 16 percent versus the yen.  The bonds may decline in the final days of this month,
which is the fiscal year end in  Japan , Brenner said.  Brazil’s inflation adjusted interest-rates are the second
highest in the world after  Croatia , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Brazil is home to about 1.6 million Japanese
nationals or people of Japanese descent, the biggest community
outside of Japan, according to the country’s embassy in
Brasilia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  