-- 
Britain's Pound Climbs Versus Dollar After Fitch Endorses Fiscal Measures

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-14T16:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/britain-s-pound-weakens-against-euro-as-rate-increase-seen-as-less-likely.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar as  Fitch Ratings  said the U.K. should keep its top  credit
rating , citing the government’s efforts to reduce the  budget
deficit  and waning risks to the banking system.  Short-sterling futures expiring in December rose for a
third day as investors reduced bets that the  Bank of England 
will increase its benchmark interest rate from a record low of
0.5 percent. Fitch said the “principal risk” to the U.K.’s
credit is a weaker-than-expected recovery, though that’s not
“sufficiently material” to threaten the AAA rating.  “It’s encouraging to see that the ratings agency, an
independent body, also believes that there is some light at the
end of the tunnel for the U.K.,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a
Geneva-based market strategist at ACM Advanced Currency Markets.
“It’s clearly the boost the pound needed.”  The pound appreciated 0.6 percent against the dollar to
$1.6174 as of 4:25 p.m. in  London . Against the euro, sterling
was little changed at 86.47 pence. It earlier reached 86.92, the
weakest since November.  “The strong budgetary consolidation effort and declining
fiscal risks arising from the U.K. financial sector support the
‘stable outlook’ on the AAA ratings,” Fitch analyst Maria Malas-Mroueh said in a statement.  U.K. Rate Outlook  The Bank of England will boost borrowing costs by 25 basis
points in August to 0.75 percent and to 1 percent in January
2012, according to forward contracts on the sterling overnight
interbank average, or Sonia. Earlier today, the same data showed
bets for a 25 basis-point increase in August and December.  Short-sterling futures’ implied yield on the December
contract fell five basis points to 1.41 percent.  “The market is still paring back over-aggressive
expectations” for the pound, said  Gavin Friend , a markets
strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in London.  The London-based central bank left its key rate unchanged
on March 10 as policy makers chose to set aside concerns on
inflation pressures to support the economic recovery.  Details of how the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
voted will be released March 23. Three of the policy makers
voted for a rate increase at the Feb. 10 meeting, the minutes of
that gathering showed.  “Market expectations were too optimistic, so some people
have just pushed back their expectations,” said You-na Park, a
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The market
will now focus on any comments from Bank of England members to
get signs about how they voted in last week’s meeting.”  Park said the pound may strengthen if the minutes of the
most recent meeting show an increase in the number of policy
makers voting to raise rates in March compared with February.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said March 12 that
governments should tackle instabilities in the global economy.  King Speech  “The most obvious problem at the global level is that the
imbalances are growing again,” King said in a speech in
Stanford,  California . “The current pattern of demand in the
world economy is unsustainable. The political tension generated
by the divergent preferences of surplus and deficit countries
risks moves toward protectionism.”  U.K. 10-year government bonds rose, pushing the gilt yield
down six basis points to 3.57 percent. Two-year yields were six
basis points lower at 1.23 percent, the lowest since Jan 26.  British two-year notes outperformed German securities of a
similar maturity, with the two-year yield difference, or spread,
widening to the most in 16 months today. The yield spread was 40
basis points, the widest since Nov. 11, 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 