-- 
Buffett to Buy Lubrizol for $9 Billion as He Bets on Planes, Trains, Autos

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-14T20:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/buffett-to-buy-lubrizol-for-9-billion-as-he-bets-on-planes-trains-autos.html
  Warren Buffett , who made “planes,
trains and automobiles” the theme of this year’s annual meeting
for his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , is increasing bets on
transportation with his $9 billion deal to buy engine lubricant-
maker  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)   Buffett, 80, transformed Berkshire over the last decade by
adding shipping and transportation businesses to insurance,
energy and consumer-goods units. He has said his bets are based
on the expectation that trade will increase with growth of the  U.S. economy  and that clients will demand energy-efficient
technologies as fuel prices climb.  “There’s lots of transportation” at Berkshire, said  Meyer Shields , a Baltimore-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
after the Lubrizol deal was announced today. “There’s going to
be a significant amount of demand” for Lubrizol products as
rising fuel prices push demand for more efficient engines.  Buffett’s $26.5 billion purchase of Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  last year gave Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire the
second-biggest U.S. railroad. Buffett has said Burlington will
prosper because trains use less fuel than trucks per ton of
cargo, and competitors may be unable to duplicate the company’s
rail network.  “We are a major and essential part of the American
economy’s circulatory system,” Buffett said Feb. 26 in a letter
to shareholders. “I’m confident we will earn appropriate
returns on our huge incremental investments” in the railroad.  Showing Off  Buffett bought 9.9 percent of Chinese carmaker BYD Co. and
in 2008, and in 2003 he added McLane Co., the distributor of
grocery products. NetJets Inc., Berkshire’s fractional jet-
ownership unit, said March 2 it placed an order for as many as
120 Bombardier Inc. planes in anticipation of a rebound in
luxury travel.  The April 30 annual meeting will give “NetJets, BNSF and
BYD a chance to show off,” Buffett said in his letter.  Berkshire will pay $135 a share in cash, 28 percent more
than Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol’s closing price on March 11,
Berkshire said in a statement today. Lubrizol climbed to $134.68
at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Berkshire fell $1,600, or 1.3 percent, to $126,400. The
stock has gained about 2.6 percent in the last 12 months,
trailing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 13 percent increase.  CEO Retained  Lubrizol will retain its management, including James Hambrick, who has been chief executive officer since 2004,
according to the statement. Hambrick may be entitled to about
$20.8 million in options and performance share units if there is
a change in control at the company, without a termination,
Lubrizol said in a filing in March of last year. More current
information on compensation will be available “in the next few
days,” said Julie Young, a Lubrizol spokeswoman.  “Our only instruction to James - just keep doing for us
what you have done so successfully for your shareholders,”
Buffett said in the statement.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and CEO, built his firm over
four decades of acquisitions and stock picks. The billionaire
told shareholders in his annual letter last month that his
“elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is
itchy” for takeovers after earnings and maturing investments
built Berkshire’s cash holdings to $38.2 billion at year-end.  Search Criteria  Lubrizol was one of about 40 companies identified this
month in a Bloomberg News article reviewing firms that may fit
Buffett’s takeover criteria. The firms had market capitalization
between $4 billion and $40 billion; capital expenses accounting
for at least 5 percent of their net fixed assets; a return on
equity exceeding 10 percent; profit growth in the past five
years that ranked in the top 50 percent; and an average price-
earnings ratio in that span that was less than the median in the  S&P 500 .  Lubrizol’s capital expenses account for 15 percent of net
fixed assets and it posted a return on equity of 34 percent last
year. The company’s average price-earnings ratio over five years
was 11.9, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Lubrizol’s return on
equity was the highest for a company taken over in the specialty
chemicals industry since Inspec Group Plc in 1998, according to
Bloomberg data.  Berkshire and Lubrizol said they expect the purchase to be
completed in the third quarter. Lubrizol will operate as a
subsidiary of Berkshire and remain based in Wickliffe. Lubrizol
had revenue of $1.32 billion in the fourth quarter and adjusted
earnings per share in the period of $2.45, the company said last
month.  Citigroup Inc. and Evercore Partners Inc. were financial
advisers to Lubrizol, while  Jones Day  was legal counsel. Munger,
Tolles & Olson LLP was legal counsel for Berkshire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  