-- 
Buffett Offer Burns Lubrizol Default Swap Traders Betting on Imminent LBO

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-14T22:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/buffett-offer-burns-lubrizol-default-swap-traders-betting-on-imminent-lbo.html
  Warren Buffett ’s $9 billion deal to
buy  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  caught credit-default swaps traders
positioned for a leveraged buyout on the wrong side of the bet.  Contracts on the Wickliffe, Ohio-based company dropped 91
basis points to 60 basis points, the most since 2004, according
to data provider CMA.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which has the
second-highest debt rating by  Standard & Poor’s , agreed today to
buy the world’s largest producer of lubricant additives.  Credit-default swaps on Lubrizol soared from 53 basis
points 12 months ago to as high as 170 in November as investors
wagered its creditworthiness would decrease in a debt-fueled
buyout after Bank of America Corp. strategists included the
company on a list of LBO candidates. Swaps traders this year
have sought out companies including  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  and  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  that they considered potential takeover targets
by private-equity firms, anticipating the contracts will rise,
only for the reverse to happen after merger talks fell through.  “It’s not as easy of a trade as it was in 2006, 2007,”
said  Mikhail Foux , a New York-based credit strategist with
Citigroup Inc., citing failed LBO attempts this year. “When
sellers and buyers didn’t agree on the price, market players who
were shorting it got hurt badly.”  Private-equity firms historically borrowed two-thirds or
more of the acquisition prices in their deals, increasing the
odds an acquired company will default on its debt. Deals have
accelerated, as high-yield borrowing costs declined to a record
7.29 percent on Feb. 22, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  Seagate, Sara Lee  “It’s further proof that in this kind of market, financing
is cheap not just for LBO sponsors but for corporate buyers,”
said  Brian Yelvington , head of fixed-income strategy at Knight
Capital Americas LP in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  Seagate Technology swaps have declined to 318.5 basis
points from 485 basis points in October since the world’s
largest maker of disk drives said in November it terminated
discussions with buyout firms.  Swaps on  Downers Grove , Illinois-based Sara Lee have
dropped to 144.8 basis points from as high as 311.8 earlier this
year after the maker of Ball Park hot dogs said in January it
will split itself in two after failing to agree to takeover
offers. The contracts increased 8 basis points today after Veja
magazine reported on March 12 that JBS SA, the world’s largest
beef producer, is considering making a new offer for the food
maker.  Buffett described credit-default swaps in a letter to
shareholders in the 2002 annual report as “financial weapons of
mass destruction.”  Credit Grades  Berkshire will pay $135 a share in cash and an additional
$700 million of net debt, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said
in a statement today. Lubrizol is graded Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB+ by S&P, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Berkshire is ranked Aa2 by Moody’s, its third highest
level, and AA+ by S&P.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  A benchmark index measuring the cost to protect U.S.
corporate bonds climbed as investors calculate the costs of  Japan ’s earthquake to the global economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.7 basis point to a mid-
price of 86.9 basis points as of 5:28 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Nuclear Energy  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed from
79 basis points on Feb. 8 to 88 on March 11, the highest level
since Jan. 10.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami may have
killed 10,000 people in Miyagi prefecture north of  Tokyo , said
Go Sugawara, a spokesman for the prefectural police department.
The official toll reached 1,627 confirmed deaths with 1,720 more
missing and 1,962 injured, the  National Police Agency  said. More
than 350,000 people are in emergency shelters.  Credit-default swaps on  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  rose
on concern that a near-meltdown at a Japanese atomic plant will
cripple investment in the nuclear industry.  Contracts on Chicago-based Exelon climbed 4 basis points to
107.1, and those on unit Exelon Generation Co. surged 16.5 basis
points to 139, CMA data show. Swaps on New Orleans-based Entergy
climbed 17.6 basis points to 170.6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  