-- 
Buy Brokers as Earthquakes May Boost Demand for Reinsurance, Stifel Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-14T20:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/buy-brokers-as-earthquakes-may-boost-demand-for-reinsurance-stifel-says.html
  Aon Corp. (AON)  and Marsh & McLennan
Cos., the world’s biggest reinsurance brokers, may sell more
coverage at higher rates as earthquakes and tighter regulation
of primary insurers spur demand, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said.  “If you take a step back and you look at what the planet’s
been through for the last 12 months, I think that what we’re
going to see is a significant amount of upward pressure on
reinsurance rates,”  Meyer Shields , a Baltimore-based analyst
with Stifel, said in a March 11 interview. “We like the brokers
on this.”  Insurers, which rely on brokers to negotiate loss-sharing
agreements with reinsurers, face what may be record first-
quarter catastrophe losses after last week’s 8.9-magnitude
earthquake in  Japan , according to  Standard & Poor’s . The
industry also is preparing for Solvency II, an overhaul of
regulation in  Europe  designed to ensure that insurers have
sufficient capital to withstand catastrophes and market shocks.  “This confluence of events pushes up the amount of
severity that these regulators will use,” said Shields, who has
“buy” recommendations on Chicago-based Aon and Marsh &
McLennan. “They’ll insist that insurers have more
reinsurance.”  Aon gained 70 cents, or 1.4 percent to $51.95 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the top advance in
the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index (KIX)  today. New York-based Marsh &
McLennan slipped 4 cents to $30.23. Aon has jumped 13 percent
this year, and Marsh & McLennan 11 percent, beating the
insurance index’s gain of less than 1 percent.  Storms, Social Unrest  Insurers and reinsurers are assessing their liability to
the quake that struck off the coast of Sendai, a city of 1
million north of  Tokyo . Costs associated with the temblor and
subsequent tsunami will be added to a first-quarter tally that
already includes losses tied to an earthquake in New Zealand,
winter storms in the U.S. and social unrest in the Middle East.  First-quarter claims “may spark a firming of worldwide
insurance and reinsurance rates,” Cathy Seifert, an equity
analyst at S&P, said in a March 11 research note.  Japanese insurers and the global reinsurance companies that
backstop their policies may face claims of 1.2 trillion yen ($15
billion) to 2.8 trillion yen from the March 11 earthquake,  AIR
Worldwide  said. That estimate doesn’t include damage from the 7-
meter (23-foot) tsunami. The quake in  New Zealand  may register
at least $10 billion of insured losses, Seifert said.  Aon and Marsh & McLennan, also the largest brokers of
primary coverage, may gain from increased sales of catastrophe
bonds as well, Shields said. The securities allow insurers to
bypass reinsurers and share risks with investors.  The Japanese earthquake and tsunami may have killed 10,000
in the prefecture of Miyagi, said a spokesman for the
prefectural police department. The official toll reached 1,823
dead and 2,369 missing, the  National Police Agency  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  