-- 
California May Start Carbon Trade Without Allies, Chief Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-14T16:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/california-may-start-carbon-trade-without-allies-chief-says-1-.html
  California , which is seeking to
build a regional carbon market for the U.S. West and parts of  Canada , may start its cap-and-trade program next year even if
other jurisdictions aren’t ready, a state official said.  “We could do the program on our own, but we’d rather
not,”  California Air Resources Board  Chairman Mary Nichols told
reporters today after speaking at an International Emissions
Trading Association conference in Washington.  The air resources board last year identified New Mexico and  Quebec , Ontario and British Columbia in Canada as governments
that may be ready to join a regional carbon market in 2012.
California approved its cap-and-trade regulations in December.  California’s planned carbon market is similar to the cap-
and-trade program that President  Barack Obama  failed to push
through Congress last year.  Power plants , oil refineries and
factories would buy and sell pollution allowances that each
represent one metric ton of carbon dioxide. The supply of
allowances would be trimmed over time to enforce a 15 percent
cut in carbon dioxide and other  greenhouse gases  linked to
global warming by 2020.  A lawsuit by an environmental group won’t stop the program
from starting next year, Nichols said. The  Center on Race,
Poverty & the Environment  is among advocacy organizations that
are suing the Air Resources Board to force reconsideration of
its greenhouse-gas regulations. The board’s climate-change rules
don’t satisfy a requirement in the state’s 2006 global-warming
law to clean up poor, polluted neighborhoods, the groups said.  State Lawsuit  The San Francisco County Superior Court sided with the
groups in a preliminary ruling in January.  If the lawsuit succeeds, it would only require more
environmental studies, Nichols said.  “It would not necessarily have any impact on the
implementation of the cap-and-trade rule,” Nichols said in
remarks at the conference. “There have been quite a few
political scuffles, skirmishes or even battles” over the
state’s global-warming law, Nichols said. “I’m sure there will
be more as we go forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  