-- 
Canada Fourth Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-14T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/canada-fourth-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of  Canada 's national balance sheet account report for the
fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth edged up 0.3% to $6.3 trillion in
the fourth quarter, the slowest quarterly growth of the
year. Growth in non-financial assets, mainly in
residential structures, was largely offset by an increase
in net foreign debt. On a per capita basis, national net
worth grew to $184,200 in the fourth quarter, up from
$183,900 in the previous quarter.  The advance in national wealth was largely offset by a
further increase in Canada's net foreign debt. This
largely reflects continued foreign investment in Canadian
debt securities, mainly government and corporate bonds in
the fourth quarter. This was in line with Canada's ongoing
current account deficit as well as the impact of a
stronger Canadian dollar on foreign currency denominated
international assets.  Household net worth continues to rise  Household net worth rose 2.2% to $6.2 trillion in the
fourth quarter, following a 3.0% increase in the third
quarter. Household per capita net worth increased from
$178,200 in the third quarter to $181,700 in the fourth
quarter.  The gain in the Standard and Poor's / Toronto Stock
Exchange composite index of about 9% in the fourth quarter
was reflected in rising values of household equities
(including mutual funds) and pension assets, albeit at a
slower pace than the previous quarter. Equity holdings of
the household sector increased by $129 billion in 2010
while they increased by $194 billion in 2009, after a $306
billion drop in 2008.  Household mortgage debt and consumer credit debt
advanced in the fourth quarter, the latter reflecting
increased purchases of durable goods. The ratio of
household credit market debt to personal disposable income
edged down to 146.8%, as a 1.8% gain in personal
disposable income outstripped that of the credit market
debt.  While the  Bank of Canada  overnight rate remained
unchanged in the fourth quarter, the five-year fixed
mortgage rate declined. The debt service ratio edged down
in the fourth quarter, reflecting lower borrowing costs as
well as increased personal disposable income. This ratio
has continued to trend down since the third quarter of
2008.  Home owners equity as a percentage of real estate
assets fell marginally, continuing the trend set in 2010.
However, the broader measure of household credit market
debt to net worth edged down to 24.2%. This marked the
second consecutive quarterly decline in this aggregate,
reflecting the impact of improvements in equity markets on
net worth over the past two quarters.  Government net debt rose  The government net debt (expressed at book value)
increased by $19 billion in the fourth quarter and the
ratio of net debt to gross domestic product stood at
45.1%, continuing its upward trend since the third quarter
of 2008 when it stood at 35.4%.  The federal government continued to borrow through both
treasury bills and bonds, while provincial governments
increased debt largely through short-term paper financing.  Corporate debt to equity edges up  The increase in corporate debt was largely in new
issues of bonds, with a considerable portion of these
securities purchased by non-residents. However, the
revaluation effect of a rising Canadian dollar on
outstanding foreign currency denominated Canadian
liabilities moderated the increase in bond debt
outstanding in the quarter.  Increases in debt marginally exceeded equity issues and
undistributed earnings, resulting in the credit market
debt-to-equity ratio (expressed at book value) to edge up
to 55.2% in the fourth quarter.  Equity investment of financial corporations increased  Consistent with the market gains over the fourth
quarter, the value of investments in marketable
securities, notably shares, of institutional investors,
such as trusteed pension plans and mutual funds, increased
markedly. Holdings of foreign investments by financial
institutions increased strongly as well, while their
increases in holdings of bonds and short-term paper were
modest. Canadian currency and deposits liabilities of
financial institutions were relatively unchanged in the
fourth quarter.  Note to readers  The National balance sheet accounts (NBSA) comprise the
balance sheets of all sectors of the economy: the persons
and unincorporated business (households), corporate,
government, and non-resident sectors. They cover all
national non-financial assets and financial claims and
their associated liabilities outstanding in all sectors.  National net worth is national wealth less net foreign
liabilities (that is, what is owed to non-residents less
what non-residents owe to Canadians). Alternatively, it is
the sum of the net worth of the persons and unincorporated
business, corporate, and government sectors.  Household credit market debt comprises  consumer credit ,
mortgage, and loan debt of households, non-profit
institutions serving households, and unincorporated
businesses.  Corporate equity is treated as a liability on the
balance sheet of the corporate sector since it represents
a claim by shareholders on the corporate sector. As a
result, as equity prices increase, corporate net worth
will tend to decline, reflecting the increase in the
corporate sector's equity liabilities.  As of the release of the NBSA for the third quarter of
2009, a number of sectors and categories that were
previously published have been combined, in order to
provide more relevant sector and category information.  Quarterly series, at both book and market value, are
available from the first quarter of 1990. Annual market
value data are published from 1970, while book value
estimates remain available from 1961. Marketable
securities are at market value, unless otherwise stated.
For more information on the market value estimates,
consult the National Balance Sheet estimates at market
value page of our website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  