-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls Against Most Major Counterparts as Commodities Drop

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-14T21:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/canadian-dollar-trades-within-cent-of-three-year-high-on-economic-growth.html
  Canada ’s dollar weakened against
most its major counterparts as commodities fell on concern
factories in Japan will shut down following the country’s
strongest earthquake.  The Canadian currency, called the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, also slipped as Canadian
industrial companies’ use of their production capacity rose less
than forecast. The loonie dropped to an almost three-week low
versus the euro after European Union leaders agreed on a
retooled bailout plan for the region’s most-indebted nations.  “Data on the home front and commodities are driving the
loonie,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.
“A weaker-than-expected capacity utilization number furthers
the argument that Canadian  interest rates  are likely to remain
steady for some time, which would weigh on the loonie.”  Canada’s dollar fell as much as 1 percent against the euro,
touching C$1.3659, the weakest level since Feb. 23, before
trading at C$1.3626 at 5 p.m. in Toronto, down 0.7 percent.  The loonie was little changed against the U.S. dollar,
trading at 97.38 cents per greenback after rising as much as 0.3
percent and falling 0.3 percent. It touched 96.68 cents on March
9, the strongest level since November 2007. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0269.  The loonie has gained 0.6 percent this year in a basket of
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has lost 2.1 percent,
while the euro has advanced 2.9 percent.  Raw Materials Drop  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
declined for a fifth day, the longest losing streak since
August, sliding 0.4 percent. Raw materials account for about
half of Canada’s export revenue, and oil is its biggest export.  The Canadian currency erased its decline against the
greenback as crude oil for April delivery erased losses and rose
0.5 percent to $101.68 a barrel after the official Saudi Press
Agency reported Saudi Arabia’s cabinet said it has responded to
a request from Bahrain for “support.” Saudi troops moved into
Bahrain as part of a regional force in the first intervention
since a wave of popular uprisings swept through parts of the
Arab world.  Crude oil futures earlier fell 2.7 percent to $98.47 a
barrel in New York, the lowest level since March 1, on
speculation the temblor and a tsunami in  Japan  will reduce
demand for fuel.    Bank of Japan   The Bank of Japan poured 15 trillion yen ($183 billion)
into the nation’s financial system to assure stability. More
than 10,000 people may have been killed in Miyagi prefecture
north of  Tokyo , according to local authorities.  The euro rose for a second day against the Canadian
currency after European leaders agreed on March 12 to widen the
scope of a rescue fund set up to help deal with the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The loonie gained versus the currencies of  Australia  and
New Zealand, fellow commodity-exporting countries. It advanced
0.4 percent to 98.33 cents per Australian dollar and appreciated
0.4 percent to 71.97 cents per  New Zealand  dollar.  Canadian industrial companies’ use of their production
capacity increased to 76.4 percent in the fourth quarter, from a
revised 76.2 percent in the previous quarter,  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted a 79 percent rate, compared with a previously
estimated 78.1 percent in the third quarter.  Bank of Canada  The Bank of Canada left its benchmark interest rate at 1
percent on March 1 as policy makers reiterated that a strong
currency poses challenges to the nation’s exporters.    Government bonds  climbed today, pushing the yield on the
10-year benchmark down five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 3.23 percent. It touched 3.22 percent, the lowest
level since Jan. 11. The price of the 3.50 percent note maturing
in June 2020 increased 39 cents to C$102.19.  Canada’s dollar strengthened earlier against the U.S.
currency on speculation the nation’s economic growth will
attract investors. Canada’s gross domestic product expanded more
than forecast in the fourth quarter, increasing 3.3 percent, the
nation’s statistics agency reported on Feb. 28.  “The Canadian dollar is still benefiting from the strong
fundamentals in Canada,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London .
“They have strong growth and a sound fiscal position.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Alexandra Harris in  New York  at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  