-- 
Caterpillar May Gain as Japan Rebuilds, Sterne Agee Says

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-03-14T18:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/caterpillar-may-gain-as-japan-rebuilds-sterne-agee-analyst-says.html
  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest
construction-equipment maker, may be among the U.S. companies to
benefit as Japan rebuilds after the world’s strongest earthquake
since 2004, said analysts at Susquehanna Financial Group and
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  Caterpillar may see sales of excavators and wheel loaders
rise as Japan reconstructs buildings that crumbled from last
week’s 8.9-magnitude earthquake, said Larry De Maria, a New
York-based analyst for Sterne Agee who has a “neutral” rating
on the company’s stock. Shares of Japanese builders have rallied
amid speculation that they will benefit from recovery efforts.  “There will be several hundred billions in reconstruction
over several years,” De Maria said in a telephone interview
today, referring to the dollar estimate. “Caterpillar and other
equipment manufacturers will be in a position to support the
efforts.”  Caterpillar, which employs about 5,000 people in  Japan ,
isn’t concentrating on potential orders,  Jim Dugan , a spokesman
for the Peoria, Illinois-based company, said in an e-mail today.  “We are not focused on that but rather the continued
safety and security of employees and providing support and aid
for the wider rescue efforts,” Dugan said.  Caterpillar Donations  The company said it hasn’t received any reports of damage
to its major operations in Japan or injuries to its workers.  The Caterpillar Foundation is giving $1 million to the
American Red Cross for disaster relief efforts in Japan and will
match a maximum $500,000 in contributions from Caterpillar
employees, retirees and dealers, according to a statement. The
company’s Japanese business unit in  Tokyo  also has pledged $1
million, primarily from equipment donations.  “After the initial shock wears off in Japan and
reconstruction takes hold, Caterpillar equipment including power
generation and construction equipment is likely to experience an
increase in demand,” De Maria said.  Caterpillar and Tokyo-based competitor  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  should
be two of the biggest beneficiaries, Ted Grace, an analyst for
Susquehanna in  Boston , said in a telephone interview.  ‘Years to Rebuild’  “The question is over what time frame?” Grace said.
“These areas will take years to rebuild.”  Komatsu, like Caterpillar, is a global manufacturer. If
Komatsu experiences disruptions to domestic operations, it could
tap factories in other parts of the world to meet demand, Grace
said.  Companies including Manitowoc Co. of Manitowoc,  Wisconsin ,
and Westport, Connecticut-based  Terex Corp. (TEX) , which both make
cranes, may see an increase in orders, Grace said. Susquehanna
is a market maker for Caterpillar, Manitowoc and Terex.  Terex has no market presence in Japan and expects Japanese
companies to meet demand, a company spokesman, Michael Bazinet,
said in an e-mail today.    Joy Global Inc. (JOYG) , a Milwaukee-based mining-equipment maker
that sells drills and shovels, also may see an increase in
orders from coal miners as the world “rethinks” the use of
nuclear energy in the aftermath of the earthquake, De Maria
said. Japan is working to prevent a nuclear meltdown after a
second blast rocked an atomic plant north of Tokyo.  The full effect of Japan’s devastation on the global
economy remains unclear and has the potential to moderate demand
for capital goods, De Maria said.  Caterpillar rose $1.49, or 1.5 percent, to $101.51 at 2:52
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
rose 6.8 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  