-- 
Raj Rajaratnam Favored Chiesi’s Tips on AMD, Kumar Tells Jurors

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-15T10:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/chiesi-had-intimate-relationship-with-amd-s-ruiz-kumar-claims-at-trial.html
Anil Kumar, a former director at
McKinsey & Co., said  Raj Rajaratnam  told him the value of his 
inside information to Galleon Group LLC was “diminished” because 
trader Danielle Chiesi's “intimate relationship” with the
head of  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  made her tips more valuable.  Kumar’s testimony yesterday in Rajaratnam’s insider trading
trial in  Manhattan  federal court came as he described providing
Rajaratnam with information about deals from 2004 to 2009 
involving companies such as his client, AMD.  He told jurors that he tipped Rajaratnam about AMD’s 2008
plan to spin off a manufacturing entity for its microchips, and
on investments from sovereign wealth companies including  Abu
Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co. Kumar said Rajaratnam warned
him his information was no longer as useful as it once was.  “He said there was someone on  Wall Street  that had an
intimate relationship with my client, AMD, who was able to
provide more information than I was,” Kumar testified, later
identifying the individual as Chiesi. Andrew Merrill, a
spokesman for former AMD Chief Executive Officer  Hector Ruiz ,
denied such a relationship existed between Ruiz and Chiesi.  “Any suggestion that the relationship was intimate is
untrue,” Merrill said yesterday.  Rajaratnam, 53, who has pleaded not guilty, is the central
figure in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in
U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of
making $45 million from confidential information leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge fund traders.  Tipping Others  Kumar, 52, told the jury that Rajaratnam warned him that
Chiesi was also passing tips to others on Wall Street about the
proposed deal. AMD, based in Sunnyvale,  California , is the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers.  “He said she talks to a lot of people and people get to
know about it and therefore it’s no longer private,” Kumar said.
Rajaratnam suggested he warn Ruiz, “‘Stop doing this.’”  “I said, ‘Raj, you’ve got to be kidding, he’s a senior
client, he’s older than me,’” Kumar said he responded. “I said
I couldn’t do it, I couldn’t say, ‘I heard you were having a
relationship with Danielle.’”  Kumar said Rajaratnam told him “‘your value to me is a
little bit diminished because there’s now another source coming
directly from the CEO.’”  Pleaded Guilty  Chiesi, 45, a stock trader at New Castle Funds LLC, pleaded
guilty to insider-trading charges in January. Prosecutors said
she traded on leaks from  Robert Moffat , a former senior vice
president at Armonk, New York-based International Business
Machines Corp., who also pleaded guilty. Both the U.S. and
Moffat have said Chiesi had an “intimate relationship” with
the ex-IBM official. Moffat said in a sentencing memo that
Chiesi “played him” to obtain tips.    Alan Kaufman , a lawyer for Chiesi, didn’t return a voice-
mail message yesterday seeking comment about his client.  The jury also heard more than a dozen wiretapped
conversations in which Kumar kept Rajaratnam abreast of
developments in the Mubadala deal, including the amount of money
it was willing to spend.  Rajaratnam told Kumar he needed to warn Ruiz not to talk to
Chiesi about the deal, so Rajaratnam could have the information
exclusively, Kumar said.  “Raj said the only way he was going to make money was to
know when there was going to be a big transaction,” Kumar
testified.  ‘Shake Hands’  The jury heard an Aug. 15, 2008, call in which Rajaratnam
spoke to Chiesi after Kumar informed Rajaratnam that the parties
had agreed to “shake hands” in the Mubadala deal.  “AMD will not go bankrupt,” Rajaratnam told Chiesi on the
call. He said Mubadala would invest $6 billion in the proposed
deal. It was later reduced to $5 billion to $6 billion, Kumar
told Rajaratnam.  “But we’ve got to keep this radio silence,” Rajaratnam
said.  “Oh please, my pleasure,” Chiesi said.  “Not even to your little boyfriends,” Rajaratnam
continued.  “I don’t have any,” she replied.  After Kumar informed Rajaratnam in September that the deal
was to be announced in the first week of October, Rajaratnam
called Chiesi within minutes of Kumar’s call.  “The date is Oct. 7,” Rajaratnam told Chiesi in a Sept.
30, 2008, call played for the jury.  “Oh, AMD is for sure?” she asked.  ‘Mr. October’  “Yeah, Monday,” replied Rajaratnam. “I own 25 million in
AMD,” adding, “I am going to become Mr. October.”  “I am a little nervous because you know people are going
to investigate me, I really believe that,” Chiesi answered.  “October 7, it’s called ‘Mubadala’” Rajaratnam said.  Chiesi told Rajaratnam she’d like to purchase 1 million
shares of AMD, adding, “Hector told me that he went from saying
he thinks ‘everything is fine’ to he thinks ‘it’s 110 percent
fine.’”  “I’m long 25 and I’m taking the pain,” Rajaratnam told
Chiesi. “But I’m, you know, I’m a warrior. They can’t, they
can’t kill me. October’s my month.”  “I love that,” Chiesi replied.  In an August 2008 phone call recorded by the government,
Rajaratnam’s brother, Rengan Rajaratnam, told the defendant he’d
met with David Palecek, who was in charge of semiconductors for
McKinsey. Rengan Rajaratnam said he asked Palecek, his former
classmate at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, about
buying AMD stock.  ‘A Little Dirty’  “He’s like, ‘Buy it, buy as much as you can as soon as you
can,’” Rengan Rajaratnam told his brother. In another later
conversation, Rengan told Raj that Palecek was “a little
dirty” and that he was “definitely, you know, thinking about
playing ball” with Galleon.  “‘He said my best ideas are inside information,’” Rengan
quoted Palecek as telling him.  Rengan Rajaratnam declined to comment. David Tobin, an
attorney for Rengan Rajaratnam, didn’t immediately return a
voicemail message seeking comment.  Palecek died last year of a virulent staph infection, his
lawyer, Catherine Redlich said.  “What the tape does not reflect is that Mr. Palecek never
agreed to ‘play ball’ with the Rajaratnams, never received money
from them, and never agreed to put his wife on Galleon’s
payroll,” Redlich said.  “If David were alive today, he would tell you that nothing
was more important to him than his family, especially his four
young daughters, and he would never have put them in harm’s
way.”  ‘E-Mail Trail’  The jury also heard a conversation in which Rajaratnam told
a close friend at the firm that Galleon needed to create “an e-
mail trail” to hide secret tips that the U.S. claims were
illegal.  Prosecutors yesterday played a tape of an April 22, 2008,
conversation between Rajaratnam and his friend Krish Panu, a
Galleon managing director. Rajaratnam called Panu after being
told by Kumar about a transaction involving Spansion Inc.  “I’ll send you an e-mail and say, ‘Have you guys thought
about Spansion?’” Rajaratnam told Panu.  “Have a corporate record,” Panu replied.  “Yeah, we just have an e-mail trail,” Rajaratnam said.  Kumar continues his testimony today.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 