-- 
China Inflation Battle Aided by Slower-Than-Forecast Gain in Bank Lending

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-14T05:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/china-s-february-money-supply-rises-15-7-new-loans-total-81-5-billion.html
--  China ’s lending and  money supply 
grew by less than economists expected in February, aiding the
government’s campaign to rein in prices in the fastest-growing
major economy.  Banks extended 535.6 billion yuan ($81.5 billion) of new
local-currency loans last month, compared with the 600 billion
yuan median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.
M2, the broadest measure of money supply, climbed 15.7 percent
compared with the median forecast of 17 percent.  The smallest growth in money supply in more than two years
came after the central bank raised interest rates and lenders’
reserve requirements. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today that
monetary easing in “certain countries” is fueling inflation
pressures that could lead to social instability.  “The central bank’s tightening is starting to bite,” said
Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe General SA.
While the central bank may ease the pace of increases in reserve
ratios,  interest rates  may rise as early as this week to curb
inflation that’s “well above the comfort zone,” Yao said.  Wen said today that reining in surging prices is the
nation’s top economic priority this year and described inflation
as a tiger. “Once set free it will be very difficult to get the
tiger back into its cage,” he said at a press briefing after
the close of the National People’s Congress.  Exceeding Target  The government aims to keep consumer-price gains within 4
percent this year, higher than last year’s 3 percent target that
was exceeded every month in the second half of the year.
Inflation was 4.9 percent in January and February.  Interest-rate swaps in  Shanghai  fell to a two-month low
today on concern  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record will cool
the global economic recovery. The yield on China’s 3.77 percent
bond due December 2020 fell three basis points to 3.93 percent,
according to Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt-clearing house.  February’s new loans compared with 700 billion yuan a year
earlier and 1.04 trillion yuan in January. M2 expanded at the
slowest pace since November 2008 and compared with a 17.2
percent increase in January.  New local-currency lending in the first two months of the
year declined to 1.58 trillion yuan from 2.09 trillion in the
same period last year. The government didn’t set a formal target
for new loans this year, although the banking regulator  Liu Mingkang  said the amount would be “about equal” to last year’s
7.5 trillion yuan, the China Business News reported March 7.  Tightening Impact  The government will “appropriately manage the monetary
environment to mop up excess liquidity” to fight inflation, Wen
said today.  Monetary tightening has already had some impact on the
operations of the nation’s commercial banks, China Minsheng
Banking Corp. Chairman Dong Wenbiao said on March 3. Two days
later, he said loan demand from property developers has declined
sharply and  mortgage loans  have almost halted since September.  Inflation expectations are “generally stable,” central
bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said at a press conference in
Beijing on March 11.  “China’s quantitative tightening is working,” said  Qu Hongbin , China economist with HSBC Holdings Plc. in Hong Kong.
“Combined with supply-side measures aiming at cooling food
price inflation and mitigating the impact of  oil prices , this
implies that inflation is likely to peter out by the middle of
the year.”  Higher Rates  The government may delay further tightening measures,
including an increase in borrowing costs, because of
“uncertainty” caused by the earthquake in Japan last week,
Bank of America-Merrill Lynch economists led by Ting Lu said in
a report today.  Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. expect the central
bank to continue raising interest rates and reserve ratio
requirements.    Wang Qing , chief China economist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong
Kong , predicts an increase in lending and deposit rates in May
or June as inflation exceeds 5.5 percent.  JPMorgan economists expect two more increases in the
reserve ratio and at least two more adjustments to interest
rates which may be front loaded into the first half of the year
as inflation remains “elevated.”  The central bank has raised interest rates three times
since mid-October and increased the proportion of deposits banks
must set aside as reserves five times since November to rein in
liquidity and credit after an unprecedented two-year lending
spree that cushioned the economy from the global financial
crisis.  Capital Flows  The reserve ratio stands at 19.5 percent for the biggest
lenders and the central bank has imposed extra requirements on
individual lenders.  China’s benchmark one-year lending rate is now 6.06 percent
and the savings rate is 3 percent. The benchmark one-year
deposit rate has lagged behind the pace of consumer-price gains
for about a year.  Interest-rate adjustments “should not only focus on
consumer-price inflation,” Zhou said on March 11. The central
bank also needs to consider the impact of higher rates on the
cost of capital and inflows of funds from overseas, he said.  Outstanding loans, including foreign and local currency,
stood at 52 trillion yuan at the end of February, 17.4 percent
higher than a year earlier, the central bank said today.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Jay Wang . Editor: Nerys
Avery, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  