-- 
China MediaExpress CFO Quits, Auditor Calls for Inquiry of Bus Advertiser

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-03-14T23:21:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/china-mediaexpress-cfo-resigns-auditor-calls-for-investigation.html
  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) ,
the provider of advertising on buses in China whose stock has
been halted since March 11 after losing 48 percent in six weeks,
said Chief Financial Officer Jacky Lam and auditor  Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu  resigned.  The Hong Kong-based company will delay its fourth-quarter
results and miss the March 16 deadline for filing its annual 10-
K report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the
company said in a statement today.  Nasdaq  changed the reason for
its halt from news pending to a request for added information.  China MediaExpress is one of about 370 Chinese companies
that obtained U.S. listings since 2004 without the rigors of
initial public offerings. C.V. Starr & Co., the  investment
company  owned by former American International Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Hank Greenberg, and New York-based hedge fund
D.E. Shaw & Co. were among its top 10 holders in the last three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It had convinced a lot of investors that it was a real
company because it had Deloitte as an auditor,” said  New York- 
based Sahm Adrangi of Kerrisdale Capital LLC, which bet the
shares would decline via short sales. “It’s just really been
viewed as a key stock among both the longs and the shorts in
terms of whether all the companies that have been accused of
fraud are really frauds.”  Independent Investigation  Deloitte said in its resignation letter from March 11 that
it was “no longer able to rely on the representations of
management” and it recommended “certain issues encountered
during the audit be addressed by an independent investigation,”
according to the statement from  China  MediaExpress. The auditor
also said these issues may adversely impact the company’s
historical results, which may not be reliable.  China MediaExpress began trading in the U.S. following a
2009 takeover of TM Entertainment & Media Inc., a so-called
blank check company with no operations of its own. In a reverse
merger, a closely held company buys a publicly traded shell and
retains the U.S. listing.  “Apparently, it’s a fraud,” said Uzi Zimmerman, a
managing member of Ventura Capital Management, a hedge fund in
the Los Angeles area. “Looks like some smart, reputable firms
got fooled.”  Denied Allegations  Paul Welsh, a spokesman for D.E. Shaw, didn’t return a
telephone call during business hours. C.V. Starr spokesman Jake
Sokol didn’t return a phone message and an e-mail.  The company last month denied allegations of misleading
investors made in three analyst reports. The stock fell 33
percent on Feb. 3 after Muddy Waters Research, a short seller,
said the company inflates sales and profit. Citron Research and
Bronte Capital have also criticized China MediaExpress.  “We have every reason to believe that each of these
‘researchers’ is actually a short seller, and each stands to
make money -- at the expense of our stockholders -- when they
succeed in driving down the price of our stock,” according to a
 letter  from Chief Executive Officer Zheng Cheng posted on the
company’s website on Feb. 7.  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, totaled 9 percent of China Media’s
outstanding shares, down from a record 11 percent in February,
according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research firm.
That compares with 5.1 percent on Dec. 31.  The shares fell 4.3 percent to $11.87 on March 11 before
trading was halted at 10:12 a.m. in New York on the Nasdaq at
the company’s request.  “This isn’t surprising. We’ve stated several times that
this is major fraud,” said Carson Block of Muddy Waters
Research. “We were glad to see that Deloitte took the
allegations seriously and performed its audit with an increased
level of scrutiny.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  