-- 
Christie Faces Gender Gap as New Jersey Governor Steps Onto National Stage

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/christie-faces-gender-gap-as-new-jersey-governor-steps-onto-national-stage.html
New Jersey resident Christy Webster
said she knows she is in the minority of women who like Governor  Chris Christie ’s pugilistic style of leadership.  “He’s trying to get rid of a whole bunch of trash, and
he’s like a bulldozer,” Webster, 31, said at Christie’s March 9
town-hall meeting in Hopatcong, her hometown. “There’s a bully
perception.”  Since taking office in January 2010, Christie has sparred
with teachers, slashed spending on schools and sought to
diminish government-worker benefits he says the state can’t
afford. He has emerged as a star among some Republicans, who see
him as a model for dealing with the fiscal wreckage of the
recession. The Virginia Tea Party named him their top choice for
the Republican presidential nomination in 2012, a job he has
said he could win but won’t pursue.  Christie, 48, also has one major weakness, according to
state and national polls: He has trouble with women.  The former U.S. prosecutor’s support is far higher among
men than women, who compose more than half the population and
turned out in far greater numbers for recent elections. The
divide might prove a stumbling block should Christie seek to
advance on a national stage, by aggravating a  gender gap  that
Republicans have fought for the past three decades.  Judged by Results  “Listen, if I knew how to bridge the gender gap, I
probably would have dated more in high school, I suspect,”
Christie said at a press conference in Wayne on March 11.  “I’m just going to be me,” he said. “I see those polls
and I read them, but I can’t be anything other than me. I think
that ultimately, no matter what gender you are, you judge a
governor by the results he or she produces for the people of the
state. I’m sure that’s the way I’ll be judged at the end of my
term.”  Celinda Lake, president of Lake Research Partners and a
Democratic pollster who has done surveys in  New Jersey  for
groups fighting with Christie, disagrees.  “He has a huge gender gap,” Lake said in an interview.
“There’s a fundamental sense among women that his policies and
his budget politics just represent the wrong priorities. So
there’s partisanship that really opened him up, and then there’s
his personal style that really strikes men and women
differently.”  A Quinnipiac University poll released March 7, which found
that Christie was essentially tied with President  Barack Obama 
as the “hottest” sitting U.S. politician, also showed his
lopsided gender support. The poll asked voters to rate their
sentiments 0 to 100 degrees on a “feeling thermometer.” While
35 percent of women rated Obama between 81 degrees and 100
degrees, the warmest or most favorable, only 7 percent felt that
way about the governor.  46 Percent  Christie’s approval rating in his home state also is lower
among women. In a Feb. 9 Quinnipiac poll of New Jersey voters,
52 percent approved of Christie, including 58 percent of men and
46 percent of women.  Other polls have registered similar gender gaps. A November
2009 exit poll by  CBS News  found that Christie led incumbent
Democrat  Jon Corzine  among men by a 13 percentage-point margin
and among women lagged behind by 5 percentage points. A late
 February poll  by  Rutgers University ’s Eagleton Institute of
Politics found that 50 percent of women viewed Christie
unfavorably, compared with 37 percent for men.  ‘Tough’ Style  “He’s got a style that appears to be more appealing to
men, that tough, I-am-going-to-say-what-I-want-to-say style,”
said David Redlawsk, director of polling for Eagleton.
“Christie doesn’t come across as a consensus sort of guy.”  The poll data suggest that there is more than just the
partisan rift that typically leaves women supporting Democrats,
Redlawsk said.  Republican women were also less favorably disposed to the
governor than men of his party, according to a sample from his
results he said was too small to be scientific but was
nonetheless revealing.  Dena Mottola Jaborska, executive director of Environment
New Jersey, a group that has sided with Christie on some issues
and clashed on others, said she grew up in Hoboken, accustomed
to the brash, aggressive style endemic to the state.  Christie’s willingness to engage in bare-knuckle political
squabbles offends many women’s sensibilities, she said.  ‘Higher Ground’  “We want them to fight from a higher ground, not to scrap
or roll up their sleeves and start throwing punches,” she said.
“Not all women have children, but a lot of us do. And we’re
concerned about these cuts and the future of our children and
grandchildren.”  Running the U.S. state saddled with the highest tax burden,
Christie has refused to raise levies, a stance that has endeared
him to many voters while forcing him to make unpopular cuts. He
slashed $820 million in school aid in 2010. And he has blamed
unions, especially the New Jersey Education Association
representing teachers, as a reason for the state’s high taxes.  In 2007-2008, 76 percent of public-school teachers were
female,  according  to the National Center for Educational
Statistics. Women have cast 4 million to 7 million more votes
than men in recent elections,  according  to the Center for
American Women and Politics at Rutgers.  ‘Drug Mules’  Last year, Christie urged voters to reject school budgets
in districts where teachers didn’t agree to accept wage freezes,
and accused educators of using students like “drug mules” to
urge parents to support the spending plans, which in New Jersey
are subject to yearly referendums. A botched application by his
administration cost the state $400 million in federal education
funds.  Christie also cut $7 million in women’s health funding and
vetoed a later attempt to restore the money through a Medicaid
expansion.  Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for American Women and
Politics, said women generally support social-welfare programs
because their lower pay and responsibility for children or
elderly parents make them more attuned than men to worries about
economic security. They also favor incremental change, she said.  “We have a governor who, right now, it appears the
philosophy is cut with a machete,” she said. “Women are
probably more comfortable with someone who is cutting with a
scalpel.”  Not in 2012  In a March National Review interview, Christie said he has
been asked to run for president and knows he could win, though
he insisted he won’t run in 2012. Christie, who campaigned
across the nation for his party’s candidates in the November
elections, was named policy vice chairman of the  Republican
Governors Association  last month.  In every presidential election since 1980, women have
tended to back Democratic candidates more strongly than do men,
and a majority of women hasn’t supported a Republican since
1988, according to data compiled by Walsh’s center.  Lake, the Democratic pollster, said Christie’s personality
could be particularly damaging with independent, blue-collar
women, a sought-after swing group she dubbed “Waitress Moms.”  While that may not affect chances of winning the Republican
nomination, she said it could figure into the general election.
A November poll by the Pew Research Center found little gender
difference in preferences for potential Republican primary
contenders, though it didn’t ask about Christie.  ‘Aggressive Fighting’  “It’d be a stumbling block in a general election,” Lake
said. “It also doesn’t fit the mood of the times. People don’t
want this aggressive fighting.”  New Jersey resident JoAnne Yanuzzelli, a Republican stay-
at-home mother of five, said she is an avid Christie supporter
because of his moves to control the budget. The Sparta resident
said most of her female friends disagree with her politics and
the Republican booster meetings she attends are dominated by men
-- with the women in the crowd generally much older than she.  “Conservative views tend to mean more old-fashioned, and
men tend to be more old-fashioned,” she said. “People,
especially my age, are sometimes taken aback by how strong and
aggressive he is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in  New York  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  