-- 
Cicada-Like Traders Moving in Sync Have Greater Gains, Researchers Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-14T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/cicada-like-synchronized-traders-have-fewer-losses-study-shows.html
Traders who align their
transactions much like cicadas synchronize their chirping make a
profit more of the time, according to a study of market
behaviors.  The more often traders acted within the same one-second
window, the more money they made at the end of the day,
according to a study in the  Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences.  Traders make a profit 60 percent of the time when
they’re in sync, more than the overall average of 55 percent
profitable trades, said study author  Brian Uzzi , who is the co-
director of the Northwestern Institute in Complex Systems at  Northwestern University  in Evanston.  Synchronized behavior  benefits individuals and groups in a
 variety of animals , Uzzi said.  Cicadas  who chirp at the same
time are less likely to be spotted by a predator, according to
previous research. The cicada chorus, works like the trading
patterns, arising spontaneously through local interactions,
without a central leadership.  “If you go to animal behavior, synchronicity usually
occurs when animals are faced by complex information problems,
and any individual in a school of fish or flock of birds is
overwhelmed,”  Uzzi , who also teaches at the  Kellogg School  of
Management, said today in a telephone interview. “So it gave me
the hunch that where humans are likely to be overwhelmed by the
pace or volume of information, we might be able to find
synchronicity.”  Not ‘Groupthink’  Unlike  groupthink , synchronicity arises from multiple
people solving the same problem separately.  Groupthink , which is
comparable to herding in animals, happens when traders see
others trading and join. Syncing doesn’t always lead to herding,
and when it does, it usually takes place before the herd
behavior, Uzzi said.  Uzzi’s study followed 66 traders over a year and a half.
The traders are talking to a few people at once, ignoring what’s
going on in the larger market, he said. Multiple traders are
looking at different parts of the market and when they begin to
process masses of information, such as IMs, RSS feeds, and news
from various sources, they begin to act in concert. Trade after
the sync, and the “solution” will be priced into the stock,
Uzzi said.  The trades and the cicada chirps are examples of how
complex systems emerge out of simple interactions. Although
neither the cicadas nor the traders are centrally organized,
their behavior isn’t random.  Trading houses may wish to design software that notices
moments of sync, enabling traders to wager more money during
that time, Uzzi said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 