-- 
Clinton Trip to Boost Democracy in Egypt, Tunisia as Libya Actions Debate

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/clinton-trip-to-boost-democracy-in-egypt-tunisia-as-libya-actions-debated.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visits  Egypt  and Tunisia this week to show support for
their democracy movements, while the Obama administration
considers how much to help the insurgency against  Muammar Qaddafi  in Libya.  En route to the Middle East, Clinton was scheduled to stop
in Paris for a meeting of Group of Eight foreign ministers.
Clinton told House lawmakers March 10 that she will see Libyan
opposition figures during the trip.  U.S. hesitance on a no-fly zone over Libya and caution
toward hot spots such as Yemen and Bahrain will be highlighted
as Clinton becomes the highest-level member of the U.S.
administration to visit the two countries where regimes have
been overthrown, analysts said.  “The message on Egypt and Tunisia is very clear -- that
the  United States  is on the side of democracy, the side of
change,” said  Marina Ottaway , director of the Middle East
program at the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , a
Washington policy group.  “Unfortunately, we cannot deliver that message
consistently” because of competing U.S. concerns, Ottaway said
in a telephone interview. “The message to the rest of region is
very confused.”  Bahrain  Bahrain is host to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet. A change in
regimes might disrupt what the U.S. sees as a bulwark against
Iran’s attempts to expand its influence in the  Persian Gulf .  Yemen, where al-Qaeda has a haven, is held together by its
longtime president and may descend into chaos if he is forced
out by protests, Ottaway said.  Conflicts in those countries and  Libya  have drawn U.S.
attention away from Egypt and Tunisia, said Michele Dunne, co-
chair of the Working Group on Egypt, which advises the Obama
administration.  “It’s now been a month since Mubarak left office and the
U.S. has said practically nothing,” Dunne said in a telephone
interview. Some of the $1.3 billion in annual aid given to
Egypt’s military should be shifted to economic assistance, which
is now about $200 million, said Dunne, a former White House and
State Department official now also with Carnegie.  The administration has already added $150 million in
emergency aid to Egypt to fund democratic transition efforts and
help ease the economic blow caused by the upheaval. “A lot more
has to be invested in education and democratic assistance,” she
said, to ease youth unemployment which feeds the unrest.  More Investment  Clinton last week said the U.S. is considering using funds
from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and U.S.
Export-Import Bank to increase trade and investment in Egypt and  Tunisia .  Clinton may announce further aid during her visit, which
will include meetings with Egyptian Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, the deputy prime minister who heads the ruling
military council, and Foreign Minister Nabil El-Arabi, a 75-
year-old former judge at the  International Court of Justice .  In Tunisia, Clinton will meet with interim President Fouad Mebazaa and others. In both places, she will hold a public
meeting to interact with citizens.  Libya’s rebels have been driven back in recent days by the
armor and aircraft of Qaddafi’s military. The  Arab League  on
March 12 urged the  United Nations  to establish a no-fly zone
over the country.  No-Fly Zone  A White House statement said the U.S. welcomed the Arab
League request. The U.S. would continue to coordinate with
allies, it said, without mention of a no-fly zone, which the
rebels say they need to survive.  “In theory, while we want to see the protesters in Libya
succeed, we’re not willing to do very much to make that
happen,” Ottaway said.  In Bahrain, troops fired rubber bullets and tear gas at
crowds demanding change last week. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who visited at the end of the week, told the king and
crown prince that delays in reform may create an opening for  Iran  to foster further chaos.  Yesterday, Bahrain Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa
said he is committed to starting a dialogue with the opposition
that would address demands including “a parliament with full
authority,” a “government that represents the will of the
people” and the creation of “fair voting districts.”  “On Bahrain, essentially we still want change coming from
the top, we don’t want the protests to succeed because they may
call into question the presence of the U.S. base,” Ottaway
said.  In Yemen, where troops fired on protesters and several
people died, President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s ouster may send the
country into chaos, Ottaway said.  “We don’t want the rebels in Yemen to succeed, because the
main concern there is al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  