-- 
For Millionaires ‘Wealthy’ Is $7.5 Million, Fidelity Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-03-14T13:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/comfort-level-for-some-millionaires-is-7-5-million-fidelity-survey-says.html
How much does it take to feel
wealthy these days? For many millionaires, it’s about $7.5
million, according to a survey by  Fidelity Investments .  “Wealth is relative, and to some extent the more you have
the more you realize how much more you need,” said Sanjiv Mirchandani, president of National Financial, a subsidiary of
Boston-based Fidelity, that provides clearing and custody
services to broker-dealers, in an interview before the survey’s
release today.  The more than 1,000 households surveyed had an average of
$3.5 million in investable assets. About 42 percent said they
don’t feel wealthy, saying they would need about $7.5 million to
feel rich. The 58 percent of respondents who said they do feel
wealthy were younger on average and have a greater number of
remaining years in the workforce, said Mirchandani.  A 65-year-old millionaire is “looking at potentially the
loss of a paycheck as they retire, and 30 years in retirement,
with inflation on the horizon,” said Mirchandani. “So they
kind of go ‘Well, $3.5 million, $4 million, isn’t what I thought
it would be. I’d like to have more.’”  There are about 5.5 million U.S. households with at least
$1 million in assets, or about 5 percent of the population.
Millionaires control 56 percent of the country’s wealth,
according to Fidelity, which is the second-largest U.S. mutual-
fund company after Vanguard Group Inc. Household wealth was
$56.8 trillion at the end of 2010, according to the  Federal
Reserve .  The survey found millionaires’ outlook for the future is
the most positive it’s been in at least four years.  Turning a Corner  “They’re beginning to feel that perhaps we’re turning the
corner on a more consistent basis,” said George Walper Jr.,
president of Chicago-based  Spectrem Group , a consulting firm
that tracks attitudes among millionaires.  About 56 percent of registered investment advisers, who
manage or advise individual investors’ money, are bullish on the
stock market’s prospects over the next six months, according to
a January survey by San Francisco-based  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  Of
the advisers surveyed, 23 percent said they’re providing
reassurance to their clients about reaching their investment
goals, down from 49 percent in January 2009.  Buying Stocks  About 83 percent of millionaires surveyed by Fidelity said
the financial crisis didn’t shake their confidence in investing,
and 43 percent said they plan to invest more money in stocks
over the next 12 months. A majority said a goal is preservation
of capital, rather than growth.  “They’re still fairly conservative in terms of what
they’ll buy,” said Mirchandani.  Millionaires planned to give $38,000 on average to charity
in 2010, up from $36,000 in 2009, the Fidelity survey said.  The asset-management firm hired New York-based  Northstar
Research Partners  to survey 1,011 households with at least $1
million in investable assets via the Internet during October
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 