-- 
Copper, Aluminum Use in Japan to Drop as Factories Shut on Power Shortages

-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-03-14T11:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/copper-aluminum-demand-in-japan-likely-to-drop-as-factories-shut-on-quake.html
Demand for industrial metals in
Japan,  Asia ’s biggest aluminum buyer, may tumble as factories
shut because of power cuts and damage after the country’s
strongest earthquake and subsequent tsunami, analysts said.  “We have a drop in demand as well as production,” Akio Shibata, chief representative at Marubeni Research Institute,
said today. “Demand will slow for sometime as the future is
uncertain because of the power shortages. We have no idea how
long this will last,” he said. Japan is also the world’s
second-largest buyer of copper ore after  China .  The northern Tohoku region most affected by the 8.9-
magnitude temblor and tsunami represents about 8 percent of
gross domestic product, and is host to factories making products
from cars to beer.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. is seeking to avoid
a meltdown of at least two reactors at a nuclear power station
by flooding them with water and boric acid to eliminate the
potential for a catastrophic release of radiation.  “Demand for base metals, such as copper, zinc and nickel,
may drop in the short term,” according to Kim Gyung Jung, an
analyst at Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . The
decline may exceed the cut in production caused by smelter
shutdowns, Kim said today by phone.  Aluminum for three-month delivery fell 0.4 percent to
$2,534 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange today. Copper
was little changed at $9,196.25 a ton.  Crucial Point  Companies from Sony Corp., Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor
Co. and Nissan Motor Co. to beermaker Sapporo Holdings Ltd. and
refiner JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. shut facilities in northern  Japan  after the quake. Nippon Steel Corp., the biggest producer,
said some facilities at its Kamaishi plant are not operating.  Toyota will halt operations at Japan factories on March 15
and 16, spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto  said today. Toyota decided
to suspend operations through Wednesday because the company
wants to ensure employees and families are safe, she said.  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd.’s Kashima steel plant
suffered “big damage” and the factory can’t be operated “for
a while,” Chairman Hiroshi Shimozuma said. “We don’t know when
we can resume operations,” he said today at a news conference
in  Osaka . Sumitomo Metal is the third-biggest steelmaker.  The temblor hit as the economy was pulling out of a
contraction in the fourth quarter. Recent data showed factory
orders increased 4.2 percent from December, the biggest jump in
five months, industrial production rose in January and the  unemployment rate  held that month at 4.9 percent, matching the
lowest level since March 2009.  Operation Halts  Metals producers have also announced shutdowns. Pan Pacific
Copper Co., the country’s biggest such smelter, halted
operations at its Hitachi Works refinery with a capacity of
120,000 tons in Ibaraki prefecture, and it was not clear when
they would resume, Masatoshi Kawada, a spokesman at JX Nippon
Mining & Metals Co., said today.  Mitsubishi Materials Corp., the third-largest copper maker,
halted its 258,000-metric ton Onahama smelter in Fukushima
prefecture, and Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co., the top zinc
producer, shut its 112,000-ton capacity Hachinohe smelter in
Aomori prefecture, according to spokesmen.  Toho Zinc Co., the third-largest such producer, shut its
smelter in Gunma prefecture, north of Tokyo, after the quake
stopped power supplies. The Annaka smelter has an annual
capacity of 139,200 tons of zinc, spokesman Yasuo Motoishi said.  Japan’s Imports  Japan imported 5.4 million tons of copper concentrate in
2010, up from 4.8 million tons the year before, while imports of
aluminum were 2 million tons, compared with 1.5 million tons,
finance ministry data show.  Some shipments of raw material for the smelters may be
diverted to China or  South Korea , said  David Thurtell , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore.  “With so much electricity knocked out, the main base metal
to show short and long term benefits should be lead,” he said
today. “Batteries will be heavily used for back-up power for  emergency services  and utilities.”  Factory shutdowns, power cuts and the impact on  consumer
confidence  may hurt Japan’s GDP for months, while contributing
to growth later as the country rebuilds plants, homes and
infrastructure, economists said. It took about six months to
recover after the 6.9-magnitude earthquake in Kobe in 1995,
Marubeni’s Shibata said.  Metals use in Japan, which represents about 5 percent of
global demand, will probably jump after an initial slump as the
country rebuilds infrastructure, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “A quarter or so of weak consumption could represent a
loss of roughly 30,000 metric tons to 50,000 metric tons of
metal demand,” analysts including  Daniel Brebner  wrote in a
report today. “This could be then offset by demand three times
this magnitude.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 Jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in  Singapore  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  