-- 
Corn, Soybean Premiums Fall as Mississippi Barge Traffic Resumes

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T21:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/corn-soybean-premiums-fall-as-mississippi-barge-traffic-resumes.html
Cash premiums for corn and soybeans
shipped this month to terminals near  New Orleans  declined
relative to Chicago futures after the middle Mississippi River
reopened to barge traffic for the first time in three months.  The spot-basis bid, or premium, for corn delivered in March
at  Gulf of Mexico  ports was 51 cents to 52 cents a bushel above
May futures, compared with 52 cents to 53 cents on March 11,
U.S. Department of Agriculture  data  show. The soybean basis was
60 cents to 76 cents a bushel above May futures, compared with
66 cents to 85 cents.  “Grain elevators are selling more supplies,” said Glenn Hollander, a partner for Chicago-based Hollander & Feuerhaken, a
cash grain merchandiser and broker. “Right now, supplies are
adequate to meet export demand.”  Corn futures for May delivery rose 1.75 cents, or 0.3
percent, to close at $6.66 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade, halting a six-day decline. Soybean futures for May
delivery gained 5.5 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $13.40.  Shipping traffic  on the middle  Mississippi River  reopened
on March 11 when the first barge moving upstream reached
Dubuque,  Iowa , the National Grain and Feed Association said on
its website. A portion of the river from about  Missouri  to Iowa
had been closed on Dec. 6 for repairs and to avoid damage to
vessels from ice during the winter.  “The areas that have corn to sell will soon be shipping on
the Mississippi River,” Hollander said.  Supplies of soybeans are also moving to shipping terminals
after processors slowed crushing last month, Hollander said.
Consumption fell 16 percent to 124.884 million bushels in
February, compared with 148.351 million a year earlier, the
National Oilseed Processors Association said today. Traders
surveyed by Bloomberg News expected 130.62 million on average.    Japan  Outlook  Futures and cash premiums may rise as Japan, the largest
buyer of U.S. corn and third-largest importer of U.S. soybeans,
will increase purchases once ports and milling operations reopen
following last week’s deadly earthquake, Hollander said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  mobilized 100,000 troops and
pledged an emergency-spending package to cope with the quake,
the ensuing tsunami and two hydrogen explosions at a nuclear
power station.  “Usually, disasters lead to increased demand,” Hollander
said. “The Japanese government is pumping money into the
economy, and I think the markets are bottoming out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  