-- 
Corn, Wheat, Soybeans Gain as Japan May Boost Buying After Quake Recovery

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T19:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/corn-wheat-soybeans-gain-as-japan-may-boost-buying-after-quake-recovery.html
Corn, wheat and soybean futures
rose on speculation that  Japan  will step up grain purchases once
ports and milling operations reopen following last week’s deadly
earthquake.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami killed
thousands and left millions without electricity or water. Japan,
the largest importer of U.S. corn and second-biggest buyer of
wheat, may need to purchase more to guarantee food supplies,
Standard Chartered Plc said. The government asked the Tokyo-
based Feed Supply Stabilization Organization, an industry group,
to release grain reserves.  “We see any negative impact on grain trade as limited, so
long as ports in the south of the country, which handle the
lion’s share of Japan’s agricultural imports, return to service
in short order,”  Hussein Allidina , a commodity strategist at
Morgan Stanley in  New York , said today in a note to clients.  Corn for May delivery rose 1.75 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
close at $6.66 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, the first gain since March 3. Futures plunged 8.8 percent
last week, the most since November.  Wheat futures for May delivery advanced 2 cents, or 0.3
percent, to close at $7.2075 a bushel in Chicago. The price
tumbled 14 percent last week, the biggest decline since December
2008, after touching $7.0375 on March 11, the lowest for a most-
active contract since Dec. 1.  Soybean futures for May delivery rose 5.5 cents, or 0.4
percent, to close at $13.40 a bushel on the CBOT. The price
touched $13.05 on March 11, the lowest in more than two weeks.  Damaged Ports  Only two of Japan’s 12 “major ports” for receiving grain
shipments were damaged by the earthquake, “so trade will not be
that negatively affected,” said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice
president for the Linn Group in Chicago.  The tsunami disrupted as much as 20 percent of Japan’s
livestock-feed output, and operations unloading imported grain
from vessels to storage facilities have been suspended at four
ports in the north, the country’s agriculture ministry said.
Wheat-flour production may be disrupted by power outages,
according to U.S. Wheat Associates, an industry trade group.  Japan is “going to need more food, more meat and probably
more grains eventually, if some of theirs got wiped out,” said  Tomm Pfitzenmaier , a partner at Summit Commodity Brokerage in  Des Moines ,  Iowa .  Japan imported 14.343 million tons of U.S. corn last year,
almost twice as much as  Mexico , the second-biggest buyer,
government data show. Japan’s U.S. wheat purchases were 3.148
million tons, trailing only  Nigeria ’s. The U.S. shipped 2.347
million tons of soybeans, third behind China and Mexico.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth largest, behind hay, with a value of
$13 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 