-- 
Corn Climbs as Japan Quake Unlikely to Dent Demand; Wheat Gains

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-14T08:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/corn-climbs-as-japan-quake-unlikely-to-dent-demand-wheat-gains.html
Corn futures rebounded after an
almost 9 percent decline last week increased their appeal and on
expectation demand from  Japan , the world’s largest importer,
will remain strong even after being struck by the strongest
earthquake in nation’s history.  Corn for May delivery climbed 0.4 percent to $6.6675 a
bushel in  Chicago  at 4:24 p.m.  Singapore  time after swinging
between gains and losses of 0.8 percent. The price slumped for a
sixth day on March 11 to the lowest since Jan. 31 after the 8.9-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami struck towns on the northern
coast of Japan. Futures plunged 8.8 percent last week, the most
since November.  “Importers are seeking cheap corn supplies,” Ker Chung
Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone from
Singapore today. “The downside is limited because global supply
remains tight.”  Japan has asked an industry group to release feed grains
including corn from stockpiles to ensure supply after the March
11 earthquake, the agriculture ministry said in a statement.
That will mean Japan will need to return to the import market to
rebuild stockpiles later, Ker said. The disaster is unlikely to
dent the nation’s import needs, Ker said.  Still, Corn demand from Japan may decline as the disaster
disrupted grain-unloading operations and feed production, Eri
Utamaru at the agriculture ministry’s livestock department, said
today in a phone interview.  The nation may have lost about 20 percent of its feed
production, she said. The four ports affected are Hachinohe in
Aomori prefecture, Kamaishi in Iwate prefecture, Ishinomaki in
Miyagi prefecture and Shiogama in Miyagi prefecture, she said.  Unloading Suspended  Zen-Noh, Japan’s top buyer, said today operations to unload
U.S. corn from vessels have been suspended since the earthquake
because of power outages. It operates the largest grain facility
in eastern Japan at Kashima port in Ibaraki prefecture, north of  Tokyo , the farmers’ cooperative said.  The Kashima facility represents more than 15 percent of
Zen-Noh’s total capacity for grains. Zen-Noh produces about 30
percent of Japan’s total livestock feed of about 24 million
metric tons a year.  “Japan is a major grain importer, so the earthquake is
definitely hurting prices,” C.S. Oh, head of overseas futures
team at NH Investment & Futures Co., said by phone from  Seoul .
“Overall, investor sentiment across the board has weakened
significantly in the wake of the quake as uncertainties grow.”  Wheat futures for May delivery gained 0.7 percent to $7.235
a bushel at 4:25 p.m. Singapore time. Futures plunged 14 percent
last week, the most since December 2008.  Wheat-flour production in Japan,  Asia ’s second largest
importer of the grain, may be disrupted by power outages after
the March 11 earthquake, Charlie Utsonomiya at U.S. Wheat
Associates said today by phone.  The direct impact from the earthquake on milling plants in
Japan should be limited because most of them are located inland.  Soybean futures for May delivery declined as much as 1
percent to $13.21 a bushel before trading at $13.275. The price
fell 5.6 percent last week, the most since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  