-- 
Corn Demand to Fall in Japan as Temblor, Tsunami Damage Feed-Making Plants

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-14T11:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/corn-demand-to-fall-in-japan-as-temblor-tsunami-damage-feed-making-plants.html
Corn demand from  Japan , the biggest
importer, may decline after the nation’s strongest earthquake
and a tsunami disrupted as much as 20 percent of livestock-feed
output, the agriculture ministry said. Grain prices fell.  About 4.8 million metric tons of the 24 million tons of
feed the country produces each year come from the northern
region hit by the quake and the tsunami, said Eri Utamaru,
assistant director at the livestock production and feed division
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Ports
and feed-making plants in coastal areas were damaged, she said.  The country faces power blackouts, the risk of meltdowns at
a nuclear power station, and a predicted death toll of more than
10,000 after the 8.9-magnitude  temblor  and seven-meter high
tsunami. Tokyo Electric Power Co. said a meltdown is possible at
its Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 3 reactor where a hydrogen explosion
occurred, injuring six workers.  “Commodity demand in the region, including agricultural
commodities, is expected to suffer,”  Luke Mathews , a strategist
at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  wrote in a report e-mailed
today. “The Japanese quake adds to the existing bearish mood”
in the past several weeks, he said.  Corn tumbled as much as 1.2 percent to $6.56 bushel, near
its lowest level in almost six weeks, and soybeans dropped as
much as 1.3 percent to $13.175 a bushel on speculation that
demand will decline. Corn for May delivery traded at $6.63 a
bushel and soybeans at $13.235 a bushel today.  Unloading Halted  About half of national feed production each year comes from
corn so the disaster may hurt 2.4 million tons of the grain on
an annual basis, Utamaru said. Other feed ingredients include
soybean meal, sorghum and barley.  Zen-Noh, Japan’s largest corn buyer, said today operations
to unload U.S. corn from vessels at Kashima and other northern
ports have been suspended because of power outages. The company
operates the largest grain facility in eastern Japan at Kashima
in Ibaraki prefecture, north of  Tokyo , the farmers’ cooperative
said. The facility represents more than 15 percent of its
capacity for grains. Zen-Noh produces about 30 percent of the
country’s livestock feed.  The four ports hit by the disaster are Hachinohe in Aomori
Prefecture and Kamaishi in Iwate prefecture, as well as
Ishinomaki and Shiogama in Miyagi prefecture, Utamaru said.
Farmland was flooded with burning debris as the tidal surge
swept inland, images from state broadcaster NHK showed.  Reserves Released  The farm ministry asked the Feed Supply Stabilization
Organization to release reserves of feed grains including corn
to ensure supply, it said today. The country has corn and
sorghum inventories of 600,000 tons for the year ending March 31,
the ministry said in September. Corn represents about 90 percent
of the stored grains, it said.  Wheat-flour production in Japan,  Asia ’s second-largest
importer, may be disrupted by power outages, Charlie Utsonomiya
at U.S. Wheat Associates said today by phone. The direct impact
from the earthquake on milling plants in Japan should be limited
because most of them are located inland, he said. Showa Sangyo
Co., one of Japan’s major flour millers, suspended operations at
its plant in Kashima, spokesman Hideyuki Ohuchi said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  