-- 
Corn May Be More Vulnerable to Warming, Stanford Study Shows

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-14T10:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/corn-may-be-more-vulnerable-to-warming-stanford-study-shows.html
Corn, the world’s second-most-
widely grown grain, may be more vulnerable to global warming
than previously thought, based on a study led by  Stanford
University  that examined data from field trials.  The study found that a gain of 1 degree Celsius (1.8
degrees Fahrenheit) in temperatures would lower yields for 65
percent of  Africa ’s corn fields assuming optimal rainfall,
Stanford said in an  online statement . The same warming under
drought conditions would cut corn yields for all of Africa, with
declines of 20 percent or more in 75 percent of growing areas,
the study showed.  “The pronounced effect of heat on maize was surprising
because we assumed maize to be among the more heat-tolerant
crops,” Marianne Banziger, co-author of the study and deputy
head of research at the International Maize and Wheat
Improvement Center, or  Cimmyt , said in a statement.  Global food output will have to rise 70 percent between
2010 and 2050 as the world population swells to 9 billion people
and rising incomes boost meat and dairy consumption, the United
Nations estimates. Crop failures are likely to become more
common this century as  climate change  causes more extreme
weather, a study led by the U.K.’s University of Leeds has
shown.  David Lobell, an assistant professor of environmental
earth-system science at Stanford who led the study, linked the
results of 20,000 field trials of corn in sub-Saharan Africa
with weather data from across the region. The field data was
gathered by El Batan, Mexico-based Cimmyt between 1999 and 2007
as part of corn-improvement trials.  Length of Exposure  The study, to be published in the journal Nature Climate
Change, found that the longer corn is exposed to temperatures
above 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit), the more
yields decline, according to Banziger.  “The effect is even larger if drought and heat come
together, which is expected to happen more frequently with
climate change in Africa,  Asia  or Central America,” she said.
That poses an “added challenge” to meeting growing demand for
staple crops, Banziger said.  Wheat is the world’s most widely grown grain, followed by
corn and rice, according to data from the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 