-- 
Crude Oil Futures Edge Higher in New York as Saudi Troops Enter Bahrain

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-03-14T20:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/crude-oil-futures-edge-higher-in-new-york-as-saudi-troops-enter-bahrain.html
Crude oil futures edged higher in  New York  to end four days of declines on speculation unrest in
the Middle East may escalate after Saudi Arabia sent its troops
into Bahrain.  Oil erased losses as Saudi Arabia’s cabinet said the
kingdom has responded to a Bahraini request for “support.”
Prices were lower most of the day on speculation Japan’s demand
may decline after the 8.9-magnitude earthquake devastated the
third-largest economy.  “The situation in Bahrain appears to be escalating and
people start to wonder that it could become a bigger issue,”
said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in
Houston.  Oil for April delivery gained 3 cents to settle at $101.19
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures touched
$98.47, the lowest intraday price since March 1. Crude is up 25
percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for April settlement slid 17 cents to $113.67 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Saudi troops entered its neighboring country as part of a
regional force from the Gulf Cooperation Council, the first
outside intervention since a wave of popular uprisings swept
through parts of the Arab world.  Troops from the council have arrived in  Bahrain  to protect
“vital installations in Bahrain and maintain stability and
security,” said Jamal Fakhro, the first deputy chairman of the
Bahrain Shura Council.  A military force from the  United Arab Emirates  will also
take part, the state-run Emirates News Agency reported.  Peaceful Protests  The U.S. is urging Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, to allow non-violent protests and encouraging Gulf
nations to use restraint, White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters at the White House.  Fighting also continued in  Libya , holder of Africa’s
largest oil reserves, as forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
repelled insurgents from the oil port of Brega, the fourth
rebel-held city re-taken by the nation’s leader.  Crude futures have surged 11 percent since Jan. 14, when
the president of  Tunisia  was ousted in the first of the unrest
that has rocked the Middle East and North Africa, including  Saudi Arabia ’s neighbors Yemen, Oman and Bahrain. Prices touched
a 29-month high of $106.95 a barrel in intraday trading March 7.  “Saudi Arabia is sending troops to Bahrain and that has to
make everybody nervous,” said James Williams, an economist at
WTRG Economics, an energy research firm in  London ,  Arkansas .
“There is tension all around Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
Oil is not going to continue its decline.”  Heating Oil  Oil also followed gains in heating oil as factories and
utilities in Japan may buy diesel and fuel oil to replace the
power output lost from nuclear plants, said Williams.  Heating oil for April delivery increased 3.48 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $3.0638 per gallon on the Nymex.  Prices tumbled earlier as the quake that hit the world’s
third-largest economy on March 11 shut 29 percent of domestic
refining capacity, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
Petroleum Association of  Japan  data.  “You are taking demand from the third-largest economy out
of the market and oil is responding negatively,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures in New York.
“The short-term trend still looks to be lower. The next support
area is somewhere around $96.”  More than 10,000 people in northern Japan may have been
killed by the earthquake, which unleashed a 7-meter (23-foot)
tsunami. Canon Inc., Sony Corp. and Nippon Steel Corp. have
halted some manufacturing operations. Japan is the third-largest
oil-consuming country after the U.S. and China.  Refineries Shut  JX-Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. closed refineries in Sendai,
Kashima and Negishi in the country’s northeastern Tohoku region.
The plants have combined processing capacity of about 600,000
barrels a day. Cosmo Oil Co. shut its 220,000-barrel Chiba
facility following fires at liquefied petroleum gas storage
tanks.  Kyokuto Petroleum Industries Ltd. has shuttered its
175,000-barrel-a-day facility in Ichihara, near  Tokyo .
TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. said March 11 that it halted the major
units at its 335,000-barrel Kawasaki plant.  The closures have affected about 1.3 million barrels of the
country’s total of 4.52 million barrels a day of capacity, based
on data from the Petroleum Association of Japan.  “Japan is probably not consuming up to 4 million barrels a
day and that’s going to pare some of the imports,” said  Richard Ilczyszyn , a market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in  Chicago .  Japan Demand  Japan consumed 4.42 million barrels a day of oil in 2010,
according to data from the  International Energy Agency ’s Feb. 10
Monthly Oil Market Report.  China  used 9.39 million barrels and
the U.S. consumed 19.25 million, the agency said.  Large speculators and funds increased net-long positions,
or wagers on higher prices, by 2 percent in the seven days ended
March 8 to 311,632 futures and options, the most in records
dating back to June 2006, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report. The
total has jumped 68 percent since Feb. 15.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 497,148
contracts as of 3:09 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 744,460
contracts on March 11, 7.2 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.5 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  