-- 
Daimler, Deutsche Bank, E.ON, RWE: German Equity Preview

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-15T07:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/deutsche-bank-e-on-rwe-humanoptics-german-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of
companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in  Germany . Stock symbols are in parentheses and share prices are
from the previous close.  The benchmark DAX Index fell 114.86 points, or 1.7 percent,
to 6,866.63 yesterday. Futures on the DAX expiring this month
dropped 3 percent to 6,671.  Daimler AG (DAI GY): Nomura Holdings Inc. said the selloff
in the global auto sector is overdone as the impact from the
Japanese earthquake is limited. Analysts also said European car
companies have no direct exposure. Daimler’s shares fell 1.3
percent to 47.18 euros.    Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  : Germany’s largest lender sold
$100 million in claims on bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
to Dolostone LLC of  New York , according to a bankruptcy court
filing. The shares declined 0.3 percent to 42.63 euros.    EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  : Stefan Mappus,
the prime minister of the German state of Baden-Wuerttemberg,
said the Neckarwestheim I nuclear reactor operated by EnBW will
be shut down “as soon as possible.” The shares rose less than
0.1 percent to 41.32 euros.    E.ON AG (EOAN)   and RWE AG (RWE GY): UBS AG raised its
recommendation for European utilities to “neutral” and
upgraded E.ON to “buy” and RWE to “neutral,” saying
yesterday’s share price reaction was overdone.  Separately, Markus Soeder, the environment minister in the
German state of Bavaria, wants to shut E.ON’s Isar 1 nuclear
reactor,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  reported, without saying where
it obtained the information.  Suedwestrundfunk reported Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democratic Union party expects the Neckarwestheim I,
the Biblis A and the Isar I nuclear reactors to be closed down,
at least temporarily. The newspaper cited Peter Altmaier, a
parliament member of the CDU.  Shares of E.ON, Germany’s largest utility, declined 5.3
percent to 21.87 euros. RWE, which operates the Biblis A
reactor, dropped 4.8 percent to 45.64 euros.  HumanOptics AG (H9O GY): The German maker of lenses used in
eye implants said it has initiated a restructuring program that
will include cost savings, potential job cuts and an evaluation
of the product portfolio, after reporting a loss of 949,000
euros in the six months through December. It fell 5.2 percent to
1.80 euros.  TUI AG (TUI1 GY): Hapag-Lloyd AG said its cargo operations
are “largely unaffected” by the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , with all ports south of Tokyo including Yokohama open and
operational. The port of Sendai is closed until further notice,
the company said in a statement released yesterday. TUI, which
owns almost half of Hapag-Lloyd, dropped 3 percent to 8.67
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  