-- 
Djibouti Halts Programs by U.S-Backed Democracy Advocacy Group

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T08:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/djibouti-halts-programs-by-u-s-backed-democracy-advocacy-group.html
Djibouti’s government suspended
programs run by a U.S.-backed democracy-advocacy group, less
than a month before the Horn of  Africa  nation holds a
presidential election.  Democracy International  “is in dialogue with the government
and we are hopeful that we will soon recommence programming,”
Chris Hennemeyer, head of the Bethesda, Maryland-based group’s
International Electoral Observation Mission, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Obviously the passage of time is of
concern to us, as there are many election-related activities
that must start immediately.”  Calls today to Interior Minister Yacin Elmi Bouh, Foreign
Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef, Director of Communications Moussa
Mohamed Omar and Communications Minister Ali Abdi Farah seeking
comment weren’t answered.  A presidential vote is scheduled to be held on April 8 in
Djibouti, which has been ruled by President Ismael Guelleh’s
People’s Rally for Progress party since independence in 1977.
Guelleh, first elected in 1999, amended the constitution in
March 2010 to allow him to extend his rule by two more six-year
terms.  Opposition parties staged a protest on Feb. 18 demanding
the 63-year-old leader’s resignation. Subsequent demonstrations
have been blocked by security forces. The opposition Union for a
Democratic Alternative and Union for a Democratic Movement plan
to boycott next month’s election, saying conditions for a fair
vote don’t exist. They have vowed to protest every Friday until
Guelleh resigns.  On March 11, 30 police rounded up four opposition leaders
shortly before a planned protest and drove them out of  Djibouti 
City, Mohamed Daoud Chehem, head of the Djibouti Party for
Development, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The U.S. has had a military base in Djibouti since 2001,
while former colonial power  France  has around 3,000 troops
stationed in the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state
of  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 