-- 
Dollar Tree Most Profitable as Cheapest of LBO Targets: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-14T21:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/dollar-tree-most-profitable-as-cheapest-of-lbo-targets-real-m-a.html
While private-equity firms circle  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) ,  99 Cents Only Stores (NDN)  and  Big Lots
Inc. (BIG) , a leveraged buyout of  Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR)  may offer the
biggest bang for the buck.  Dollar Tree, which sells everything from toys to  pet food 
and cleaning supplies for $1 or less, holds three times as much
cash as Family Dollar, is more than twice as profitable as 99
Cents and generates 55 percent more income per dollar of sales
than Big Lots, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Sasser has rewarded Dollar Tree
shareholders with a 225 percent advance in the past three years,
more than its biggest competitors, as the worst U.S. recession
since the Great Depression drove shoppers to lower-priced goods.
While Dollar Tree’s rivals climbed as much as 40 percent this
year after being approached by buyout firms, the Chesapeake,
Virginia-based company has dropped 3.7 percent, leaving it the
cheapest on a free  cash flow  basis.  “Conspicuous consumption is out and saving money and value
is in,” said Anthony Chukumba, a New York-based analyst at BB&T
Capital Markets, who has a “buy” rating on Dollar Tree.
“Dollar Tree is the market leader in a lot of ways. There’s no
reason it wouldn’t attract the same interest from financial
sponsors that the other players at this point have.”  Timothy Reid, a spokesman for Dollar Tree, didn’t return a
telephone call requesting comment. The company’s shares advanced
for a fifth straight day, climbing 59 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$54.03 on the Nasdaq Stock Market today.  Cheaper Shopping  Discount retailers are luring LBO firms after their sales
and profits withstood the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009, the longest since the Great Depression. Shoppers are still
seeking cheaper alternatives during the recovery.    Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, said
last week it’s considering acquisitions to boost revenue from
smaller stores as shoppers who prefer quicker trips when buying
toothpaste and packaged foods turn to dollar merchants. Shares
of the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company slipped 3 percent
this year.  Family Dollar, the Matthews, North Carolina-based retailer
that rejected an unsolicited bid by  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund
Management LP hedge fund this month, rose 3.4 percent this year.  Trian urged Family Dollar to reconsider its rejection of
the offer, saying it’s confident of raising the capital
necessary. The New York-based fund also asked Family Dollar for
a confidentiality agreement so it can perform due diligence,
according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing today.  Founding Family  99 Cents, based in City of Commerce,  California , gained 23
percent. Members of the Schiffer-Gold founding family and
Leonard Green & Partners LP offered last week to take the
company private for $19.09 a share.  Big Lots, the Columbus, Ohio-based retailer of closeout and
overstocked brand-name goods, had the biggest jump, surging 40
percent. The company hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  of  New York 
to study its options after Boston-based firms Bain Capital LLC
and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP approached it about a possible
sale, a person with knowledge of the situation, who declined to
be identified because the matter was private, said last month.  “The sector is in play,” said  Matthew Kaufler , a money
manager at Federated Clover Investment Advisors in Rochester,
New York, which oversees $3 billion. “You look at Family Dollar
Stores, 99 Cents stores and Big Lots. Wal-Mart wants to step up
its acquisitions, and I doubt it’s moving upscale.”  Today’s Trading  Wal-Mart slipped 27 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $52.32 today.
Family Dollar gained 13 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $51.40. 99
Cents advanced 8 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $19.66. Big Lots
retreated 30 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $42.75.  While Dollar Tree’s shares have declined this year, the
operator of more than 4,000 stores in malls and shopping centers
across 48 states and  Canada  outranks the competition on managing
for net cash, return on equity and operating margins.  “Private equity sees these companies generating cash flow
and having room to grow,” Kaufler said. “The peak in the
economic cycle is still in the distance, allowing private equity
to pick off these companies at a fairly attractive premium and
then possibly bring them public again when the economy is
operating at an even higher level of activity.”    Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the biggest U.S. dollar discount
retailer, was taken private by New York-based KKR & Co. in July
2007 for $7.3 billion including net debt. The Goodlettsville,
Tennessee-based company’s initial public offering in November
2009 gave Dollar General an enterprise value of about $11
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘More Moderate’  Dollar General slid 17 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $28.65.  While other discount retailers were hampered by locations
in rural and urban areas, Dollar Tree’s suburban locales and
more attractive storefronts drew shoppers, according to Joan Storms, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles . In the
past few years, rivals played catch-up with store renovations,  customer service  and national brands, she said.  “Dollar Tree has always had nice stores because they’re a
little bit more moderate customer base,” Storms said. “If you
walked into a Family Dollar or Dollar General five years ago,
you would have felt poor. They used to be sort of dumpy stores
in rural markets with no name brands.”  Storms has an “outperform” rating on Dollar Tree and
Dollar General and rates Family Dollar, 99 Cents and Big Lots
“neutral.”  Net Cash  Dollar Tree’s shares climbed 225 percent from the end of
2007 through last year, outpacing Family Dollar, Big Lots and 99
Cents by an average of 108 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Net cash at Dollar Tree totaled $220 million as of Jan. 29,
the highest of any dollar store, and more than all discount
retailers except Issaquah, Washington-based  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST) , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Dollar Tree had $486
million in cash and short-term investments, versus $137 million
for Family Dollar, the data show.  Dollar Tree’s return on equity, a measure of how much it
earns for each dollar invested, was also the highest of the
group. Its 27.5 percent return in the last fiscal year was more
than double 99 Cents’ return of 10.8 percent, which ranked last.  Of the U.S. discount stores with more than $1 billion in
market value, Dollar Tree also retained the most operating
income for each dollar of sales. Its operating margin of 11.2
percent topped even Wal-Mart, which had a 6.1 percent margin.
Big Lots had a margin of 7.2 percent.  ‘Squeeze Out’  Dollar Tree’s profitability may deter private-equity firms
because the company could command a higher price tag with less
room for improvement, according to James Dunigan, chief
investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management,
which oversees $108 billion and owns Dollar Tree shares.  “The business model that they run is very strong and the
margin would present less of an opportunity for a financial
buyer to squeeze out some of those costs,” Dunigan said.  Dollar Tree’s shares sell for $19.63 per dollar of free
cash flow, or its cash from operations in the past 12 months
after deducting  capital spending . That’s cheaper than 99 Cents
at 62 times, Dollar General at 28 times and Family Dollar at 21
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Joshua Braverman, a spokesman for Family Dollar, 99 Cents’
Angela Thurstan, Timothy Johnson of Big Lots and Dollar
General’s Tawn Earnest didn’t return telephone calls outside of
normal business hours requesting comment.  Credit Ratings  Dollar Tree is currently rated A1, the sixth-highest
investment-grade ranking, according to Bloomberg’s Company
Credit Ratings, which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness,
market capitalization, profitability and other financial ratios.
That’s two levels above Big Lots’ rating of B3H and three higher
than Dollar General’s B3 ranking, the data show.  If Dollar Tree’s long-term liabilities, which include
operating leases, were to increase by 50 percent in a leveraged
buyout, its credit rating would drop to B3H, which would still
match Big Lots and remain one step above Dollar General,
Bloomberg’s ratings show.  “All of the dollar stores at this point are targets,”
said Flavia Araujo, a San Francisco-based manager at Highmark
Capital Management, which has $17 billion in assets. Dollar
Tree’s “growth profile is attractive,” she said. “It would be
more attractive to a private-equity group.”  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to buy Wickliffe, Ohio-based  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , the world’s largest producer of lubricant
additives, for about $9 billion.  Berkshire will pay $135 a share in cash, 28 percent more
than Lubrizol’s closing price on March 11, Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire said in a statement today.  Overall, there have been 4,568 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $457.2 billion, an 13 percent increase from
the $403.7 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 