-- 
Dollar Depressed by OPEC Slashing Treasury Holdings by 9%

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-14T11:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/dollar-depressed-by-opec-slashing-treasury-holdings-9-as-oil-profits-rise.html
Oil-exporting countries are cutting
holdings of  U.S. government debt  as energy prices rise, helping
depress the dollar, the worst-performing major currency of the
past six months.  Treasuries owned by oil producers and institutions such as
U.K. banks that are proxies for Middle East nations fell 9
percent in the second half of 2010 to $654.6 billion, the first
decline in the final six months of a year since the Treasury
Department began compiling the data in 2006. The sales may
continue, if history is any guide, because Barclays Plc says
Middle East petroleum exporting nations have traditionally
placed only 25 percent of their savings in dollar-based assets.  “Middle Eastern oil exporters are now getting this extra
windfall of dollars and the question is on the margin what they
want to do with that,” said Jeffrey Young, the head of North
American foreign-exchange research at Barclays in  New York .
“It’s dollar negative” unless political risks around the world
increase and spur demand for the safety of U.S. assets, he said.  The appeal of the dollar has diminished as the Federal
Reserve keeps interest rates at almost zero, prints cash to
purchase $600 billion of bonds in a policy known as quantitative
easing and the budget deficit holds above $1 trillion. The
currency fell to 61.3 percent of global foreign-exchange
reserves in the third quarter, from a peak of 72.7 percent in
2001, the latest International Monetary Fund data show.  Dollar Depreciation  Bloomberg Correlated-Weighted Indexes show the currency has
fallen 2 percent since Feb. 15, bringing its slide against a
group of nine developed-nation peers including the euro, yen and
franc to 5.94 percent since September, when crude began its
climb from $71.67 a barrel to a 29-month high of $106.95 reached
on March 7.  While it strengthened 0.6 percent last week to $1.3903 per
euro, the greenback is down from last year’s peak of $1.1877 in
June. The dollar touched 80.62 per yen today in  Tokyo , the
weakest since Nov. 9. Oil for April delivery fell 3.1 percent
last week to $101.16 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , after rising more than 20 percent in the past year.  “When you have a shift of global wealth to OPEC producers,
that group tends to hold more euros in reserves and they also
tend to purchase imports more from Europe than the U.S.,” said
Greg Anderson, a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New
York. “Crude oil above $100 is an almost an across-the-board
negative for the dollar.”  Biggest Gains  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries -- Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , United Arab Emirates and
Venezuela -- provide about 40 percent of the world’s oil. While
it’s almost impossible to trace the flow of their dollar
revenues from crude sales, the biggest gaining major currencies
over the past six months based on Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes are Sweden’s krona, Norway’s krone, the euro, franc and  Australia ’s dollar, all rising more than 2 percent.  Europe’s common currency has appreciated 2.4 percent since
Feb. 15 as rising energy costs push inflation above the  European
Central Bank ’s target, increasing the likelihood that policy
makers will boost their benchmark interest rate from a record
low 1 percent as soon as next month. The Federal Reserve has
kept its target rate for overnight loans between banks at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  International investors, who own about half of the
marketable U.S. government debt outstanding, are key to the
ability of the U.S. to finance cumulative budget deficits that
President Barack Obama’s administration forecasts will total
$4.77 trillion from 2011 through 2015.  Broad Buying  The drop in Treasury holdings by oil producers in the final
six months of 2010 contrasts with an 11 percent jump to $4.44
trillion for all foreign holders of U.S. debt.  America’s currency rallied last week as reports from  China ,
Australia and  Germany  damped the outlook for the global economic
recovery. Economists at London-based  Barclays Capital  forecast
in a March 11 report that growth worldwide will total 4.3
percent this year, down from 4.8 percent in 2010.  “When crude oil started to rise a couple of weeks ago,
there was talk of the dollar having lost its safe-haven status,
but the reality was we weren’t really in safe-haven mode until
the last couple of days,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of
currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in  London .
“As we move through the year, the current pessimism in regards
to the U.S. dollar will change as the labor market visibly
improves and quantitative easing comes to an end.”  Currency Forecasts  The euro may fall to $1.30 by year-end, Halpenny said. The
median estimate of 44 strategists and economist surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the currency to weaken to $1.35.  Japan ’s yen
may depreciate to 88 per dollar, a separate poll shows.  “There is relatively persistent global demand for dollars
even with a structural trend of it slightly declining over time
as a percentage of overall asset holdings,” said  Jens Nordvig ,
a managing director of currency research in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “That will be true for Middle Eastern central
banks as well as the alternative, the euro, is not looking like
a clear winner because of fundamental reasons.”  Greece had to seek a bailout after its debt reached 127
percent of gross domestic product in 2009. Ireland was next as
the economy was devastated by the collapse of a decade-long
real-estate boom and the demise of its financial system, which
prompted the government to take over some of the nation’s
biggest banks.  Foreign Holdings    Europe ’s common currency advanced versus the dollar today,
trading at $1.3959 as of 10:25 a.m. in London, after the
region’s leaders negotiated an accord to allow their rescue fund
to spend its full 440 billion-euro ($611 billion) capacity,
removing restrictions that would have capped outlays at about
250 billion euros.  As the dollar’s share of global reserves has fallen, the
IMF’s report shows that holdings categorized as “other,” which
excludes dollars, euros, British pounds, yen and francs, rose to
4 percent of the total, the highest on record.  Foreign holdings of dollar-denominated assets by Middle
East oil exporters, Norway and Russia fell to $657 billion as of
June 2010, or  6.1 percent  of the total $10.7 trillion, according
to Treasury data. That compares with  7.2 percent  in 2008.  In November,  Alexei Ulyukayev , first deputy chairman of
Russia’s central bank, said it had begun to purchase Canadian
dollars to diversify away from U.S. dollars and euros. Russia’s
reserves were made up of 47 percent dollars, 41 percent euros,
10 percent pounds and 2 percent yen.  Correlation Breakdown  Net purchases of U.S. financial assets slowed to $121.6
billion in the final three months of the year from $263 billion
in the third quarter, according to the  Federal Reserve ’s Flow of
Funds report released March 10. Global official net purchases of
Treasuries, which best reflect central bank actions, dropped to
the lowest on record in December, for an outflow of $45 billion.  That may be because emerging Asian economies, which are net
importers of oil and among the biggest buyers of U.S. debt,
spend more on energy, according to Barclays. Those nations,
including China and  India , hold an average 62 percent of their
surpluses in U.S. securities, according to the Treasury
Department.  The breakdown in the correlation between oil and U.S.
Treasury yields, which has turned negative for the first time
since 2008, may also be working against the dollar.  The 120-day correlation fell to negative 0.01 on March 1
from a record high of 0.544 in July. A reading of 1 would mean
the two move in lockstep. The figure has averaged 0.32 since
September 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed and
caused the biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Rising Energy Prices  Rising energy prices are typically a function of faster
economic growth, which tends to hurt bond prices and boost
yields as investors switch into riskier assets. Lower short-term
yields diminish the appeal of dollar-based fixed-income assets
to investors outside the U.S. Two-year note yields have dropped
to as low as 0.64 percent from 0.88 percent in mid-February.  “Yields remain stable and  oil prices  moved higher and if
that trend is sustained you could see further dollar weakness,”
said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas Group-of-10 currency
strategy at Bank of America in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  