-- 
Drew Brees Backs Lawsuit as Players Go to Federal Court Against NFL Owners

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/drew-brees-backs-lawsuit-as-players-go-to-federal-court-against-nfl-owners.html
  Drew Brees  said he’s looking after
past, present and future players in putting his name on a
lawsuit against the  National Football League .  The  New Orleans Saints ’ quarterback is one of 10 named
plaintiffs in the class-action lawsuit that seeks to block a
lockout imposed by owners. The case was filed March 11 after
more than two weeks of talks with a federal mediator in  Washington  failed to produce a deal about how to compensate
players.  Brees, who was voted Sports Illustrated’s 2010 Sportsman of
the Year, said owners in the richest and most popular U.S.
sports league want to impose unfair wage and benefit
restrictions. The NFL’s revenue topped $9 billion last season
and five weeks ago its Super Bowl title game attracted the
biggest television audience in American history.  “The reason I’m one of the lead plaintiffs for our case is
because it’s important to me,” Brees told reporters on a
conference call organized by the NFL Players Association, which
abandoned its role in labor negotiations to facilitate the
lawsuit. “I feel strongly about our case. I feel strongly about
the facts and the law.”  The owners, in a filing with the  National Labor Relations
Board , have called the players’ action “a sham.”  A hearing is set for April 6 in U.S. District Court in  Minneapolis .  Players on yesterday’s call declined to comment on a report
by  ESPN.com , citing multiple unidentified people in the league,
that the association may ask college prospects to skip the NFL’s
draft, scheduled to begin April 28 in  New York  City.  Future players are represented in the lawsuit’s class by
Texas A&M linebacker Von Miller.  Contract Talks  Those who participated in talks at the Federal Mediation
and Conciliation Service in Washington said they were frustrated
and angry at NFL owners, who wanted players to make concessions
on pay without showing them proof they were needed.  Sean Morey, a retired player and member of the union’s
executive committee, said NFL players should be compensated
better for the extraordinary risks they take.  “We assume the most risk, playing the most dangerous game,
and we’re expected to be compensated the least of all the
players in the four major sports leagues,” he said.  The average salary for NFL players is $1.8 million, the
lowest of the four major North American pro sports leagues. The
average salary in the  National Basketball Association  is more
than $5 million; in  Major League Baseball  it is $3 million, and
in the  National Hockey League  it is $2.4 million, according to
Forbes magazine.  Brees said owners have said costs are rising faster than
league revenue, without showing players data.  “That’s not the way business works, especially when you
have a partnership like our players do with our owners,” Brees
said. “A reasonable, logical businessman would say, ‘Let’s see
those numbers.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 