-- 
Heating Oil Gains on Speculation Japan’s Diesel Demand May Rise

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-14T14:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/heating-oil-gains-on-speculation-japan-s-diesel-demand-may-rise.html
Heating oil advanced on speculation
that factories and utilities in Japan would buy diesel and  fuel
oil  to replace the power output lost from nuclear plants after
Japan’s strongest earthquake on record.  Futures rose as the 8.9-magnitude earthquake and subsequent
tsunami that struck on March 11, killing thousands, has shut or
disrupted supplies from refineries accounting for about 29
percent of the nation’s processing capacity, or 1.3 million
barrels a day, Edinburgh-based  Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. 
said in a  report . About 1.3 million households were without
power this morning, according to a government report.  “Japan is desperately in need of diesel and fuel oil for
power generation,” said Ray Carbone, president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Heating oil for April delivery added 3.74 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $3.0708 a gallon at 9:57 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Japanese utilities typically rely more on nuclear power,
natural gas and coal for electricity generation because they are
cheaper. They make up for shortfalls by burning more oil in
power stations. Japan imports most of its low-sulfur fuel oil
from Indonesia and Malaysia,  Wood Mackenzie  said in the report
on its website.  Diesel Demand  Demand may also rise for so-called middle-distillate fuels
such as diesel, as factories use their generators to provide
electricity, according to Akira Kamiyama, an energy derivatives
trader at Mitsui & Co. in  Tokyo .  Gasoline slipped, following crude lower, amid increased
concern that demand from refiners may be reduced.  “There’s worries how much demand is going to get taken out
of the market until Japan’s problems get sorted out,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Gasoline for April delivery lost 2.55 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $2.9622 a gallon. Prices touched $2.9298, the lowest
intraday level since March 1.  Refinery utilization in Japan may fall to about 65 percent
following the earthquake, from 88 percent beforehand,  Wood
Mackenzie  said.  Japan is the world’s third-largest crude consumer, using
4.42 million barrels a day of oil in 2010, according to data
from the International Energy Agency’s Feb. 10 monthly Oil
Market Report.  China  used 9.39 million and the U.S. 19.25
million, the agency said.    Brent Crude   Brent crude for April settlement declined 12 cents to
$113.72 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Products futures are vulnerable to changes in Brent because
refineries supplying fuel to  New York  Harbor, the delivery point
for heating oil and gasoline futures, process crude grades
priced relative to the European benchmark.  Nymex April crude sank 65 cents to $100.51 a barrel.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
0.1 cent to $3.558 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website ,
the highest level since Oct. 3, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  