-- 
ECB’s Bini Smaghi Tells Foglio Higher Rates May Ease Debt Costs

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-14T07:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ecb-s-bini-smaghi-tells-foglio-higher-rates-may-ease-debt-costs.html
Central banks raising  interest
rates  may help ease government debt-financing costs because
efforts to contain inflation will lower long-term interest
rates, European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in an interview with Il Foglio.  “What matters for public debt is medium- and long-term
interest rates, which are influenced by inflation
expectations,” Bini Smaghi told the  Italian newspaper  in a
March 12 interview. “The more rigorous monetary policy
implemented to combat inflation, the more inflation expectations
will be anchored and the lower long-term interest rates will
be.”  Bini Smaghi also said central banks must be vigilant to
make sure that higher prices for goods beyond their control
don’t turn into long-term inflation risks. “Imported inflation
is imported, and there is little you can do about that,” he
told the newspaper. “The important thing is that if interest
rates are too low, they favor transferring imported inflation
into internal inflation.”  The Chinese central bank may be forced to make further
increases in rates because “inflation risks remain,” he said.
The U.S. Federal Reserve, even though it focuses on  core
inflation  that includes volatile energy prices, may also need to
tighten policy if the recent surge in  oil prices  doesn’t prove
temporary, he said.  Bini Smaghi also criticized credit-rating companies over
Moody’s Investors Service decision on March 10 to cut  Spain ’s
credit rating. He said they were being overly aggressive, using
their sovereign ratings to try to recover some of the
credibility they lost by not foreseeing the credit risks that
led to global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  