-- 
E.ON Leads Nuclear Utility Drop on Japan Quake; Solar Gains

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-14T16:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/edf-leads-nuclear-utility-slump-after-japan-earthquake-solar-gas-advance.html
  E.ON AG (EOAN)  led declines among Europe’s
nuclear utilities on concern that explosions at two Japanese
reactors may spur governments to backtrack on plans to expand
atomic energy. Renewable power and natural-gas stocks rose on
prospects for increased demand.  E.ON, Germany’s largest utility, fell 5.3 percent to close
at 21.865 euros in Frankfurt, the biggest drop since May.
Electricite de France SA, the world’s largest operator of
reactors, also slumped 5.3 percent. German solar cell producer  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  jumped 15 percent, wind turbine maker Vestas Wind
Systems A/S rose 7.4 percent in Copenhagen, and natural gas
producer  BG Group Plc (BG/)  gained 3.7 percent in  London .  The potential risk of a meltdown at a plant outside  Tokyo 
after last week’s earthquake and tsunami may prompt governments
to rethink plans to use nuclear energy as part of an effort to
cut  carbon emissions  and maintain  energy security , according to
UniCredit SpA. That could increase demand for solar panels, wind
turbines and gas, a cleaner-burning  fossil fuel , as an
alternative.  “Clear question marks are now being asked about the
renaissance of nuclear in the west,” UniCredit analysts James Stettler and Alasdair Leslie wrote in a note to clients today.
“This has helped sentiment on renewables, which are seen as an
alternative to nuclear. The real winner in the medium term,
however, in our view will remain gas and an increased focus on  energy efficiency .”  Extensions Suspended  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  put government plans to prolong
the lifespan of  Germany ’s nuclear  power plants  on hold for three
months pending the outcome of an inquiry into reactor safety.  “The situation after this moratorium will be different
than it was before,” she said today in an e-mailed statement.  An independent commission will be set up to conduct the
inquiry, and talks are underway with the industry on what the
moratorium means for the operation of Germany’s 17 nuclear
reactors, Merkel said. She indicated that may result in the
closure of some plants that were slated to be shut down under
Germany’s old nuclear law.  The Swiss government has put application procedures for the
replacement of nuclear power stations on hold and ordered safety
inspections of existing facilities to be brought forward, the
Environment Ministry said in an e-mailed news release.  Higher Costs  Utilities may face costs of 300 euros ($419) per kilowatt
for upgrading the safety of nuclear plants because of the quake,
Ingo Becker, an analyst with Kepler Capital, said by phone
today, citing a “tentative” estimate. For EDF some of that
figure, which is for plants built in 1980 and before, could be
accounted for in French power market reforms, he said.  The French company, which wants to extend the lives of its
reactors beyond 40 years, will need to improve their safety to
match as closely as possible standards for new, state-of-the art
models, like  Areva SA (CEI) ’s EPR, the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire,
said in November. The watchdog said at the time that it will
give an opinion on what is needed for extensions of up to 60
years at the end of 2011.  Areva, the world’s largest maker of nuclear reactors,
retreated 9.6 percent to 31.50 euros.  EDF has estimated that the utility will have to spend about
600 million euros on each of its 58 reactors, or about 35
billion euros in total, to keep them in service for more than
four decades.  Less Likely  France could be less likely to close nuclear plants than
neighboring Germany because the country depends on its 58
reactors for most of its power, said Becker, who has a
“reduce” recommendation on EDF. E.ON and smaller German rival  RWE AG (RWE)  could see older plants in that country closed ahead of
schedule, according to Becker.  Governments may increase support for the renewable  energy
industry , according to UniCredit. Germany and Spain are among
European nations that last year reduced subsidies for solar
power generation after a drop in panel prices stoked demand and
inflated the cost of aid.  “The medium-term outlook for solar depends on the social
and political will to shoulder a significant increase in
electricity cost,” Michael Tappeiner, a UniCredit analyst,
wrote in a separate note today. “Looking at the associated high
cost, we do not exclude a shift towards cheaper fossil fuels in
the short term.”  Replace Production  Tokyo Electric Power Corp. and other Japanese utilities may
increase output at gas, oil and coal-fired plants to replace
production from closed reactors, Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.
said.  The biggest beneficiaries are probably global liquefied
natural gas suppliers, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein said, a
group that includes BG and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  Reliance
Industries Ltd., which operates the world’s largest export
refinery in India, and other refiners will see demand rise,
according to Purvin & Gertz Inc. Power generators in  China ,
Taiwan and  South Korea  may have to pay more for fuel.  Increased demand for gas-fired power plants would “play
into the hands of” German engineer  Siemens AG (SIE)  while France’s  Alstom SA (ALO)  “remains more heavily exposed to” generators that
burn coal, according to UniCredit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  