-- 
Medicare Illegally Paid for Seniors’ Viagra, U.S. Audit Says

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-03-14T16:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/medicare-illegally-paid-for-seniors-viagra-u-s-audit-says.html
The U.S. Medicare program
improperly spent more than $3 million in 2007 and 2008 to buy  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Viagra and other erectile dysfunction drugs for
senior citizens, government investigators said.  The purchases violated a 2005 ban on covering the drugs
under the U.S. health program for the elderly and disabled.
Medicare administrators blamed the spending on a software error
and said they would try to recover payments to private insurers
who administer the program’s drug plans.  Medicare “should not have covered these drugs,” George
Reeb, acting deputy inspector general for audit services at the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, wrote in a  report 
released today. He recommended that Medicare work with the  Food
and Drug Administration  to maintain a list of prohibited drugs.
Medicare administrators, in a response to the report, rejected
the suggestion as unnecessary.  Medicare paid a total of $3.1 million for erectile
dysfunction drugs in the period examined, more than $3 million
of which was for Viagra, which had 2010 sales of $1.9 billion
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Other drugs purchased
included  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cialis, the report said.  The purchases were a fraction of Medicare’s drug spending
in 2007 and 2008, which totaled $133 billion, according to the
report  Medicare’s administrators told the inspector general that
they would fix the flaw by updating computer databases with
codes for the prohibited drugs. Medicare also paid for an
undetermined amount for erectile dysfunction drugs in 2009 and
2010, Reeb said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 