-- 
Egypt May Announce Bourse Opening Date Today After Fund Rule

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-14T15:50:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/egypt-may-announce-bourse-opening-date-today-after-fund-rule-2-.html
Egyptian authorities may announce
this evening when the country’s stock exchange will open after
more than a month-long closure because of a revolt that toppled
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  The stock market has been closed since the end of trading
Jan. 27 after the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  plunged 16 percent that
week amid the uprising. The  Egyptian Financial Supervisory
Authority , the market regulator, said yesterday it got the
cabinet’s approval to tap up to 30 percent of an 850 million-
pound ($143 million) fund to stabilize the market and provide
loans to brokerages.  The regulator, the bourse and the state-run clearing house
will meet this evening in Cairo to decide “on the mechanism to
implement the cabinet decision to support small investors and a
date to reopen,” exchange spokesman Hisham Turk said by
telephone. Asked if the announcement was due today, he said:
“Hopefully. The issue isn’t the reopening date, it’s how to
implement the cabinet decision.” Finance Minister Samir Radwan
confirmed the planned meeting.  “The opening of the stock market even if it was to fall
for a while will give a semblance of normality,” said Angus Blair, head of research at Cairo-based investment bank Beltone
Financial. “Get it over and done with, and the markets can find
its new levels.  Egypt  is still the most transparent and best
known market” in the region, he said.  Trading Resumption  Cabinet spokesman  Magdy Rady  said earlier in a telephone
interview authorities would announce the date for the resumption
of trading today. Rady couldn’t confirm a report by Al Arabiya
television that Egyptian Exchange Chairman Khaled Seyam has
resigned. Seyam didn’t answer several calls made to his mobile
phone seeking comment.  The regulator, in an attempt to mitigate a possible sell-
off when the bourse resumes operations, said on March 12 that it
has eased rules for margin trading.  Brokerages now will require investors to pay margins or
present more collateral when the client’s debt reaches 70
percent of the shares’ value at the end of daily trading, the
agency, known as Efsa, said in a statement on its  website. 
Brokerages were allowed to make margin calls at 60 percent
earlier.  The  margin trading  rules apply to shares bought previously,
Mohamed Abdel Salam, chairman of clearing house Misr for Central
Clearing, Depository & Registry, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  