-- 
Eli Broad Sells Manhattan Co-Op for $8 Million After $15 Million Listing

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-14T16:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/eli-broad-sells-co-op-in-new-york-s-sherry-netherland-hotel-for-8-million.html
Eli Broad, the billionaire
philanthropist and co-founder of  KB Home (KBH) , sold a co-op on Fifth
Avenue in Manhattan for $8 million, more than two years after
listing it for almost twice as much.  Broad, founder of the Broad Foundation in Los Angeles, sold
Unit 33T in the  Sherry-Netherland  hotel on Fifth Avenue and 59th
Street, city property records show. The transaction was
completed on March 11. The buyer is listed as Bedford Falls LLC.  The original asking price for the full-floor, two-bedroom
apartment was $15 million in August 2008, according to property
listings website  StreetEasy.com . Broad reduced the price
gradually over the next six months, until it reached $10.95
million in March 2009.  The apartment includes a library, a  private elevator
landing  and “sweeping 360-degree views of Central Park and the
city,” according to a listing by brokerage Stribling &
Associates cited by StreetEasy. Monthly maintenance is $17,845,
according to StreetEasy.  Sales of  Manhattan  luxury apartments, defined as the top 10
percent by price, fell 6.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier to 230, according to New York appraiser  Miller
Samuel Inc.  and brokerage Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate. The median price of luxury units jumped 15 percent to
$4.35 million.  ‘World-Class Residence’  The Sherry-Netherland, “a world-class residence for
citizens of the world,” sits across from Central Park and the
Plaza Hotel, according to a  building description  on StreetEasy.  “Homes have hotel maid service twice a day, and hungry
residents can order their meals from Cipriani’s, located
directly downstairs,” according to StreetEasy.  Other apartment owners at the Sherry-Netherland include  David Boies , the antitrust lawyer who took on Microsoft Corp.
and represented  Al Gore  in the contested U.S. presidential
election of 2000. He bought his apartment in 2009.  Karen Denne, a spokeswoman for Broad, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail seeking comment.  Broad’s foundations  have invested more than $2 billion in
education, scientific and medical research and the arts. Their
commitments include $600 million to establish the Broad
Institute of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and  Harvard University , according to a 2008 statement on the
foundation’s website.  Broad, former chairman of insurer SunAmerica Inc., joined a
pledge started by  Warren Buffett  for billionaires to give more
than half their wealth to charity. Broad said in June that he
and his wife, Edythe, plan to give 75 percent of their wealth to
philanthropic causes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  