-- 
MEMC Surges on Speculation Quake Disrupted Rivals’ Supply

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-03-14T20:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/memc-shares-surge-on-concern-japanese-silicon-supply-disrupted.html
  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , the
maker of silicon wafers for semiconductors and solar panels,
surged 11 percent on speculation that Japanese supply
disruptions will drive up demand for its products.  Japan, devastated by an 8.9-magnitude earthquake last week,
accounts for more than 50 percent of the world’s supply of the
wafers, the building block of the chip and solar industries,
according to a report by Barclays Capital. While MEMC has some
operations in the country, it also has facilities in the U.S.,
Europe and other parts of Asia, insulating it from the disaster.  Supply disruptions will increase prices for silicon wafers
and squeeze chipmakers, which may have to raise their own prices
if they want to preserve profitability, according to Barclays.
The Japanese quake and resulting tsunami has killed thousands,
and left millions without electricity and water.  MEMC rose $1.35 to $13.37 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange, the biggest one-day gain in almost six weeks. Shares
of the St. Peters, Missouri-based company have climbed 19
percent this year.  Barclays also raised concern that makers of smartphones and
their components will be harmed by shortages of capacitors made
in Japan. If phone production slows, it may hurt  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) 
and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , which make chips for the devices, said Tim Luke, a Barclays analyst in New York.  Japan also is home to  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which accounts for
about 30 percent of the world’s output of so-called Nand flash-
memory chips, according to the Barclays report. Nand handles
storage for Apple Inc.’s iPhone, iPad and other mobile devices.
Disruptions in those supplies may benefit Boise, Idaho-based  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , Luke said in the report.  On March 11,  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) , which has a joint venture with
Toshiba, said the earthquake in Japan caused a temporary halt to
production in its two Japanese plants. The factories were “down
for a short period” and are now operational again, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  