-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Week as Steelmakers Jump on Rebuilding Demand

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T22:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/emerging-market-stocks-rebound-from-weekly-drop-on-japan-rebuilding-demand.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the
most in a week as falling oil prices eased inflation concerns
and steelmakers surged on speculation  Japan ’s strongest
earthquake will increase demand for building materials.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.8 percent to
1,116.91.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index jumped
1.5 percent and Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  climbed 1.2
percent. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index rose 0.7 percent. The
rupee strengthened 0.4 percent against the dollar, while the
real gained 0.3 percent.  Steelmakers including South Korea’s Posco and LG Chem Ltd.
led a 1.8 percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Materials
Index on expectations sales will increase as Japan rebuilds
towns that were destroyed by the 8.9-magnitude temblor and
subsequent tsunami on March 11. Oil’s earlier retreat below $100
a barrel in  New York  may slow inflation in India and help Turkey
reduce its current-account deficit.  “A lot of the damage is localized in the Japanese
economy,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global foreign-exchange
strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with Mark
Barton. “I don’t think this will lead to a bout of global risk
aversion.”  The MSCI emerging-market index sank 2.6 percent last week
as conflict in  Libya  drove oil above $105 a barrel, faster-than-
estimated Chinese inflation fueled concern the central bank will
step up tightening measures and Japan’s earthquake prompted
investors to sell riskier assets.  Brazilian Growth  Economists covering the Brazilian economy cut their growth
forecast for next year for the first time in 12 months to 4.45
percent next year, down from a week-earlier forecast of 4.5
percent, according to the median forecast in a March 11 central
bank survey of about 100 economists published today. Economists
are betting that policy makers will need to slow the economy to
cool inflation running at a 26-month high.  While the  Nikkei-225 (NKY)  Stock Average plunged 6.2 percent in  Tokyo  today,  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.1
percent and Thailand’s SET Index gained 1.6 percent.  Poland’s WIG20 Index rose 0.3 percent after European
leaders broadened the size and scope of their 440 billion-euro
($614 billion) bailout fund for the region’s indebted nations
and eased the terms of Greek rescue loans.  Brazil’s benchmark stock index reversed earlier losses
after steelmakers rallied. Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA gained 9.6 percent, the biggest jump since December 2008, as
investors speculate rival Gerdau SA will buy a stake, according
to e-mails to clients today from Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  widened one basis point to 2.64
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  Turkish Bonds  Turkey’s ISE National 100 gauge climbed for a fifth day,
the longest stretch of gains this year, while yields on
benchmark two-year bonds declined 10 basis points to 8.8
percent. Bank shares rose on speculation foreign lenders may buy
stakes, according to Ata Doganoglu, a trader at Istanbul-based
broker Ekspres Invest.    Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator of the world’s biggest
refining complex, climbed 2.7 percent on expectations falling
crude prices will boost profitability. Posco, South Korea’s
biggest steelmaker, surged 8.3 percent, as UOB-Kay Hian Holdings
Ltd. said Japan is likely to increase imports of steel from
Asian countries.  In “the commodities, construction materials and also the
energy sector, there are opportunities,” said Nerissa Chow Lee,
chief investment officer at Iventure Investment Ltd. in Hong
Kong.  Japanese Crisis  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said yesterday the
country is facing its worst crisis since World War II after the
temblor and tsunami killed an estimated 10,000 people. The  Bank
of Japan  injected a record 15 trillion yen ($183 billion) into
the financial system and doubled the size of its asset-purchase
plan.  Companies linked to nuclear plant construction tumbled
after the quake caused explosions at an atomic power station
north of Tokyo. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest power equipment maker, sank 11 percent and
KEPCO Engineering & Construction Inc., which designs nuclear  power plants , plunged 15 percent.  Bahrain’s 10-year dollar bond declined for a second day
after Al Arabiya television reported forces from the Gulf
Cooperation Council will arrive in the island kingdom to
maintain security.  The yield on the 5.5 percent bond maturing in March 2020
climbed 28 basis points to 6.54 percent, according to prices
compiled on Bloomberg. The cost of insuring the sovereign debt
of Bahrain rose 23 basis points to 314, according to CMA prices
for credit-default swaps.  GCC intervention will hurt Bahrain’s economy, Khalil al-
Marzooq, a member of the largest Shiite opposition party al-
Wefaq, said in a telephone interview today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  