-- 
Memory Chip Prices Gain on Concern of Material Supply Shortage After Quake

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-03-14T14:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/memory-chip-prices-gain-on-concern-of-material-supply-shortage-after-quake.html
Prices of semiconductors used in
personal computers and mobile phones jumped on supply-shortage
concerns after factories were shut down in the wake of  Japan ’s
worst earthquake on record.  The price of the benchmark DDR 3 1-gigabit dynamic random-
access memory chip climbed 7 percent to $1.11, the largest gain
since Jan. 27, according to Taipei-based DRAMeXchange. Spot
prices of the 4-gigabit NAND flash-memory chip rose 17 percent.
DRAM chips are used to store data temporarily to help devices
run multiple programs, while NAND flash memory saves songs and
pictures in smartphones, MP3 players and digital cameras.  “The jump in prices reflect the worries and uncertainties
in the market”, analyst Andy Perkins at SG Corporate &
Investment Bank said. “It is however too early to say if this
is a short-term reaction.”  Toshiba Corporation, the Japanese manufacturer of
electronic devices and also the world’s second-largest maker of
NAND chips after  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co., said it
halted operations at its plants and offices in areas affected by
rolling power outages. Apple Inc., the maker of the iPod music
players and iPhone mobile phones, is among companies that
Toshiba’s flash-memory chips.  The 8.9-magnitude quake and subsequent tsunami on March 11
may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture north of  Tokyo ,
national broadcaster NHK said, citing police. Radiation levels
around the Tokyo Electric Power Co. station in Fukushima, 135
miles north (217 kilometers) of the capital, rose after cooling
systems at a second reactor failed, heightening concerns about a
possible meltdown following an explosion over the weekend.  Delays, Higher Costs  Analysts say manufacturers may face higher component costs
and delays as a result of the earthquake.  “This could cause a delay at hubs where you create devices
and pricing could go up”, analyst  Lee Simpson  at Jefferies
said.  Japan is “critical” to the worldwide electronics supply
chain as the country accounts for 40 percent of global NAND
flash chip production and 15 percent of DRAM chip manufacturing,
said  Howard Wheeldon , a senior strategist at BGC Partners in  London , citing research from Objective Analysis.  Toshiba shares lost 16.3 percent to 411 yen, the most since
January 2009, in Tokyo trading. In South Korea, Samsung
Electronics, also a supplier of NAND flash chips, rose 4.4
percent and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc (000660)  jumped 8.7 percent. The
gains suggest that “these companies will benefit from and
compensate for lost production in Japan”, analyst Victor Bareno
at SNS Securities wrote in a note.  Production Halt  Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., which makes silicon wafers needed
to produce semiconductors, has said it stopped operations at its
manufacturing complex in Annaka, Gunma prefecture; the Kashima
Plant in Kamisu, Ibaraki prefecture; and the Shirakawa plant in
Nishigo Village, Fukushima prefecture. The company aims to
resume operations after safety inspections and measures have
been completed.  Sumco Corp., another Japanese maker of silicon wafers,
halted a factory in Yamagata prefecture because of damages
stemming from last week’s earthquake, the company said in a
statement.  Disruptions at Shin-Etsu and  Sumco Corp. (3436) , which account
for about 60 percent of the world’s electronic wafers, will
undermine global supply, according to Klaus Ringel, an analyst
at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net  or
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adela Lin at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net  