-- 
Ethiopian Leader Accuses Islamist Extremists of Inciting Church Burnings

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T14:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ethiopian-leader-accuses-islamist-extremists-of-inciting-church-burnings.html
Church burnings in southwestern  Ethiopia  that left at least one person dead were incited by an
extremist Islamic group, Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  said.  Evangelical churches in Assendabo, about 250 kilometers
(155 miles) southwest of the capital, Addis Ababa, and other
towns in the Jimma region were torched earlier this month. At
least 46 of the churches belonged to the Kale Heywot faith and
23 more to other groups, according to Kale Heywot Church General
Secretary Tesfaye Abadura. A Kale Heywot bible school and office
have been destroyed and as many as 7,000 people have been
displaced, Tesfaye said in a phone interview on March 12.  Those responsible for inciting the attacks are believed to
be preachers from the Islamist Kawarja group, Meles told
reporters in  Addis Ababa  on March 12.  “We believe there are elements of the Kawarja sect and
other extremists who have been preaching religious intolerance
in the area,” Meles said. “In previous times, we have cracked
down on Kawarja because they were involved in violence. Since
then they have changed their tactics and they have been able to
camouflage their activities through legal channels.”  The attacks began when Christians were arrested after an
unidentified Muslim individual accusing them of flushing a Koran
down a church toilet, Tesfaye said.  “After that Muslims came together and burned the churches,
shouting ‘Allahu Akbar’,” he said.  Seid Asmare, spokesman for the Ethiopian Islamic Affairs
Supreme Council, said he couldn’t immediately comment because he
was in a meeting when called on his mobile phone today.  Incidents of religious strife in Ethiopia are rare, though
there have been fatal sectarian clashes in the southwest in
recent years. Ethiopia’s population includes 34 percent Muslims
and 63 percent Christians, according to the CIA World Factbook.  A report on the church burnings by the Inter-Religious
Council of Ethiopia will be delivered on March 16, Zerihun Degu,
general secretary of the council, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 