-- 
EU CO2 Jumps the Most in 2 Years on Halt of Nuclear Extensions

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-14T18:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/eu-carbon-jumps-the-most-in-two-years-on-german-halt-of-nuclear-extensions.html
European Union carbon dioxide
allowances jumped the most in almost two years as  Germany 
suspended previously agreed extensions on nuclear plants
following explosions at Japanese reactors.  Permits for December rose 5.5 percent to close at 16.60
euros ($23.24) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London, the biggest jump since April 14, 2009, to the highest
price since May 6. Trading volume was more a record 20.5 million
tons, more than three times the recent norm.  Germany will suspend plans for at least three months to
extend the operating life of the country’s nuclear plants
pending an inquiry into their safety,  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said. Closing those plants earlier than expected would probably
boost demand for fossil power and carbon permits.  Merkel made the announcement so soon after the Japan
earthquake because she needs support in German state-government
elections this year, said Dennis Mignon, a trader with First
Climate in Bad Vilbel, Germany. The nation would probably be
forced to burn additional coal and gas for power, Mignon said
today by phone. “That’s bullish for CO2.”  Assuming extensions are cancelled, there would be an
additional demand for 700 million tons of carbon through 2020,
said Heiko Siemann, an analyst for UniCredit SpA in Munich.  “The decision has to be seen against the background of
enormous ongoing political pressure on the government in this
super-election year, with seven regional elections scheduled,”
Siemann said today in an e-mailed research note. “It might
result in an immediate shutdown of Neckarwestheim, and a
shutdown of Biblis A and Isar1 in the summer.”  Gas Surges  Carbon permits are up 17 percent in 2011, tracking natural
gas, as power utilities buy to hedge forward sales of power.
Utilities need half as many permits when burning gas compared
with coal. U.K. natural gas for delivery in the six months
through September, the summer contract, surged 6.4 percent today
on ICE.  Carbon prices may rise this week as traders with shortfalls
buy to fill open positions, analysts including Konrad Hanschmidt
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London  said today in an e-
mailed research note.  The EU may sell about 400 million tons of allowances for
phase three, including 300 million tons from its so-called New
Entrant Reserve, New Energy Finance said. Phase three is the
eight years starting 2013. A decision to sell about 400 million
tons of permits or fewer may push up prices, the analysts said.  Should the EU decide later this week to sell close to 600
million tons, carbon permits may fall, according to New Energy
Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  