-- 
EU Debt-Relief Pact Puts Pressure on Nations to Cut Deficits: Euro Credit

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-03-14T11:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/eu-debt-relief-pact-puts-pressure-on-nations-to-cut-deficits-euro-credit.html
European leaders are betting their
retooled bailout plan can defuse the region’s debt crisis as
they reject costlier remedies and put the onus for stopping the
turmoil on cash-strapped governments.  In a pact struck in the early hours of the weekend and two
weeks sooner than investors expected, officials broadened the
size and scope of their 440 billion-euro ($614 billion)  bailout
fund  and eased the terms of Greek rescue loans. They resisted
calls to buy bonds in the open market or finance buybacks.  The euro gained and bonds of the most-indebted nations
rallied, reversing a slump last week that sent yields on Greek
and Portuguese debt to euro-area records. Greece is fighting to
show it can remain solvent and  Portugal  may be the next to seek
aid. Renewed declines may force policy makers back to the
drawing board when they reconvene March 24-25.  “Policy makers understand that  market sentiment  is
crucial, and at least in the near-term, these measures are
likely to improve sentiment,” said  John Stopford , head of fixed
income at Investec Asset Management Ltd. in London, which
manages $80 billion. “I need to see how they are implemented.
I’m happy to stay away from peripheral bonds for now.”  Yields on 10-year Greek debt today fell 58 basis points to
12.24 percent as of 10:55 a.m. in London, while those on
similar-maturity Spanish debt dropped 17 basis points to 5.26
percent and Italian 10-year bond yields were 9 basis points
lower at 4.77 percent. The yield on  Germany ’s two-year note
gained five basis points to 1.70 percent while that of the
German bund was seven basis points higher at 3.27 percent.  The weekend agreement, which finance ministers will detail
in meetings later today and tomorrow, may boost demand for the
short-term debt of strained economies, said  Steven Major , global
head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  ‘Genuine Surprise’  “European leaders have delivered a genuine surprise just
when the market was starting to fear the worst,” he said.  Thirteen months since they began fighting the crisis, euro
leaders find themselves still needing to assure investors they
have the tools and the will to protect the single currency.  “We’ve come further than most people expected,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters in Brussels
today. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
financial markets “should have understood that the willingness
of the European Union and mainly of the euro areas members
states is a total one to make sure that a comprehensive answer
will be delivered.”  The European Financial Stability Facility will now be able
to spend its full 440 billion-euro capacity and buy bonds
directly from governments after collateral rules required to
secure an AAA credit rating previously limited its lending power
to about 250 billion euros and Germany opposed asset purchases.  Bond Purchases  The primary-market purchases will still just be used as an
exception and only in return for austerity commitments.  They would hand a backstop to indebted nations should a
Greek restructuring spook markets and threaten to derail other
government bond auctions, said  Andrew Bosomworth , a  fund manager 
at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich.  Dimitris Drakopoulos, an economist at Nomura International
Plc in London, said such purchases may also ease the way for
Greece to begin selling bonds again in the first quarter of
2012. The yield on the country’s 10-year debt touched 12.5
percent on March 11. Germany’s comparable bund was 3.2 percent.  Almost doubling the amount available in the fund frees up
enough money to support Ireland, Portugal and  Spain  for about
two and half years, although it would not be large enough to
bail out Italy and  Belgium , said Bosomworth, who used to work at
the  European Central Bank .  ‘Firewall’  “I’m positively surprised, for a change,” he said. “The
agreement contains important elements of a firewall” that could
stop the crisis worsening.  Where the leaders held back was in rejecting the lobbying
of ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to allow the facility to
buy bonds in the open market. The  ECB  has pushed such a decision
to enable it to withdraw from markets after buying about 77
billion euros of bonds since last May.  The commitment wasn’t matched with detail as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  indicated only states will have to
increase their guarantees. She herself may face political
obstacles at home with an electorate opposed to putting more
German money at stake, said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist
at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London.  German Risk  “The risk that the parties backing Merkel may possibly
lose a string of regional elections on March 27 does not make
the situation easier,” said Schmieding. “Still, German
politicians have a record of living up to their pro-European
credentials whenever it really counts.”  In a reward for its austerity program and 50-billion-euro
privatization program, leaders made a provisional agreement to
lower  Greece ’s interest rates of about 5 percent for aid by 100
basis points. They also extended the repayment period of the
loans to 7 1/2 years from three years. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  estimates the moves would save about 6 billion
euros over the life of the loans.  Ireland failed to secure similar relief on its 85 billion-
euro bailout as recently elected Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
refused to yield to calls to raise its 12.5 percent company tax
rate, calling the proposal of Germany and France “harmonization
of taxes through the back door.” Negotiations will continue
with the aim of a deal at the March-end talks.  Among the other deals done at the summit was a plan to
tighten economic cooperation -- committing nations to enact
budget rules into law, a core German demand. A basic accord was
also reached on a permanent 500 billion euro safety net from
2013, the European Stability Mechanism, with a mix of guarantees
and capital.  Portugal’s Fate  The immediate focus for investors is now whether to keep
avoiding the debt of Portugal, pushing it closer to pressing the
aid button. With the yield on his government’s five-year debt
surging to 8 percent on speculation a bailout will be tapped,
Prime Minister Jose Socrates’s government last week announced
new commitments on deficit reduction amounting to 0.8 percent of
gross domestic product for this year.  “The measures are not specific enough at this stage to
allow us to formulate a clear assessment, but we would not be
surprised to see markets put Portugal to the test in the coming
weeks,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists including London-
based Francesco Garzarelli said in a note to clients.  Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos
said in Brussels today that “our intention is to keep going to
the markets.”  ‘Powerful Signal’  David Mackie, chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  London , says the weekend sent a “powerful signal” that
countries willing to do all they can to restore budgetary order
will be supported by neighbors and debt restructurings could
still be avoided, said.  That leaves the responsibility for ending the crisis with
individual countries and whether they can cut budget deficits
enough to again enjoy the trust of investors, said  Charles Morris , who oversees $2.5 billion as head of HSBC Global Asset
Management’s Absolute Return Fund.  Greece, for example, faces a debt that the European
Commission forecasts will reach 159 percent of GDP next year and
which Moody’s Investors Service last week cut by another three
levels. On the eve of last week’s talks its 10-year bond yields
rose to a record and it cost more than ever to insure against a
default.  “To solve the debt crisis, these countries will have to
lower their debt proportion to GDP, and interest rate payments
will have to be low,” said Morris. “The measures show leaders
are serious about tackling the problem and it will improve
sentiment in the near term. It remains to be seen if it will
solve the problem. We are not in a hurry to buy bonds from
peripheral countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  