-- 
EU May Need Tighter Supply to Avoid CO2 Slump, Adviser Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-14T16:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/eu-may-need-tighter-supply-to-avoid-co2-slump-adviser-says-1-.html
The European Union may need to
tighten the supply of permits in its emissions-trading system to
avoid a price slump if planned  energy-efficiency  measures curb
demand for pollution rights.  “If we are serious about our energy-efficiency targets,
then this would almost take the value of emissions allowances
down to zero,” Pierre Dechamps, adviser for energy,  climate
change  and environment at the EU regulator, said today at a
conference in  London . “Unless we introduce more stringent
measures or tighten the market, we are in a situation where
there will be a drastic decline in prices,” Dechamps said.  The EU’s emissions trading system, known as the ETS, is the
cornerstone of Europe’s plan to reduce  greenhouse gases  blamed
for climate change. It imposes pollution limits on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturing companies and sets a 2020 cap
on discharges that would be 20 percent below 1990 levels.  The European Commission, the EU regulator, said last week it
planned to oblige governments and businesses to make energy
efficiency a higher priority to help the bloc exceed its 20
percent reduction goal and boost the security of supplies. The
commission proposed slashing carbon dioxide emissions by 80
percent by 2050.  One EU allowance carries the right to emit one metric ton
of carbon dioxide. Permits for December rose as much as 5
percent to 16.51 euros ($23.06) a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London, the highest intraday level since May
12, and were at 16.45 euros as of 3:22 p.m.  Phase Three  To avoid a drop in the price of carbon allowances as new
efficiencies lower emissions, the EU could withhold permits
starting in the next trading period, which runs from 2013 to
2020, the commission said in a  policy paper  published last week.
Creating such a set-aside from the pool of allowances to be
auctioned to companies by member states would need backing from
the EU governments and potential cancellation of permits in the
reserve would require a change of the bloc’s emissions law.  “Given support by other European institutions and further
consultations with stakeholders, a gradually increasing number
of allowances in the auctioning budget could be set aside from
2013,” the commission said in a statement on March 8.  The EU, which has given away the majority of permits since
it started the program six years ago, will sell most of them in
the next phase from 2013.  The commission’s plans to withhold some permits sparked
criticism from energy-intensive industries, including the
association of the European steel producers, Eurofer, and the
association of European employers, BusinessEurope. Eurofer said
last month the set-aside would effectively mean tighter emission
caps and higher costs for companies in the EU carbon program.  The commission revised the option to set aside permits from
the original draft obtained by Bloomberg News last month, when
it suggested that between 500 million and 800 million allowances
could be withheld in the eight-year trading phase through 2020.
That would correspond to as much as 5 percent of supply.  With assistance from Ewa Krukowska. Editors:  Mike Anderson ,  Bruce Stanley .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net  and
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  