-- 
EU to Discuss Nuclear Safety Tomorrow After Earthquake in Japan

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-14T13:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/eu-to-discuss-nuclear-safety-tomorrow-after-earthquake-in-japan.html
The European Union called a meeting
of the bloc’s energy ministers, power companies and regulators
for tomorrow to discuss nuclear safety as Japan struggles with
reactors damaged by an earthquake.  Three days after a record 8.9-magnitude temblor, Tokyo
Electric Power Co. is flushing three reactors at its Fukushima
plant with water to avoid a catastrophic release of radiation as
the station’s cooling systems failed and a blast tore through a
containment building.  The meeting tomorrow, called by EU Energy Commissioner
Guenther Oettinger, will be a “comprehensive safety check,”
said  Helen Kearns , a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
the EU executive in Brussels. Nuclear-power stations currently
produce around a third of the electricity in the 27-nation bloc,
according to the commission.  “The first focus is on contingency planning; is there a
need to better coordinate, to look again at the safety
requirements,” Kearns told reporters in Brussels today. “It’s
also a fact-finding to ask member states for their analysis of
the situation and ask the people who do the inspections, who
issue the licenses, are there new issues that we should be
looking at given what we’ve just seen over the past days.”  Nuclear energy plays an important role in the EU transition
to a low-carbon economy, the commission has said. The bloc wants
to cut greenhouse gas discharges by 20 percent in 2020 and
between 80 and 95 percent in 2050.  Nuclear Crisis  The German government views the nuclear crisis in  Japan  as
an opportunity to re-examine positions on  energy security ,
though Chancellor  Angela Merkel  still sees nuclear power as a
“bridge technology” to guarantee affordable energy supplies
for a “number of years,” government spokesman Steffen Seibert
told reporters today in Berlin.  Merkel and Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , who pushed
through an extension of nuclear power last year, will give a
statement on this issue today at 4 p.m. local time.  “It’s up to each member state to take a decision whether
or not they wish to make use of nuclear energy,” Kearns said.
“That won’t be on the agenda during tomorrow’s debate. What
we’re discussing here is about risk assessment and safety.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  