-- 
European Stocks Fall as Reinsurers, Utilities Drop; Banks Rally

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-14T17:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/european-stock-index-futures-decline-as-asian-shares-slump-on-japan-quake.html
European stocks dropped for a
fourth day, led by a selloff in reinsurers and utilities, as  Japan  battles to prevent a nuclear meltdown following its
largest earthquake on record.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. and Munich Re both lost more than 3
percent after AIR Worldwide said the industry may face claims of
as much as 2.8 trillion yen ($34 billion).  E.ON AG (EOAN)  fell 5.3
percent on concern explosions at two reactors in Japan may
persuade  Germany  to backtrack on extending the life of atomic
plants. Banks limited losses as the European Union agreed on a
retooled bailout plan for the region’s most indebted nations.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 1.1 percent to 272.51 at
4:50 p.m. in  London , the lowest since December, as more than two
stocks fell for every one that rose. All industry groups
declined today except banks.  “The earthquake, tsunami and the aftershocks expected this
week are likely to generate one of the largest reinsurance
losses seen, we believe,” wrote London-based Kevin Ryan, an
analyst at Investec Securities, in a report to clients. “The
scale of the tragic events in Japan may lead to corrections in
equity markets around the world, either now or as the magnitude
of the event is fully understood.”  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  pumped 15 trillion yen into money markets
to ensure financial stability amid a plunge in stocks and a
surge in credit risk. The central bank also doubled the size of
its asset-purchase program to help shield the economy from the
effects of the quake.  8.9 Magnitude  The 8.9-magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami on
March 11 may have killed 10,000 people in Miyagi prefecture
north of  Tokyo , local police said. The official toll reached
1,823 dead and 2,369 missing, the National Police Agency said.  Europe’s benchmark Stoxx 600 has retreated for three
consecutive weeks as crude oil surged to a 29-month high amid
political unrest and violence in the Middle East and Libya.
Since reaching a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 17, the gauge has
declined more than 5 percent.  Troops from the Gulf Cooperation Council, including
soldiers from Saudi Arabia, moved into Bahrain after more than a
month of political unrest in the island nation. Mainly Shiite
protesters have been demonstrating since Feb. 14 for free
elections and political change, inspired by movements that have
swept the region in the past two months and unseated rulers in
Tunisia and Egypt.  Bailout Plan  Losses in Europe were limited after European Union leaders
struck an agreement on an expanded bailout plan for the region’s
most indebted nations, two weeks sooner than investors
anticipated. National benchmarks in Spain, Italy, Portugal and
Greece all climbed today.  Swiss Re and Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurers,
dropped 4.5 percent to 49.36 Swiss francs and 3.4 percent to 108
euros respectively. They both lost more than 3 percent on March
11 following Japan’s earthquake.  AIR said its top-of-range preliminary estimate for Japanese
insurers and global reinsurance companies that backstop their
policies doesn’t include damage caused by the tsunami that
followed the March 11 temblor in Japan.    Standard & Poor’s  also said Munich Re, Swiss Re and smaller
reinsurers face what may be record catastrophe losses worldwide
in the first quarter. The carriers will add their shares of the
losses in Japan to costs from U.S. winter storms, Middle East
unrest and last month’s earthquake in Christchurch,  New Zealand .  Utilities    Scor SE (SCR) , France’s largest reinsurer, declined 3.4 percent
to 18.60 euros while  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL) , the third-biggest
Lloyds’s of London insurer by market value, lost 3.2 percent to
338.7 pence.  E.ON and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s largest nuclear power plant
operators, lost 5.3 percent to 21.87 euros and 4.8 percent to
45.64 euros respectively as opposition politicians renewed calls
for Germany to return to a law that would see Europe’s largest
power user close its last reactor by about 2020.  Focus Online reported that German Chancellor Angela Merkel
is set to suspend the extension of the country’s nuclear power
plants today as officials re-examine safety standards in the
wake of explosions at Japanese reactors. The online magazine
citing unidentified people close to the government.  Merkel had previously extended the lives of the country’s
17 nuclear power plants by an average of 12 years in 2010 to
help maintain energy security and cut carbon emissions.    Areva SA (CEI) , the world’s largest builder of nuclear reactors,
sank 9.6 percent to 31.50 euros as Tokyo Electric Power Co.
races to avoid a meltdown at its Fukushima nuclear plant and
officials in  China  and India and U.S. lawmakers called for a
review of atomic energy plans.  ‘Significant Setback’  “This is obviously a significant setback for the so-called
nuclear renaissance,” said Peter Bradford, a former member of
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. “The image of a nuclear
power plant blowing up before your eyes on a television screen
is a first.”  Alternative energy companies advanced.  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  surged
13 percent to 8.63 euros, while Norway’s Renewable Energy Corp.
ASA climbed 10 percent to 18.45 kroner and Gamesa Corp.
Technologica SA, Spain’s largest wind-turbine maker, increased
5.1 percent to 6.84 euros.    Iberdrola SA (IBE)  climbed 0.3 percent to 5.98 euros after the
world’s biggest wind-energy company said it will sell a stake to
Qatar Holdings LLC for 2 billion euros.  Greek Banks    National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  led a rally in banks. Greece’s
biggest lender rallied 10 percent to 7.18 euros,  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB) , the second-largest, rose 9.8 percent to 5.14 euros
and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  advanced 8.9 percent to 1.59 euros.  Euro-area leaders struck a deal during the early hours of
March 12, agreeing to ease the terms of Greek rescue loans and
allow the 440 billion-euro ($614 billion) bailout fund to be
used to its full extent to assist debt-strapped nations.    JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  raised its recommendation for European
banks to “overweight” from “neutral,” citing the EU
agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/14/ :31 GMT 