-- 
Euro Nations Divided Over Method to Boost Rescue Fund’s Lending Capacity

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-15T15:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/euro-nations-remain-divided-over-method-to-boost-aid-facility.html
European governments were divided
over how to boost the rescue fund for debt-strapped countries,
taking the gloss off a three-day-old pledge to step up the fight
against the fiscal crisis.  Finance ministers from the 17 euro countries failed late
yesterday to decide how to bring the emergency aid fund up to
its full 440 billion euros ($615 billion) from around 250
billion euros currently.  “We’re discussing all the possibilities that exist,”
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said in an interview
today in Brussels, where the euro-area ministers were joined by
their counterparts from the rest of the 27 European Union
countries. “It’s not surprising that we didn’t make any
progress last night.”    Europe  faces an end-of-month deadline to work out the fine
print after political leaders vowed on March 12 to reinforce the
rescue fund and enable it to buy bonds directly at issuance from
debt-swamped governments, as part of a “comprehensive” package
to calm bond markets. Included in that initiative are proposals
to toughen and speed up sanctions for nations that breach the
EU’s fiscal rules, which ministers approved today.  Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado said “the most
reasonable” way to get the full firepower out of the  European
Financial Stability Facility , now constrained by collateral
rules, would be for each country to increase its guarantee.  ‘Points of Detail’  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chaired yesterday’s
meeting, said a “few points of detail” might not be settled by
the March 24-25 summit intended to unveil the EU’s
“comprehensive” crisis package. He called another gathering of
euro-area finance ministers for March 21.  Most of the burden of boosting the rescue fund would fall
on the euro region’s six AAA-rated countries.  Austria , for
example, would have to raise its guarantees to 25 billion euros
from about 15 billion euros, Finance Minister Josef Proell said.    Germany , the biggest contributor to the rescues of Greece
and Ireland, would have to lift its guarantee by as much as 84
billion euros from 119 billion euros, said  Jacques Cailloux , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .
“Contagion risks will remain and return should the announcement
on March 24-25 fail to add new forceful measures on top of what
has just been announced,” Cailloux said in an e-mailed note.  Market Reaction  Investors saluted Europe’s renewed weekend commitment to
getting to grips with the crisis, pushing up 10-year bonds of  Greece ,  Spain , Portugal, Ireland and Italy yesterday. They pared
some of the gains today.  Greece got the most relief, with the EU cutting the
interest rate on its bailout loans by about 1 percentage point
from 5 percent. Greece’s repayment period was also lengthened to
7 1/2 years from three years.  Ireland failed to win a cut in its 5.8 percent aid rate
after Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  rejected EU demands for more tax
coordination. Kenny, in office less than a week, saw that as an
attack on Ireland’s 12.5 percent business-tax rate.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said the bloc will “turn
the corner” when a new package for tackling the euro area’s
debt crisis is completed in coming weeks. “The European Union
is steadily getting out of the economic crisis,” he told
lawmakers today in Brussels.    Portugal , which unveiled new deficit cuts on March 11 to
escape the fate of Greece and Ireland, said yesterday that it
will continue tapping the bond markets without needing aid. “We
are being able to go to the markets and our intention is to keep
going to the markets, borrowing the money we need,” Portuguese
Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said.  Secondary Market  At last weekend’s summit, the leaders ruled out using the
EFSF to buy bonds in the secondary market. That job was left
with the  European Central Bank , which has purchased 77.5 billion
euros of bonds since last May.  Also off the table is the provision of International
Monetary Fund-style precautionary credit lines and the use of
euro rescue money to finance bond buybacks that could lessen the
debt load of countries like Greece.  The EU ministers today reached accord on other aspects of
the crisis response, agreeing on a package of tougher economic-
oversight rules. The rules, which include fines for governments
that don’t cut overall debt fast enough and sanctions for
macroeconomic imbalances such as current-account deficits, were
deemed “insufficient” by European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet.  ‘Weaknesses’  The sovereign-debt crisis “has revealed a number of
weaknesses that are not fully corrected in our opinion by what
is presently envisaged,” Trichet told the finance ministers at
their meeting in Brussels.  The agreement was reached after  Italy , with debt of 118.9
percent of gross domestic product last year, was given a better
chance of evading planned future sanctions on high-debt states.
While countries with debt over 60 percent of GDP will be
required to make annual cuts equal to 1/20th of the excess,
progress will be judged against a range of “relevant factors,”
the ministers agreed.  “We’ve come further than most people expected,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters. “We still
have a lot to do but overall we’re on the right track to get to
the goal at the end of March.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  