-- 
European Industrial Output Increased in January, Led by Germany

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-14T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/european-industrial-output-increased-in-january-led-by-germany.html
European industrial production
increased in January for a fourth month as companies in  Germany ,
the region’s largest economy, boosted output to meet surging
export orders.  Production in the euro area rose 0.3 percent from December,
when it also increased 0.3 percent, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That matched the
median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Production rose 6.6 percent in the year.  Germany is driving the region’s expansion as governments
from  Portugal  to  Greece  seek ways to restore investor confidence
in their ability to tackle budget deficits and fight the debt
crisis. German factory orders increased more than economists
forecast in January, and business confidence rose to a fresh
record last month.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi division said on March 8
that it will expand output in emerging markets.  “Germany will clearly remain the growth engine, with  France  will also showing a good performance,” said Jens Kramer,
an economist at Nord LB in Hanover, Germany. “The euro region
is on a robust growth path overall even with huge divergences
remaining between large countries and peripheral states.”  European leaders agreed over the weekend to broaden the
size and scope of their 440 billion-euro ($614 billion) bailout
fund to defuse the region’s debt crisis. They also eased the
terms of rescue loans to Greece.  Germany, France  In Germany, production rose 0.1 percent after a 1 percent
increase in December, today’s report showed. French output
growth accelerated to 1.1 percent from 0.2 percent.  Euro-area production of intermediate goods and durable  consumer goods  both rose 2.5 percent in January from December.
Output of capital goods slipped 0.3 percent and energy
production dropped 3.1 percent.  The euro-region economy may expand about 1.7 percent this
year and 1.8 percent in 2012, the  European Central Bank  said on
March 3. It had previously projected growth of 1.4 percent and
1.7 percent, respectively.    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of  luxury
vehicles  based in Munich, on March 9 forecast “dynamic” sales
growth through the first half of this year after deliveries
surged 22 percent in February. Jean-Paul Agon, chief executive
officer of  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, said
last month he’s “very confident” about the earnings outlook
for this year with strong sales growth among Asian markets.  With a strengthening economy giving labor unions more room
to demand higher wages just as companies seek ways to pass on
surging energy costs, the ECB has signaled it is ready to raise
borrowing costs as soon as next month.  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent in February,
the fastest in more than two years and above the ECB’s 2 percent
ceiling.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs including
energy, quickened to 1.1 percent in January.  “Once the genie of inflation is out of the bottle it might
be too late,” ECB council member Yves Mersch said on March 3
after the central bank kept its key rate at 1 percent. “Be
assured that any threat to  price stability  in the medium term
will be combated pre-emptively and vigorously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  