-- 
Ex-McKinsey Director ‘Terrified’ When Rajaratnam Sent Documents

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-14T17:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ex-mckinsey-director-terrified-when-rajaratnam-sent-documents-from-intel.html
 Former McKinsey & Co. director
Anil Kumar told a federal jury that he was “terrified” after
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam sent him
confidential documents from  Intel Corp. (INTC)   On two occasions around 2005, Rajaratnam sent Kumar slides
of Intel documents with the company’s plans for the coming year,
Kumar testified today in Rajaratnam’s insider trading trial. At
the time, Kumar was providing consulting services for Intel’s
rival,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   “I was terrified of having such documents in my office,”
Kumar told jurors in  Manhattan  federal court. “My office was an
open door office. People walked in and out. To see an Intel
document was not appropriate at all, so I asked my assistant to
shred it.”  Kumar’s account came on the second day of his testimony for
prosecutors in Rajaratnam’s trial. While much of his testimony
this morning focused on his tips to Rajaratnam about a 2006 deal
between AMD and ATI Technologies Inc., Kumar also offered an
account of Rajaratnam’s providing him with unsolicited records
from Intel.  Rajaratnam didn’t say where he got the Intel documents,
Kumar said.  “He said, I know you’re working at AMD -- these might
help,’” Kumar said, recounting Rajaratnam’s message to him.  Three McKinsey Officials  Kumar will testify throughout the day, and prosecutors have
said they will play wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s conversations. A 
lawyer representing the wife of former McKinsey employee David 
Palecek said in a statement today that Palecek’s name will be 
mentioned on one tape.  The tape will be of Rajaratnam plotting with his brother,
Rengan, to try to get another person at McKinsey to “play
ball” with them, lawyer Catherine Redlich said. The person was
Palecek, a classmate of Rengan Rajaratnam’s, Redlich said in her
statement.  Palecek died last year of a virulent staph infection, she
said.  “What the tape does not reflect is that Mr. Palecek never
agreed to ‘play ball’ with the Rajaratnams, never received money
from them, and never agreed to put his wife on Galleon’s
payroll,” Redlich said. “If David were alive today, he would
tell you that nothing was more important to him than his family,
especially his four young daughters, and he would never have put
them in harm’s way.”  ‘Red Hot’  A third McKinsey official,  Rajat Gupta , has also been
named at the trial. Prosecutors said in opening statements that
Rajat Gupta, the former worldwide director of consulting firm
McKinsey, leaked tips to Rajaratnam about  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  Gupta denies wrongdoing and hasn’t been criminally charged.  In his testimony today, Kumar said he worked closely with
top officials at AMD in late 2005 and the first half of 2006 as
the company worked to acquire Nvidia Corp. and then ATI, whose
graphic computer chips would complement AMD’s. Kumar, then being
paid $250,000 annually by Galleon for secret tips, said he
regularly briefed Rajaratnam on the status of the talks.  Talks with ATI intensified after a deal with Nvidia
collapsed, Kumar said.  “I told him this was red hot and not to be discussed with
anyone,” Kumar testified. “He said, ‘It’s astonishing that AMD
would be doing something like this.”  Kumar said he told Rajaratnam that ATI would be acquired
for about $20 or $21 a share, while it was then trading at about
$16.50.  “He said, ‘Are you absolutely sure?’ Kumar said. “He
said, ‘Wow, this is very useful.’”  Buy Low Sell High  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter asked Kumar how
someone would  profit on the information that Kumar was
providing about AMD and ATI.  “You buy as much as you can,” Kumar testified.  “Buy low, sell high?” Streeter asked.  “Yes, sir,” Kumar said.  Kumar also recounted Rajaratnam’s discontent with some of
the information that Kumar was leaking prior to 2006. He said
Rajaratnam wanted to stop paying him $250,000 per year and
instead pay him based on Galleon’s profit on illegal trades.
Kumar refused, saying he wanted to retain the fiction that he
was
providing consultant services.  “I thought a consultant arrangement was more appropriate,”
Kumar testified. “Seeing that shares were being bought seemed
more like a crime to me.”  Ultimately, Kumar told Rajaratnam to pay him at year’s end
whatever Rajaratnam thought Kumar’s tips were worth. That, said
Kumar, was “standard practice” at McKinsey for lawful consultant
work.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 