-- 
Texas Instruments Says Japan Plant Damage to Hurt Sales

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-03-15T00:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/texas-instruments-says-japan-plant-damage-from-earthquake-will-hurt-sales.html
  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the second-
largest U.S. chipmaker, said “substantial” damage to one of
its plants in Japan from last week’s earthquake will hurt sales
in the first and second quarters.  The plant in Miho, Japan, produced about 10 percent of
Texas Instruments’ output by revenue and won’t be able to return
to full shipment capacity until September, the Dallas-based
company said today in a statement. The company is working to
shift production to its other facilities and has identified
alternatives for about 60 percent of that lost production.  Texas Instruments said revenue will be affected by
“multiple factors,” such as its ability to move production and
the level of demand from customers in  Japan . The company said it
will provide more information in an earnings report April 18.  “Semiconductor factories are extremely sensitive to power
and vibration,” said  Doug Freedman , an analyst at Gleacher &
Co. Freedman, who is based in  San Francisco . “They need a lot
of power and clean power. Unstable power is bad for yields.”  The 9.0-magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami killed
thousands of people and left millions without electricity and
water. Texas Instruments is the biggest maker of analog chips,
used in everything from military equipment to washing machines,
making its earnings performance a window into demand across the
electronics industry.  Higher Prices Possible  While production will be hampered in the near term,
chipmakers such as Texas Instruments may benefit down the road.
Disruptions to manufacturing in Japan may spur higher prices and
more orders as electronics makers increase stockpiles to hedge
against possible shortages in the future, Freedman said.  The Miho plant is located about 40 miles northwest of  Tokyo , Texas Instruments said. A second factory, in Aizu-
wakamatsu, was also damaged and will be returned to full
production by mid-April. The company said a third plant, located
500 miles south of Tokyo, was undamaged.  On March 8, Texas Instruments forecast first-quarter net
income of 56 cents to 60 cents a share on sales of $3.34 billion
to $3.48 billion, according to a statement. That compared with
profit of 59 cents on revenue of $3.4 billion, the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments slipped as much as 84 cents, or 2.4
percent, to $33.72 in extended trading after the announcement.
It had gained 17 cents to $34.56 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange.  Intel Corp . is the largest U.S. chipmaker.  Separately, Freescale Semiconductor Inc. said its plant in
Sendai, Japan, ceased operations following the earthquake. The
entire staff was safely evacuated, said Rob Hatley, a spokesman
for the Austin, Texas-based company.  Freescale has been unable to obtain a full damage
assessment because of disruptions to local communications, power
and transportation, he said. The factory, which makes chips used
in cars, is up for sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  