-- 
Cameco, Shaw Fall Most Since 1990s as Quake Generates Doubts About Nuclear

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-14T20:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/exelon-u-s-reactor-owners-fall-on-japan-meltdown-threat.html
Uranium producer  Cameco Corp. (CCO)  and
construction company  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  plunged the most in more
than a year on concern that a near-meltdown at a Japanese atomic
plant will cripple investment in the nuclear industry.  Companies ranging from  General Electric Co. (GE)  to  Exelon
Corp. (EXC) , owner of the largest group of U.S. nuclear power plants,
to fuel producers such as  Uranium One Inc. (UUU)  slumped as Tokyo
Electric Power Co. engineers tried to stabilize three reactors
damaged by the biggest earthquake in Japan’s history.  The battle to cool the Tepco units and prevent the release
of radiation brings to mind accidents at the Three Mile Island
plant near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in 1979 and at Chernobyl in
the Ukraine in 1986, Scott Levine, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  in New York, said in a report today.  “Previous disasters have prompted concerns regarding the
safety of nuclear power,” said Levine, who has a “neutral”
recommendation on Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based Shaw.  Shaw tumbled $3.52, or 9.2 percent, to $34.87 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That was the biggest
one-day decline since October 2009. The shares pared an intraday
decline of as much as 28 percent, the most since August 1998.  Worst Decline  Cameco, Canada’s largest uranium producer, dropped C$4.62,
or 13 percent, to C$31.70 in Toronto. That was the biggest drop
for the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company since October
2008. Vancouver-based Uranium One fell C$1.65, or 28 percent, to
C$4.31, for the worst plunge among 243 companies in the
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index.  While the  Japan  crisis is unlikely to prompt cancellation
of nuclear projects that have already been announced, reactors
still on the drawing board probably face “more protracted”
regulatory review, John Redstone, a Montreal-based analyst at
Desjardins Securities Inc., said today in a note to clients.  “Uranium demand should continue to grow on average at a
steady rate of roughly 2 percent per annum,” Redstone said in
the note. “What is called into question is the potential
acceleration of uranium demand.”  GE, which designed three of the boiling-water reactors at
the Fukushima Daiichi plant run by Tepco, is offering technical
assistance, Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt told
reporters in New Dehli. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE also is
pledging $5 million to relief efforts.  GE fell 44 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $19.92 in  New York 
trading, the lowest closing price since Jan. 26.  Overreaction on GE?  Investors probably were overreacting, because GE derives
only about 3 percent of its sales from Japan and is protected by
the country’s liability laws, according to notes today from two
New York-based analysts, Citigroup Inc.’s Deane Dray and
JPMorgan Stephen Tusa. Japan assigns nuclear-plant liability to
operators and shields manufacturers and suppliers, Dray wrote.  GE’s nuclear division operates through a 60-40 venture with
Hitachi Ltd. everywhere except Japan, where the venture is 80
percent owned by Hitachi. Annual revenue from GE’s portion of
the venture is about $1 billion, analysts estimate.  Shaw said yesterday it continues to believe nuclear power
will play an important role in the future of U.S. energy. New
technology has boosted safety, according to Shaw, which has been
counting on fresh interest in atomic power among countries
seeking to cut emissions of so-called greenhouse gases.  Shaw’s CEO  “At this time, we do not believe there will be an impact
on Shaw’s nuclear projects currently under construction in the  United States  and  China ,” CEO J.M. Bernhard Jr. said in a
statement. “Our customers have indicated they intend to move
forward.”  In the quarter ended Nov. 30, Shaw reported a third of its
$1.5 billion in sales came from the power unit, which includes
its nuclear business. The shares had gained 12 percent this year
before today.  The company said in November it was named as contractor to
develop a 2,700-megawatt nuclear power project in Texas, and is
the construction contractor on  Southern Co. (SO) ’s Vogtle Units 3 and
4 in Georgia, which may be the first to get a Nuclear Regulatory
Commission construction permit since 1979.  Shaw also has a 20 percent stake in Westinghouse Electric
Co., a nuclear-power technology provider controlled by Tokyo-
based  Toshiba Corp. (6502)   Exelon, Entergy  Exelon’s 17 reactors at 10 stations in  Illinois ,  New Jersey 
and Pennsylvania provide 20 percent of U.S. nuclear capacity,
according to the Chicago-based company’s website. About 20
percent of U.S. power is generated from nuclear plants,
JPMorgan’s Levine said.  Exelon slid 27 cents to $42.89 in New York trading.    Entergy Corp. (ETR) , the second-largest U.S. nuclear reactor
operator, is subject to possible regulatory delays as it seeks
to renew licenses for four reactors, Hugh Wynne, a New York-
based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note to
clients today. Entergy operates 12 reactors at 10 sites in New
York, Arkansas, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nebraska, and Vermont.    PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Diablo Canyon nuclear plant and  Edison
International (EIX) ’s San Onofre station, both in California, are at
similar risk of damage from earthquakes and tsunamis, Wynne
wrote.  Entergy, based in New Orleans, fell $3.60, or 4.9 percent,
to $70.09 in New York trading, while San Francisco-based PG&E
dropped $1.34, or 2.9 percent, to $44.41.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Thomas Black} in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  