-- 
Fatter Passengers May Lead to Bus Design Changes in U.S.

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-03-14T16:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/fatter-passengers-may-lead-to-bus-design-changes-in-u-s-.html
The U.S. government may adapt the
formula it uses to write municipal-bus safety rules because the
average passenger is getting heavier, a change that could lead
to changes in bus design.  The Federal Transit Administration, based in  Washington ,
proposed raising the assumed average weight per passenger to 175
pounds (79 kilograms) from 150 pounds, and calculating an
additional quarter of a square foot per passenger, for its
testing procedures. The proposal was  published  in today’s
Federal Register.  The agency, part of the Transportation Department, said it
submitted the change because commenters on an earlier bus safety
rule suggested it increase the average passenger weight “to an
amount that more accurately reflects the changes to the average
weight of Americans over the last several decades.”  Buses allow “crush loads” with all seats full and
passengers standing in the aisles at rush hours, the transit
administration said. For U.S. adults, the average  weight  for men
is 194.7 pounds and 164.7 pounds for women, according to the
Centers for Disease Control.  Bus manufacturers, which include  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ,
may choose to upgrade chassis, tires, wheels, brakes or
suspensions to carry more weight, the transit agency said in the
proposed rule. Vehicle upgrades, which the rule would not
mandate, could cost as much as $25,000, the agency said.  Spokesmen for the Federal Transit Administration and the
American Public Transportation Association, a Washington-based
public transportation advocate, had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  