-- 
FedEx Stops Accepting Eastern Japan Shipments on Quake Damage

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-03-14T22:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/fedex-stops-accepting-eastern-japan-shipments-on-quake-damage.html
  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  said it won’t accept
shipments to  Tokyo ’s Narita airport, reversing its initial plan,
as the world’s largest cargo airline struggles with the
aftermath of the earthquake that battered  Japan .  The decision to stop taking Narita-bound freight followed a
“clear assessment of local issues,” including a lack of power
and fuel that is preventing deliveries in eastern Japan, said
Jim McCluskey, a FedEx spokesman.  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx
had said March 11 it was still accepting shipments to Japan.  FedEx can’t fly cargo “destined to locations that you
can’t deliver to because of widespread destruction or other
infrastructure issues,” McCluskey said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “And we don’t want to fly freight in and have to
store it because we’ll run out of storage space.”  The cutoff in flights means a fourth day of limits on FedEx
service in Japan today after the March 11 quake, with ground
deliveries in the eastern part of the country also still
suspended.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  resumed Narita flights
over the weekend while also halting some ground shipments.  McCluskey said FedEx will continue to monitor the
infrastructure in eastern Japan to see when deliveries can
resume.  FedEx also has stopped taking deliveries bound for the U.S.
territory of  Guam ; Saipan in the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands; and the Japanese prefecture of Okinawa, in the
Ryukyu Islands south of Tokyo, according to McCluskey. Those
locations are served from Japan, he said.  UPS is continuing flights in and out of Narita even as
deliveries in some parts of Japan remain suspended, Susan Rosenberg, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. UPS is
the world’s largest package-delivery company.  FedEx fell $2.08, or 2.3 percent, to $88.63 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Atlanta-based
UPS slid 90 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $73.19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  