-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean President Admits His Role in $1.9 Billion Financial Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-14T20:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/former-taylor-bean-president-pleads-guilty-over-role-in-1-9-billion-fraud.html
Raymond E. Bowman, the former
president of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., admitted to
his role in what prosecutors said was a $1.9 billion fraud that
included attempting to deceive the federal bank bailout program.  Bowman, 45, who lives in Atlanta, pleaded guilty today in
federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , to one count of
conspiracy to commit  wire fraud , bank fraud and  securities fraud 
and one count of making false statements. Bowman also agreed to
cooperate with prosecutors’ probe of the company.  Federal prosecutors filed a criminal case against Bowman
last week before U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema, who has
presided over cases resulting from an alleged scheme that the
U.S. said sought to defraud the government’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery,
Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Bowman, who is set to be sentenced on June 10, faces a
maximum sentence of five years in prison on each count, plus a
fine of as much as $500,000 and full restitution to victims,
according to prosecutors. Brinkema asked prosecutors whether
they would file a forfeiture case against Bowman.  “That remains to be seen,” said Charles Connolly, an
assistant U.S. attorney in Alexandria. “The issue we’re
exploring is whether the defendant derived any benefit from the
fraud scheme.”  Previously Charged  Two other  Taylor Bean  executives, including former Chairman  Lee Farkas , were charged previously in the alleged scheme to
deceive financial firms and TARP by covering up shortfalls at
Ocala, Florida-based Taylor Bean. Taylor Bean was once the
largest non-depository mortgage lender in the U.S., the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a statement. Farkas’s
trial on 16 counts is set for April 4.  Desiree Brown, Taylor Bean’s former treasurer, and
Catherine Kissick, a former Colonial Bank executive, have
pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud, bank fraud
and securities fraud and agreed to cooperate in the government’s
prosecution of Farkas. Both also settled securities cases with
the SEC.  Brown and Kissick each face 30 years in prison, a $250,000
fine and an order to pay restitution to more than 250 victims.  Teresa Kelly, an operations supervisor at  Colonial Bank  who
reported directly to Kissick, is scheduled to plead guilty in
Alexandria on March 16, according to prosecutors.  Executives’ Conspiracy  Prosecutors said Taylor Bean executives conspired with
officials at Colonial Bank to transfer more than $400 million
between the bank and the mortgage lender in an effort to hide
Taylor Bean overdrafts.  Bowman admitted in court today that from late 2003 through
August 2009, he and others at Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank
conspired to defraud Colonial Bank, Colonial BancGroup Inc.,
shareholders of Colonial BancGroup, TARP, and investors in Ocala
Funding LLC, which included Deutsche Bank AG and BNP Paribas SA,
according to court documents.  The conspirators, in a scheme they called “Plan B,” sent
mortgage data to Colonial Bank for loans that didn’t exist or
that Taylor Bean had already committed or sold to other third-
party investors, according to court records.  For about four years, the conspirators sold fictitious and
improperly valued mortgage pools to Colonial Bank.  ‘No Value’  Bowman intentionally participated in the scheme, which
caused “Colonial Bank to purchase tens of millions of dollars
of purported assets from TBW that in fact had no value,”
according to a statement of facts filed today.  In January 2005, Taylor Bean established a company called
Ocala Funding as a financing vehicle for  mortgage loans . Bowman
learned from Farkas that within a year of its founding Ocala
Funding had a “significant collateral deficit.” By August 2009,
the deficit was $1.5 billion, according to court papers.  Prosecutors said the conspirators “had caused Colonial
Bank and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation   Freddie
Mac ) to falsely believe that they each had an undivided
ownership interest in thousands of the same loans worth hundreds
of millions of dollars.”  Bowman said in court papers that he knew co-conspirators
took actions that led to the bank filing false financial
statements with the SEC.  Lies to FBI  Bowman also admitted lying to agents from the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  and the Office of the Special Inspector
General for TARP when he told them he wasn’t aware of any plan B
loans or fraudulent activities at Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank.  Bowman was vice president and director of secondary
marketing at Taylor Bean from October 1999 until 2002. That
year, he was promoted to president and reported directly to
Farkas.  In court today, Bowman said he has “a consulting kind of
job” with a mortgage company. Bowman, who said he works from
home, didn’t name the company.  Alabama regulators seized Colonial Bank in 2009 and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. was appointed as receiver.  Colonial BancGroup Inc. (CBCGQ) , Colonial’s parent company, and Taylor
Bean filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  The case is U.S. v. Bowman, 11-cr-00118, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 