-- 
Former CEO Lederman Sues LSE’s Turquoise for Unfair Dismissal

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-15T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/former-turquoise-ceo-lederman-sues-lse-unit-for-unfair-dismissal.html
Former  Turquoise  Chief Executive
Officer Eli Lederman, who exited the alternative trading system
after its purchase by  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , is suing
for unfair dismissal, saying restrictions he faced after leaving
were “unwarranted.”  Lederman, 47, said the constraints were a “deliberate”
and “egregious usurpation of rights” and LSE has failed to
turn over all the documents he has sought. A  London  Employment
Tribunal is scheduled to begin hearing the case on March 17, the
court said.  “Serious questions still remain about the LSE Group’s
compliance with its legal obligations to disclose relevant
evidence in its possession,” he said in an e-mail yesterday.
“To date, no e-mails related to my dismissal have been
disclosed from Xavier Rolet or between LSE Group and any bank
shareholder.”  The exchange, led by CEO Rolet, completed its purchase of
Turquoise in February 2010 to compete with so-called
multilateral trading facilities that are backed by banks and
brokers. The trading system merged with LSE’s Baikal unit, a
dark pool that doesn’t display prices.  LSE replaced Lederman with David Lester, the director of
information Services at the exchange. Jonathan Blostone, a
spokesman for London-based LSE, declined to comment when
contacted yesterday.  John Wilson , CEO of Baikal, left along with
Lederman at the time the acquisition was completed, joining
spread-betting firm ETX Capital.  ‘Entirely Justified’  Lederman, a former managing director at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in
London, said in the e-mail that he decided to sue “when it
became clear that other members of the Turquoise team were also
pursuing claims against the LSE Group that I considered entirely
justified.”  The maximum award for unfair dismissal in  England  for a
claim filed before February of this year is 76,700 pounds
($124,000), said David von Hagen, an employment lawyer at
Winckworth Sherwood LLP in London.  “I’ve known banks that’ll say: ‘that doesn’t scare us, do
your worst,’” he said. “What’s much more scary is what can be
disclosed in terms of evidence.”  Turquoise was set up by LSE’s biggest customers including
Morgan Stanley,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Bank of America Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and had taken
market share from LSE and other traditional exchanges.  TMX Purchase  LSE last month agreed to buy TMX Group Inc., owner of the
Toronto Stock Exchange, for about $3.2 billion in stock. Ontario
Finance Minister Dwight Duncan has called the Toronto exchange a
“strategic asset” and has questioned the impact of the deal on
the province and country.  Lederman’s action comes as exchanges, alternative trading
systems such as Bats Europe and Chi-X Europe Ltd., European
Union regulators and clearinghouses prepare to gather next week
at the  World Exchange Congress  to debate the issues confronting
the industry as consolidation gathers pace.  Speakers include Alasdair Haynes, CEO of Chi-X  Europe , the
region’s largest alternative trading system, and Lester, who now
runs Turquoise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  