-- 
Formula 1 Driver Lewis Hamilton Signs With David Beckham's Management Team

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-14T12:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/formula-1-driver-lewis-hamilton-signs-with-david-beckham-s-management-team.html
Formula One driver  Lewis Hamilton 
signed up to the agency that represents former England soccer
captain David Beckham and Scottish tennis player  Andy Murray .  Hamilton, now 26, was the youngest-ever Formula One
champion when he drove his McLaren to the 2008 title at age 23.
His record was surpassed last season by Red Bull’s  Sebastian
Vettel , who beat Hamilton’s mark by six months.  The deal with  XIX Entertainment , a company controlled by
American Idol creator  Simon Fuller , will also include joint
business ventures.  “I took my time to make this decision as it had to be
right for my career and my long-term future,” Hamilton said in
a press release.  Hamilton, who was managed by his father Anthony until the
arrangement ended last year, is one of Formula One’s most
marketable drivers. Fuller said he’s “one of the leading
sportsmen of his generation” and expects his profile to grow
further.  The Briton finished second in his debut season, a point
behind world champion Kimi Raikkonen of Ferrari. A year later he
clinched the title on the final lap of the Brazilian Grand Prix.
He finished fourth last season, 16 points behind Vettel.  The first race of the new Formula One season is on March 27
in  Melbourne . Hamilton last week said the new McLaren car needs
improvements if it’s to push him to another title.  “I have every belief in my heart that I can win many, many
more world championships,” he said. “But do I believe I have a
car to win the world championship at the moment? I don’t.”  Also today, Red Bull said it extended its contract with
Vettel until the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 