-- 
Four Ways the U.S. Can Help Japan, Also Itself: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-03-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/four-ways-the-u-s-can-help-japan-also-itself-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
How can we help?  That’s the first question that comes to American minds as
the size and scope of  Japan ’s disaster unfolds. Click on PayPal
to send money for emergency shelters. Sponsor a child from
Sendai. Encourage General Electric Chief Executive  Jeffrey Immelt  to send nuclear engineers.  This week of horror has generated record good will in the
U.S. toward Japan.  There is a way the U.S. can help. Of course, it starts with
traditional aid. This week, this month, this year, the U.S. will
ship resources to Japan.  There is another, more important way to express our good
will.  We can shift our economic policies. This will mean more
to Japan than any material gift.  To see why, consider pre-quake Japan. The country’s
national debt was already enormous, ranking up there with
Lebanon’s as a share of its economy. Last summer  China  surpassed
Japan as the world’s second-largest economy, an enormous setback
to Japanese pride. Then consider our own country, which is
lurching toward recovery. If Japan is to stabilize and avoid a
future in China’s shadow, it needs to grow faster. And it needs
a strong U.S. to be a counterbalance to China.  Fewer Trade-Offs  The first U.S. move is the easiest: when it comes to trade,
stop being a prissy multilateralist. From the  World Trade
Organization  to the  North American Free Trade Agreement , postwar
trade in the U.S. has been about lengthy agreements crafted by
experts and government officials involving trade-offs that take
years, even decades, to arrange. In multilateral talks the rule
is too often fairness over speed. Multilateralists think it
isn’t worthwhile to conclude a fast agreement if it isn’t fair.  The  Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership  for the
Asia-Pacific region is a good example. It’s a trade group that
includes the U.S.,  Malaysia ,  Singapore  and  Vietnam . Japan has
said it wants to discuss joining. But right now it can’t because
the other participants would demand Japan drop some of its
protection for farmers. Letting Japan in with its current
tariffs on foreigners wouldn’t be fair, the thinking goes.  Now is the time to forget about fairness and just say,
“Come on in, guys,” with or without trade concessions. Trade
negotiations on specific items matter less right now; inclusion
matters more. In addition, it’s time to suspend the longstanding
bilateral haggles the U.S. has with Japan. If the Japanese are
behind in learning the value of free trade, let them learn by
watching the U.S. example. Multilateral trade that is more
flexible, or plain old unilateral free trade, can have more
effect than diplomatic rounds held for their own sake.  It’s Japan’s Time  “It’s time for Japan to have a free-trade agreement with
the U.S. and to be in the Transpacific Partnership,” says
Carlos Gutierrez, Commerce Secretary under President  George W. Bush  and now vice chairman at Citigroup.  The second thing the U.S. can do is stop kidding everyone
about infrastructure as stimulus. The natural response of the
U.S. now -- the most likely expression of our good will -- is to
write a multibillion-dollar foreign aid bill so Japan can
rebuild its cities, secure the coastline and clean up its
nuclear power mess. When this law is passed, U.S. lawmakers will
tell themselves that the gift serves two purposes: it rebuilds
infrastructure and supplies economic stimulus. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  signaled he too saw stimulus and infrastructure as one
over the weekend when he called for a Great Depression-style New
Deal for Japan.  Bad Medicine  Infrastructure spending as stimulus is no medicine for
dramatic downturns or tsunamis. In fact, the very reason Japan
was carrying destabilizing amounts of debt even before the quake
was its infrastructure spending that failed to stimulate. Our
own emphasis on stimulus plans that included infrastructure gave
a lurching quality to recent growth. Now everyone is concerned
that, absent stimulus, the U.S. can’t grow farther. So sure,
Japan will need new infrastructure now. But that infrastructure
should be recognized for what it is: brick, wire, mortar.
Remember, though, that growth comes from competitiveness, not  government spending .  The third thing we can do is ease immigration rules so that
more Japanese can study or work here. Japanese already have a
presence in American universities. Make that presence larger.
Then they will be less likely to stick to their old ways of
protectionism and cronyism.  Lower Tax Rates  The fourth move for the U.S. would be to pass laws that
strengthen our own growth. That means lowering our  tax rates ,
including corporate taxes, so that Americans make more and buy
more. This isn’t selfish. It’s actually generous, because it
gives Japan a strong western ally to offset expansive China.
Militarily, economically and politically, a strong U.S. ally
gives Japan more leeway to set its own path.  Impossible. That will be the response to all these
proposals, especially the ideas about trade. U.S. farmers and
automakers will allow gradual staged change, but not rapid
shifts that overnight increases their own sector’s exposure to
Japanese competition. The Japanese will never give up protection
for beef or rice. Here’s where that unprecedented good will,
that urgent desire to help a stricken country represents
opportunity. If we are ever going to widen our markets, this is
the moment. The same holds for Japan. An open U.S., a flexible
friend, is the kind of help Japan can use most.    Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the  Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Amity Shlaes at
 amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  