-- 
France Extends Shale Gas, Oil Exploration Ban as ‘Precaution’

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-14T07:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/france-extends-shale-gas-oil-exploration-ban-as-precaution-.html
  France  extended a ban on searching
for natural gas and oil in shale rock until two reports on the
environmental and economic effects of exploring for the
unconventional resources are published in June.  Prime Minister Francois Fillon ordered that “no
unconventional drilling take place” until the government and
parliamentary reports are made public, according to a statement
from March 11. France last month imposed a moratorium until at
least mid-April and the extension rests on the “principal of
precaution” because of environmental risk, he said.  Explorers for shale gas and oil in France had started
drilling in some cases or were preparing to begin on permits
awarded by the government in the Paris Basin area around the
capital, as well as in the country’s south. Environmental groups
have said drilling risks contaminating the water supply because
chemicals are used when blasting shale to extract resources, a
method that has also met opposition in the U.S.  “Exploration work for shale oil and gas has sparked
legitimate questions from populations living near the sites,”
the French prime minister said.    Toreador Resources Corp. (TRGL)  planned this month to drill the
first of three wells at the Chateau Thierry permit outside Paris
to explore for shale oil, while Vermilion Energy Inc. was
planning to fracture shale in three existing wells after
exploration last year, the government and companies have said.  Total SA holds the southern French Montelimar permit for
shale gas while  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA has had talks with Schuepbach Energy
LLC on taking a stake in two permits that company holds in
southern France to explore for unconventional gas.  “We don’t even know whether there is shale gas,” Total
Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said March 11.
“We’ll wait until everyone agrees on what should be done or
not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net  