-- 
Fukushima May Top Three Mile Island, French Watchdog Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-14T17:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/fukushima-may-top-three-mile-island-french-watchdog-says-1-.html
  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai Ichi nuclear
plant has likely released more radioactivity than Three Mile
Island and the crisis could last for weeks, according to
France’s nuclear watchdog.  The event may rate 5 or 6 on the seven-step scale of
nuclear incidents, Andre-Claude Lacoste, chairman of the
Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, said at a briefing in Paris today.
“There is no doubt there was the beginning of a meltdown of the
core of reactors 1 and 3 and likely 2 as well.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. engineers are trying to stabilize
the three reactors, which were damaged by the biggest earthquake
in Japan’s history on March 11. The plant was struck by a second
explosion earlier today and water levels dropped at the No. 2
reactor, exposing fuel rods on two occasions. The utility said
it can’t rule out the possibility that the fuel rods are
melting, heightening the chance of a meltdown.  “We believe that the measures the Japanese authorities
have taken to protect the population are sufficient,” Agnes
Buzyn, head of  France ’s Institut de Radioprotection et de Surete
Nucleaire, another nuclear regulatory body, said today at the
same press conference.  “Significant radioactivity was released and certainly more
than at Three Mile Island,” she said, declining to provide
figures. The Three Mile Island nuclear accident, in 1979, was
the worst in U.S. history.  The French officials said they are basing their assessment
on information provided by Japanese nuclear authorities.  Beginning of a Crisis  The cooling system failed at the Dai-Ichi No. 2 reactor
while a hydrogen explosion occurred at the No. 3 reactor today,
following a similar blast on March 12 at the No. 1 reactor that
destroyed the walls of its building. The utility has been
flooding the reactors with water and boric acid to reduce the
risk of a large release of radioactivity.  “We are without a doubt at the beginning of the crisis,”
Lacoste said, adding that while he could not estimate how long
it will take to gain control over the nuclear reactors in Japan,
it may take “weeks.”  “This isn’t a nuclear catastrophe; it’s a very serious
accident,” he said. France’s existing 58 reactors operated by
Electricite de France SA aren’t the same type of reactor as the
ones in Japan so the ASN isn’t providing technical advice to
Japanese authorities.  The Fukushima accident could resemble Three Mile Island
where there was a partial meltdown of a reactor core with
“moderate” radioactivity released into the atmosphere if
Japanese authorities are able to cool the cores, Lacoste said.  The use of sea water, which is being used to cool the
reactors, is “typically an emergency measure” and is
“horrible,” Lacoste said, adding that this has never been the
subject of experimentation because nuclear reactors normally
require water that is as clean as possible so as not to clog up
pipes and cooling circuits.  “It’s a situation that is requiring emergency measures to
cool the reactors,” he said. “If there is a complete meltdown
of a core we will have a much more serious accident on our
hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  