-- 
Fulham Soccer Club Loss Widens to $27 Million on Costs of Europa Success

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-14T14:35:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/fulham-soccer-club-loss-widens-to-27-million-on-costs-of-europa-success.html
Fulham’s loss widened last fiscal
year on higher costs as the Premier League soccer club reached
the final of the Europa League.  The loss at the club owned by Mohamed Al-Fayed surged to
16.9 million pounds ($27.2 million) from 6.9 million pounds on
the expense of hosting extra games and player-trading costs,
according to accounts published by  Companies House .  Sales climbed 15 percent to a record 77.1 million pounds in
the year to June 30, boosted by the European run, which
contributed 12.5 million pounds.  The London team beat clubs including Juventus, Hamburg and
defending champion Shakhtar Donetsk before losing to Atletico  Madrid  in its first European final. Egyptian businessman Al-
Fayed sold London department store Harrods to the Qatar royal
family for 1.5 billion pounds last year.  “As is evident, I remain committed to making investment
funds available to achieve our goals both on and off the
pitch,” Fayed said in a statement that accompanied the
accounts. “The continued success of  Fulham  and its eventual
financial self-sustainability is my priority.”  Al-Fayed, 78, spent millions of pounds on the team to take
it from the third tier to the Premier League within four years
of buying Fulham in 1997. It’s now playing its 10th consecutive
season in the top flight.  The owner has provided “written indications” of continued
funding, the accounts said. He’s already loaned more than 160
million pounds to the team on an unsecured, interest-free basis,
and is one of several Premier League club owners who support
clubs with their own funds.  The Cottagers’ form last season, which also included a
12th-place league finish and a run to the quarterfinals of the
F.A. Cup, led to 18-time English champion Liverpool recruiting
its manager  Roy Hodgson . His tenure at Anfield lasted just six
months and he was fired in January after presiding over the
team’s worst start to a season in half a century.  Fulham, now managed by  Mark Hughes , is 11th in the Premier
League after 29 games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  