-- 
Merkel Puts Plan to Extend Life of Germany's Nuclear Power Plants on Hold

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-14T15:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/germany-suspends-plan-to-extend-life-of-nuclear-power-plants-merkel-says.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  put
government plans to prolong the lifespan of  Germany ’s nuclear
power plants on hold for three months pending the outcome of an
inquiry into reactor safety following the disaster in Japan.  An independent commission will be set up to conduct the
inquiry, and talks are underway with industry on what the
moratorium means for the operation of Germany’s 17 nuclear
reactors, Merkel said. She indicated that may result in the
closure of some plants that were slated to be shut down under
Germany’s old nuclear law.  “There are no taboos,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin
today. “Everything will be put under review.”    E.ON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s largest utility, had its biggest drop in
six months and renewable-power stocks rose today amid concerns
the explosions at two Japanese reactors may spur Merkel’s
government to backtrack on plans to extend the lifespan of
nuclear plants by an average of 12 years.  Merkel reiterated that nuclear power is a “bridge
technology” to renewable forms of energy. She said the
government would discuss the possible closure of reactors with
utilities. The moratorium won’t affect power supply, she said.  “Given the already low level of voters’ support for
nuclear power in Germany, it seems likely that the pressure on
the government to cancel the life extension will increase,” Per Lekander, a UBS AG analyst, said before the announcement.
“There are important state elections in two weeks’ time, which
could influence the upcoming nuclear debate.”  State Election  The opposition  Social Democrats  and Greens, which both
oppose the nuclear-power extension, are running neck-and-neck
with Merkel’s bloc in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg before
elections on March 27. Merkel’s CDU has ruled the state
uninterrupted for more than half a century.    Guido Westerwelle , the vice chancellor and foreign
minister, called earlier for international negotiations on the
future of nuclear power involving the Vienna-based  International
Atomic Energy Agency  and the European Union, among others.  There’s a need to review cooling systems in particular,
Westerwelle said. It’s too early to say whether some of the
oldest reactors in Germany will need to be taken offline
immediately, he said.  “Safety remains for us the highest priority, above
economic interests,” Westerwelle said. “We can’t just return
to business as usual” after  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net  