-- 
Greek, Spanish, Italian Bonds Advance as Expanded Bailout Plan Is Unveiled

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T16:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/german-bund-yields-approach-one-week-low-on-earthquake-bailout-expanded.html
Greek, Spanish and Portuguese bonds
rallied after European Union leaders agreed on a retooled
bailout plan for the region’s most indebted nations, curbing
concern that they will be unable to repay their debts.  Yields on 10-year Greek debt sank the most in more than two
months following the agreement to widen the scope of rescue
efforts aimed at resolving the EU’s debt crisis. German bunds
were lower after a report showed European  industrial production 
increased in January for a fourth consecutive month.  “The peripherals as a whole are performing pretty well,
which makes sense given that the rescue package agreement came
earlier than expected,” said Owen Roberts, a London-based
fixed-income analyst at Morgan Stanley. “The market likes the
fact that policy makers are making progress, which is why we’re
seeing this positive rally in peripheral bonds. It doesn’t solve
the debt crisis though, so this could only be positive in the
short term.”  Yields on 10-year Greek debt fell as much as 61 basis
points, the biggest drop since Jan. 11, and were 38 basis points
lower at 12.43 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  London . The price of
the securities maturing in June 2020 rose 1.53, or 15.30 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,398) face amount, to 66.95. The two-year note
yield dropped 69 basis points to 16.39 percent.  Yields on similar-maturity Spanish debt slid 16 basis
points to 5.27 percent and Italian 10-year bond yields were
eight basis points lower at 4.79 percent. The rate on Portuguese
bonds maturing in 2021 dropped 16 basis points to 7.44 percent.  Irish Gains  Portuguese 10-year debt snapped a five-day run of declines
as the March 12 agreement came two weeks sooner than investors
anticipated. Yields on the bonds, together with Greek and Irish
10-year securities, had reached the highest levels since the
start of the euro in 1999 last week.  Policy makers also agreed to ease the terms of Greek rescue
loans and will allow the 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility  bailout fund  to be used to its full extent.  “There are a lot of positive things to come out of this
rescue agreement,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-
market debt at ING Groep in Amsterdam. “It’s a very clean
outcome. Spreads have come in a bit but I wouldn’t expect a
massive convergence from here onwards. A lot of the positives
have been priced in.”  Irish Bonds  Irish 10-year bond yields slid 16 basis points to
9.49 percent, narrowing the yield premium over similar-maturity
German debt by 17 basis points to 6.26 percent. Yields on
benchmark Irish debt had earlier climbed as much as four basis
points to 9.69 percent.  Gains in Irish bonds may be due to “market discussions
that there could be further announcements about the Ireland
situation,” said Morgan Stanley’s Roberts.  Ireland’s bid for fiscal relief was rejected following
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s refusal to yield to calls to raise
the country’s 12.5 percent corporate  tax rate . The European
Union should regularly review the terms of Ireland’s bailout and
discuss other options instead of demanding that it raise its
corporate tax rate, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden told
reporters before a meeting with euro-area counterparts in
Brussels today.  EU leaders also rejected calls to buy bonds in the open
market or finance nations’ debt buybacks.  Industrial Production  The additional yield investors demand to hold 10-year
Spanish bonds instead of benchmark German bunds fell 17 basis
points to 204 basis points, after reaching 197 basis points, the
least since Feb. 7. The difference in yield, or spread, between
Italian 10-year bonds and German debt narrowed 10 basis points
to 155 basis points, while the spread between Greek and German
10-year bonds tightened 39 basis points to 921 basis points.  Industrial production in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.3
percent from December, when it also increased 0.3 percent, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
That matched the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The yield on  Germany ’s two-year note was two basis points
lower at 1.64 percent, while that of the German bund was one
basis point higher at 3.22 percent.    Europe ’s peripheral governments led a decline in the cost
of insuring the region’s sovereign debt, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps on  Greece  tumbled 56 basis points to 987,
while contracts on Italy fell 11 to 169, Portugal dropped 27 to
486 and  Spain  fell 17 to 240.  Spanish Auction  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index fell 9 basis
points to 179.7, the biggest drop in five weeks, according to
Markit Group Ltd.  Irish swaps rose 21 basis points to 619, CMA prices show.  While the summit result is “being claimed as a significant
move, it is essentially the minimum the market expected,” wrote
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets currency strategists Adrian Schmidt and  Kenneth Broux  in an e-mailed note today.  “The issue of whether  Portugal  will seek a bailout remains
extant,” the analysts wrote. “On balance, the news will be
seen as positive for the euro, though only modestly so.”  Spain is scheduled to sell bonds maturing 2021 and 2041 on
March 17. Investors bid for 1.54 times the 10-year securities on
offer at a sale of the debt on Feb. 16, the lowest bid-to-cover
ratio for the securities since September 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “This week’s long-end auctions in Spain will be a first
crucial test for the market’s appetite for peripheral paper
after the summit,” wrote Commerzbank’s Rieger. “With Spain
being the only peripheral country scheduled to be active this
week, we expect this important test to be passed with relatively
good marks.”  Portugal will continue tapping the bond markets without
falling back on official European aid, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos told reporters in Brussels today.  Belgium hired banks to sell benchmark-size bonds due June
2017, two people with knowledge of the sale said. Ten-year
Belgian yields were 10 basis points lower at 4.14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  