-- 
HIV Drug Development Falters as Merck, Bristol-Myers Struggle With Success

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/gilead-s-high-bar-for-aids-drugs-means-new-development-withers.html
  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s
biggest AIDS-drug maker, revolutionized treatment and helped
forge a $15 billion market with a single daily pill attacking
the virus with three medicines at once.  Now,  Foster City , California-based Gilead and rivals Merck
& Co. and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are victims of that success.
Three decades after the discovery of the virus that causes AIDS,
there are 31 drugs on the market that have helped turn HIV from
a death sentence into a manageable disease in the developed
world. Only six were approved after 2004.  “The bar for bringing on a drug in HIV has gotten
higher,” said George Hanna, vice president of virology for U.S.
medical and HIV early development at Bristol-Myers, based in  New
York . “You can no longer bring to market a drug you’re going to
have to take three times a day. All of a sudden, we’re seeing a
lot less in the pipeline.”  Medicines created over the years have become safer, more
effective, have attacked the virus in new ways and have
eliminated the need for as many as 20 pills a day. As drugmakers
struggle to top that achievement, millions of HIV patients face
the possibility of the virus becoming fatal again if it shifts
shape inside cells to outsmart existing therapies.  HIV has been a formidable foe for drug designers, mutating
around chemical hurdles placed in its way. The attack begins
when the virus attaches to a cell surface receptor and uses a
protein to force its way inside. Most existing families of drugs
stop HIV from hijacking proteins to enter cells or block its
ability to copy itself once inside.  Developing Resistance  Without a steady stream of new medicines to attack the
virus in different ways, drug resistance will develop, leaving
more patients without a viable treatment, said Scott Hammer, a
professor of medicine at  Columbia University  in New York.  “If we are complacent, resistance will start to spread
against the key components of our therapies,” Hammer said in an
interview. “We need to be ready for that because we won’t be
able to catch up after it happens.”  Gilead generated $6.3 billion from HIV drugs in 2010,
capturing more than 40 percent of the market. Atripla, a three-
drug combination pill approved in 2006, is the most widely used
AIDS medicine. It mixes Gilead’s two-drug medicine Truvada,
approved in 2004, with Bristol-Myers’s pill Sustiva.    Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Merck were the last to introduce new
families of medicine for HIV in 2007. Selzentry, the first AIDS
drug to block the CCR5 pathway that allows cell entry, generated
$128 million last year for New York-based Pfizer and its partner  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New
Jersey , had 2010 sales of $1.1 billion for Isentress, which
inhibits the integrase protein used by HIV to enter healthy
immune cells.  Shrinking Pipelines  Intelence, from  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based Johnson &
Johnson, was the last AIDS drug approved -- three years ago.  At that time, there were seven drugs in the third and final
stage of testing needed for U.S. regulatory approval, according
to a report by Treatment Access Group, an AIDS activist and
research organization. None have made it to the market, and only
two of them remain in third-stage testing.  There are about 60 drugs in various stages of development
for HIV, down from 100 in 2006, said Courtney Stanton, an
analyst in the infectious diseases group at  Decision Resources 
in Burlington,  Massachusetts . Ten were discontinued or put on
hold in the past year, while seven now are at the end of
development, she said.  Recent failures by Merck and Avex Ltd., an Australian
biotechnology company highlight the difficulty drugmakers face
in coming up with a medicine that advances HIV treatment.  Drugs Abandoned  Merck ended work on vicriviroc, a drug similar to
Selzentry, in previously treated patients in January 2010 after
it failed to outperform existing therapies. Avexa, an Australian
biotechnology company, scrapped apricitabine last May after five
years of development. The drug was taken twice daily, putting it
at a disadvantage to Gilead’s Truvada, one of the best-selling
HIV treatments.  The availability of powerful combination treatments in the
developed world means the number of people desperate for new
drugs and available to participate in studies has plummeted,
Decision Resources’ Stanton said.  “There are very few HIV patients now who can’t find
effective treatment,” she said in a telephone interview. “And
it’s become extraordinarily hard to show you are effective in a
treatment-experienced HIV patient.”  The development process was more productive around the turn
of the century. HIV was evading existing treatments, like
London-based Glaxo’s AZT and Merck’s Crixivan, and drug-
resistance was spreading. Doctors and patients clamored for
additional options, and clinical trials were in demand as the
only way to get the newest treatments. A better understanding of
the virus gave drugmakers numerous targets.  Longer Studies  Drug studies are also taking more time to complete, said
Norbert Bischofberger, Gilead’s chief scientific officer. The
FDA now wants 48 weeks of data, and will ask companies to keep
patients in the study for longer, up from 16 weeks initially, he
said. Doctors want to see two or three years of data before
putting their patients on a drug. European regulators have
proposed extending the studies further to 96 weeks, he said.  “Honestly, that’s probably a good thing,” Bischofberger
said. “It reflects that we have really good regimens.”  Gilead is fashioning a new mixture dubbed B-tripla that
replaces Bristol’s Sustiva in Atripla with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
drug TMC278. It also has a four-drug cocktail in development
called Quad that uses all Gilead products. Longer term, Gilead
is examining ways they could deliver HIV drugs once a month or
even less frequently, as with some contraceptives, he said.  33 Million People  The number of people with HIV continues to grow. Each year,
56,000 Americans are infected with the virus, particularly gay
men and minorities, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention . There were 2.6 million new infections globally
in 2009, with more than 33 million people living with the virus,
according to UNAIDS. Now, the ultimate goal is a cure.  “The profit motives that drove HIV drug development are
no longer there because the drugs are so good,” said Jacob Lalezari, director of  Quest Clinical Research , a San Francisco
clinical trial center, said in an interview. “It’s the greatest
success of western medicine in our lifetime. And the success of
HIV drugs is leading to its own demise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  