-- 
Goldman Sachs, Citigroup Plan $1.4 Billion Commercial Mortgage Bond Sale

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-03-14T17:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/goldman-citigroup-plan-1-4-billion-of-commercial-mortgage-debt.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are marketing $1.4 billion of bonds tied to
commercial property loans as Wall Street ramps up lending.  The issue is tied to 57 mortgages on 111 properties across
the U.S. with the highest concentration in Texas, according to a
person familiar with the offering who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t public.  The transaction will bring 2011 sales of commercial-
mortgage backed securities to about $8 billion, compared with
$11.5 billion in all of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Turmoil in the Middle East has caused investors in
the debt to pull back and increased the relative yield sellers
have had to pay in the past month, according to a March 11
report from  Barclays Capital .  “Broader markets have played a key role in this widening,
with the spike in crude oil being the prime mover,” said the
New York-based analysts led by Julia Tcherkassova.  Crude oil climbed to a 29-month high of $105.44 a barrel in
New York on March 7 amid fighting in  Libya . Protests planned in  Saudi Arabia , the largest oil producer in the Middle East, also
raised supply concerns. Stocks have fallen as rising fuel costs
threaten the economic recovery, Barclays said.  Top-rated securities backed by skyscraper, hotel and
shopping mall loans are yielding 2.02 percentage points more
than Treasuries, compared with 1.91 percentage points a month
ago, according to a Barclays index.  Vulnerability to Oil  Some property types are more vulnerable to elevated  oil
prices  if unrest in the Middle East persists, according to
Barclays. The performance of shopping centers and malls is
closely linked to  consumer spending , which could fall if rising
fuel prices eat into household budgets, according to Barclays.  Retail properties account for 53 percent of newly issued
commercial-mortgage bonds sold since the market revived in April
of last year, Barclays data show. About 60 percent of the
Goldman Sachs-Citigroup sale is backed by retail buildings. The
largest loan in the pool is a $125.7 million mortgage on the
Arlington Highlands mall in Texas.  Sales of commercial-mortgage bonds may rise to $45 billion
this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. They plummeted to
$3.4 billion in 2009 as credit markets seized. The market peaked
with $234 billion in CMBS sales in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  