-- 
Saudi Troops Enter Bahrain to Help Restore Security Amid Shiite Protests

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-14T18:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/gulf-council-troops-enter-bahrain-to-help-restore-security-amid-protests.html
Saudi Arabian troops moved into  Bahrain  as part of a regional force from the Gulf Cooperation
Council, the first outside intervention since a wave of popular
uprisings swept through parts of the Arab world.  A military force from the  United Arab Emirates  will also
take part, the state-run Emirates News Agency reported. The UAE
contingent is part of the GCC’s Joint Peninsula Shield, a
military coalition established to protect the six member states
from outside attack. More than 100 military vehicles crossed
into Bahrain, al-Jazeera television said.  Mainly Shiite protesters in Bahrain have been demonstrating
since Feb. 14, demanding democracy through free elections from
their Sunni monarch. Shiites comprise as much as 70 percent of
the population. King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa has offered a
national “dialogue” toward limited changes in response, which
has not quieted protesters.  “There is probably a sense that the ruling family in
Bahrain is feeling threatened and I think the GCC unspoken rule
is: We are here to protect each other, not just as countries but
as ruling families,” said Abdulkhaleq Abdullah, a professor of
politics at the United Arab Emirates University in  Abu Dhabi .    Saudi Arabia ’s cabinet said the kingdom has responded to a
Bahraini request for “support”, the official Saudi Press
Agency reported today, without being specific about the nature
of the support provided.  Financial Markets  Bahrain’s 10-year dollar bond fell with the yield on the
5.5 percent bond maturing in March 2020 climbing 19 basis
points, the most since Feb. 15, to 6.50 percent as of 5:50 p.m.
in Dubai, according to prices compiled on Bloomberg. Crude  oil
prices  have advanced 17 percent since the start of the unrest in
Bahrain.  Khalil al-Marzooq, a member of al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite
opposition party, said GCC intervention would “destroy the
economy and cause a financial crisis.”  “This is an internal issue,” al-Marzooq said in a phone
interview today.  Sending the GCC troops is a “huge gamble,” Abdullah said.
“It might make a difficult situation much more difficult.”  The protests in the tiny kingdom have fueled fears of a
regional Shiite uprising supported by mainly Shiite  Iran . Many
Shiite Bahrainis retain cultural and family ties with Iran and
with Shiites in eastern Saudi Arabia; Bahrain’s Sunni ruling
family has close links with Saudi Arabia, which holds 20 percent
of the world’s oil reserves.  U.S. Message  The U.S. is urging Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, to allow non-violent protests and encouraging Gulf
nations to use restraint, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told
reporters at the White House.  Saudi Arabia views the unrest in Bahrain with concern. Its
minority Shiite population, who make up about 10 to 15 percent
of the population, have been holding protests every Thursday and
Friday for the past few weeks in towns and villages a short
drive from the Bahrain causeway. The Saudi Shiites have demanded
the release of Shiite prisoners held without public trial since
1996.  Iranian foreign minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  has called on the
Bahraini government to refrain from using violence against
protesters.  “It is expected from the Bahraini government to deal with
the demands of the people with insight, and to respect the
rights of people who are following up on their demands through
peaceful means,” Salehi was quoted as saying yesterday by the
state-run Press TV news channel.  Rapid-Reaction Force  The Joint Peninsula Shield was originally set up as a
rapid-reaction force to help in the event of an outside attack,
according to  Paul Sullivan  at the Washington-based National
Defense University.  The last time it was used to any extent was in Kuwait to be
a symbolic message of the GCC to protect  Kuwait  from  Saddam
Hussein , he added. The shield comprises about 10,000 persons and
has units from all the GCC countries, said Sullivan.  Bahrain’s army urged “citizens and residents to cooperate
completely and welcome” the troops, the official Bahrain News
Agency said.  The forces have entered the country to protect “vital
installations in Bahrain and maintain stability and security,”
Jamal Fakhro, the first deputy chairman of the Bahrain Shura
Council, said today in a telephone interview.  Martial Law  Earlier today, Bahraini lawmakers urged King Hamad to
impose martial law to stamp out the protests.  Parliament’s Independent Bloc appealed to King Hamad to
“intervene and protect national security,” the state-run
Bahrain News Agency reported. The bloc also urged a ban “on all
illegitimate acts which may instigate violence and terror,” BNA
said.  Meanwhile, Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh, whose
country has been shaken by opposition protests demanding his
ouster since last month, has announced changes to the government
of Prime Minister Ali Mohammed Mujawar, state-run Saba News
Agency reported.  According to the presidential decree, Hamoud Mohammad was
named Minister of Endowments and Guidance and Aref Awa Zoka has
become Youth and Sports Minister, the report said  Two American and two British journalists were detained in
the Yemeni capital today. Daisy Organ, media officer for the
U.K. Embassy in Sana’a, said in a telephone interview that the
mission is in contact with the Yemeni government over the
detentions.  The U.S. embassy in Yemen said in a statement it has
“received reports on the detention of foreign journalists and
we are currently in contact with the Yemen government on this
issue.”  The Dutch government called upon all Dutch nationals to
leave Yemen as soon as possible because of increasing political
unrest, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  