-- 
Iberdrola Advances After Qatar Holding Purchases 6% Stake for $2.8 Billion

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-03-14T09:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/iberdrola-to-sell-2-8-billion-stake-to-qatar-holdings-shares-advance.html
  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the world’s biggest
wind-energy company, said it will sell a stake to  Qatar  Holdings
LLC for 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) to cement a strategic
alliance. The shares climbed 2.6 percent in Madrid.  The state-owned investment company’s Qatar Holding
Luxembourg II SARL unit will acquire 6.2 percent in Iberdrola
through a capital increase and the sale of treasury stock, the
Spanish power company said today in a regulatory filing. The
shares rose to 6.11 euros as of 10:36 a.m. local time.  Iberdrola is looking to bolster its balance sheet after
acquiring Brazilian power distributor Elektro Eletricidade e
Servicos SA and offering to buy out minority shareholders in its
renewable-power unit. The Qatar deal will let Iberdrola limit
its borrowing and protect its  credit rating , the company said.  Iberdrola last week offered about 2.5 billion euros in
shares for the 20 percent of  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR)  owned by
other investors. It agreed to pay 1.8 billion euros for Elektro
in January.  Iberdrola and Qatar Holding will work together to find new
business opportunities in the developing world and Iberdrola
will set up a regional headquarters in Qatar.  Qatar Holding will buy new shares equivalent to 6.2 percent
of Iberdrola’s current capitalization and treasury stock
equivalent to 0.4 percent of the company for 5.633 euros each.
That will give Qatar Holding a 6.2 percent stake in the enlarged
capital.  The holding company is a unit of the Qatar Investment
Authority and owns stakes in Agricultural Bank of  China , Banco
Santander SA, Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse AG as well as
Porsche Automobil Holding SE and Volkswagen AG, according to the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  