-- 
IBM Deal Drought Reaches Longest Since 2003, Cash at $11 Billion

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-03-14T13:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ibm-deal-drought-reaches-longest-since-2003-cash-at-11-billion.html
     March 14 (Bloomberg) -  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  has hit its longest stretch without an acquisition in
almost eight years, even as the company holds about $11 billion
in cash on its balance sheet.  The company, which has made more than 100 deals in the past
decade, last announced a purchase on Oct. 21, more than four
months ago. That’s the longest period since May 2003, when an
acquisition ended a five-month drought, according to Bloomberg
data. If it lasts another 15 days, the dry spell would be the
longest since  Sam Palmisano  became chief executive officer.  Palmisano has made more than $25 billion purchases in his
nine years at the helm, steering the company toward software and
services. IBM could have a flurry of deals next quarter after a
surplus of purchases at the end of the year delayed deal-making,
said Jeff Bistrong, managing director at investment bank Harris
Williams & Co. in  Boston .  “IBM is sitting on a lot of capital,” said Bistrong, who
has sold companies to IBM. “They’re very interested in
acquisitions. They have to put the capital to work.”  Ed Barbini, a spokesman for the company, declined to
comment.  IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , rose 41 cents to $162.43 on
March 11 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares had climbed 11 percent this year before today.  The company, the world’s biggest computer-services
provider, announced nine deals in the second half of last year,
including the $1.7 billion purchase of storage-maker Netezza
Corp., the company’s largest deal since 2007.  The last six months of 2010 were active for the technology
industry, with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  snapping up 3Par Inc. and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  buying Compellent Technologies Inc. That’s made for a
quiet first quarter for acquisitions, Bistrong said.  $20 Billion in Acquisitions  IBM has one of the most systematic approaches to deal-
making in the industry, said Chris Whitmore, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. The company has an internal M&A team, led by
former Morgan Stanley investment banker Eli Mendoza, and a
standing committee for vetting deals that includes executives
such as the head of research.  IBM has even broken down -- to the penny -- how much
acquisitions should contribute to earnings per share by 2015: 90
cents out of the overall goal of at least $20 per share in
operating earnings by that time.  “It’s been a key contributor to the success of the
business,” said the San Francisco-based Whitmore, who has a
“buy” rating on the stock and a price target of $200, the
highest of any analyst tracked by Bloomberg. “I don’t know
who does a better job of buying and integrating software
companies than IBM.”  IBM Deals  IBM, which ended last year with $10.7 billion in cash and
about $1 billion in short-term investments, has said it plans to
spend about $20 billion on acquisitions through 2015. The
company is ahead of the target pace for adding 90 cents in
profit, after $6 billion in acquisitions last year, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said at the company’s investor
briefing last week.  “We indeed are ahead of the game, and I think we have
upside here,” Loughridge said.  Over the last decade, IBM has used acquisitions as part of
its strategy to transition away from hardware and toward more
profitable software and services. Its two largest purchases were
for Cognos Inc., a maker of business-management software, in
2008 and PwC Consulting, a provider of business and technology
consulting services, in 2002. Services now make up more than
half of total revenue, and software will be about half of total
profit by 2015.  M&A Timing  Palmisano is now investing in analytics software, which
helps companies predict trends, and cloud-computing, which lets
clients store and access data on servers other than their own.
The two businesses should grow to be $16 billion and $7 billion
in sales, respectively. He’s also spending on Smarter Planet,
the company’s concept that any infrastructure -- from highways
to utility grids -- can be digitally monitored and made more
efficient.  IBM is extremely focused on those target areas and deals
virtually always happen within them, said Whitmore.  There may be many reasons for IBM’s acquisition slowdown,
from the number of deals last quarter to an inability to find
anything to buy at the right price, said David Grossman, an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co..  “M&A is a timing thing,” said San Francisco-based
analyst. “They just think opportunistically.”  IBM only buys companies for intellectual property that the
company can scale to its more than 170 countries and quickly
make a return on investment, Loughridge said at the meeting.
That approach has helped IBM spend about $28 billion on deals,
compared with more than $43 billion each for HP and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
in the last nine years. The company’s largest deal was Cognos
for $5 billion.  “I’m really focused on getting him his money back,”
Loughridge said of Palmisano at the meeting. “Because when I
don’t give him his money back, I’m going to have a very bad
day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 