-- 
IBM Starts Unit to Help Clients Develop Facebook Marketing

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-03-14T20:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ibm-starts-unit-to-help-clients-develop-marketing-on-facebook.html
  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is unveiling new software and services that help customers
market and sell their products, aiming to mine a $70 billion
market opportunity.  The new division, Smarter Commerce, features services such
as using analysis to tailor marketing and brand assessment on
Facebook Inc. or Twitter Inc. in real time, Craig Hayman, a
general manager in the IBM software unit, said in a telephone
interview last week.  Companies seeking the best ways to market and sell to
customers are using more social media and mobile devices, Hayman
said. Hardware, software and services that help companies do
that will be a $70 billion market opportunity this year, he
said.  “It gives you a view on your products and services and how
your spend in social media -- whether that’s Facebook or Twitter
or any other social media engine -- is resonating,” Hayman
said.  The division will be part of the Armonk, New York-based
company’s Smarter Planet initiative, which uses technology to
monitor anything from cities to hospitals to make them more
efficient. IBM expects the program to be a $10 billion business
in 2015.  The services help companies analyze who views their social
media efforts, by using Web browsing history and other
information to give a picture of customers and how they behave.  Facebook  “Say I have a Facebook page. What are the dynamics of the
customers coming into Facebook? How many of them are buying? How
old are they?” Hayman said.  IBM worked with one college that was trying to boost its
global presence with social media. After analyzing the campaign
with IBM, they learned people from only two zip codes were
viewing the pages.  Last Mothers’ Day, IBM helped a North American retailer
track who was buying its products and how. A trend popped up: Of
customers buying from a mobile device, most -- and the biggest
spenders -- were using  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “It shows you iPad users think of their mothers quite a
bit,” Hayman said. “We also could tell who was thinking of
them late, tracking it hour by hour.”  The company is also working with  1-800-Flowers.com Inc. (FLWS) ,
helping the flower-and-gift retailer track their customers’ use
of the site. The service can show whether they’re looking for
birthday flowers, how often they visit the site and how much
they spend.  “We’ll be able to categorize all of our customers into
buckets,” Chief Information Officer Steve Bozzo said in a phone
interview last week. “We may actually have different promotions
for the good customers.”  IBM fell $1.04 to $161.39 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 10 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  