-- 
Libya No-Fly Proposal Lacks Needed Details, Russia Says at UN

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-14T18:24:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/libya-no-fly-proposal-lacks-needed-details-russia-says-at-un.html
A no-fly zone over  Libya  can’t be
quickly authorized by the United Nations Security Council unless
the air forces and strategy for enforcing it are clearly
defined, Russia’s ambassador to the world body said.  “To say we need to act quickly, as fast as possible, but
not to provide answers to those fundamental questions is not
really helping, it is just beating the air,” Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  told reporters today after a three-hour closed-
door council meeting in  New York . “You need to be sure any
decision the council takes is not going to exacerbate the
military-political situation in Libya.”  Lebanon’s Ambassador, Nawaf Salam, briefed the council on
the Arab League’s decision on March 12 to support the no-fly
zone over Libya. He told reporters he would present a draft
resolution authorizing it in the coming days.  France  and Britain
have prepared such a text.  “These are legitimate questions,” Salam said, in
reference to the points raised by Churkin. “Unfortunately, we
cannot answer.” Salam said a no-fly zone “may stop Qaddafi
from flying his planes and attacking his own population, and it
may not.”  Russian support for the proposal is critical because it is
a permanent member of the Security Council with veto power.  China ’s ambassador, who may also veto the proposal, made no
public statement after the meeting.  Bosnia Example  France’s Ambassador  Gerard Araud  said he disagreed that all
of the details need to be worked out before with  Security
Council  acts. He cited the 1993 UN resolution authorizing a no-
fly zone over Bosnia, which didn’t specify any operational
details.  Araud said none of the  Security Council ’s 15 member
governments stated opposition to a no-fly zone, and that “it is
possible” it will be adopted this week.  “We are moving forward,” Araud said. “The problem for us
is the urgency. The Qaddafi forces are moving forward. We would
prefer to act as soon as possible. We would prefer that our
partners on the Security Council would have the same sense of
urgency we have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  