-- 
Libya’s Outgunned Rebels in Benghazi Urge No-Fly Zone to Help Beat Qaddafi

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-03-14T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/libyans-in-rebel-stronghold-benghazi-say-no-fly-zone-key-to-beat-qaddafi.html
When Fairouz Naas returned to her
hometown of Benghazi last month to join the uprising against
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , anti-regime protesters were
unarmed and spent their time dodging teargas and bullets.  Three weeks into the revolt, Qaddafi’s forces are
reinforcing their campaign with airstrikes on territory held by
rebels who took up Kalashnikovs and hand-made grenades. Libyans
such as Naas are escalating their calls for a no-fly zone over
the North African country as the only way of ousting Qaddafi.  “This is not merely a revolution, this is a war,” said
Naas, 46, who came back from Tripoli to take part in the
protests. “We don’t want foreign military intervention. We only
want a no-fly zone over Libya since our youths use guns to fight
warplanes. It is a very tough situation.”  As the conflict in  Libya  tilts in Qaddafi’s favor, his
opponents are trying to shore up support to ground the 68-year-
old leader’s fighter jets and wrench back the advantage.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  plans to meet
Libyan opposition leaders in Paris, where she arrived yesterday
for talks with European allies. The U.K. has backed proposals
for the no-fly zone, though the U.S. has cautioned that such a
measure would involve strikes against Libyan air defenses.  The  Arab League  also supported a no-fly zone while NATO,
which would likely be responsible for enforcing it, said the  United Nations  should approve the mission.  Stopping ‘Carnage’  “We have asked the United Nations to impose a no-fly
zone,” Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, spokesman and deputy head of the
Libyan opposition’s Benghazi-based Interim Transitional National
Council, said at a news conference on March 8. “We expect them
to do it. They can do it to stop the carnage.”  The UN Security Council discussed Libya yesterday and  France ’s ambassador to the organization,  Gerard Araud , told
reporters before the meeting that he hoped the Arab League’s
stance was “a game-changer.”  Forces loyal to Qaddafi recaptured the oil hub of Ras Lanuf
and advanced eastward this week to Brega, both of which have
previously been under rebel control. The fighting between the
two groups is the deadliest conflict to emerge from popular
protests across the Middle East inspired by the ouster of long-
time leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  More than 400 people, including 350 civilians and 40 rebel
fighters, have been killed and more than 2,000 wounded in
fighting in eastern Libya since Feb. 17, according to hospital
records, Gebril Hewadi, a member of the insurgents’ provisional
health committee, told reporters on March 9 in Benghazi. The
number of people missing is unknown, he said.  Tanks vs. Mortars  “There is a disproportion in the types of weapon each side
uses,” said Fayez Younes, 60-year-old resident of the Benghazi
neighborhood housing the Italian Consulate. While Qaddafi “uses
tanks, armored vehicles, aircraft and artillery, the fighters
have mortar shells and light weapons. But if they impose a no-
fly zone over Libya, it won’t take long. It will only be one
week until he’s gone,” he said.  The uprising started in eastern cities, mainly in Benghazi,
on Feb. 17, later spreading to other parts of the country.  Fighters on the frontline west of the city are mostly
defected members of the country’s disempowered army and
thousands of young volunteers, who train for a week or so before
heading to fight Qaddafi’s forces.  In Tripoli, the capital, the regime’s forces used live
bullets to kill and wound protesters, and the location and fate
of many detainees, whose arrests began on Feb. 20, remain
unknown, according to accounts gathered by  Human Rights Watch .  Pushing Back  “Even with all his heavy weapons, his jets and his tanks,
he is unable to push us back,” Mohamed Al Tarhouni, 27, a
computer engineer, said over coffee at a Benghazi cafe.  Naas, who is studying for a doctorate in accounting through
Cairo University, took part in a sit-in at the Benghazi
courthouse that lasted for several days.  “I am not disheartened at all when I see the youth and how
they are, and in every step they take, there is progress,” she
said at the latest demonstration for Libyan solidarity against
Qaddafi. “Even if there is a bit of a retreat, that is what
wars are always like, a cat-and-mouse chase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 