-- 
ICC Seeks Assurance From Kenyan Government Over Suspect

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-14T14:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/icc-seeks-assurance-from-kenyan-government-over-suspect-1-.html
The  International Criminal Court 
will send a letter to the Kenyan government this week seeking
the state’s assurance that the police won’t act to protect the
interests of one of six suspects summoned by the court.  “We are preparing a letter for the Kenyan government asking
in particular the current role” of Francis Muthaura, the head of
the country’s public service, ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno- Ocampo told reporters today in Nairobi via video link from The
Hague. “Muthaura has still authority over the police. If he
remains in that position, something should be done to ensure
that the police will not protect his interests.”  The ICC last week issued summonses for six Kenyans,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , after investigating a
roster of key suspects allegedly responsible for post-election
violence in 2008.  Clashes in  Kenya , East Africa’s largest economy, erupted
after President Mwai Kibaki claimed victory in a December 2007
vote that his political rival,  Raila Odinga , claimed was rigged.
Calm returned two months later when Kibaki signed a power-
sharing agreement with Odinga, who was named prime minister. A
provision of the accord vowed to bring the culprits to justice.  After Kenyan lawmakers blocked several attempts to set up a
domestic tribunal, Moreno-Ocampo began an investigation that he
said revealed evidence that the six suspects committed crimes
against humanity, such as murder, rape and forced displacement.
All six men deny the accusations and have said they will
cooperate with the ICC to prove their innocence.  Police Connection  Witnesses may be afraid their testimony to the police could
be conveyed to Muthaura, Moreno-Ocampo said. “In order to
provide information to the Kenyan police about witnesses in
Kenya, I will be sure that Mr. Muthaura has no connection to the
Kenyan police,” he said.  A group in Kenya’s government headed by Kibaki is trying to
persuade the United Nations  Security Council  to defer the cases
for one year, pending changes to the Kenyan judiciary to enable
it to handle the cases, a position backed by the  African Union .  The  Orange Democratic Movement , led by Odinga, asked the
Security Council in a letter to reject the proposal for
postponement, the  Daily Nation  reported today, citing party
Secretary-General Anyang Nyong’o. Among the 16 reasons cited by
Nyong’o are that domestic courts may be vulnerable to political
manipulation and that the majority of Kenyans support ICC
trials, according to the newspaper.  Kenyan Challenge  Kenya also plans to challenge both whether the ICC cases
are admissible and if the court has jurisdiction over them,
Justice Minister Mutula Kilonzo, Attorney General Amos Wako and
Internal Security Minister George Saitoti said on March 9.  That move may delay the start of hearings, Moreno-Ocampo
said, without elaborating.  The officials called to appear before the ICC on April 7
include Kenyatta, who is also the deputy prime minister;
Muthaura; Henry Kosgey, who resigned as industrialization
minister in January; and suspended Higher Education Minister
William Ruto. The others are former police chief Mohammed
Hussein Ali, now postmaster general, and Joshua Arap Sang, a
radio presenter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 