-- 
Microsoft Is Said to Stop Releasing New Models of the Zune

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-14T22:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/microsoft-said-to-stop-releasing-new-zune-models-as-demand-ebbs.html
  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will stop
introducing new versions of the Zune music and video player
because of tepid demand, letting the company shift its focus to
other devices, according to a person familiar with the decision.  Microsoft will concentrate on putting  Zune software  onto
mobile phones, such as those running its  Windows operating
system , said the person, who declined to be identified because
the decision hasn’t been announced. Zune software lets customers
buy songs and movies, as well as pay a monthly fee to stream
unlimited music.  Zune, introduced in 2006, never managed to break the iPod’s
grip on the music-player industry and became the brunt of late-
night talk-show jokes.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod led the market with 77
percent of unit sales last year, while the Zune failed to crack
the top five, according to NPD Group Inc. By adding the Zune
features to the Windows Phone software, Microsoft aims to gain
ground in another challenging area -- mobile phones -- where
it’s lost market share to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , declined to
comment on plans for the Zune.  “We have nothing to announce about another Zune device --
but most recently have introduced Zune HD to  Canada  via the Zune
Originals store and remain committed to supporting our devices
in  North America ,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are thrilled by the consumer excitement for Zune across
many new platforms, including Windows Phone 7 and  Xbox 360 . Our
long-term strategy focuses on the strength of the entire Zune
ecosystem across Microsoft platforms.”  Beating the iPod?  When Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  released the
Zune more than four years ago, he predicted that Microsoft could
one day overtake Apple.  “We can beat them, but it’s not going to be easy,”
Ballmer said in a November 2006 interview.  At the time, Microsoft executive Robbie Bach, then
president of the entertainment and devices business, said the
company planned to invest “hundreds of millions” of dollars over
the following three to five years to compete with the iPod. The
company doesn’t detail spending on individual products.  In 2009, Microsoft split the Zune team into software and
hardware groups, letting the software people focus more on other
platforms, such as phones, the Xbox video-game console and
personal computers. The company touted the Zune software as a
key feature in its redesigned Windows mobile-phone operating
system when it went on sale in October.  Zune HD  The Zune’s last completely new hardware model, the Zune HD,
was released in 2009. A version that featured more storage went
on sale a year later. Microsoft will continue to sell existing
versions of the Zune, the person familiar with the matter said.  Microsoft shares rose 1 cent to $25.69 as of 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has fallen 8
percent this year.  Talk-show hosts such as Craig Ferguson and  Conan O’Brien 
ribbed the Zune for being an also-ran. Ferguson said the device
was Microsoft Chairman  Bill Gates ’s bid to “loosen iPod’s
stranglehold on the iPod market.”  “The Zune has all the features of the iPod except it’s not
as good,” he said in 2006. “Plus it can only download recordings
of Bill Gates singing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  