-- 
Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens to 8.31% in India, Adding to Rate Pressure

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-03-14T08:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/india-s-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-to-8-31-adding-to-rate-pressure.html
  India ’s inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in February, increasing pressure on the central bank
to raise  interest rates  this week for the eighth time in a year.  The wholesale-price index rose 8.31 percent from a year
earlier after an 8.23 percent jump in January, the commerce
ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median
forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
7.8 percent increase.  The  Reserve Bank of India  may increase its repurchase rate
by a quarter-point on March 17, according to all 19 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey, after weighing the impact of oil
prices and the earthquake in Japan. India’s benchmark price
gauge is almost double the central bank’s “tolerance” level.  “By no measure is the inflation rate heading back to a
comfortable level any time too soon,”  Vishnu Varathan , a
Singapore-based economist at  Capital Economics    Asia ) Pte, said
before the release. He expects the central bank to raise rates
by 25 basis points this week.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index pared gains
after the report, advancing 0.8 percent to 18,316 at 12:35 p.m.
in Mumbai. The yield on the 8.08 percent note due August 2022
rose five basis points to 8.1 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 45.1775
per dollar.  Anti-Inflation Stance    Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Jan. 25 pledged
to persist with an “anti-inflationary monetary stance” as he
lifted the inflation forecast. The central bank’s key repurchase
rate is 6.5 percent.  The wholesale-price inflation rate may be 7 percent by
March 31, more than the 5.5 percent estimated earlier, Subbarao
said. The RBI aims for inflation of 4 percent to 4.5 percent.  India’s inflation remains a “concern,” Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee told reporters in New Delhi today, adding that
he expects the measure to slow to a range of 7 percent and 7.5
percent by the end of March.  Manufacturing inflation  accelerated  to 4.9 percent in
February from 3.8 percent in January, according to today’s
report. Fuel inflation quickened to 11.49 percent last month,
the report showed.  Pressure on inflation may ease after oil fell to a two-week
low in  New York  on concern the earthquake in  Japan  will limit
demand in the world’s third-largest economy. India imports
three-quarters of its energy needs.  Oil Prices  Oil prices have dropped 5.6 percent since March 7. Japan
was struck by its largest temblor ever recorded on March 11,
shutting refineries accounting for about 29 percent of domestic
processing capacity, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on Petroleum Association of Japan data.  The earthquake measuring 8.9-magnitude unleashed a 7-meter
(23-foot) tsunami that may have killed 10,000 people in the
north of the country.  The  Bank of Japan  poured a record 15 trillion yen ($183
billion) into the financial system to cushion the economy from
the natural disaster.  The Philippine central bank will consider the implications
of the earthquake when it reviews monetary policy next week,
according to Governor Amando Tetangco.  Subbarao may still have to tighten borrowing costs as
growing consumer demand in Asia’s third-largest economy runs the
risk of stoking inflation.  Car sales in India by companies including  Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker, and Toyota Motor
Corp. rose to a record in February.  Consumer demand may strengthen further after Mukherjee in
his Feb. 28 budget exempted more people from paying taxes.
Salaries in India this year are set to rise the most in the
Asia-Pacific region, a survey by Aon Hewitt LLC showed this
month. Wages are expected to grow an average 12.9 percent in
2011, compared with 11.7 percent last year, according to the
survey. In  China , salaries may increase 9 percent, it said.  -- With assistance from Tushar Dhara and Anto Antony in New
Delhi. Editors: Cherian Thomas, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  