-- 
ONGC Said to Lose Bid for Exxon’s Stake in Angolan Oil Field

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-03-14T16:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/india-s-ongc-said-to-lose-battle-for-exxon-s-25-stake-in-angola-oil-field.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, lost a bid to buy  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
25 percent stake in an Angolan oil field, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  ONGC, based in  New Delhi , had offered about $2 billion for
the stake in Block 31 off Angola’s coast, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the sale process
is confidential.  State-owned ONGC is leading a drive by India to secure
energy supplies overseas as demand for fuels rises in Asia’s
second-fastest-growing major economy after China. The Indian
government has told ONGC and Oil India Ltd. to speed up
purchases as competition with Chinese companies for resources
heats up, Oil Secretary S. Sundareshan said a year ago.  “Getting stakes in fields overseas is important for ONGC
as they spend money in India, but production isn’t increasing
much,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP
Paribas Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi. “They have been keen
to acquire stakes in assets outside India and have to compete
with companies from across the world, especially  China .”  Joeman Thomas, managing director of overseas investment
unit ONGC Videsh Ltd., didn’t answer three calls to his mobile
phone today. Rachael L. Moore, an Exxon spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on market rumors or
speculation.  Stock Performance  ONGC shares fell 0.4 percent to 280.7 rupees in Mumbai
trading after rising as much as 2.9 percent. The benchmark
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange gained 1.5 percent.  The Indian company was informed a few weeks ago that
another bidder had made a higher offer, one of the people said,
adding that ONGC hasn’t yet decided whether to raise its bid.
Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos said in
January that talks were continuing about ONGC buying Exxon’s
stake in the oil field.  ONGC submitted a binding bid in December for Exxon’s stake
in Block 31, which is scheduled to start production this year
and may reach peak output of as much as 150,000 barrels a day,
India’s former Junior Oil Minister  Jitin Prasada  told lawmakers
in New Delhi on Dec. 9.    BP Plc (BP/)  owns 26.7 percent of Block 31 and is its operator,
Prasada said. Its partners include  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Total SA (FP) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and Angola’s state-run oil company, Sonangol
SA, according to the official.  Angola, which vies with Nigeria as Africa’s top oil
producer, pumped 590 million barrels from January to November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net  