-- 
Inflation Surprise Spoils Five-Week Bond Rally as RBI Meets: India Credit

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-03-15T07:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/inflation-surprise-spoils-bond-rally-as-rbi-meets-india-credit.html
An unexpected jump in  India ’s
inflation last month ended a five-week rally in bonds and
reinforced expectations the central bank will raise  interest
rates  this week.  The yield on the 8.08 percent bond due in August 2022
climbed 4 basis points yesterday, after dropping 21 since Feb.
4. Wholesale prices rose 8.3 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 8.2 percent in January and the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey of 7.8 percent. The  Reserve Bank of India 
will boost the repurchase rate on March 17 by a quarter point to
6.75 percent, according to all 24 economists in separate survey.  The government data surprised investors because Reserve
Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao had predicted inflation would
slow to 7 percent by March 31 as winter harvests curb food-price
increases. The rate is second only to  Russia  among the so-called
BRIC nations including  Brazil  and  China , where central banks
have all signaled plans to raise rates during the past month.  “The current trajectory of inflation is significantly
higher than the RBI’s comfort zone,” said Sajjid Chinoy, a
Mumbai-based economist with JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The sustained
increase in the momentum of manufacturing inflation is testimony
enough that the central bank should have been more aggressive.”  Faster price increases threaten to erode the purchasing
power of the three-quarters of India’s 1.2 billion people who
the World Bank estimates live on less than $2 a day. The
benchmark inflation in India is more than China’s 4.9 percent
and Brazil’s 6.01 percent and compares with 9.5 percent in
Russia. India’s government also revised the December inflation
rate to 9.41 percent from an earlier estimate of 8.43 percent.  Bonds Rally  The  Reserve Bank  raised benchmark rates seven times in the
past year, compared with five times in Brazil and three times in
China. Russia’s central bank unexpectedly lifted the refinancing
rate from a record low last month, the first increase since
December 2008 to curb price gains.  The yield on the 11-year bond, which rose the most in five
weeks yesterday, fell two basis points to 8.08 percent today.
The rate on debt maturing in May 2020, which has become less
active, fell 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.90
percent. The gap between 10-year Indian and the U.S. government
bonds reached an almost nine-month low of 439 basis points on
March 3, poised to narrow for a second straight quarter, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The difference was 471.5 today.  The five-week rally in bonds was driven by signs price
increases were slowing. Food inflation was 9.5 percent in the
week ended Feb. 26, the smallest gain in three months, as the
winter harvest boosted supplies of vegetables and potatoes, the
government said March 10.  Food Prices  “I don’t think there is a strong argument in favor of
continuing the hikes in the same measure as last year,” said
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd.
“The past tightening is definitely beginning to moderate the
economic activity and inflation should trend lower.”  She predicts wholesale-price gains to average about 7.5
percent in the fiscal year starting April 1, compared with 9.3
percent in 2010, with the 10-year yield hovering between 8.10 to
8.15 percent by the end of this month.  Manufacturing inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent in
February from 3.8 percent in January, government data show. The
cost of manufactured products accounted for 36 percent of the
inflation rate in February compared with 27.5 percent in
January, signaling growing consumer demand.  Consumer Demand  “Consumer demand remains pretty strong and hence all the
more responsibility on the RBI to raise rates,” said Leif Eskesen, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore . “We
think the RBI’s 7 percent target by March-end is not going to
happen.”  HSBC expects the RBI to raise rates by 25 basis points on
March 17 and predicts the 2020 yield will rise to around 8.1
percent by the end of the year. JPMorgan sees a range of 7.9
percent and 8 percent by the end of March.  An 18 percent surge in crude  oil prices  in the past month
may make it more difficult for India’s policy makers to contain
price pressures. The nation imports almost 75 percent of the oil
it uses. The commodity, which reached a 29-month high of $106.95
per barrel in  New York  on March 7, fell to a two-week low of
$98.41 today on concern the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  will
limit demand in the world’s third-largest economy.  “It’s clear that our effort and policies to bring down
inflation will continue,”  Kaushik Basu , the chief economic
adviser in India’s finance ministry, said on March 10.  The cost of fixing interest rates for a year in India’s
swaps market has dropped 16 basis points since Feb. 28 to 7.33
percent today, after jumping 35 in the previous two months as
oil rose, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Huge Uncertainty’  “Oil prices are a huge uncertainty” for India’s policy
makers, said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Mumbai. “It may have come down a bit after the Japan quake,
but it’s around $100 a barrel and still very high.”  Nomura predicts the 10-year yield at 7.9 percent this
month. Rupee debt has returned 1.45 percent in 2011, the third-
best performance in  Asia , according to indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc. Notes in Singapore earned 1.75 percent, the most
in the region.  The rupee has slid 1.23 percent this year, the third-worst
performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the
yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 0.3
percent to 45.26 per dollar today.    State Bank  Debt  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the nation,
has dropped 9 basis points to 179 this month, according to CMA
prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Morgan Stanley cut its economic growth forecast for India
on March 7 to 7.7 percent from 8.2 percent for the fiscal year
starting April 1.  “The two key factors making us nervous on the growth
outlook are inflation persistently staying above policymakers’
comfort zone and weak investment growth trend,” said  Chetan Ahya , Singapore-based regional economist at Morgan Stanley.
“The recent hike in commodity prices and the consequent impact
on inflation has increased the downside risks to growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  