-- 
LinkedIn Cites Blocking of Website in China as New Risk in IPO Prospectus

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-14T23:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/linkedin-says-china-blocking-website-poses-new-risk-to-potential-investors.html
LinkedIn Corp., the largest
professional-networking portal, said the possibility that  China 
may bar access to its website poses a new risk to investors in
its initial public offering.  A block by China is among circumstances under which “the
value of our network could be negatively impacted,” LinkedIn
said in an updated prospectus filed March 11. The company’s Jan.
27 offering document contained no such reference to China.  “The government of the People’s Republic of China recently
blocked access to our site in China for a short period of
time,” the latest filing said. “We cannot assure you that the
Chinese government will not block access to one or more of our
features and products or our entire site in China for a longer
period of time or permanently.”  LinkedIn’s service was disrupted in China for more than 24
hours Feb. 24-25 after user postings supported calls for
protests in the Asian nation. China, the world’s largest
Internet market with 457 million Web users, bans pornography,
gambling and content critical of the ruling Communist Party. It
already blocks websites run by Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube.  “It’d be difficult to commit to absence of politically
sensitive messages from users of the platform unless LinkedIn
would be willing to monitor and censor user posts,” Andrey Glukhov, a New York-based Internet analyst at Brean Murray
Carret & Co., said in an e-mail today.  Discussion Group  LinkedIn has had no contact with government officials in
China about the interruption in service last month, company
spokesman  Hani Durzy  said today in a telephone interview.  On Feb. 23, a LinkedIn user identified as “Jasmine Z” set
up the “Jasmine Voice” discussion group on the site to discuss
pro-democracy protests in the Middle East and their relevance to
China. The user said Jasmine Z was “dying for democracy,
freedom and justice in my homeland.”  Those postings have since been deleted. As of today, the
LinkedIn site still features a group called “I support Jasmine
Revolution in China,” which has three members and no postings.  LinkedIn, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is seeking an
IPO to raise as much as $175 million in what will likely be the
first public offering of a major U.S. social-networking site.
The company hired  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to lead the sale.  LinkedIn more than doubled sales to $243 million in 2010,
from $120 million the previous year, according to the filing.
The company reported net income of $15.4 million, compared with
a loss of $4 million for the year-ago period.  Overseas Markets  The company, which has more than 90 million users, said 27
percent of sales last year were outside the U.S. The filing
didn’t provide the number of users in China.  LinkedIn is now available in six languages: English,
French, German, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish. Members can
also create profiles in up to 41 languages, including Chinese,
Shannon Stubo, a company spokeswoman, said in a Feb. 23 e-mail.  The question of whether to enter the China market is
“complicated and not something that we take lightly,” Stubo
said at the time.  “We have a program of local language rollouts which is in
line with our global growth,” Stubo said in the e-mail last
month. “We’re focused on getting it right. We’re keeping an eye
on China and LinkedIn’s growth in that country.”  China Users  Even without a local site, the company has made headway
with Chinese companies, including Huawei Technologies Co., the
nation’s largest maker of equipment for mobile-phone networks.
As of today, Huawei had 15 jobs posted on LinkedIn, and there
were more than 17,080 users on the site registered as Huawei
employees. That’s equal to about 16 percent of the company’s
total of 110,000 workers.  As LinkedIn doesn’t currently have commercial activities in
China, there wouldn’t be an immediate financial impact if
service was blocked, said Bill Bishop, a Beijing-based
independent media consultant. The issue may still raise investor
concern over its future potential, he said.  “It’s never good to be blocked from the largest market in
the world,” Bishop said. “Investors may start taking some of
the boilerplate about regulatory risk as more than just
boilerplate.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  