-- 
Miquel y Costas Sees ‘Tough’ Year on Cellulose, Oil Costs

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-14T17:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/miquel-y-costas-sees-tough-year-as-cellulose-oil-costs-rise.html
  Miquel y Costas & Miquel SA (MCM) , the
Spanish paper producer that gets most of its sales from tobacco
companies, said it sees a difficult year ahead as raw-material
costs rise and higher interest rates may hamper consumption.  The company aims to reduce its reliance on sales of
cigarette paper, and a new plant it’s building may produce paper
for other uses, General Director Jordi Mercader Barata said in
an interview March 9.  “We’re very satisfied with 2010 results, especially in a
much more difficult context than the previous year,” Mercader
said by phone. “2011 is already very tough because the
environment is even more complicated.”  Miquel y Costas, which has clients in more than 80
countries, may feel “significant margin pressure” this year
as cellulose prices remain high or increase, and prices for
chemical products and oil soar, Mercader said. North Sea Brent
crude may exceed $140 a barrel in the next three months amid
rising global demand and halts to production in Libya, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said in a March 9 note.  Customers are reluctant to accept higher prices and “we
are always behind in recovering prices compared with the
increase in raw materials,” the 36-year-old executive said.
  Oil prices  affect us a lot. Energy is another element that
will be unpleasant in terms of costs.”  The shares fell 2.5 percent to 20.96 euros in Madrid, after
gaining 2.3 percent earlier today. The decline gave the company
a market value of 198.3 million euros. The  Ibex 35 Index (IBEX) 
advanced 0.2 percent.  Higher Interest Rates  Inflation risks may prompt higher interest rates, which
would translate into more “uncertainty” about  consumer
spending , Mercader said. The  European Central Bank  may raise
interest rates next month for the first time in almost three
years, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said March 3.  The Barcelona-based company, which benefits from a strong
dollar as it exports in the U.S. currency, may be hurt by
exchange rates. The euro may extend this year’s rally to a
four-month high against the dollar after a brief pause,
Forecast Pte said March 8.  Almost 85 percent of the company’s revenue comes from
international markets, with clients including U.K.-based  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  and  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)   New smoking restrictions pose another threat. The move
toward smoking bans around the world may hit clients and
“affects us in the long run,” Mercader said. The company
forecasts 0.5 percent growth in cigarette consumption a year,
excluding  China , while in  Spain  so far in 2011 it’s down about
30 percent from a year earlier, he said.  Diversification Strategy  “As this trend is growing, we’re concerned about it,”
Mercader said. “Our strategy will be to grow in non-tobacco
areas.”  Miquel y Costas’s paper products for industrial use other
than tobacco had a pretax profit margin of 10 percent last year,
and “we aim to maintain that margin this year,” Mercader said.
The company’s overall pretax margin was 15 percent.  The company aims to maintain net income little changed from
last year, Mercader said. Net income may drop 4.2 percent this
year to 19.3 million euros ($26.7 million) as sales grow 5.8
percent to 190.6 million euros, according to the average of two
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. “These estimates are
very demanding but it’s what we’ve told the market,” he said.  High-Margin Product  “The first half of the year will be more complicated and
we may have an improvement in the second one,” helped by so-
called low-ignition propensity paper, Mercader said.  He said the European Union will probably act in the fourth
quarter to require  tobacco companies  to produce self-
extinguishable cigarettes, which use that paper. Those
cigarettes, intended to prevent fires, are already marketed in
the U.S.,  Canada ,  Australia  and  Finland , Mercader said.  The paper may contribute to a “significant” improvement
in gross margins at the end of this year, he added.  “This product has very good margins and how the issue
develops in  Europe  will be key,” Jose Rito, an analyst at Banco
BPI SA in Porto,  Portugal , said by phone. “2010 performance was
very good and it can keep growing this year.”  The company’s Special Cellulose Pulps  division , which makes
pulp from jute and other plant fibers, is the only one with a
“problem in demand,” Mercader said. While the company’s other
manufacturing plants operate all day, 350 days a year, the
special-pulps factory only runs about 200 days a year because of
weaker demand, he said.  New Factory  Miquel y Costas, which traces its roots back to 1725, ranks
among the four largest cigarette-paper makers outside China,
competing with companies including U.S.-based  Schweitzer-Mauduit
International Inc.. (SWM)  The company’s tobacco-related products
account for about 75 percent of sales.  The planned new factory will probably be located in Spain,
Mercader said. A decision on the project should be made soon,
the executive said.  The company, which plans about 60 million euros in
investments in the next two years, isn’t studying any
acquisitions and will continue its policy of remunerating
shareholders through dividends and treasury stock, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 