-- 
Noonan Says Irish Stress Tests Needed Before Renegotiation

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-15T14:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/irish-stress-tests-needed-before-new-aid-terms-noonan-says-1-.html
Ireland can’t seek to re-negotiate
the terms of its rescue package until the central bank completes
stress tests to determine whether the nation’s lenders need new
capital, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.  “It’s not reasonable to expect definite proposals or
agreements while the stress tests are continuing,” Noonan said
yesterday in Brussels after meeting with European Union
officials. He would be “surprised” if the 10 billion euros
($14 billion) initially earmarked as part of the bailout to
recapitalize the banks will be enough, he said.  Ireland is battling other nations over the terms of its 85
billion-euro bailout from the EU and International Monetary
Fund. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  has refused to buckle under
pressure from Germany and  France  to raise the country’s
corporate tax rate as he pushes for relief on the 5.8 percent
interest rate the country pays on the aid loans.  Stress tests on Ireland’s banks are due by the end of the
month, and EU Economic Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , one of
the officials to meet with Noonan yesterday, said he disagreed
with the Irish government’s assessment that more than 10 billion
euros may be needed.  “I don’t share” that view, Rehn said. Part of “the
banks’ stabilization fund is covered by the Irish themselves”
through the pension system and cash reserves.  ‘Doubtful’  Ireland’s new government won’t inject additional funds into
the country’s lenders, four of which have been taken over by the
state since 2008, until the results of the capital and liquidity
tests on banks are available at the end of this month. The
country is able to draw on a further 25 billion euros under its
November bailout agreement with the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund , depending on how the stress tests turn out.  “There is a certain point where a combination of the
sovereign debt, which is manageable, and the bank debt put on
top of it, we reach a point where the sustainability of the
situation becomes doubtful,” Noonan said. “ Now we don’t want
to reach that.”  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs meetings of
euro-area finance ministers and also met with Noonan yesterday,
declined to comment on his talks with the minister. European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , the third official
who met with Noonan, didn’t speak to the press.  Fire Sales  The Frankfurt-based ECB, which has lent Irish banks 96
billion euros, is pushing the lenders, including  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc, to cut their dependence on
emergency funding by disposing of assets. The banks also have
received as much as 51 billion euros from the Irish central
bank.  Eamonn Hughes, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in
Dublin, said Noonan is facing “heavy negotiations” as he
pushes for a three-year deleveraging period for banks to
minimize the need for asset fire sales.  “However, all eyes are now geared toward the upcoming”
tests, he said.  Noonan yesterday repeated Prime Minister Enda Kenny’s
refusal to raise the Irish 12.5 percent corporate-tax rate in
return for a 1 percent interest-rate cut on the aid loans,
saying there is “no way” Ireland will raise the levy.  His Austrian counterpart Josef Proell indicated that
ministers will continue to pressure Ireland on the  tax rate ,
saying it’s about “give and take” and if the country “wants
concessions, it has to do something for it.”  “We need to maintain investment, growth and exports,”
Noonan said. “We’re not going to cut off the hand that feeds
us. That’s out as far as we’re concerned.”  Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said Ireland “has
huge difficulties at the moment, has asked for help and I think
it’s wise to have some relative tolerance.”  “They rely on multinationals which are based there because
of the tax rate,” he told reporters in Brussels. “To take this
piece of Irish economy away in one blow would not benefit
neither them nor us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  