-- 
Irish `Bad Boys' Vow to Defend Tax Sovereignty After Sarkozy Summit Spat

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-14T08:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/irish-bad-boys-vow-to-keep-tax-rate-after-sarkozy-summit-spat.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
vowed to defend the country’s tax sovereignty after a “good
Gallic spat” over corporate levies with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  At a meeting of euro-area leaders in Brussels on March 11,
Kenny, 59, refused to raise the country’s 12.5 percent company
tax rate in return for a 1 percent interest rate cut on the aid  Europe  is providing to Ireland.  “It is a fundamental issue for our country,” said Kenny
in an interview with national broadcaster  RTE  aired yesterday.
Raising the rate “would represent a major breach of trust.”  Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel refused to
extend a cut in Greece’s borrowing costs to Ireland, as Kenny
pushed back on taxes. Kenny’s government, which took power last
week, maintains that raising the rate that has drawn companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Pfizer Inc. to Ireland would
jeopardize efforts to escape its worst recession on record.  “Ireland is now seen as the bad boys and girls of the
euro area because they are trying to block this,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“If we agree on the corporate tax issue, we’re shooting
ourselves in the foot.”  Ireland’s corporate tax rate compares with 30 percent in  Germany  and 33 percent in  France , according to the  Industrial
Development Authority,  the state-run organization tasked with
attracting foreign direct investment.  Real Estate Bust  Overseas companies account for more than 75 percent of
total Irish exports, helping to keep the economy afloat after a
decade-long real estate boom collapsed in 2008.  The pressure for change to the Irish tax system has been
building since the government was forced to seek a bailout from
the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU in November. Ireland
is paying an average 5.8 percent interest rates on the 67.5
billion euros of aid from the IMF and EU.  “We’re not asking Ireland to put up their corporate taxes
to the European average, but to make some effort,” Sarkozy said
in Brussels. “But you can’t ask others to contribute for you,
when you won’t make an effort on your tax receipts.”  Under a pact struck in the early morning of March 12
European leaders agreed to lower Greece’s bailout interest rates
of about 5 percent by 100 basis points, and extend the repayment
period of the loans to 7 1/2 years from three years.  Bonds  The Irish yield premium over benchmark 10-year German
bonds widened 4 basis points today to 648 points. It reached a
record of 680 basis points on Nov. 30.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  will attend a
monthly meeting of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels
today. The meeting will also be attended by European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet and EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn . Noonan will ask European
authorities to examine new measures, including insurance cover
for bond investors, to help Ireland reduce the cost of rescuing
its financial system, the Irish Times reported today, without
citing anyone.  Kenny said he expects he will get some flexibility from
European leaders on the terms of its international bailout. In
the interview aired yesterday, Kenny said that the “principle”
of a lower rate had been agreed for  Greece  and that Ireland
would be putting its case for “similar treatment” before a
March 24-25 EU summit.  “We have got a bad poker hand and need to bluff it out a
bit, and even threaten to walk out,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham, the Dublin-based securities firm. “We
can’t afford to give up the tax rate because if we do that you
might as well close the doors now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  