-- 
Iron-Ore Demand May Drop on Quake, Hurting Index, Shippers Say

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-03-14T08:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/iron-ore-demand-may-drop-on-quake-hurting-index-shippers-say.html
Demand for  iron ore , the biggest
dry-bulk cargo moved by sea, may weaken after Japan’s strongest
earthquake on record disrupted steel output, potentially hurting
a recovery in the Baltic Dry Index, shippers say.  “There will be an impact on iron-ore cargoes,” Tim Huxley,
Hong Kong-based chief executive officer at Wah Kwong Shipping
Holdings Ltd., said by phone. “There will be a correction
downwards” in the Baltic Dry due to a reduction in demand,
Huxley said, without giving a precise forecast.  The main gauge of commodity shipping costs has rallied 50
percent since touching the lowest level in more than two years
last month. The northern Tohoku region most affected by the
March 11 temblor and tsunami represents about 8 percent of  Japan ’s gross domestic product.  There may be a “big” short-term impact on demand for iron
ore, coal and steel after the quake, though Japanese shipments
may revive in six months, said Kong Fanhua, a senior researcher
at China Ocean Shipping (Group) Co. Kong said it was too early
to assess the likely impact on the index.  The Baltic Dry Index, a composite of indexes for four
vessel sizes, ended at 1,562 points on March 11, gaining for an
11th session. The index reached a low of 1,043 points on Feb. 4.  “Japan is very important for this  steel industry ,” said
Huxley. Wah Kwong, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates a
fleet of bulk carriers. Iron ore is the main material used to
make steel and Australia and  Brazil  are the principal exporters.  Largest Steelmakers    Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  and  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) , Japan’s largest
steelmakers, have restarted furnaces at factories near  Tokyo 
after halts triggered by the quake.  Sumitomo Metal Industries
Ltd. (5405) , the third-largest producer, won’t likely resume operations
at its Kashima plant north of Tokyo “for a while,” Chairman
Hiroshi Shimozuma told reporters in  Osaka .  The earthquake caused temporary “panic” in the iron-ore
market though its impact is likely to be limited as mills
restart, Hu Muzhong, the managing director of Hong Kong-based
Central Minerals Co., said in an interview.  “There’s some panic in the iron-ore market,” said Hu,
whose company trades about $300 million worth of steelmaking raw
materials a year, including 3 million metric tons of iron ore.
“The impact of the quake is more psychological. The steel plant
closure in Japan, in my view, won’t take more than two months
because governments are now more capable in crisis control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  