-- 
A-Bomb Scientists to Study Health Risks From Reactor Blast

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-03-15T04:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/hiroshima-nagasaki-blast-scientists-to-study-effects-of-reactor-explosion.html
A Japanese research center that has
studied atomic bomb survivors for 35 years will send scientists
to investigate the health effects of radiation from the
Fukushima power plant north of Tokyo.  Two doctors from the  Radiation Effects Research Foundation 
may leave this week for the Tokyo Electric Power Co. atomic
plant, said Evan Douple, the center’s associate chief of
research. Additional people may follow to help measure radiation
levels and work with local health officials to better understand
the effects of exposure, he said.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the risk of further
radiation leaks is rising after a third explosion rocked the
Dai-Ichi plant, and he warned people living within 30 kilometers
to stay indoors. Scientists from Douple’s center may be called
upon to test people for genetic defects.  “We need to know what kind of dose levels are expected”
as a consequence of the explosion, Douple said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Studies from survivors of the atomic bombs
dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki 65 years ago suggest
“substantial doses” are needed to increase the risk of cancer,
he said.  Small Risk  The  foundation , established in 1975 two miles from the
 epicenter  of the Hiroshima blast, runs the world’s largest and
longest scientific investigation of a population exposed to
radiation. Its research has helped set international  guidelines 
for the  International Committee on Radiological Protection .  The radioactivity measured at a building housing the
reactor was less than 2 percent of the level known to be harmful,
Hidehiko Nishiyama, deputy director-general Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency, said yesterday.  “From the radiation released so far, the public health
risk appears to be quite small,” said Gregory Hartl, a
spokesman for the  World Health Organization  in Geneva.  Authorities in Japan earlier ordered people within a 20-
kilometer radius to evacuate as a precaution.  Radiation is measured in sieverts. Radioactivity around the
reactor building was about 0.00002 sieverts per hour, Nishiyama
said.  A typical  chest X-ray  yields 0.0001 sievert and a full-body
CT scan a dose of 0.045 sievert, according to the Health Physics
Society at the  University of Michigan . Levels above 0.1 sievert
have been linked with increased cancer risk, Douple said.  Danger Level  “We are not really anywhere near that, according to the
numbers we’ve seen,” Douple said.  Exposure to 1 sievert of radiation can cause hemorrhaging,
4 sieverts can cause death within two months, and 2,000 sieverts
can cause loss of consciousness within minutes and death within
hours, according to the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency .  Doctors at the Radiation Effects Research Foundation found
atomic-bomb survivors in  Japan  had a 45 percent higher death
rate from leukemia and an 8 percent higher death rate from
 cancerous tumors  than the general Japanese population.  The rate experienced by Hiroshima and Nagasaki survivors is
about 0.08  fatal cancers  per 1 sievert of dose, according to the
book “ Nuclear Wastelands: A Global Guide to Nuclear Weapons
Production and Its Health and Environmental Effects.”   Staff members from the Radiation Effects Research
Foundation will probably work in the vicinity of the explosion
site, recording ambient radiation levels. They may also look for
chromosomal damage in tissue samples taken from people who may
have been exposed to radiation, Douple said.  Data on radiation levels may be ready in the next few days,
helping authorities gauge the number of people who may have been
affected, he said.  “We’ll need to know what populations are at risk, and the
number,” Douple said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 