-- 
IRS Boosted Auditing of Richest Taxpayers, Almost Doubling Rate Last Year

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-14T16:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/irs-boosted-auditing-of-richest-taxpayers-almost-doubling-rate-last-year.html
The  Internal Revenue Service 
audited 18.4 percent of taxpayers reporting income above $10
million last year, up from 10.6 percent the previous year.  Audit rates increased in 2010 for all income groups, except
for people with no adjusted gross income, according to  data
released today  in Washington for the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30.  Highest earners had the sharpest increases in audit rates.
The IRS audited 11.6 percent of taxpayers reporting adjusted
gross income between $5 million and $10 million, up from 7.5
percent  the year before . Taxpayers making between $75,000 and
$100,000 faced the least chance of an audit, with a 0.64 percent
rate.  Through its voluntary offshore disclosure programs and
court cases involving Swiss banks, the IRS has gotten a better
understanding of how wealthy people in non-corporate businesses
manage their assets, said George Clarke, an attorney at Miller &
Chevalier Chartered in  Washington .  “They learn things and then they roll those things out
across the board,” he said.  The overall audit rate for income tax returns was 1.11
percent, up from 1 percent the year before. The IRS had
previously reported some of this data without the breakdowns at
the top of the income scale.  Concerted Effort  The increase in audits of people making more than $10
million is part of a concerted IRS effort to focus on the
business dealings of the wealthiest individuals.  “Our goal is to better understand the entire economic
picture of the enterprise controlled by the wealthy individual
and to assess the tax compliance of that overall enterprise,”
IRS commissioner Douglas Shulman said in October 2009 upon
discussing the formation of a group within the agency focused on
“global high wealth” individuals.  “We cannot do this by continuing to approach each  tax
return  in the enterprise as a single and separate entity,” he
said. “We must understand and analyze the entire picture.”  Higher audit rates are designed in part to build public
confidence in the tax system and encourage voluntary compliance
by making taxpayers at all income levels think they may be
audited, Clarke said.  “The government has an obligation and a duty to make
people believe that everybody is paying their fair share,” he
said. “And particularly with respect to the wealthy, there’s a
view that they’re able to get out of their obligations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  