-- 
Israel February Consumer Prices Probably Rose 0.1%, Survey Says

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/israel-february-consumer-prices-probably-rose-0-1-survey-says.html
Israeli consumer prices probably
rose in February, pushing the inflation rate further outside the
government’s target range and adding to pressure for more
interest rate increases.  The consumer-price index advanced 0.1 percent from the
previous month, according to the median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation climbed to
3.9 percent from 3.6 percent, according to the survey. The
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  will release the
data at 6:30 p.m. today.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the
benchmark interest rate for a second consecutive month on Feb.
21, bringing it to 2.5 percent, after inflation surged above the
government’s 3 percent ceiling for the first time since March
last year.  “If inflation surprises us for the worse, with housing
prices rising significantly, then expectations for a rate
increase will be very high,” Ron Eichel, chief economist at Tel
Aviv-based Meitav Investment House Ltd. said in a March 13
report.  Israel bounced back from the global recession faster than
many developed economies, with growth accelerating to 7.7
percent in the last quarter of 2010, the fastest pace in four
years. The economy may grow 4.3 percent this year, Harel
Insurance Investments and Financial Services Ltd. said March 2.    Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 stock index has gained about 6
percent in the past six months, led by Makhteshim-Agan
Industries Ltd., a manufacturer of agricultural chemicals. The
shekel has gained more than 5 percent against the dollar in the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 