-- 
Issa Seeks Data on Whether GSEs Still Buy ‘Risky’ Mortgages

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-03-14T22:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/issa-seeks-data-on-whether-gses-still-buy-risky-home-mortgages.html
U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa ,
chairman of the  House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform , asked the agency overseeing  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
for documents to determine whether they’ve resumed buying
“risky, low-quality mortgages.”  In a March 11 letter to Edward DeMarco, acting director of
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , Issa questioned whether  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and other lenders have been selling “loans that
fail to meet sensible mortgage underwriting standards and pose
an unacceptable risk to both taxpayers and the housing market.”
Issa asked for an answer by March 28.  The government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, which own or guarantee more than half of U.S. mortgages,
were placed in conservatorship in September 2008 and have been
sustained by more than $150 billion in U.S. Treasury Department
aid. Issa cited a January Bloomberg News article about an
internal  Freddie Mac  review that found underwriting lapses in
loans bought from Citigroup.  “As the financial crisis made all too clear, the
previously implicit (and now explicit) federal guarantees of the
GSEs incentivized reckless lending by mortgage originators in
the years leading up to the crisis,” Issa wrote. “Based on the
Bloomberg article, it appears the GSEs may be continuing to
purchase loans that fail to meet sensible mortgage underwriting
standards.”  The FHFA has “received the congressman’s letter and will
respond soon,” said Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman for the
regulator. Spokesmen for Citigroup, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
declined to comment.  In his letter, Issa requested “all applicable mortgage-
underwriting standards and any changes to those standards” for
the period from Jan. 1, 2009, through the present.  He also asked for any communications with the Treasury or
President Barack Obama’s administration related to home-lending
standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 