-- 
James Taylor Sings With Sting, Midler for Carnegie Hall Charity

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/james-taylor-sings-with-sting-midler-for-carnegie-hall-charity.html
Fame came early to James
Taylor and he was quick to exploit it for a cause.  “The show was simple, just me and a guitar,” the
soft-spoken Taylor said in a recent interview at Bloomberg
News world headquarters in  Manhattan , recalling a
 Greenpeace International  concert in the 1970s. “That’s how
I played in those days. Usually someone would come to me
with an idea, and I would get swept up in the cause.”  Four decades later, 63-year-old Taylor can look back
on a charity resume that includes concerts for Sting’s
 Rainforest Foundation , Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential
campaign and various children’s causes.  Taylor raised $1.5 million last year through two
concerts called “Help for  Haiti : An Intimate Evening With
James Taylor.” The money went to Dr. Paul Farmer’s
 Partners in Health , a charity that has brought medical care
to Haiti for more than 20 years.  “It’s just a great stroke of luck that I’m in the
position that I’m in,” he said. “It’s a matter of how
well you’re doing, and there are some things that are so
compelling that you give as much as you can.”  Taylor will next contribute his time and talent as
headliner at a gala concert April 12 saluting  Carnegie
Hall ’s 120th birthday in advance of the venue’s official
gala on May 5. Taylor’s tribute will raise money for the
hall’s artistic and educational programs. Guests will
include Sting, Bette Midler,  Barbara Cook ,  Dianne Reeves ,  Steve Martin  and the Tanglewood Festival Chorus.  ‘Fire and Rain’  Taylor first played  Carnegie Hall  at age 22, by which
time he was already shooting up the charts with hits such
as “Fire and Rain,” which he says is his most successful
single. In the past four decades, he has sold more than 40
million albums and won five Grammy Awards.  This month, Taylor went to the White House to receive
the National Medal of Arts, the highest U.S. honor for an
artist, from President Obama.  Currently touring with his son  Benjamin  in the U.S.,
Taylor says he gives about 20 percent of his yearly income
to charity. He asks that a portion of his concert ticket
sales go to  Charity Partners , a Boston-based nonprofit that
distributes the proceeds to more than 30 charities and
foundations.  “Sometimes I can’t believe that the fans are willing
to come out for me, but they are,” he said. “One of the
reasons I’m still at it is because I’m physically fit and
I’m well enough to continue to do it. It’s just good luck
and being at the right place at the right time that’s made
it such a great ride.”  Resources Group  Amid the antiwar rallies surrounding the  Vietnam War 
and the rise of the environmental movement, Taylor said he
was drawn to lend his support to the  National Resources
Defense Council  launched in 1970, which had become a
leading advocate for protecting nature and the environment.
Taylor has been a member of the Defense Council’s board for
28 years.  “They have a hand in almost every piece of
environmental legislation that has come out of our
legislative process in the past three decades,” he said.  In 1979, he joined forces with artists such as Jackson Browne,  Bonnie Raitt  and  Graham Nash  who were part of the
Musicians United for Safe Energy collective to support
antinuclear causes. Their “No Nukes” concert series at  New York ’s Madison Square Garden became the subject of a
documentary film released the following year.  For the past 16 years, he has been a regular at the
annual Rainforest gala concert promoted by Sting and his
wife, Trudie Styler. The money supports work to protect the
environment and the land rights of indigenous people.  “The opportunity to get involved with other people’s
efforts and to recognize that there are people working for
something specific is just a good feeling,” he said.  (“James Taylor at Carnegie Hall” is April 12 at 7
p.m. Tickets and information:  http://www.carnegiehall.org 
or +1-212-247-7800. See  http://www.jamestaylor.com/tour  for
Taylor’s current U.S. tour dates.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 