-- 
European Reinsurers Fall as Japan Earthquake May Cost Industry $34 Billion

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-14T17:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-earthquake-may-cost-insurers-34-billion-tsunami-toll-yet-to-come.html
European reinsurers fell for a
second day on concern the global  insurance industry  may face
claims of as much as 2.8 trillion yen ($34 billion) tied to the
earthquake in Japan.  Swiss Reinsurance Co.,  Scor SE (SCR)  and Munich Re led declines
in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Insurance Index, which dropped 2.1
percent. That followed a 2.2 percent slump for the group on
March 11, when an 8.9-magnitude quake struck off the coast of
Sendai, a city of 1 million north of  Tokyo .  “Despite a probably low insurance penetration, we feel
that the magnitude of this event might make it the largest
insured event ever,” Thorsten Wenzel, an analyst at DZ Bank AG
in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note to clients today.  The top-of-range preliminary estimate, which catastrophe
modeler  AIR Worldwide  disclosed yesterday, doesn’t include
damage caused by the tsunami that followed the March 11 quake.
Insurers and reinsurers may face claims of 1.2 trillion yen ($15
billion) to 2.8 trillion yen tied to the Japanese earthquake,
AIR said.  Sales of residential and commercial earthquake insurance
are “relatively low” in  Japan  with only 14 percent to 17
percent of homes and businesses covered, according to AIR.    Hurricane Katrina   Domestic insurers and the government are likely to bear
most of the cost to households, said James Shuck, a London-based
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. International reinsurers
are mainly exposed to losses arising from damage to companies’
property and total claims are likely to be in the $10 billion to
$20 billion range, he said.  Losses at the top end of AIR’s estimate, equivalent to $34
billion, would make the disaster the second-most costly for
insurers and reinsurers after Hurricane Katrina devastated  New
Orleans  in 2005 and cost the industry $62.2 billion, not
accounting for inflation, according to estimates from  Munich Re .  The total insured loss could exceed $60 billion, according
to London-based analyst Barrie Cornes at Panmure Gordon & Co.  “The loss will be so large that it will probably provide
the trigger to ensure a re-rating of the non-life sector as
sufficient capacity (capital) is withdrawn to allow rates to
rise,” he said in a note to clients. “A similar impact
happened post 9/11.”  ‘Far Too Early’  “Any impacts due to major accidents in Japanese nuclear  power plants  will not significantly affect the private insurance
industry,” Munich Re said in a  statement  today. “In connection
with earthquake covers, in Japanese personal-lines business only
a small portion of the risk is transferred to other countries.”  The company said it’s “far too early at this stage to
issue an estimate of economic and insured losses,” reiterating
earlier comments. Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer,
dropped 3.4 percent to 108 euros in Frankfurt, following a 4.3
percent decline on March 11.  Swiss Re slid 4.5 percent to 49.36 Swiss francs in Zurich,
while Paris-based Scor lost 3.4 percent to 18.60 euros.  Based on a $20 billion overall insured loss, Lloyd’s
insurers would lose 4 percent to 16 percent of their net
tangible assets, according to Thomas Dorner, a London-based
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.  Hardy Underwriting Bermuda
Ltd. (HDU) ,  Lancashire Holdings Ltd. (LRE)  and  Chaucer Holdings Plc (CHU)  are
likely to suffer the highest losses, he said.  ‘Market-Changing Event’  “We would expect industry losses to remain toward the
bottom end of this range since the largest exposures are likely
to be in Tokyo and damage to the capital was contained by the
country’s high level of preparedness for earthquake losses,”
Dorner wrote in a note to clients today.  Hardy dropped 5.4 percent to 268 pence in London trading,
while Lancashire fell 2.4 percent to 560 pence.  “We are optimistic that it will be a market-changing
event, especially if seen in connection with recent large
claims,” wrote  Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst
with Silvia Quandt & Cie. AG. “We thus would expect natural
catastrophe segments to harden in general and believe that the
coming renewals thus should provide some relief.”  In reinsurance terms, a hardening of markets or rates
refers to an increase in prices for coverage. Reinsurers help
primary insurers such as  Allianz SE (ALV)  shoulder risks for clients.  Japanese Insurers Slide    Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, said today it
expects “no direct material impact” on the group from the
earthquake. “It is too early to have a precise, complete
assessment,” Emmanuel Touzeau, a Paris-based spokesman at Axa,
said by phone.  Japan’s most destructive earthquake until last week struck
Kobe, Osaka and Kyoto in 1995 and cost insurers about $3
billion, not accounting for inflation. The quake caused $100
billion in economic losses, much higher than the amount covered
by insurers.  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-biggest casualty
insurer, plunged as much as 20 percent and fell 12 percent to
2,200 yen at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo. MS&AD
Insurance Group Holdings Inc., the largest casualty insurance
company, dropped 9.1 percent to 1,832 yen, and rival  NKSJ
Holdings Inc. (8630)  slid 12 percent to 534 yen.  The seven-member  Topix Insurance Index (TPINSU)  lost 13 percent, the
worst performer among the 33 industry groups that make up
Japan’s benchmark Topix index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  