-- 
Japan’s Earthquake Threatens Singh’s $175 Billion Nuclear-Investment Dream

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-03-15T08:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-earthquake-threatens-singh-s-175-billion-nuclear-dream.html
  Manmohan Singh , who risked his
premiership to secure India’s access to atomic reactors and
supplies, faces opposition to his $175 billion investment plan
after  Japan ’s strongest earthquake triggered a nuclear accident.  Inspectors will review safety at India’s 20 nuclear
reactors, Singh told parliament yesterday, two of which are the
same design as those in Japan that were at risk of a meltdown.
The  Department of Atomic Energy  and Nuclear Power Corp. of India
will check “they would be able to withstand the impact of large
natural disasters such as tsunamis and earthquakes,” he said.  Singh plans to double the number of reactors over the next
two decades to propel expansion in the fastest growing major
economy after  China  and reduce reliance on imports of oil, gas
and coal. India in December struck $9.3 billion of accords for
two nuclear reactors to be built by Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI) , whose
shares tumbled 10 percent yesterday on concern the accident will
stall global nuclear expansion.  “The earthquake is going to reopen the controversial
debate over nuclear energy in India,” said Uday Bhaskar,
director of the New Delhi-based National Maritime Foundation, a
research group. “Democracies are reactive and an accident of
this magnitude will raise concerns among the population about
the safety of the technology.”  Workers in Japan battled to prevent a meltdown after a
stricken nuclear power plant 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of
Tokyo was today rocked by two further explosions and a fire.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for calm as he said the danger
of further radiation leaks was rising.  Cooling Systems  Reactor cooling systems at the  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
plant failed after the 9.0-magnitude March 11 earthquake, that
may also have killed more than 10,000 people.  Singh’s government came close to toppling in 2008 after
communist party coalition allies and opposition groups including
the  Bharatiya Janata Party  rejected an accord with the U.S. that
gave India access to nuclear reactors and fuel. The pact, forged
with then-president  George W. Bush  in 2005, ended three decades
of isolation imposed after India tested atomic weapons in 1974.  The BJP and communists yesterday called for Singh to review
plans to increase India’s use of nuclear energy, saying the
potential risks from an accident are too great.  “The government brushed aside the safety concerns at the
time,” Yashwant Sinha, a BJP leader and former foreign minister
said in an interview. “Our entire policy of getting nuclear
energy should be looked at afresh. We should now look at safer
options because of the dangers involved.”  Communist Opposition  Sinha’s comments were echoed by Gurudas Dasgupta, a
lawmaker of the  Communist Party of India , which also opposed the
civil nuclear accord with the U.S.  “The disaster in Japan shows the inherent and potential
danger in setting up nuclear power plants,” Dasgupta said.
“The same natural calamity can take place in India and even
taking effective safety measures you cannot avoid the dangers.”  Opposition parties last year forced Singh to extend
liability in the event of a nuclear accident to suppliers of
technology, breaking with international conventions that hold
plant operators solely responsible for compensation claims.  India’s nuclear industry, the second fastest growing in the
world, has attracted foreign interest after the government
announced plans to spend $175 billion by 2030 on nuclear
generation to meet the rising demand for electricity.  “We will certainly look into additional safeguards,”
Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh told reporters today.
“Nuclear Power Corp. is relooking at all its safeguards and at
the designs” after the Japan earthquake, he said.  ‘Big Dampener’  “This event may be a big dampener for our program,”
Shreyans Kumar Jain, chairman of  India ’s state-run monopoly
producer, said in a telephone interview from Mumbai March 13.
“We and the Department of Atomic Energy will definitely revisit
the entire thing, including our new reactor plans, after we
receive more information from Japan.”  Nuclear energy provides about 3 percent of the electricity
consumed in India, the  International Energy Agency  said in a
 report published  last month. That compares with coal-fired
plants that produce about 53 percent, helping make the country
the world’s fourth biggest carbon dioxide polluter.  “There is no way we can say no completely to one form of
energy,” said V.S. Ramamurthy, a nuclear scientist at the
Indian Institute of Technology in  New Delhi . “It’s a difficult
decision but people understand that if we say no to nuclear
energy we don’t have too many options.”  Energy Imports  India meets about three-quarters of its annual energy needs
from imports, with rising oil prices helping sustain inflation
above 8 percent for the last year, triggering the most
aggressive monetary policy in  Asia .  Provisional figures from India’s  Central Electricity
Authority  point to an 8.6 percent peak power deficit in the 11
months to end February. Power cuts are common in most parts of
India, including technology-services centers on the outskirts of
New Delhi and  Mumbai , hurting industrial production.    France ’s Areva, the world’s largest nuclear supplier, and
Nuclear Power Corp. signed a preliminary contract for reactors
and services worth about 7 billion euros ($9.3 billion), during
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s visit to India in December. In the
same month, Moscow-based Rosatom agreed to help build 18 nuclear
reactors during a visit to New Delhi by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev .  “There is a conscious choice to be made about the risks
involved in using nuclear power,” A.V. Kameswara Rao, executive
director at PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. in Hyderabad, said
yesterday. “The energy shortfall is a situation waiting to
explode because in many states the situation is fairly grim.”  -- With assistance from Archana Chaudhary, Natalie Obiko Pearson
in Mumbai, and Bibhudatta Pradhan and Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in
New Delhi. Editors:  Mark Williams , Stephen Foxwell  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  