-- 
Japan Stock Valuations at Four-Month Low Lure AMP After Topix 7.5% Plunge

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T01:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-stock-valuations-at-four-month-low-lure-amp-after-topix-7-5-plunge.html
The biggest decline in Japanese
stocks in two years pushed valuations below levels in November,
when a 19 percent rally began, luring investors who say equities
will prove bargains as the country rebuilds from its largest
earthquake on record.  AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which oversees about $98
billion in Sydney, raised its  Japan  rating to “overweight” from
“neutral” yesterday after the Topix Index’s 7.5 percent tumble
made its price equal to its net asset value, said strategist
Nader Naeimi. Polar Capital Holdings Plc’s Japan Fund, which
beat more than 85 percent of peers since 2006, bought steel and
construction companies, manager James Salter said.  Buyers are betting yesterday’s selloff that erased $285
billion of share value is an overreaction and that a record 15
trillion yen ($183 billion) injection by the Bank of Japan will
stabilize the market. That’s wishful thinking, according to
Mizuho Asset Management Co. and Pengana Capital Ltd., who say
it’s a mistake to act before damage from the 8.9-magnitude quake
is assessed.  “If there are no further aftershocks, I believe that in
six months, you’ll turn around and find that this was a great
opportunity to buy,” said Salter, head of Japan for Polar
Capital, which manages $4 billion in  London . “We’ve got stocks
in our portfolio that are down 20 percent. Some of the
reactions, I think, have been completely crazy.”  Worst Since 1987  The Topix plunged 6.6 percent at 10:52 a.m. in Tokyo today,
driving it toward the biggest two-day retreat since the 1987
stock market crash.  Purchasing stocks in the index in January 1995 after the
6.9-magnitude earthquake that killed more than 6,000 people in
Kobe, Japan, produced losses of 21 percent over five months. The
index rebounded to finish the year 4.4 percent higher than its
close on Jan. 13, the last trading session before the temblor.
Companies in the index collectively traded at 2.2 times book
value at the end of 1995, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Valuations aren’t always reliable after catastrophes, said
Bruce McCain, who oversees $25 billion as chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland .
Book value, or assets minus liabilities, may change depending on
damage to factories, while analysts’ forecasts for earnings are
subject to revision.  Margin of Error  “Even as it looks like there won’t be a lasting damage to
the economy, you don’t know the extent of the disaster in Japan
and how much that will affect their companies,” he said.
“Investors are going to price in an extra margin of error with
respect to valuation of the Japanese companies.”  The March 11 quake and subsequent tsunami shut
manufacturing plants at companies from Sony Corp. to Toyota
Motor Corp., sent more than 350,000 people to emergency shelters
and may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture north of  Tokyo ,
according to company statements and police estimates. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average lost 6.2 percent to 9,620.49 yesterday, the
biggest drop since December 2008 and 17th-biggest slump ever.  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a measure of
Japanese options prices, jumped 74 percent to 40.72 yesterday
for the biggest gain since records began in January 2001,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge, which has
doubled since last week, showed traders expect a 12 percent
swing in the Nikkei 225 in the next 30 days.  Avoiding a Meltdown  Tokyo Electric Power Co.,  Asia ’s biggest power generator
battling to avoid a meltdown at its Fukushima nuclear plant,
plummeted 24 percent yesterday. Japan’s three largest carmakers
said thousands of new vehicles were damaged, sending Toyota and
Nissan Motor Co. down more than 7.9 percent.  The containment chamber of the No 2 reactor at Tokyo
Electric Power’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant may be damaged
after today’s blast and radiation leakage is possible, company
spokesman Kaoru Yoshida said. The level of radiation at the
plant rose above the legal limit after the latest explosion,  Kyodo News  reported.  “I just wouldn’t jump in now,” said  Barry James , who
oversees $2.5 billion as president of James Investment Research
Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio . “There will be an opportunity, but I don’t
know when that is. I’m not a nuclear scientist, but in case of a
serious disaster all bets are off.”  Restoring Power  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  will likely gain 7.1 percent from
yesterday’s close to 10,300 in the next month as power is
restored to homes and businesses and factories resume
production, said Shoji Hirakawa, a Japanese equity strategist at
UBS AG. Tokyo Electric canceled the first blackout in a
scheduled rotation, saying it has enough power to meet demand,
public broadcaster NHK reported.  Masahiko Ejiri at Mizuho Asset Management said the five-
month retreat following the Kobe earthquake suggests that
Japanese equities may extend losses. Concern about how the
country, which has the highest public debt level in the world,
will pay for reconstruction may restrain gains, he said.  “There is still room for downside,” said Ejiri, a  fund
manager  at Mizuho Asset Management, which oversees about $41
billion in Tokyo. “We have the earthquake, the nuclear issue,
and in addition a turmoil of economic activity in the Tokyo
area. Combine those three factors, I don’t see any positive in
the short term.”  Insurance Claims  Insurers and reinsurers may face claims of 1.2 trillion yen
to 2.8 trillion yen tied to the Japanese earthquake, according
to a preliminary estimate from catastrophe modeler AIR
Worldwide. Insurance stocks in the Topix plunged 13 percent as a
group yesterday for the biggest decline among 33 industries,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading of bearish Nikkei 225 options jumped to a record
414,506 contracts yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s still too early to add to Japan,” said Diane Lin, a
fund manager at Pengana Capital, which oversees $1 billion in
Sydney. “The market might have underestimated the economic
impact from Japan to the region.”  Japan’s economy was showing signs of a rebound before the
quake, after shrinking an annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth
quarter. Machinery orders in January rose more than economists
estimated and had the biggest jump in five months, the Cabinet
Office said on March 9.  The  Bank of Japan  doubled its asset-purchase program to 10
trillion yen yesterday, an increase that’s about one-tenth the
size of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Treasuries-buying effort. The
central bank also deployed 15 trillion yen in emergency funds,
its biggest one-day operation.  “I haven’t seen many days like this,” said Salter of
Polar Capital. “Out of this grows opportunities. In six months,
I’d be surprised if the market is not at least 5 percent higher
from where it is now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 