-- 
Japan May Sell U.S. Treasuries After Earthquake, Brown Brothers’ Thin Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   K e n   P r e w i t t
-- 
2011-03-14T16:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-may-sell-u-s-treasuries-after-earthquake-brown-brothers-thin-says.html
  Japan  may sell some of its foreign
holdings, including  U.S. debt , to finance increased spending
after the country’s strongest earthquake left millions without
electricity or water, according to  Brown Brothers  Harriman & Co.  “The scope for, again, massive fiscal spending, seems to
be there,”  Win Thin , the firm’s head of emerging-markets
strategy at Brown Brothers in New York, said in a Bloomberg
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt.
“If they have to raise these funds domestically, they may have
to sell some of their holdings elsewhere.”  The Bank of Japan poured a record 15 trillion yen ($183
billion) today into the financial system of the world’s third-
largest economy and doubled the size of its asset-purchase
program. The earthquake and a tsunami may have killed 10,000
people in Miyagi prefecture, local police said. BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , speaking at a news conference in Tokyo,
pledged more cash as needed.  Japan’s holdings of the world’s foreign-reserve assets rank
second behind China’s, accounting for 11 percent. Japan owned
$882 billion in Treasuries as of December, nearly one-fifth of
the outstanding U.S. debt held by foreigners, according to
Treasury Department data.  The yen appreciated 0.2 percent to 81.67 per dollar today
in New York. It surged as much as 1.6 percent on March 11, the
biggest gain since August, amid speculation demand for the
currency may increase as insurance companies and lenders use it
to rebuild.  Thin said the yen would not strengthen as it did after the
6.9 magnitude Kobe earthquake in January 1995, which claimed
more than 6,000 lives. The currency gained about 20 percent
versus the dollar in the three months after the temblor.  “That was the thinking behind the initial strength,” Thin
said. “Calls for massive yen strength right now, I don’t really
see the factors behind it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Ken Prewitt in New York at 
 kprewitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  