-- 
Japan's Bonds Fall on Cost of Quake Recovery; Futures Rise as Stocks Slide

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-15T08:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japanese-20-year-government-bonds-may-fall-on-auction-oversupply-concerns.html
Japanese bonds dropped as damage
from the nation’s biggest earthquake on record fueled
speculation the government will increase debt sales to fund
recovery efforts.  Bond futures jumped for a second day after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of further radiation leaks from a
damaged nuclear power station is rising. The cost to protect
against  Japan ’s nonpayment soared to a record and stocks tumbled
as the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was rocked by
two further explosions today. The Ministry of Finance will sell
1.1 trillion yen ($13.5 billion) of 20-year bonds tomorrow.  “It remains unclear whether the stance of investors can
remain the same in this difficult situation with few clues to
the scale of damage” caused by the earthquake, said  Keiko Onogi ,
a fixed-income strategist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.
in Tokyo. “I’ve been looking for a positive catalyst for the
auction but can find little at this moment.”  The yield on the 20-year bond rose 3.5 basis points to
2.075 percent as of 5:01 p.m. in  Tokyo  at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 2 percent
security due December 2030 fell 0.488 yen to 98.948 yen.  The benchmark 10-year yield increased 1.5 basis points to
1.215 percent.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery gained 0.36 to
140.28 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank as much as 14 percent.  ‘Triggers a Gain’  “A slump in stocks typically triggers a gain in bond
futures,” said Akitsugu Bandou, a senior economist in Tokyo at
Okasan Securities Co.  The  Liberal Democratic Party  of Japan, the country’s main
opposition party, plans to seek 5 trillion yen in emergency
spending to support people hit by the earthquake on March 11 and
to rebuild the devastated region,  Kyodo News  reported. The
agency cited Party President  Sadakazu Tanigaki , who spoke at a
press conference today.  “Concern persists about Japan’s finances in regard to
reconstruction from the big earthquake,” said  Tetsuya Miura ,
chief market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest publicly traded lender.  Five-year credit-default swaps for Japanese bonds climbed
27 basis points to 125 basis points, according to UBS AG. That
is the highest level on record, according to prices from CMA
that date back to 2004.  The blast and fire at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
plant today followed two earlier explosions when cooling systems
damaged by the 9-magnitude earthquake and deadly tsunami on
March 11 failed. The utility will continue rolling power cuts
because of the “critical” electricity supply-demand balance,
the company said in a  statement .  ‘Negative Message’  “The density of the radiation that is leaking in the area
is rising,” Kan said at a nationally televised press conference
in Tokyo. “The danger of further radiation leaks is
increasing.”  The decline in cash bonds was tempered as the  Bank of Japan 
added 8 trillion yen to the financial system. The central bank
yesterday decided to double the size of a fund that buys  government bonds , corporate debt, exchange-traded funds and
other assets.  The move may suggest the central bank expects a lack of
power supply to continue and become severe,  Hiromichi Shirakawa ,
chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo and a
former BOJ official, wrote in a note to clients.  “The asset-purchase fund isn’t designed to cope with a
short-term downside risk to the economy,” he wrote. “The BOJ’s
additional easing is a negative message that convinces lots of
market participants to downgrade their medium-term outlook for
the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 