-- 
Japanese Stock Futures Fall on Economic Concern, Australian Index Declines

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-14T23:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japanese-stock-futures-fall-on-economic-concern-australian-index-declines.html
Japanese  stock futures  fell as
Japan’s strongest earthquake clouded the economic outlook and
increased concern that corporate earnings will fall. Australian
stocks dropped.  American depositary receipts of Hitachi Ltd., Japan’s
second-largest manufacturer by revenue, slumped 1.4 percent from
the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of Sony Corp., Japan’s
biggest exporter of consumer electronics, declined 0.4 percent.
Both said yesterday they halted production at some factories.
Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s largest investment bank, sank
1.1 percent in Sydney today.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,375 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 9,460
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,360 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
dropped 0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little
changed in Wellington.  “There are increasing signs of damage from the earthquake
on factories, and more and more companies are stopping
production, so some impact on earnings is unavoidable,” said
Takero Inaizumi, head of equity research in Tokyo at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The index slid 0.6 percent yesterday in  New York  as
investors struggled to assess how much damage Japan’s worst
earthquake on record will do to the global economy.  Raised Magnitude  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 4.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.1 percent by the  S&P 500  and a drop of 1.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.2 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  increased the magnitude of the
March 11 earthquake that hit Japan to 9 from 8.9. The death toll
from the earthquake and tsunami rose to 1,833 at 4 p.m.
yesterday, according to the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it resumed efforts to inject
seawater into a nuclear reactor in Fukushima, north of Tokyo,
after the temporary failure of the cooling system heightened the
risk of a meltdown. Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
later said the cooling function is working, though it’s not
stable.  Tokyo Electric Power started power outages in parts of the
greater Tokyo area yesterday, and it will continue rolling
blackouts today, with the first to begin before 7 a.m. local
time.  The yen appreciated to 81.54 against the dollar, compared
with 82.18 at the close of  stock trading  in  Tokyo  yesterday. A
stronger yen reduces income at Japanese companies when overseas
revenue is converted into their home currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 