-- 
Japanese Stocks Plunge After Strongest Earthquake; Tokyo Electric Tumbles

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-14T11:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japanese-stocks-plummet-most-untraded-at-open-after-strongest-earthquake.html
Japanese stocks fell the most in
more than two years amid record trading volume after the
nation’s strongest earthquake snarled production lines and shut
factories, raising concern economic growth will stall.  Tokyo Electric Power Co.,  Asia ’s biggest power generator
battling to avoid a meltdown at its Fukushima nuclear plant,
plummeted 24 percent. Toshiba Corp., a maker of nuclear reactors,
tumbled 16 percent. Tokio Marine Holdings Inc., the nation’s
largest property and casualty insurer by market value, plunged
12 percent. Automakers retreated after  Japan ’s three-largest
carmakers said thousands of new vehicles were damaged.
Construction companies climbed.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slumped 6.2 percent to
9,620.49, the sharpest drop since December 2008 at the 3 p.m.
market close. The broader Topix index retreated 7.5 percent to
846.96, falling the most since October 2008.  Futures on the Nikkei 225 fell to 9,350 in Osaka and
Singapore trading as of 8:37 p.m. in  Tokyo , signaling the gauge
may extend declines tomorrow.  “Markets were already in a corrective mode and the tragic
events in Japan have provided a further impetus,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages about $98 billion.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange Mothers Index, a measure of
startup companies, fell 17 percent for the biggest drop on
record.  The Topix had the largest decline among the major Asia-
Pacific benchmark indexes, cutting the average price of stocks
in the gauge to 14.2 times estimated earnings, the lowest since
October 2008. The number of stocks traded in Japan rose to a
record 5.08 billion shares, according to Bloomberg data.  Circuit Breaker  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a measure of
Japanese option prices, jumped 74 percent to 40.72 for the
biggest gain since records began in 2001, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge, which has doubled since last
week, shows traders expect a 12 percent swing in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average in the next 30 days.  Most stocks were unable to trade at the open as sell orders
overwhelmed those to buy. Trading of Topix index futures on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange was halted for 15 minutes starting at 9:04
a.m. The circuit breaker was implemented after a plunge of more
than 75 points, spokeswoman Yukari Hozumi said by phone today.  The Osaka Securities Exchange, Fukuoka Stock Exchange,
Nagoya Stock Exchange and Sapporo Securities Exchange operated
as usual, according to their websites.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami may have
killed 10,000 people in Miyagi prefecture north of Tokyo, said
Go Sugawara, a spokesman for the prefectural police department.
The official toll reached 1,627 confirmed deaths with 1,720 more
missing and 1,962 injured, the  National Police Agency  said. More
than 350,000 people are in emergency shelters.  Economic Impact  The size of the economy of the area hardest hit by the
Tohoku earthquake is roughly the same as that of Great Hanshin
earthquake that struck Kobe in 1995. With the March 11
“earthquake affecting road networks,  power plants  and other
infrastructure over a wide area, we expect the short-term
economic impact to be greater than the Kobe earthquake,” Nomura
Holdings Inc. economists led by  Takahide Kiuchi  wrote in a
report dated yesterday.  A meltdown may occur at a reactor in Fukushima, 135 miles
north of the capital, if the facility’s fuel rods remain exposed,
Tokyo Electric Power’s Managing Director Akio Komori said at a
press briefing in Tokyo today. A hydrogen explosion occurred at
the No. 3 reactor at the site today, Japan’s Ministry of Economy,
Trade & Industry said. The company’s shares plummeted by the
daily limit of 500 yen, or 24 percent, to 1,621 yen.  Rolling Blackout  The Tokyo Stock Exchange sets a  limit  on how much higher or
lower a stock can be traded from the last closing price. For
example, for stocks that are between 2,000 yen and 2,999 yen,
the price movement limit is 500 yen.  Tokyo Electric Power will probably proceed with a blackout
for some parts of the capital from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. local time
today, said Masayuki Kishino, a company spokesman. About 300,000
homes may be affected. The company skipped earlier phases of the
rolling blackout, saying supply was enough to meet demand.  “For the next couple of months, we won’t see a very active
economy,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc., which manages the equivalent of $8.6 billion in
Tokyo. “Because of the shortage of electric supply, industries
have to decrease their production. People will obviously have to
curtail spending. Economic activity is going slow, so it’s not
good news for Japanese equities.”  Insurers Plunge  Nuclear power companies slumped. Toshiba and Hitachi Ltd.,
which provides nuclear power generation systems, dropped by the
daily limit of 80 yen, or 16 percent. Toa Valve Engineering Inc.,
which makes valves for electric power generation, and Japan
Steel Works Ltd., a maker of components for nuclear pressure
vessels, also plunged by the daily limit.  Insurance companies had the largest decline among the 33
industry groups in the Topix.  Tokio Marine  tumbled 16 percent.
MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc. plunged 11 percent. Dai-ichi
Life Insurance Co. plummeted 18 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its Nikkei 225 price estimate
for the end of March by 18 percent to 9,000 from its previous
estimate of 11,000 because of the quake’s impact on the economy
and corporate profits.  Recovery may be slow as the damage is more widely spread
than that of the Kobe quake, and “it’s inevitable that economic
growth and profit outlooks need to be cut,” Credit Suisse
strategist Shun Maruyama wrote in the report.  Carmakers Slide  The  Bank of Japan  said it poured a record 15 trillion yen
($183 billion) into the world’s third-biggest economy today and
the central bank also offered to buy 3 trillion yen of  government bonds  from lenders in  repurchase agreements  starting
March 16.  Toyota Motor Corp. dropped 7.9 percent. Honda Motor Co.
slid 6.5 percent. Nissan Motor Co. slumped 9.5 percent.  Last week, spokesmen at Japan’s three-largest carmakers
said thousands of new vehicles were damaged. Toyota said it will
suspend production at its dozen factories in Japan and its body
makers, while Honda said it will stop production at factories in
Sayama, Mouka, Hamamatsu and Suzuka.  The yen appreciated to 80.62 against the dollar before
sliding to 82.45. It traded at 82.90 at the close of  stock
trading  in Tokyo on March 11. Against the euro, Japan’s currency
strengthened to as much as 112.51 before falling to 114.84. A
stronger yen reduces income at Japanese companies when overseas
revenue is converted into their home currency.  “The earthquake obscured the outlook for domestic demand,
corporate earnings and the currency,” said Hitoshi Itagaki,
president of Principal Global Investors (Japan) Ltd., which
manages about 150 billion yen.  Construction companies were the only group in the Topix
that advanced today. Kajima Corp. soared 22 percent. Obayashi
Corp. surged 11 percent. Shimizu Corp. jumped 11 percent. Taisei
Corp. leapt 20 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 