-- 
Kan Urges Calm as Tepco Tries to Cool Reactors, Tokyo Hit by Panic Buying

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-03-15T14:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-appeals-for-international-aid-in-fight-to-prevent-a-nuclear-meltdown.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
called for calm as the government battled to cool three quake-
damaged nuclear reactors with seawater while  Tokyo  shoppers
stockpiled supplies.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said this afternoon
radiation readings outside reactors rocked by explosions were
falling below harmful levels, while a fire at a separate unit
appeared to have been put out. Earlier today, Edano said the
steel unit containing the radioactive core of one reactor had
been damaged and warned of dangerous contamination.  Stocks slumped after the news that a third explosion and
fire struck Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant this
morning, and supermarkets reported panic buying. Hundreds of
thousands of people without power faced freezing temperatures
after  Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record caused a 7-meter
(23-foot) tsunami that engulfed the northeast coast.  “The water supply at reactors No. 1 and 3 are stable, and
the radiation level at the front gate of the plant has dropped
to a level that isn’t harmful to the human body,” Edano said at
a briefing in Tokyo. At the same time, “the temperature is
rising slightly” at the pond that stores spent nuclear fuel in
the No. 4 reactor.  Water in the pond may be boiling, said Hidehiko Nishiyama,
an official at Japan’s nuclear safety agency. The rods need to
be kept covered with water or they can overheat and spill
radioactive material into the air, according to the U.S.
 National Academy of Sciences .  Chain of Explosions  Group of Eight foreign ministers meeting in Paris today
expressed confidence in Japan’s ability to handle the crisis,
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said at a briefing.  Concern is mounting that unless the Fukushima plant, 210
kilometers (130 miles) north of Tokyo, is brought under control,
radiation will disrupt or endanger life in the country’s biggest
city. Austria’s ambassador in Japan is leaving the capital
because of the reactors’ “unpredictability” and will work from  Osaka , the state-run Austrian Press Agency reported.  Japanese stocks fell after reports of today’s explosion and
fire, sending the Topix 9.5 percent lower at the close in Tokyo,
the largest one-day slide since October 2008. The gauge has
dropped 18 percent since the quake. The central bank injected 8
trillion yen ($98 billion) into the financial system today, on
top of a record 15 trillion yen yesterday.  “We are in uncharted waters now,” said  Kirby Daley , a
Hong Kong-based senior strategist with Newedge Group’s prime
brokerage business.  Radiation  Today’s blast and fire followed two earlier explosions when
cooling systems damaged by the magnitude-9 earthquake on March
11 failed. At a morning briefing, Edano said radiation readings
around the plant reached “a level that could harm people.”  Kan said the total evacuation of those within a 10-
kilometer radius was almost complete. The government ordered
people within 20 kilometers to leave the area and said everyone
within 30 kilometers should stay indoors.  Kan urged people to remain calm and said the country had
sufficient food supplies. Seven & I Holdings Co., Japan’s
biggest retailer, said store shelves at its Ito-Yokado
supermarkets are being emptied daily of necessities such as
water, rice and batteries as soon as fresh supplies arrive.  “Every day the stores provide a certain amount, but as
soon as a shop opens, the products disappear,” Hirotake Henmi,
a spokesman for Seven & I, said in a phone interview.  Moving Employees  Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent SA and Bangalore-based  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. (INFO)  are among companies that said they may move
employees to safer locations. Citigroup Inc. received requests
from several senior employees in Tokyo who are asking to leave
Japan, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Radiation levels in Kitaibaraki city, about a quarter of
the way between the Fukushima plant and Tokyo, fell to 962
nanosieverts per hour as of 1 p.m., from 3,560 nanosieverts at
8:10 a.m., the local government said. That compares with 50
nanosieverts when the measurements began March 13.  “The radiation levels are above normal, but at most only
about one-tenth of a chest X-ray,” the government said in a
separate statement today.  As of 10.22 a.m. local time, 400 millisieverts per hour of
radiation were detected at the No. 3 reactor. The exposure limit
for a nuclear industry employee is 20 millisieverts a year,
according to the  World Nuclear Association . A radiation dose of
100 millisieverts a year is the lowest level at which any
increase in cancer is evident, the WNA said on its website.  Distributing Iodine  Japan has distributed 230,000 units of stable iodine to
evacuation centers from the area around the nuclear plants,
according to officials. The ingestion of stable iodine can help
to prevent the accumulation of radioactive iodine in the
thyroid.  Official police figures put the death toll at 2,734, with
3,743 missing as at 6:30 p.m. local time. The temblor and
resulting tsunami destroyed or partially damaged 60,007 homes or
buildings and 719 roads and swept away 26 bridges.  The death toll may reach 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture, Go
Sugawara, a spokesman for the police said.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  raised its estimate of the
earthquake’s magnitude to 9 from 8.9, making it the world’s
fourth-strongest since 1900 and Japan’s biggest on record. There
have been at least 405 aftershocks since the main quake,
according to the survey’s website.  Wreckage  Near Sendai, a city of about 1 million, television footage
showed entire towns razed as the tsunami carried a black-colored
mass of cars, buildings and other debris inland.  More than 440,000 people were evacuated to about 1,500
shelters in the northeast region, according to the  National
Police Agency , and almost 800,000 remain without power.  In Miyagi prefecture, snow is forecast for tomorrow
morning, according to the  Japan Meteorological Agency .
Temperatures are forecast to drop to minus 3 degrees Celsius in
some areas.  The town of Motomiya has become an evacuation center for
people fleeing the area around the damaged nuclear reactor, with
150 people sleeping in the town’s high school overnight. Its
only open gas station is a major refueling stop for convoys of
Self-Defense Force troops, police, fire and telephone servicemen
as they travel 350 kilometers (217 miles) north between Tokyo
and Sendai along the Tohoku Expressway.  At the Idemitsu Kosan Co. gas station, a stream of military
trucks, uninterrupted for almost an hour, was clearly visible on
the highway heading north. As residents queued for most of the
morning to buy a 10-liter ration of gasoline, a fleet of more
than 20 fire trucks, ambulances and NTT DoCoMo Inc. repair vans
pulled in for food and refueling.  Residents were handing out rice balls to rescue workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler at   bfowler4@bloomberg.net  