-- 
Japan Quake Jolts Californians Still Unprepared for Golden State’s Big One

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-quake-jolts-californians-still-unprepared-for-golden-state-s-big-one.html
It’s been two decades since a 6.9-
magnitude  earthquake  jolted  San Francisco , killing 63 people,
yet thousands of apartment buildings prone to collapse have
never been shored up to withstand another large shock.  There are more than 17,000 so-called soft-story structures
in the San Francisco region, including Silicon Valley, according
to the  Association of Bay Area Governments . Such residential
buildings typically have large, open areas for parking or
business on the first floor, leaving that story structurally
weak. Los Angeles probably has a greater number, officials said.  The 8.9-magnitude earthquake that struck  Japan  on March 11
has safety experts concerned that California hasn’t done enough
to bolster vulnerable buildings. The roadblock is a politically
charged question: whether government should force property
owners to pay for costly retrofitting. The debate is now
complicated by the state’s $25.4 billion  budget deficit , which
is causing cuts in everything from schools to health care.  “That’s a difficult decision to make because a lot of
people can’t afford to do it,” said Richard McCarthy, executive
director of the  California Seismic Safety Commission  in
Sacramento. “Retrofitting is expensive, particularly right now
with all the foreclosures, so if you force somebody to retrofit,
they aren’t going to be able do it.”  San Francisco’s mayor in 2009, Gavin Newsom, now lieutenant
governor, directed the city’s  Building Inspection Department  to
design a law requiring property owners to do the work. The
 Applied Technology Council , in a report commissioned by the
city, estimated the cost to fix all of San Franciso’s soft-story
buildings at about $260 million, or as much as $28,000 per
residential unit.  San Andreas Fault  Applied Technology, a nonprofit corporation based in  Redwood City , California, that studies engineering for natural
disasters, said such a cost would offset the $1.5 billion in
damage likely after a magnitude 7.2 earthquake on the San
Andreas fault, which slices through the Bay Area.  The 6.9-magnitude Loma Prieta quake struck Oct. 17, 1989,
just before the third game of baseball’s  World Series  at  Candlestick Park  in San Francisco between the  San Francisco
Giants  and  Oakland Athletics .  The temblor damaged about $6 billion in property and about
$1.8 billion in the area’s transportation system, according to
the U.S. Geological Survey’s  Earthquake Hazards  website.  Heavy damage in the city’s Marina district, crowded with
apartments, was caused by  liquefaction , a process where soil
loses its strength after violent shaking.  1906 Earthquake  A  1906 earthquake  in San Francisco killed an estimated
3,000 to 5,000 people and set off three days of fires that razed
most of the  city . It was the greatest natural disaster in U.S.
history until  Hurricane Katrina  struck  New Orleans .  A 2008 study by the Geological Survey predicted that  California  would almost certainly be hit within 30 years by an
earthquake as strong as the 6.7-magnitude temblor that struck
the Northridge area of Los Angeles in 1994, killing 60 people,
leaving 20,000 homeless and damaging 40,000 buildings.  Northridge and Loma Prieta were the two most costly
earthquakes in U.S. history by insured losses, according to the
Insurance Information Network of California.  “San Francisco and California have been very good on
focusing on the days and weeks following a disaster, such as
emergency preparedness,” said Sarah Karlinsky, deputy director
of the  San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association .
“But we’ve done a less-good job on what we need to be doing now
to prepare our buildings.”  Unsafe Buildings  A 7.2-magnitude earthquake on the San Andreas fault
directly offshore from San Francisco would make 27,000 buildings
unsafe to occupy, according to a  report  late last year by the
San Francisco Building Department. Fires ignited by the jolt
would probably damage another 2,700 buildings.  The report, which projected about $30 billion in building
damage, recommended that the city adopt an ordinance to require
retrofitting by owners of any building deemed unfit to withstand
an earthquake.  Since 1900, earthquakes have occurred in 39 states and have
caused damage in all 50. A series of minor jolts rocked the
state of  Arkansas  earlier this month. The last major temblor on
the U.S. mainland was the 6.7-magnitude Northridge earthquake
that struck  Los Angeles  in 1994.  In the wake of the Loma Prieta quake, California voters
approved bond measures totaling at least $2.3 billion to
retrofit government buildings, highways and bridges. In 1994,
lawmakers ordered more than 2,700 hospital buildings to be
shored up against earthquakes by 2013, at a cost the California
Hospital Association pegged at $24 billion.  Tax Incentives  Peter Yanev , a structural engineer and the author of
“Peace of Mind in Earthquake Country,” said California is
running out of time to fix soft-story buildings, and probably
needs to offer tax incentives to property owners to ease costs.  “It’s probably the most widespread class of buildings in
the state that haven’t been strengthened in any significant
way,” he said in a telephone interview. “It will probably only
happen after the next big earthquake in California and a number
of these buildings collapse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  