-- 
Japan Nuclear Reactor Pressure Falls; Kan Says Plant Remains a ‘Concern’

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-03-14T02:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-nuclear-reactor-pressure-falls-kan-says-plant-remains-a-concern-.html
Pressure at  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 3 reactor fell, Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency said. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the
situation at the station remains a concern.  The pressure declined after rising earlier today, Hidehiko
Nishiyama, deputy director-general at agency said at a media
briefing in Tokyo. The Fukushima Dai-Ichi station lies 220
kilometers (135 miles) north of the Japanese capital.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said yesterday that
water levels fell at the No. 3 reactor, raising the possibility
of a hydrogen explosion. Officials at the safety agency and
Tokyo Electric couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on
whether the blast is still likely.    Asia ’s largest utility is seeking to avoid a meltdown of
two reactors at the nuclear power station by flooding them with
water and boric acid to eliminate the potential for a
catastrophic release of radiation into the atmosphere. The
station lost power to keep the reactor core cool after the March
11 earthquake, the largest ever recorded in  Japan .  On March 12 a hydrogen leak caused a blast that destroyed
the walls of the No. 1 reactor. Four workers were injured in the
explosion, while no damage was reported to the container holding
the reactor’s radioactive core, according to Tokyo Electric.  Winds in the area of the Fukushima plant are blowing at
less than 10 kilometers (6 miles) per hour generally in an
northeasterly and northerly direction, according to a 9 a.m.
 update  from the  Japan Meteorological Agency  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 