-- 
Japan Developers, REITs Seek to Confirm Quake Damage

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-03-14T07:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/japan-developers-reits-seek-to-confirm-quake-damage-correct-.html
(Corrects to say Japan Retail Fund closed three malls in
fifth paragraph.)    Daikyo Inc. (8840) , Japan’s top seller of
apartments, and  investment trusts  including  Japan Logistics Fund
Inc. (8967)  are among real estate companies checking whether any of
their buildings were damaged in Japan’s strongest earthquake.  Daikyo said it hasn’t been able to confirm whether its
buildings in northeastern regions have been damaged, nor confirm
the safety of all staff, the company said in a statement today.
Japan Logistics, owner of 28 warehouses, said some of its
properties in greater  Tokyo  were damaged and it is still
investigating the destruction, the trust said in a statement.  The 8.9-magnitude earthquake on March 11 and subsequent
tsunami engulfed towns on the northern coast, washing away
buildings, vehicles and boats. The  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL) ,
which tracks 44 property firms, and the Tokyo Stock Exchange
REIT Index dropped the most in more than two years.  Sumitomo Realty & Development Co., Japan’s third-largest
developer, has closed apartment model rooms at five apartment
projects in Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures, the areas hit by
the quake and tsunami, the company said in a statement. The
model rooms will be closed until March 21 and Sumitomo Realty
hasn’t decided whether they will reopen on March 22.    Japan Retail Fund Investment Corp. (8953) , the nation’s second-
largest REIT, said three of its shopping malls, two of them
occupied by Aeon Mall Co., have stopped operating due to damage
to the interior and facilities.    Japan Prime Realty Investment Corp. (8955)  said there is no
serious damage to its 56 buildings, though cracks have been
found in some of them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  