-- 
Kajima, Japan's Construction Shares Surge on Reconstruction Demand Outlook

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-03-14T06:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/kajima-japan-s-construction-shares-surge-on-reconstruction-demand-outlook.html
  Kajima Corp. (1812)  surged the most in
more than two years, leading gains among  Japan ’s construction
stocks, after the country was stuck by its strongest earthquake
on record, boosting expectations for reconstruction demand.  The 95-member Topix Construction Index advanced 6.4 percent
as of the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo trading, the only measure among
the benchmark gauge’s 33 industry groups to post a gain today.
Kajima, Japan’s largest construction firm, rose 22 percent to
259 yen, the biggest increase since Oct. 14, 2008.  Taisei Corp. (1801) ,
the third-largest builder, climbed 20 percent to 223 yen, the
largest jump since April 24, 2000.  The 8.9-magnitude quake on March 11 and subsequent tsunami
as high as 7 meters engulfed towns on the northern coast,
washing away buildings, vehicles and boats. Policy makers will
need to compile a spending bill “over the medium to long-term”
to cope with the aftermath of the earthquake, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said on the national broadcaster NHK.  “The government is currently considering a bill to provide
subsidies for construction companies and home builders,” said  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse Securities
(Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo. “Those stocks will probably outperform
in short to long term.”  Daiwa House Industry Co., Japan’s biggest home builder,
rose 12 percent to 1,099 yen.  Damage Costs  By contrast, shares of Japanese developers declined on
concerns that their earnings may be pressured as costs may rise
to repair existing buildings. The  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL) , which
tracks 44 property firms, fell 8.7 percent to a three-month low.  “Investors are worried that cost to repair damage caused
by the quake will rise and sales may decline for those who own
buildings in the areas that were hit by the quake,” said
Mochizuki. “Some developers may post extraordinary losses.”  Mitsui Fudosan Co., Japan’s largest developer, dropped 9.1
percent to 1,454 yen, while Sumitomo Realty & Development Co.,
the third biggest, sank 9.5 percent to 1,816 yen. Mitsubishi
Estate Co., the second biggest, lost 6.8 percent to 1,509 yen.  Shopping malls near  Tokyo  bay area owned by Japan’s largest
developers have stopped operation, Mitsui Fudosan, Mitsubishi
Estate and Mori Building Co. said on their websites.  Mitsui Fudosan will suspend operation of Ikspiari shopping
mall and Venus Fort, a shopping mall located on Odaiba Island
owned by Mori Building, one of Japan’s largest privately held
developers, the companies said. Aqua City, owned by Mitsubishi
Estate and also located in Odaiba Island, is closed for safety
examination, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  