-- 
Kenya Central Bank Says It Has Adequate Foreign Reserves to Back Shilling

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T14:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/kenya-central-bank-has-adequate-reserves-to-back-shilling-1-.html
Kenya, East Africa’s biggest
economy, has sufficient reserves to deal with any attempt by
speculators to create an “artificial” shortage of foreign
exchange, central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said.  Recent movements in the Kenyan shilling are an “over-
reaction” to expectations of future shortages of foreign
exchange because of higher  oil prices  and political turbulence
in North Africa, Ndung’u said in an e-mailed statement today
from Nairobi, the capital.  The shilling has depreciated 6.4 percent this year to the
weakest level since March 1994, making it the third-worst
performer worldwide against the dollar after Suriname’s dollar
and  Vietnam ’s dong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency was trading at 86.15 per dollar at 4:15 p.m. in
Nairobi, compared with 85.38 on March 11. Kenya’s total foreign-
exchange reserves stood at $5.16 billion at the end of February,
with commercial banks holding $1.2 billion of that amount,
Ndung’u said.  “Speculators, desirous of creating an artificial shortage,
should note that the foreign-exchange reserves position far
exceeds the capacity of such speculative positions,” he said.  Traders have cited political unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East, as well as speculative positions, as being among
the reasons for the shilling’s weakness, Ndung’u said.    Kenya ’s economic fundamentals “have not changed and remain
healthy,” he said. “Hence, the economy should, as it has in
the past, ride out these temporary volatilities. In addition, if
the fundamentals change, even in the short-run, the exchange-
rate policy provides the room for adjustment as an automatic
stabilizer.”  Economic growth in Kenya accelerated to 5.4 percent last
year from 2.6 percent in 2009, and will probably reach between
6.5 percent and 8 percent over the next two years, according to
the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  