-- 
Nasdaq Reported to Be Lining Up Financing With View to Possible NYSE Bid

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-14T22:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nasdaq-said-to-be-seeking-financing-for-nyse-bid-to-rival-deutsche-boerse.html
  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  is in talks
with lenders about funding a possible bid for NYSE Euronext to
counter  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s more than $9 billion offer for the
exchange operator, said two people with knowledge of the matter.    IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  is working with Nasdaq on a
potential offer, and the two sides are discussing what assets
ICE would buy and at what price, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. At the
same time, Nasdaq is trying to line up financing, the person
said. The situation is fluid, and Nasdaq may decide whether to
bid in the next few days, the person said.  Nasdaq, a New York-based exchange operator run by Chief
Executive Officer Bob Greifeld, has so far been left out of
merger agreements since October encompassing NYSE,  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , Deutsche Boerse, Canada’s  TMX Group Inc. (X) ,  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  and Australia’s  ASX Ltd. (ASX)   “If you’re not one of the top four to five players, you
might be relegated to being a regional player,”  Larry Tabb ,
founder of New York-based research firm Tabb Group LLC, said
yesterday.  Nasdaq would finance an offer with about $5 billion in debt
from lenders led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and $5 billion in
asset sales, DealReporter said today, citing a person familiar
with the situation. ICE would buy NYSE Euronext’s European
assets, DealReporter said. Frank De Maria, a spokesman for
Nasdaq, NYSE Euronext’s Ray Pellecchia, ICE’s Lee Underwood and
Bank of America’s John Yiannacopoulos and Deutsche Boerse’s
Naomi Kim declined to comment.  Deals Since October  Exchanges worldwide are merging to cut costs and offset
lower profitability from equities. Deutsche Boerse agreed Feb.
15 to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  for $9.53 billion, creating the largest
exchange operator. London Stock Exchange offered 1.94 billion
pounds ($3.14 billion) on Feb. 9 for TMX Group, which runs
Canada’s main markets. Singapore Exchange bid A$8.35 billion
($8.43 billion) in October for ASX, which runs the Australian
stock market.  Last week, Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. President
Atsushi Saito he may hold merger discussions with Osaka
Securities Exchange Co. There have been almost $100 billion of
completed exchange takeovers since January 2000, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  BofA, JPMorgan  Nasdaq has been studying its options after rival exchange
operators announced mergers last month, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. Bank of America is advising Nasdaq on
its potential bid for NYSE, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising
Nasdaq on options regarding the London Stock Exchange-TMX Group
deal, the people said.  Prospects of a bidding war for NYSE Euronext sent shares of
the New York Stock Exchange’s owner 5.5 percent higher, climbing
above the takeover price Deutsche Boerse Group agreed to pay in
February. NYSE Euronext rose 4.5 percent to $36.55 at 4 p.m. in
New York versus Deutsche Boerse’s $34.92 offer. The shares
advanced as much as 5.5 percent to $36.88. Nasdaq OMX fell 3
percent to $26.37, and ICE lost 1 percent to $124.79.  Nasdaq shares have a market value of $4.65 billion, 9th out
of 23 companies in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index, where
the average value is almost $5.5 billion. NYSE Euronext is
valued at $9.55 billion and  Deutsche Boerse  is $14.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 