-- 
U.S. Natural Gas Futures Rise in New York as Japanese LNG Demand May Gain

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-03-14T20:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/natural-gas-prices-jump-on-outlook-for-post-earthquake-demand-from-japan.html
Natural gas futures gained for a
second day in  New York  on speculation that liquefied natural gas
cargoes will be diverted to  Japan  after earthquake damage to
nuclear reactors there cut power production.  Gas advanced 0.6 percent as workers battled to prevent a
nuclear meltdown at an atomic plant north of Tokyo. Demand for
the fuel to produce electricity in Japan may increase by about
8.6 percent, analysts with Barclays Capital said in a note to
clients today.  “Disruptions in Japanese nuclear power are going to be very
bullish for LNG,” said Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige
Economics in Austin,  Texas . “Absolutely you are going to see a
diversion of cargoes from the U.S. as part of a global
displacement of supply.”  Natural gas for April delivery gained 2.5 cents to settle
at $3.914 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gas has dropped 11 percent this year.  About 1.7 percent of U.S. gas supply comes from LNG
shipments, according to  Energy Department  estimates. LNG is gas
cooled to about minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162 Celsius)
and shipped in tankers.  Rising LNG demand from Japan may also reduce cargoes to the
U.K. Societe Generale,  France ’s second-largest bank, raised its
average price forecast for U.K. gas this year by 8.9 percent to
49 pence a therm. The forecast for 2012 increased 11 percent to
50 pence a therm.  U.K. Gas Market  The U.K. winter gas contract for fuel to be delivered in
the six months starting October rose as much as 7.4 percent to
74 pence a therm today. That’s the highest since November 2008,
broker data on Bloomberg show, and equal to $11.90 per million
Btu. The contract was up 4 pence to 72.9 pence as of 3:50 p.m.
New York time.  Eleven reactors were shut in Japan after the earthquake.
Nuclear power accounts for about 30 percent of the country’s
electricity.  Japan is the biggest user of LNG, accounting for 35 percent
of global trade in 2009, BP Plc statistics show. The country has
no domestic gas production and no import pipelines, so it relies
on LNG for its needs.  Japanese LNG demand may rise by 800 million cubic feet per
day to account for reduced nuclear capacity,  Barclays Capital 
said in the note. The country consumed an average of 9.3 billion
cubic feet per day last year, said Biliana Pehlivanova, a New
York-based analyst at Barclays.  Demand Forecast  Japanese demand for gas to produce power may increase by 5
billion cubic meters in 2011 as a result of the March 11
earthquake, Thierry Bros, a senior analyst at Paris-based
Societe Generale, in a note to clients today.  More LNG shipments to Japan means “cargoes not ending up
in U.S. storage, so a little bullish in the coming weeks on
storage,” Drew Wozniak, vice president of market research and
development for ICAP Energy in Louisville,  Kentucky , said in a
note to clients today.  Fifteen U.S. reactors use a similar design to the General
Electric Co. unit at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co’s. Fukushima
Daiichi No. 1, Hugh Wynne, a New York-based analyst for Sanford
C. Bernstein, said in a note to clients today.  Demand for natural gas from U.S. electricity generators may
rise “medium- to longer-term” as the temblor in Japan prompts
greater scrutiny of nuclear power, said Anuj Sharma, an analyst
at Pritchard Capital Partners in Houston.  Nuclear Safety  “Concerns about nuclear safety and the additional costs of
regulatory scrutiny would make natural gas more attractive,”
Sharma said. “Gas is already being touted as a cleaner
alternative to coal and other sources of energy.”  Electric power comprises 31 percent of U.S. gas
consumption, according to the Energy Department.  U.S. gas inventories totaled 1.674 trillion cubic feet for
the week ended March 4, 1.3 percent above the five-year average
and 1.9 percent above year-earlier levels.  The only LNG export terminal in the U.S. is in Kenai,  Alaska . The plant’s owners, Marathon Oil and ConocoPhillips,
have said they will shut the terminal amid dwindling production
in the region.  Some LNG cargoes originally sent to U.S. import terminals
were stored and then shipped back overseas because of growing
shale-gas production in the U.S. The U.S. re-exported at least
12 shipments in 2010 and  four  in January 2011 to countries
including U.K.,  Spain ,  India  and  South Korea , according to  the
Energy Department .  “The Japanese situation might bring a little bit of
pressure on the market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’ve
been overextended on the downside.”  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
249,254 as of 3:02 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 298,000. Volume was 297,016 on March 11. Open interest was
929,907 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
862,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  