-- 
Natural Gas Rallies Worldwide as Japan’s Earthquake Shuts Nuclear Plants

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-03-14T17:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/natural-gas-rallies-worldwide-as-japan-s-earthquake-shuts-nuclear-plants.html
Natural gas rose around the world
on speculation  Japan  will buy more of the fuel, intensifying
competition for liquefied natural gas, after the country’s worst
earthquake halted 11 nuclear reactors.  Gas for next winter in the U.K., Europe’s biggest consumer,
gained as much as 7.4 percent, to 74 pence a therm, the highest
since November 2008, according to broker prices. The contract
was at 73 pence as of 4:30 p.m. in London, equal to $11.80 per
million British thermal units. U.S. gas for April delivery
rallied 2.9 percent to $4.002 a million Btu in  New York .  “The prolonged risk of nuclear outages could divert spot
LNG cargoes to Japan and incrementally tighten LNG supply,”
Barclays Plc analysts including London-based Kerri Maddock said
in a note today.  The March 11 quake and tsunami, which left 1.3 million
people without power, will prompt Asia’s second-largest economy
to scramble for alternative fuel sources, driving up prices as
it competes with other importer nations for spot supplies. Japan
is the biggest user of LNG, accounting for about 35 percent of
global trade in 2009, BP Plc statistics show. Britain is  Europe ’s fastest growing major gas importer as it turns to sea-
going gas tankers to make up for declining North Sea fields.  Gas for next-month delivery in the U.K. is 24 percent
below the high reached in October 2008 before the global
recession sapped industrial demand for fuel. U.S. gas futures
for delivery at the  Henry Hub  in  Louisiana  have fallen 70
percent from their July 2008 peak as new production from shale
gas reserves boosts domestic supply.  Avert a Meltdown  Support for U.S. gas prices should be “short-lived as the
U.S. market is not a competitive bidder for spot cargoes,”
Barclays said.  Engineers battled to avert a meltdown after a second blast
shook an atomic plant north of  Tokyo . No large release of
radiation was detected after the blast, which didn’t breach
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station’s No. 3 reactor and followed a
build-up of hydrogen gas, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said in  Tokyo. The risk of a large leak is very small, he said.  Japanese stocks fell the most in more than two years as
industrial companies such as carmakers Toyota Motor Corp. and
Honda Motor Co. suspended production at several factories.  “Japan may need more LNG, but when you see the pictures,
the question is what is going to be the impact on demand?”
Jean-Marie Dauger, executive vice president of global gas and
LNG for GDF Suez SA, said today in an interview from London.    Libya , Power Prices  Political turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East
helped European  gas prices  to rally earlier this month after gas
deliveries to  Italy  through the Greenstream pipeline from Libya
halted and  oil prices  advanced.  The U.K. winter power contract, the six months from
October, gained 3 pounds, or 5.3 percent, to 59.50 pounds a
megawatt-hour. Baseload is delivered around the clock.  Nearly half of Britain’s electricity can come from natural
gas-fed power stations, so higher gas prices can lead some
utilities to switch to burning coal.  A “prolonged” closure of reactors in Japan could raise
the country’s demand for LNG by 5 billion cubic meters this year
and an extra 2 billion cubic meters annually from 2012, Societe
Generale SA,  France ’s second-biggest bank, said in a note.
That’s assuming the Fukushima plant never comes back online,  The bank said its gas-demand estimate may be too low if
reactors don’t return as soon as anticipated and it raised its
U.K. gas-price forecasts this year by 8.9 percent to 49 pence a
therm. The forecast for 2012 increased 11 percent to 50 pence.  Japan’s LNG Demand  Japan’s LNG demand may rise by as much as 12 billion cubic
meters a year if 10 of its nuclear reactors remain shut through
2012, UBS AG said. That will draw LNG tankers away from the
Atlantic Basin to  Asia .  Qatar, the world’s largest exporter of LNG, is ready to
supply Japan with “any quantity” of the fuel, Qatari Energy
Minister Mohammed Saleh Al-Sada said yesterday. The Gulf Arab
state has formed a team to study the situation in Japan, he said
in an interview in Doha.  Separately, Qatar’s Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co.
will shut its LNG train 3 for 35 days starting in early May,
Omar al Misnad, a maintenance manager at the company, said in a
news conference in Doha.    Indonesia , the world’s third-largest LNG exporter, is also
prepared to increase shipments, the country’s energy regulator
BPMigas said. Sakhalin Energy, a venture led by OAO Gazprom,
said it may send additional cargoes to Japan, depending on the
Asian country’s ability to receive shipments.  Russia’s Sakhalin  Sakhalin Energy, operator of the Sakhalin-2 project on a
Russian island north of Japan, will focus on a steady supply of
contracted volumes and may increase the shipments, Ivan Chernyakhovsky, a spokesman for the venture, said by phone
today. All of Japan’s major LNG import terminals are operating
normally, he said.  At gas-trading hubs elsewhere in Europe, prices also rose,
tracking the U.K., the continent’s benchmark.  Gas for delivery at the Dutch Title Transfer Facility in
the Netherlands this summer rose as much as 6.3 percent at 25.55
euros a megawatt hour. The TTF is the biggest mainland European
gas trading hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in  London  at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  