-- 
Navy, Marines Reaffirm Support for Lockheed Martin F-35 Jet

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-14T20:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/navy-marines-reaffirm-support-for-lockheed-martin-f-35-jet.html
The U.S. Navy reaffirmed its
support for the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet, including the
version for the Marine Corps that Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
put on “probation.”  The Navy department, which covers Marine Corps procurement,
plans to buy 680 of the stealth jets, half for aircraft carrier
landings and half short-takeoff and vertical-landing versions
for the Marines.  Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, Chief of Naval Operations Admiral
Gary Roughead and Marine Corps Commandant General James Amos
today updated a 2002 “memorandum of understanding” that
outlines the number of Marine fighter squadrons to operate off
Navy carriers, steps to improve intra-service training, and
broad production schedules.  The  2002 memo  was noteworthy because it cut 497 F-35
aircraft from the Navy plan, establishing the 680-jet goal.
Today’s update reaffirms that number and formally for the first
time says the service will buy 340 of the more complex Marine
Corps short-takeoff and vertical-landing models.  The remaining 340 are Navy aircraft carrier versions. The
Navy throughout decade never specified a breakdown.  The memorandum “is a demonstration the secretary and chief
of naval operations and the commandant are committed to the
success of both the F-35 B and C variants," Thomas Laux, deputy
assistant secretary for aviation programs, told reporters today.
"This plan depends on the success of both.”  House Hearing  A House Armed Services Committee aircraft subcommittee has
scheduled a  hearing  tomorrow to review the F-35 budget for
fiscal 2012. Vice Admiral David Venlet, the program manager, is
scheduled to give his first congressional testimony since taking
over the program in February 2010.  The F-35 program is the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons
program. The formal Lockheed Martin F-35 program started in
October 2001 as a $233 billion project to produce 2,866 aircraft
for the Air Force, Navy and Marines. It’s evolved because of
technical and production problems, cost growth and schedule
delays into a $382 billion project for 2,457 aircraft, according
to U.S. Government Accountability Office data.  Gates in January put the Marines’ short-takeoff and
vertical-landing version of the F-35 on “probation”’’ and
directed two years of additional development and testing.  Gates said that fixing the Marine variant may lead to a
redesign of the aircraft’s structure and propulsion, adding to
the cost. If the Marine variant cannot be fixed during the
probation period, Gates said it should be canceled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  