-- 
New York's Nassau County Loses Court Bid to Thwart Board Budget Takeover

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-03-14T21:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/new-york-s-nassau-county-loses-court-bid-to-thwart-board-budget-takeover.html
A  New York  state oversight board
may proceed with its plan to seize control of the finances of
Nassau County on  Long Island , a judge ruled, rejecting a bid by
the county to halt the takeover as unconstitutional.  The decision by New York State Supreme Court Justice Arthur
Diamond in Mineola allows the  Nassau Interim Finance Authority 
to approve borrowing and contracts in the state’s wealthiest
county by per-capita income. Diamond, while also rejecting
arguments from Nassau attorneys that the board was acting in an
arbitrary manner, declined to rule on that claim, ordering new
court filings from both sides on the issue.  Nassau County sought to block the panel’s plan after it
ruled Jan. 26 that the county faced an operating deficit of more
than 1 percent of its budget, triggering the takeover. NIFA,
created by the state in 2000 to bail out the county after years
of deficits, determined Nassau’s $2.6 billion spending plan for
this fiscal year had a gap of $176 million.  “The county’s reliance on its ability in prior years to
avert the consequences of revenue and savings deficits that NIFA
had found at risk and to end with a balanced budget hardly
establishes that it is likely that it will be successful in
doing so this year,” Diamond wrote in a ruling dated March 11.  Control Period  During the so-called control period, Nassau County
Executive Edward Mangano and the local Legislature will continue
to manage operations for the county, home to about 1.3 million
residents, many of whom commute to  New York City . NIFA doesn’t
have power to fire workers or raise taxes, and it chose not to
freeze wages. The control period will last as long as it takes
to achieve a balanced budget as determined by NIFA.  In a September report,  NIFA  said the county’s 2011 budget,
which cuts 400 jobs, increases fees and relies on borrowing,
didn’t meet “the standards of prudence necessary for us to
project budget balance.”  Mangano called the court decision “disturbing news for
taxpayers” and urged labor leaders to join him at a summit next
week to cut costs. Mangano said the ruling would derail changes
he was making to the county’s assessment system. He has pledged
to phase out borrowing to pay successful property-tax appeals by
residents by 2013.  “The court appears to have provided NIFA the discretion to
suddenly end this practice in some of the most challenging
economic times for our families,” Mangano said in an e-mailed
statement. “I call upon NIFA to lay politics aside and provide
suggestions to fix our county’s finances without raising
property taxes.”  Planning to Borrow  Nassau was planning to borrow $364 million over the next
two years to cover a projected $200 million of refund payments
and an existing $164 million backlog.  The finance authority said it anticipates the county will
deliver a revised financial plan within five days, according to
an e-mailed statement.  “NIFA can only require the county to balance its budget,”
the statement said. “How the county chooses to achieve balance
is up to the county.”  The case is County of Nassau v. Nassau County Interim,
1455/2011, New York Supreme Court, Nassau County (Mineola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 