-- 
NFL Players' Bid for Bar to Lockout Will Be Heard April 6 by Federal Judge

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-14T18:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nfl-players-bid-for-bar-to-lockout-will-be-heard-april-6-by-federal-judge.html
A challenge by  Tom Brady ,  Drew Brees ,  Peyton Manning  and seven other players to the  National
Football League ’s labor lockout is set to go before a Minnesota
federal court next month.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul  today
set April 6 as the day she will hear arguments from attorneys
for the NFL players, who asked the court to enjoin the lockout
in an antitrust lawsuit filed March 11, and the team owners.  “Defendants’ self-described ‘lockout’ will eliminate all
competition for the services of major league professional
football players and jeopardize the 2011 NFL season,” the
players said in a court filing.  The New York-based NFL said it would shut down the most-
watched and wealthiest U.S. sport effective at the end of the
day on March 11, after talks broke down over how to divide
$9 billion in annual revenue and the players’ association
decertified and filed suit.  The team owners voted in 2008 to end the NFL’s collective
bargaining agreement with players on March 3, saying the deal
didn’t account for costs such as building stadiums. That
deadline was extended until March 11 as the owners and players
met with a mediator.  Areas of dispute also include expansion of the season to 18
games from 16, a rookie salary cap and health care for players.  ‘Remain Committed’  “The NFL clubs remain committed to collective bargaining
and the federal mediation process until an agreement is
reached,” the 32-team league said in a March 11 statement.
“The NFL calls on the union to return to negotiations
immediately. NFL players, clubs, and fans want an agreement.”  NFL lawyers have until March 21 to file its response to the
players’ injunction request, according to Nelson’s court order.
The players’ reply to that response is due by March 28.  During the lockout, players won’t be paid, and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades. The NFL draft of
college players is still scheduled to begin April 28.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-639, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  -- With assistance from Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  and Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington . Editors:  Andrew Dunn , Mary Romano  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  