-- 
Niger’s Opposition Leader, Mahamadou Issoufou, Wins Presidential Runoff

-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-14T12:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/niger-s-opposition-leader-mahamadou-issoufou-wins-presidential-runoff.html
Niger ’s opposition leader,
Mahamadou Issoufou, won the March 12 presidential runoff vote,
election commission Chairman Abdourahamane Ghousmane said.  Issoufou won 1,820,659 votes, or about 58 percent,
defeating Seini Oumarou, the leader of former President Mamadou Tandja’s party, according to provisional results announced by
Ghousmane today in Niamey, the capital. The Constitutional
Council will announce final results by April 1, he said.  “I am humbled by the confidence that Nigeriens have placed
in me,” Issoufou said on the Niamey-based state-run radio
station Voix du Sahel. “I will build a Niger of human rights, a
country that wins and that develops.”  Issoufou, 60, will replace Djibo Salou, who led a February
2010 coup after Tandja attempted to change a law limiting him to
two terms in office and dissolved the constitutional court. He
takes the helm of  Africa ’s second-largest uranium producer as an
al-Qaeda-linked group has stepped up attacks targeting
foreigners in the country of 16 million. A drought from 2009 to
2010 left one in five of the nation’s children under five years
of age malnourished, according to the  World Food Programme .  The elections were “fair and transparent,” Khalifa Babacar Sall, head of an African Union observer mission, said in
a statement.  Parliament  Issoufou’s Parti Nigerien pour la Democratie et le
Socialisme and opposition allies won 79 of 113 parliamentary
seats in the Jan. 31 poll.  Issoufou, a former technical director at one of  Areva SA (CEI) ’s
Nigerien units Societe des Mines de l’Air, was prime minister
from 1993 to 1994 and was jailed in 2009 after he and other
opposition leaders called for a general strike to protest
Tandja’s attempts to extend his rule.  He has promised “continuity” in the  mining industry  and
has vowed to increase defense spending to combat threats from
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.  Issoufou is a member of the Hausa ethnic group, the most
populous group in both Niger and neighboring  Nigeria , according
to the CIA World Fact Book, and is originally from Tahoua
Department in central Niger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Djibril Saidou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 