-- 
Nippon Steel, JFE Resume Blast Furnace Output After Quake

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-14T08:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nippon-steel-jfe-resume-blast-furnace-operations-after-quake.html
  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  and  JFE Holdings
Inc. (5411) ,  Japan ’s largest steelmakers, restarted blast furnaces at
their factories near Tokyo after a halt triggered by the
nation’s strongest earthquake on record.    Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405) , the third-largest producer,
won’t likely resume operations at its Kashima plant north of
Tokyo “for a while” as the quake damaged blast furnaces and
other facilities, Chairman Hiroshi Shimozuma told reporters in
Osaka. Kashima produces about half Sumitomo’s crude steel output,
forecast to be 13.5 million metric tons this fiscal year.  Japanese manufacturers including Sony Corp. and Sumitomo
Metal suspended some production after the 8.9-magnitude temblor
struck on March 11, unleashing a tsunami that engulfed towns on
the northern coast. Halting operations at major steel facilities
won’t likely have a big impact on global seaborne trade of  iron
ore , a key raw material use to make steel.  “There’s some panic in the iron ore market,” said Hu
Muzhong, managing director and co-founder of HK-based Central
Minerals Co. and Central Shipping Co. “But I think the impact
of the quake is more psychological.” Hu’s company trades $300
million steelmaking material a year, including about 3 million
tons of iron ore.  The price of 62 percent-iron ore arriving at  China ’s
Tianjin port fell 13 percent to $167.4 a ton on March 11, from
$191.9 on Feb. 16, the highest level since November 2008,
according to data from The Steel Index compiled by Bloomberg.  Rebuilding in Japan will require commodities from  Australia ,
the world’s biggest shipper of iron ore and coal, and the quake
shouldn’t derail its exports, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Joshua Williamson  said today in a report.  Chinese Steelmakers  Chinese steelmakers, led by Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. gained
today on prospects that Japan’s reconstruction efforts will
boost demand. Baoshan Steel rose 2.1 percent to close at 7.22
yuan today in  Shanghai , outpacing a 0.1 percent gain on the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index. Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. rose
2 percent in Shanghai, and Angang Steel Co. gained 3.5 percent
by 3.40 p.m. in Hong Kong trading.  Japan’s rebuilding effort after the Kobe quake in 1995 was
impressive, Citigroup’s Williamson said. “In only two years,
all debris had been removed and the entire infrastructure
restored,” he said. “While no two natural disasters are very
alike, we expect substantial effort to rebuild in an efficient
and well-organized manner. The demand for Australian hard
commodities such as coal and iron ore should benefit.”  Furnace Restarts  JFE, based in  Tokyo , today restarted a blast furnace at a
plant in Chiba, a day after it reopened another one in Kawasaki,
near Tokyo, said a spokesman for the company who asked not to be
identified, citing company policy. The company today closed
steel producing lines at its Chiba and Kawasaki plants following
power outages stemming from the earthquake, the person said.  Nippon Steel yesterday restarted three blast furnaces at
its Kimitsu factory in Chiba, and is also resuming rolling
operations, Masato Suzuki, a spokesman for the company, said
today by telephone.  The steelmaker stopped production at its Kamaishi plant, in
northern Japan, after some facilities were inundated by the
tsunami, the company said yesterday in a statement. The plant
produces wire rods used in tires and bridges, and Nippon Steel
is considering moving production to mills including Kimitsu to
maintain supplies, Suzuki said today.  Chinese steelmakers are reluctant at present to buy iron
ore as they are depleting their inventories, Central Minerals’
Hu said. The mills may restart purchases in mid-April when the
stockpiles will have fallen by about half, he said.  “I’d take this time as a chance to buy because Chinese
mills may start to replenish inventories in mid-April,” Hu said
in an interview.  --Masumi Suga and Helen Yuan with assistance from Naoko Fujimura
in  Osaka  and Yasumasa Song in Tokyo Editors: Alan Soughley,
Indranil Ghosh  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  