-- 
Irish Banks Need More Than 10 Billion Euros, Noonan Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-14T11:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/noonan-says-more-than-eu10-billion-needed-for-irish-banks.html
Irish lenders will need more than
the 10 billion euros ($14 billion) initially earmarked to
recapitalize them, Ireland’s Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said today, citing estimates of the country’s central bank.  “The commitment was 10 billion euros,” Noonan told
reporters in Brussels before a meeting with European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , referring to Ireland’s
bailout agreement. He said Irish central bank  authorities ,
including Governor  Patrick Honohan , think it’ll exceed that,
though they’re “not prepared to estimate yet by how much.”  Ireland’s new government won’t put 10 billion euros into
the country’s lenders, four of which have been taken over by the
state since 2008, until the results of capital and liquidity
tests are available at the end of this month.  Ireland is able to draw on a further 25 billion euros under
its November bailout agreement with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund , depending on how the stress tests
turn out.  The Frankfurt-based ECB, which has lent Irish banks 96
billion euros, is pushing the lenders, including  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc, to cut their dependence on it
by disposing of assets. The banks have received as much as 51
billion euros from the Irish central bank in addition.  “We agree completely that the Irish banking system is too
big for the economy and that it has to be reduced,” said
Noonan, who is in Brussels for a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers. “Agreement for a longer deleveraging period is what
we’re talking about.”  He added that the Irish government has a “number of
specific proposals, but they’re more proposals to do with the
way the  European Central Bank  handles matters.”  Irish banks may need between 15 and 25 billion euros of
extra capital, the Sunday Independent reported yesterday,
without saying where it obtained the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  