-- 
NordLB Forecasts It Will Meet Basel III Capital Rules by 2015

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T15:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nordlb-forecasts-it-will-meet-basel-iii-capital-rules-by-2015.html
Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale, a German state-owned lender that navigated the
financial crisis without  government aid , is seeking to comply
with new Basel III rules four years before the deadline.  The bank is forecasting it will have a core Tier 1 capital
ratio of 7 percent by 2015, Carsten Dickhut, a spokesman for
Hanover, Germany-based NordLB, said in a phone interview today.  “We have a capital boosting program, which contains four
building blocks -- the first is limiting risk-weighted assets
and the second is boosting equity capital, which means the
conversion of silent capital into core capital,” he said. “The
third is freeing up core capital through the sale of holdings,
and the fourth is to build up equity capital through
accumulation, which means retaining capital from the results.”  The Group of 20 nations last year endorsed rules proposed
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that would triple
the highest-quality capital banks need to hold. The rules are
scheduled for full implementation by 2019.  NordLB had the second-lowest result among 14 German lenders
in European Union-wide stress tests last year. Its Tier 1
capital ratio of 6.2 percent in the most severe scenario
compared with the 6 percent limit. The European Banking
Authority plans to publish the results of new stress tests in
June 2011.  The bank has already raised 400 million euros ($558
million) through the sale of assets, including its stake in DnB
NORD A/S to joint venture partner  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) , and aims to
generate a further 600 million euros by divesting other
holdings, such as its stake in Deka Bank, Dickhut said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  