-- 
Nowotny Says Not ECB’s Job to Look After Banks Dependent on It

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-14T18:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nowotny-says-not-ecb-s-job-to-look-after-banks-dependent-on-it-for-funding.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said it’s not the bank’s job to
repair the finances of lenders reliant on it for funding.  “It is the primary responsibility of the national
governments involved to take care of the problem of specific
banks,” Nowotny said in an interview in Vienna today. “This is
not the task of the ECB. The ECB never had a policy which is
geared toward specific countries or specific banks.”  Some banks in peripheral euro-region countries like
Ireland,  Spain ,  Greece  and  Portugal  are still frozen out of the
interbank lending market, rendering them reliant on the ECB for
their funding. This is complicating the ECB’s exit from its
emergency measures, which include lending banks as much money as
they need for up to three months, as well as government bond
purchases.  European leaders frustrated ECB officials’ bid to
relinquish the central bank’s role as buyer of last resort of
bonds from struggling euro nations on March 12, when they agreed
to let the European rescue fund buy bonds directly from
governments, rather than in the secondary market, where the ECB
purchases them.  “We have started developments in the right direction,”
Nowotny said, when asked if he was disappointed with the
outcome. “Included in these decisions is the possibility to buy  government bonds  directly and one has to be aware that the
underlying philosophy is that every assistance should be coupled
with some conditionality and some direct involvement.”  ECB policy makers have also signaled they want to raise  interest rates  next month to stem increasing inflation
pressures. Asked if the economic uncertainty resulting from the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and political tensions in North
Africa could prompt officials to change their mind, Nowotny said
that officials follow developments “very closely” and that
it’s “too early” for any conclusions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  