-- 
Nuclear Test Gauges Beat Media, Aid Radiation Watch in Japan Earthquake

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-14T23:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nuclear-test-ban-monitors-beat-cnn-aid-japan-quake-monitoring.html
Devices used to monitor a potential
ban on atomic-weapons testing are helping warn of possible
tsunamis from aftershocks in  Japan  and may aid in tracking
radiation leaks from the country’s damaged nuclear plants.  The  Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization ’s
preparatory commission sent data on March 11 to seven tsunami
warning centers in the Asia-Pacific region, including in Japan
and the U.S., officials said in a telephone interview yesterday
from Vienna.  The seismic detection system delivers earthquake data
“more quickly than many other sources,” said Daryl Kimball,
executive director of the  Arms Control Association  in  Washington . Radiation monitors provide reliable information on
radiation plumes, “whether the source is from a nuclear weapons
explosion or nuclear power accident,” he said.  The system, based in Vienna, has about 270 of 337 planned
monitoring stations operating worldwide.  The treaty, while not yet in force, has been signed by 182
countries. The Obama administration plans to press the  U.S.
Senate  to ratify the agreement, joining 150 other countries that
have done so with the aim of curbing the spread of nuclear
weapons.  The Senate rejected ratification in 1999, and the Obama
administration will have to overcome opponents who question
whether the treaty can be enforced and whether the reliability
of the U.S. nuclear stockpile can be verified without testing.  Wide Coverage  The treaty organization has an annual budget of about $110
million, Thunborg said. President  Barack Obama ’s budget request
to Congress for the year starting Oct. 1 includes $33 million
for the monitoring system, which provides coverage in some areas
where the U.S.’s own system doesn’t reach, according to
Kimball’s group.  Countries request the treaty organization’s data “due to
the reliability of our system, our network and the global nature
of our network as well,”  Lassina Zerbo , the officer-in-charge
and director of its international  data center , said in the
telephone interview yesterday.  The seismic monitors have been found to generate data up to
three minutes faster than other methods, Thunborg said.  It provided quick feedback after  North Korea ’s nuclear test
in 2009, Zerbo said. “While  CNN  was still mentioning that there
was an earthquake that struck in that region, our information
was that it was unlikely to be an earthquake but more likely an
explosion,” he said.  Thirty minutes later, Zerbo said, North Korea announced
that it had conducted a nuclear test.  Radiation Types  The monitoring system also will include 80 radionuclide
monitors, of which 63 are operational, Thunborg said. The
monitors can help determine how much and what kind of radiation
is moving through the atmosphere and where it is likely to go,
based on weather patterns, she said.  Of the 10 stations in the Asia-Pacific region, the closest
to Japan are on Wake Island in the northern Pacific and on  Guam ,
both U.S. territories. So far, the system hasn’t detected any
radiation, possibly because radiation moves slowly and hasn’t
yet reached the stations, Thunborg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  