-- 
Nuclear Renaissance Threatened as Japan's Reactor Struggles

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n ,   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-03-14T02:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nuclear-renaissance-threatened-as-japan-fights-meltdown-at-quake-hit-plant.html
Global expansion of nuclear power
may draw more scrutiny after officials in  China  and India and
U.S. lawmakers called for the review of atomic energy plans as  Japan  struggles with reactors crippled by a  quake and tsunami .  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 3 reactor
experienced a hydrogen explosion at 11:01 a.m. local time today,
Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said. Residents
living within 20 kilometers were ordered indoors, Kyodo
reported. An explosion March 12 at the No. 1 reactor, 220
kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo, injured four workers.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami that
struck northeast Japan on March 11 cut power to the reactors’
cooling systems. Tokyo Electric engineers have been working to
prevent the meltdown of the two units by flooding each with a
mixture of water and boric acid to stymie a catastrophic release
of radiation.  “This is obviously a significant setback for the so-called
nuclear renaissance,” said Peter Bradford, a former member of
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. “The image of a nuclear
power plant blowing up before your eyes on a television screen
is a first.”  Tokyo Electric stock was untraded today and set to tumble
by 24 percent, the daily limit, as sell orders overwhelmed those
to buy.  Australian uranium companies slumped because of concerns
the disaster may curb reactor fuel demand.  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) 
fell as much as 16 percent, heading for its biggest decline in
more than 28 months. Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. dropped
as much as 12 percent. Extract Resources Ltd. slumped 10
percent.  China’s Reactors  China may consider the effects of the nuclear accident as
it completes its energy plans for the 2011-2015 period,  Xie Zhenhua , vice chairman of the National Development and Reform
Commission, said in Beijing yesterday. China is tripling the
number of its reactors, building 27 units to add to the 13 now
operating on the mainland, according to the  World Nuclear
Association .  “Evaluation of nuclear safety and the monitoring of plants
will be definitely strengthened,” Xie said yesterday, while
attending the closing of the  Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference .    India , which plans for a 13-fold increase in nuclear power
generation, will reconsider its expansion as Japan’s worst
accident in at least 33 years forces a safety review of existing
and proposed plants,  Nuclear Power Corp. of India  said.  India to ‘Revisit’  “This event may be a big dampener for our program,”
Shreyans Kumar Jain, chairman of India’s state-run monopoly
producer, said in a telephone interview from Mumbai yesterday.
“We and the Department of Atomic Energy will definitely revisit
the entire thing, including our new reactor plans, after we
receive more information from Japan.”  Germany’s energy agency  Dena  recommends a return to phasing
out nuclear power and switching off reactors in the country that
are similar to those crippled in Japan, the German newspaper
Handelsblatt reported, citing an interview yesterday with the
agency’s head Stephan Kohler.  There are 442 reactors worldwide that supply about 15
percent of the globe’s electricity, according to the London-
based  World Nuclear Association.  There are plans to build more
than 155 additional reactors, most of them in Asia, and 65
reactors are currently under construction, the association said
on its website.  Japan gets about a third of its electricity from 54 nuclear
power plants, the third-most after the U.S. and France. Two
reactors are under construction and 12 more are planned,
according to the association.  Three Mile Island  In the U.S., companies including  Southern Co. (SO)  and  NRG
Energy Inc. (NRG)  have submitted  applications  to build as many as 21
new reactors, adding to the 104 existing units.  “Certainly it’s going to cause some reappraisals because
this is what you call a ‘show-stopping’ event,” said Robert
Alvarez, a senior scholar at the Washington-based  Institute for
Policy Studies  and former senior policy adviser at the U.S.
Energy Department.  U.S. utilities canceled 14 nuclear plant orders in the wake
of the 1979 partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island reactor in
Pennsylvania, according to the  International Atomic Energy
Agency . The “immense” psychological effect of the accident
spread through the Western world, the agency said in a  report .  “The arguments that held sway during the Three Mile Island
days will hold sway today with this accident,” said Tom Cochran, a nuclear physicist at the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council. “The situations are somewhat
similar, assuming this doesn’t blow up or breach the reactor
vessel.”  Slower Development  The U.S. should slow the construction of new domestic
nuclear power plants until officials can assess whether the
situation in Japan signals a need for additional safety
measures, said Senator  Joseph Lieberman  of Connecticut, an
independent who heads the Homeland Security Committee.  Twenty-three nuclear power plants in the U.S. were built
according to designs that are similar to the Dai-Ichi plant’s,
Lieberman said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “I don’t want to stop the building of nuclear power
plants, but I think we’ve got to quietly, quickly put the brakes
on until we can absorb what has happened in Japan as a result of
the earthquake and tsunami and see what more, if anything, we
can demand of the new power plants that are coming online,”
Lieberman said.  Still, Lieberman said he supports nuclear power because
“it’s domestic and it’s ours and it’s clean.” U.S. plants have
had a good safety record since safety standards were upgraded
after the Three Mile Island accident, he said.  Oil Dependence  Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  said he
remains a supporter of domestic nuclear power.  “The bottom line is, we do have to free ourselves of
dependence from foreign oil in the other half of the globe,”
Schumer said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday. “I’m still
willing to look at nuclear. As I’ve always said, it has to be
done safely and carefully.”  Those who advocate nuclear power, which emits virtually no
carbon dioxide, as a way to combat  climate change  will now have
to deal with a “greatly heightened skepticism” and
“heightened unwillingness to have nuclear power plants located
in one’s own neighborhood,” Bradford said.  The damaged Japanese Dai-Ichi No. 1 reactor, designed by  General Electric Co. (GE) , began commercial operation in 1971 and is
similar to units still running in the U.S., said Cochran, who
advised U.S. regulators on the cleanup of Three Mile Island.  Russian-Built Reactors  Problems at the reactor may encourage the replacement of
older models, said Sergei Novikov, a spokesman for Russia’s
state-owned nuclear holding company Rosatom Corp.  “The global nuclear industry will speed up phasing out
first-generation power units and start building new ones,”
Novikov said.  Rosatom is building 15 new reactors worldwide, more than
any other international supplier, five of them outside Russia.  GE, the largest U.S.-based reactor builder, is focused on
the situation at the reactor in Fukushima and staff weren’t
available to comment on the outlook for the industry, Michael
Tetuan, a spokesman for the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company, said in an e-mailed message.  “In general, our business is going very well, but the
situation in Japan is troubling,” said Vaughn Gilbert, a
spokesman for  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse nuclear unit.  Nuclear Confidence  Patricia Marie, a spokeswoman for France’s  Areva SA (CEI) ,
declined to comment yesterday on the Fukushima situation or its
effect on the nuclear industry.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is in talks with its
Japanese counterparts, according to a press release. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French Minister of Industry Eric Besson affirmed their nation’s confidence in the safety of
nuclear power.  “We know how secure our power stations are,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin amid opposition calls for a rethinking of
Germany’s use of nuclear power.  It’s too early to speculate on U.S. political and financial
fallout from the accident in Fukushima, said Richard Myers, vice
president for policy at the Washington-based  Nuclear Energy
Institute , which represents reactor owners and builders.  “We’ve been saying for five years now that we expect the
renaissance of nuclear power would unfold slowly,” Myers said.
“We expected to see between four and eight new nuclear reactors
between now and 2020 and we still believe that.”  Avoiding Disaster  Preliminary construction has begun on new reactors in
Georgia and  South Carolina , where state regulators allow
companies to recover the cost of reactors as they are built, he
said.  Avoiding disaster in Japan may help the industry prove its
ability to handle emergencies, said Dale Klein, a former U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission chairman and a professor of
nuclear engineering at the University of Texas at Austin.  “As long as they keep the core covered, as long as there’s
no significant radiation release, it will demonstrate that the
safety systems for the most part worked,” Klein said. “The
human disaster that will be remembered will be the earthquake
and the tsunami, which will have caused many more deaths.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  