-- 
NYSE Climbs on Prospects of Bidding War With Deutsche Boerse for Exchange

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-14T16:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/nyse-rises-after-dealreporter-says-nasdaq-to-make-hostile-bid-for-exchange.html
Prospects of a bidding war for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  sent shares of the New York Stock Exchange’s owner 5.5
percent higher, climbing above the takeover price  Deutsche
Boerse  Group AG agreed to pay in February.    Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  is in advanced talks with lenders
about funding a hostile bid, DealReporter.com reported today.
The New York-based exchange operator run by Chief Executive
Officer Bob Greifeld has so far been left out of merger
agreements encompassing NYSE,  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,
Deutsche Boerse, Canada’s TMX Group Inc., Singapore Exchange
Ltd. and Australia’s ASX Ltd.  “If you’re not one of the top four to five players, you
might be relegated to being a regional player,” Larry Tabb,
founder of New York-based research firm Tabb Group LLC, said
yesterday.  Nasdaq OMX would fund an offer with about $5 billion in
debt from lenders led by Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and $5 billion in asset sales, DealReporter said,
citing an unidentified source.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
would buy NYSE Euronext’s European assets, DealReporter said.  NYSE Euronext rose 2.9 percent to $35.97 at 12:52 p.m. in
New York versus Deutsche Boerse’s $34.92 offer. They advanced as
much as 5.5 percent to $36.88. Nasdaq OMX fell 3.2 percent to
$26.32, and ICE lost 1.1 percent to $124.67.  Silvia Davi, a Nasdaq OMX spokeswoman, and Bank of
America’s John Yiannacopoulos didn’t return voicemails or e-
mails seeking comment. Ray Pellecchia of NYSE Euronext and Lee
Underwood of ICE declined to comment.  Other Deals  Exchanges worldwide are merging to cut costs and offset
lower profitability from equities. Deutsche Boerse agreed Feb.
15 to buy NYSE Euronext for $9.53 billion, creating the largest
exchange operator. London Stock Exchange offered 1.94 billion
pounds ($3.12 billion) on Feb. 9 for TMX Group, which runs  Canada ’s main markets. Last week, Tokyo Stock Exchange Group
Inc. President Atsushi Saito he may hold merger discussions with
Osaka Securities Exchange Co.  Nasdaq shares have a market value of $4.64 billion, 9th out
of 23 companies in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index, where
the average value is about $5.5 billion. NYSE Euronext is valued
at $9.4 billion and Deutsche Boerse is $14.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  