-- 
Surge of European Loan Refinancing Signals Growing Market Risk

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-03-14T12:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/loan-refinancings-in-europe-surge-on-concern-japan-mideast-to-raise-costs.html
Companies in western  Europe  are
refinancing loans at the fastest pace in at least 12 years on
concern Mideast protests, oil near a 29-month high and the
Japanese earthquake will trigger a surge in borrowing costs.  Companies raised $60 billion via loans refinancing existing
debt year-to-date, almost 60 percent more than in the same
period of 2010, making it the busiest start to a year since
at least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest tiremaker, and brewer  Heineken NV (HEIA)  are among borrowers marketing more than 18 billion
euros ($25 billion) of loans last week, the most since Dec. 26.  High-grade companies in Europe enjoyed a 46 percent drop in
interest margins since last year as banks stung by $2 trillion
of losses in the credit crisis sought borrowers less likely to
default. Concern political turmoil and  Japan ’s worst quake will
sap economic growth may undo the reduction in borrowing costs.  “We are coming toward the end of the corporate refinancing
wave,” said Graham Lofts, London-based head of international
loan origination with Commerzbank AG. “There are signs that a
floor is starting to form for loan pricing in Europe, so the
prospect of companies coming back to cut interest margins for
deals they did last year is getting slimmer.”  ‘Not Waiting’  The average interest banks charge for loans to western
European companies dropped to 50 basis points this year from an
average 93 last year, according to Bloomberg data.  “Most clients are not waiting for market conditions to
improve any further because the terms they are getting now are
pretty attractive,” said Ashu Kullar, co-head of EMEA loan
structuring and syndication at Citigroup Inc. in  London .  Escalating violence in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-biggest oil
producer, pushed crude oil futures to $106.95 on March 7, the
highest intraday price since Sept. 26, 2008. The uncertainty
forced U.S. leveraged loan issuers to revise plans last week, as
real-estate lender IStar Financial Inc. raised the rate on a
$1.5 billion term loan and merchandising-services firm Advantage
Sales & Marketing Inc. pulled a refinancing of $1.23 billion.  “With new geo-political risks flaring up in the Middle
East, rising oil prices and growing concern about inflation in
the emerging markets, on balance risk on the downside is higher
than risk on the upside,” Kullar said.  Oil for April delivery fell on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  to $98.47 a barrel today.  Philips, Continental  Amsterdam-based Royal Philips Electronics NV, the world’s
biggest lighting company, is looking to replace a 1.8 billion-
euro credit line after the average interest margin banks charge
for the loans to similarly-rated European borrowers fell to 40
basis points from 104 basis points last year, according to
Bloomberg data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Hanover, Germany-based Continental offered to pay initial
interest margins ranging from 250 basis points to 300 basis
points more than benchmark lending rates for 6 billion euros of
loans it is seeking to refinance, compared with interest margins
of between 475 basis points and 500 basis points for its
existing loans, Bloomberg data show.  “There is better understanding between borrowers and
lenders recently when it comes to pricing deals” and finding a
“mutually beneficial common ground,” said Simon Allocca,
London-based head of corporate loan markets with Lloyds Banking
Group Plc’s Capital Markets & Advisory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  