-- 
Obama’s Nuclear-Power Plan Set Back by Japan Quake Aftermath

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-03-14T22:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/obama-s-nuclear-power-expansion-plans-set-back-by-japanese-quake-aftermath.html
President  Barack Obama ’s frustrated
efforts to revamp U.S. energy policy may face another setback as
Japan works to prevent a meltdown at nuclear-power reactors
crippled by last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  Obama’s cap-and-trade measure to control carbon emissions
failed in the Senate last year, his endorsement of expanded
offshore drilling was set aside after the BP Plc oil spill in
April and his support for more natural-gas production draws
objections from environmentalists who say the techniques being
used risk tainting drinking-water supplies.  Now, the president’s call for the government to back a new
generation of nuclear plants as part of his “clean-energy”
agenda may be challenged as Japan struggles to control damaged
reactors. Obama has urged Congress to approve $54 billion in
U.S. loan guarantees for nuclear energy, a threefold increase.  “The question is whether this event in  Japan  makes it more
difficult to get support for additional subsidies in Congress,”
Tom Cochran, a nuclear physicist and a member of the Energy
Department’s Nuclear Energy Research Advisory Committee, said
today in an interview. “I think it will.”  Workers battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown after a
second blast rocked a plant north of  Tokyo  following an 9.0-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11. The cooling system
failed at Fukushima Daiichi station’s No. 1 and No. 3 reactors
after the temblor, and it stopped working today at the No. 2
reactor. Fuel rods in the reactors may have melted when water
levels fell, according to Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano. The U.S. Geological Survey today increased the magnitude
of the quake from 8.9 reported last week.  ‘Overall Energy Plan’  Nuclear power “remains a part of the president’s overall
energy plan,” White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters today.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a  Virginia  Republican,
told reporters at the Capitol today that nuclear power is “an
essential part of the energy mix of this country.” Senator
Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee Republican, said on the Senate
floor that the reactor safety systems in Japan so far “appear
to have done their job” and that U.S. reactors are “built to
the highest standards in the world.”  Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent a
letter today to Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican
who heads the panel, asking for an investigation of U.S. nuclear
safety. Upton didn’t respond except to note that Nuclear
Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko is scheduled to
testify before the Energy and Power subcommittee on March 16
about the commission’s budget.  Debate Altered  The outcome of efforts in Japan may not alter the political
damage already done to nuclear power in the U.S., Christine Tezak, an energy policy analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in
McLean, Virginia, said today in a note to clients.  “The debate over a nuclear renaissance has already been
altered,” Tezak said. “The U.S. nuclear industry will be
challenged to deflect criticisms that nuclear power plants can
never be safe enough.”  Approval of new plants may be slowed and operators of
existing facilities may have a tough time getting license
renewals, Tezak said.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat and
ranking member on the House Natural Resources Committee, called
for a moratorium on permits for U.S. reactors in seismically
active areas as well as on AP 1000 units made by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s
Westinghouse Electric Co. Markey has said the AP 1000 may not be
able to withstand a strong earthquake.  ‘Real Tremors’  “This is going to cause real tremors in the nuclear
investment area,” Markey, a longtime critic of nuclear power,
told Bloomberg Television today in an interview.  Obama’s top nuclear regulator, Jaczko, told reporters at
the White House today that his agency will review information
about Japan’s experience as it becomes available to “see if
there are changes we can make.”  “We have a strong safety program in place to deal with
seismic events that are likely to happen at any nuclear facility
in this country,” Jaczko said.  Even before the Japanese earthquake, John Rowe, chief
executive officer of Chicago-based  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the biggest
U.S. nuclear power generator, questioned whether large reactors
can be built profitably even with federal guarantees.  “The government would have to spend $300 billion to $600
billion to get these plants built,” Rowe said in a March 8
speech in  Washington . “Congress shouldn’t expand the nuclear
loan guarantee program beyond the current $18.5 billion.”  Southern, Vogtle  A group led by  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta, the biggest U.S.
utility owner by market value, has won the only nuclear-loan
guarantee awarded by the Energy Department. It will cover about
$8.3 billion of the estimated $14 billion needed to build AP
1000 reactors at the company’s Vogtle nuclear plant near
Waynesboro,  Georgia .  “The public sentiment is obviously going to be negative
now because the risks of nuclear generation have been exposed
with this event,” Aneesh Prabhu, an industry analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York , said today in an interview. “The
loans were already sluggish because of the economics of low
natural gas prices.”    Kevin Book , managing director at ClearView Energy Partners,
a Washington policy group, said the Japanese crisis may turn
Republican lawmakers against Obama’s effort to expand federal
guarantees.  Effects Of Fear  “As long as there is fear, Republicans who never loved
nuclear with their wallets anyway will have one more reason not
to push for funding,” Book said.  Southern CEO Tom Fanning said his company plans to proceed
with its plants for new nuclear reactors. The safety record of
Southern as well as the U.S. nuclear fleet has been
“outstanding,” he told Bloomberg Television today in an
interview.  A clean-energy package Obama proposed in his State of the
Union speech in January calls for backing renewable fuels such
as wind and solar energy as well as cleaner coal and nuclear
power.  Just hours after the quake and tsunami ravaged northeast
Japan, Obama said at a news conference that he stood by his goal
for 80 percent of U.S. electricity to come from low-polluting
fuels such as wind, solar, natural gas and nuclear by 2035.  No Judgment Rush  “We feel good that there hasn’t been a rush to judgment,”  Scott Peterson , a spokesman for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a
Washington-based trade group for reactor owners and builders,
said in an interview. “There is broad recognition among members
of Congress and certainly the Obama administration that nuclear
energy is going to be part of our energy mix going forward.”  Obama’s push to expand nuclear power has been one of his
few energy policy proposals supported by Republican and
Democratic lawmakers as well as utilities and some environmental
groups.  The U.S., which gets 20 percent of its electricity from 104
nuclear reactors across the country, hasn’t issued a new
construction license since a partial meltdown at  Pennsylvania ’s
Three Mile Island in 1979, the worst U.S. nuclear accident.  Obama’s proposal to limit  carbon emissions  through a cap-
and-trade system of pollution allowances passed the House and
then stalled in the Senate. Republicans and some Democrats in
Congress are trying to block the Environmental Protection
Agency’s efforts to impose carbon limits.  The president called March 31 for expanded offshore oil and
gas drilling, vouching for the safety of modern exploration
technology. The plan was suspended after the April 20 blowout of
BP’s Macondo well led to the largest U.S. offshore oil spill.  Environmental and community groups have also challenged
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, being used to extract natural
gas from shale. The EPA is studying the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net  