-- 
Obama Says Bush Education Law Needs Overhaul to Meet Goals

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-14T20:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/obama-to-reiterate-call-to-overhaul-bush-era-education-law.html
President  Barack Obama  repeated his
call for modifying the education legislation enacted by his
predecessor, saying the law needs changes to meet the needs of
the economy for a skilled workforce.  Obama said parents, schools and the government must work
together to assure the success of students through hard work in
the classroom and programs that will help them excel. He called
on Congress to overhaul the law, known as No Child Left Behind,
before the start of the next school year.  “The best jobs program out there is a good education,”
Obama told students, faculty and officials today at a middle
school in the Washington suburb of Arlington, Virginia. “The
best economic policy is one that produces more college
graduates.”  Today’s speech is one of a series the administration plans
to emphasize the importance of education in U.S. economic
growth. Obama also is using the issue to counter Republican
proposals to enact as much as $61 billion in cuts to this year’s
budget, arguing that the plan would hit vital programs. The
government is operating on temporary spending authority for
fiscal 2011 as Democratic and Republican lawmakers negotiate a
spending plan.  Goals, Resources  While funding for education is part of the budget debate,
members of both parties have supported modifying the law known
as No Child Left Behind, enacted during the administration of
former President  George W. Bush . Obama said the law set the
proper goals without giving schools the tools needed to achieve
them.  Obama, 49, said education is so important to the U.S.’s
ability to compete that it’s one of the areas where he’ll draw
the line at spending cuts.  While saying he’s determined to cut the nation’s deficit,
“fixing our failing schools costs money.”  “A budget that sacrifices our commitment to education
would be a budget that’s sacrificing our country’s future,”
Obama said. “We can’t be reckless and we can’t be irresponsible
about how we cut.”  Shifting Funds  Obama proposed $77.4 billion in federal spending on
education in his budget for the fiscal 2012, which starts Oct.
1. His proposal reduces higher education outlays by $10 billion
while raising spending for kindergarten through high school
education by 6.9 percent to $26.8 billion.  He said the existing law set the correct goals for public
education without providing the resources to meet them. He backs
more accountability for teachers and higher pay for the best
instructors.  “We’re going to have to stop making excuses for the
occasional bad teacher,” he said. “We’re going to have to
start paying good ones like the professionals that they are.”  Obama said students must be measured against higher
standards and they need assessments to determine whether they
are prepared for college and a career. He called for changes in
how schools are identified as failing.  “We need to fix this law now,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan told reporters on a conference call yesterday. Duncan
said the law is too punitive and  takes a “one-size-fits-all”
approach to achievement.  Negotiating With Congress  Obama met last week with members of the U.S. House and
Senate committees that oversee education matters in the hope
they can craft replacement legislation before the beginning of
the next school year, White House domestic policy adviser Melody Barnes said.  “There’s a lot more area of agreement than disagreement,”
she said.  Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican who is
chairman of the House education committee, that while there is
support for changing the law, he disagrees with Obama’s
timetable.  “We need to take the time to get this right,” he said in
a  statement  following the president’s remarks. “We cannot allow
an arbitrary timeline to undermine quality reforms that
encourage innovation, flexibility, and parental involvement.”  Obama also may face resistance from Republicans who are
part of the Tea Party caucus and object to federal involvement
in schools, which historically have been under control of local
authorities in the U.S. Some Republican lawmakers have suggested
that a piecemeal approach to revamping the law would be more
successful than a large, comprehensive bill.  Still Duncan said the law “has created dozens of ways for
schools to fail, but very few ways for schools to succeed,” and
the new legislation should provide better ways to help students
improve.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Arlington, Virginia at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  