-- 
Ohio State Favored Over Duke, Kansas to Win First NCAA Title Since 1960

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-14T05:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ohio-state-favored-over-duke-kansas-to-win-first-ncaa-title-since-1960.html
  Ohio State University  is favored to
win college basketball’s national championship even though they
may be in the tournament’s deepest region and history is against
them as the No. 1 overall seed.  The Buckeyes, who went 32-2 this season and captured the  Big Ten Conference  regular-season and tournament titles, are
given 7-2 odds by Las Vegas oddsmakers to win their first men’s
basketball championship since the 1960 squad that included Jerry Lucas, John Havlicek and  Bob Knight .  Ohio State  is a slight favorite over defending national
champion  Duke University  and the other two No. 1 regional seeds
-- the University of Kansas and University of Pittsburgh -- as
the tournament field expands to 68 teams from 65.  “Even though  Ohio  State is the top-rated team, there is so
little separation,” Tony Sinisi, a senior oddsmaker at Las
Vegas Sports Consultants, said in a telephone interview.
“You’ve got to make someone the favorite and they deserve to be
because they’re a quality team led by the freshman (Jared)
Sullinger, but you could make a case for quite a few of these
teams.”  Since the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament started assigning a No. 1 overall seed in 2004, only
one -- the 2007 Florida Gators -- captured the title.  Ohio State may be tested by an East Regional that includes
second-seeded  North Carolina  and fourth-seeded Kentucky, who
rank 1-2 all-time in NCAA tournament victories. Also in the
region are four schools from the Big East Conference, including
third-seeded Syracuse and No. 5  West Virginia ; sixth-seeded
Xavier; and No. 7  Washington , which claimed the Pacific-10
Conference tournament.  “When you’ve got Kentucky as a four seed and Syracuse as a
No. 3, the East is the toughest region from top to bottom,”
said ESPN college basketball analyst Dick Vitale, who picked
Ohio State to beat Pittsburgh for the national title.  Tournament Begins  The NCAA tournament starts in Dayton, Ohio, with four play-
in games to be played tomorrow and March 16 before full
tournament play begins March 17. The championship game is
scheduled for April 4 at Reliant Stadium in Houston.  A year ago,  Kansas  entered the NCAA tournament as the
favorite and No. 1 overall seed, only to lose to Northern Iowa
in the second round. This year, the Jayhawks -- the No. 1 seed
in the Southwest -- are the third-favorite with 5-1 odds,
according to the Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports Book.  “I’m happy Ohio State is the overall No. 1 seed. We had
that tag on us last year and didn’t play very well,” said  Kansas  coach Bill Self, whose team opens against  Boston
University  and is in a region with No. 2  Notre Dame , No. 3
Purdue and No. 4 Louisville. “We all want to be a No. 1 seed,
but I’d much rather have the right matchups.”  Duke, which last year beat Butler University for its fourth
national title, has 9-2 odds of becoming the first repeat
champion since Florida in 2006-07. The Blue Devils are the top
seed in the West Regional, whose other top teams include No. 2
San Diego State, No. 3  Connecticut , No. 4 Texas and fifth-seeded  Arizona .  Duke  and Ohio State would meet in the national semifinals
if both win their regions to reach the Final Four in Houston.
Kansas and Pittsburgh could play each other in the Final Four on
the other side of the bracket.  Pittsburgh Leads Big East  Pittsburgh , the top team in the Southeast Region, has the
longest odds of the No. 1 seeds at 8-1.  The Panthers, in a region that features No. 2  Florida , No.
3 Brigham Young and No. 4  Wisconsin , lead a record 11 schools
from the Big East in the tournament. The conference’s last
national title came from Connecticut in 2004.  “What makes the Big East the best is not the top, it’s the
totality,” CBS college basketball analyst Greg Anthony said
during a conference call. “That’s what sets them up to be
disappointing to a lot of people when they get in the tournament
because they expect these teams to overwhelm you and they’re not
those types of teams.”  Automatic bids went to 31 conference champions and the
remaining 37 participants received at-large invitations. Clemson,
Alabama-Birmingham,  Southern California  and Virginia
Commonwealth were the last teams to land at-large spots.  Under the NCAA tournament’s new 68-team format, those four
teams play for a seeded spot in the field.  Clemson-UAB  Clemson and UAB square off tomorrow for the No. 12 seed in
the East and a chance to face fifth-seeded West Virginia. USC
and Virginia Commonwealth play March 16 in Dayton for the 11th
seed in the Southwest and a game against No. 6 Georgetown.  The other two play-in games involve the lowest-ranked teams
in the tournament, with the winners getting a No. 16 regional
seed and matchup against a No. 1 seed. A top seed has never lost
to a No. 16 seed.  Ohio State will open against the winner of the March 16
game between Texas-San Antonio and Alabama State. Pittsburgh
starts its tournament run against either North Carolina-
Asheville or Arkansas Little Rock, who play tomorrow in this
year’s first game. Duke’s first opponent is Hampton University.  San Diego State  (32-2), which is seeded second in the West
behind Duke, is the fifth choice to win the title. The Aztecs
have 12-1 odds even though teams from the Mountain West
Conference are 10-26 in the NCAA tournament.  Princeton University ’s chances of winning the title may be
about 5,000 to 1, said Las Vegas Sports Consultants’ Sinisi, who
advises  Nevada ’s sports books on betting lines. LVSC didn’t set
individual odds on Princeton, which faces  Kentucky  after winning
the  Ivy League ’s automatic berth.  “I’m sure there’s going to be a lot of people saying,
‘Princeton-style offense against the athleticism of Kentucky,’”
ESPN college basketball analyst Doug Gottlieb said. “But the
Tigers are running a modified Princeton (offense) and we saw how
Duke’s pressure defense suffocated them early in the year (in a
97-60 win). Princeton is a nice story, but Kentucky moves on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  