-- 
Oil Falls to Two-Week Low in New York as Japanese Quake May Limit Demand

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-14T12:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/oil-falls-to-two-week-low-in-new-york-as-japanese-quake-may-limit-demand.html
Oil fell to a two-week low in  New
York  on speculation that the worst earthquake in  Japan ’s history
will hurt growth and reduce fuel demand in the world’s third-
largest economy.  Prices have dropped 6.1 percent in five days of losses, the
longest losing streak in more than a month. The temblor that hit
northern Japan on March 11 has shut 29 percent of domestic
refining capacity, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
Petroleum Association of Japan data. Fighting continued in
Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves, as Muammar Qaddafi’s forces repelled insurgents from the oil port of Brega,
the fourth rebel-held city re-taken by the nation’s leader.  “The downturn in oil and other commodity markets is a
result of the terrible quake in northern Japan,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in
London. “But with unrest in the Middle East continuing, and if
anything apparently getting worse, I expect  oil prices  to move
to the upside again before long.”  Oil for April delivery fell on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  as much as $2.69, or 2.7 percent, to $98.47 a barrel,
the lowest price since March 1. It was at $99.61 at 11:48 a.m.
London time. Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as $2.68, or 2.4
percent, to $111.16 a barrel, the lowest price since Feb. 25.  North Sea Brent crude’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was near the widest in more than a week, at $12.72 a barrel as
of 11:48 a.m.  London  time.  Japan Refineries  More than 10,000 people in northern Japan may have been
killed by the 8.9-magnitude earthquake, which unleashed a 7-
meter (23-foot) tsunami. Canon Inc., Sony Corp. and Nippon Steel
Corp. have halted some manufacturing operations.  JX-Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. closed refineries in Sendai,
Kashima and Negishi in the country’s northeastern Tohoku region.
The plants have combined processing capacity of about 600,000
barrels a day. Cosmo Oil Co. has shut its 220,000 barrel Chiba
facility following fires at liquefied petroleum gas storage
tanks. Kyokuto Petroleum Industries Ltd. has shuttered its
175,000 barrel-a-day facility in Ichihara near  Tokyo .
TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. said March 11 that it halted the major
units at its 335,000 barrel Kawasaki plant.  The closures have affected about 1.3 million barrels a day
of capacity, or 29 percent of the country’s total of 4.516
million, based on data from the Petroleum Association of Japan.  Gasoil Premium  The profit from making gasoil in  Asia  surged to the highest
in 2 1/2 years and fuel oil’s loss narrowed the most in a month.
The premium of gasoil, or diesel, to Dubai crude rose 12 percent
to $22.15 a barrel at 10 a.m. in Singapore, according to data
from London-based broker PVM Oil Associates Ltd.  “Disruptions to refineries and their supplies will quickly
eat into global demand for crude oil,” Villanova, Pennsylvania-
based analysts The Schork Group Inc. said in a report today.
“The net effect is that three of Japan’s five largest
refineries have been shut down.”  The front-month gasoil contract on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange traded at more than the contract for the next
month for the first time since October.  Gasoil for April delivery traded at $955.50 a metric ton as
of 8:15 a.m. London time, while the May contract was at $955 a
ton. This market structure is known as backwardation.  Crude futures have surged 9.2 percent since Jan. 14, when
the president of  Tunisia  was ousted in the first of the unrest
that has rocked the Middle East and North  Africa , including  Saudi Arabia ’s neighbors Yemen, Oman and Bahrain. Prices touched
a 29-month high of $106.95 a barrel in intraday trading March 7.  Day of Rage  Prices dropped 3.1 percent in New York last week, the first
weekly drop in a month, following the disaster in Japan and
after a planned series of protests in Saudi Arabia, the so-
called “Day of Rage,” was prevented by police.  “That planned Day of Rage was a non-event as far as I’ve
heard and that seemed to help ease the oil price,” said CMC’s
Le Brun. “Still, there are ongoing tensions in Yemen, Bahrain
and  Iran  and that will put a floor under the oil price.”  Hedge funds’ bullish oil bets rose to an all-time high for
a third straight week as concerns about supplies increased amid
fighting in  Libya .  Large speculators and funds increased net-long positions,
or wagers on higher prices, by 2 percent in the seven days ended
March 8 to 311,632 futures and options, the most in records
dating back to June 2006, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report. The
total has jumped 68 percent since Feb. 15.  The CFTC data only reflect positions taken through March 8,
so wouldn’t include any changes since the Japan earthquake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  