-- 
Japanese Nuclear Plant Radiation Recedes as Engineers Restore Water Level

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-03-15T11:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/tokyo-electric-confirms-explosion-at-fukushima-nuclear-plant.html
     March 15 (Bloomberg) --  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. engineers
at a nuclear plant restored water to safe levels, helping drive
down radiation after residents within 30 kilometers (19 miles)
were ordered inside to avoid contamination.  Water supply at reactors No. 1 and No. 3 stabilized and
radiation readings at the front gate of the plant dropped to a
level that isn’t “harmful to the human body,” Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said this afternoon in  Tokyo . Separately,
Tokyo Electric said it hadn’t decided whether to bring workers
after the utility evacuated 750 of its 800 employees following
this morning’s blast.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , facing a nation reeling from its
strongest earthquake on record, said the danger of further
radiation leaks increased at the nuclear facility, located 135
miles north of Tokyo. That sent the nation’s Topix stock index
to its biggest two-day drop since 1987 as concern grew over the
government’s ability to contain the crisis.  “Most important is to keep providing water and power
supply to the station,” said Rosenergoatom deputy head Vladimir
Asmolov, who’s headed to  Japan  to fight the crisis and was part
of the team that battled the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. “There
won’t be a leak of radiation comparable to Chernobyl.”  Two Holes  The building that houses the No. 4 reactor at Tokyo
Electric’s Dai-Ichi nuclear plant has two holes in it and water
in the spent fuel pool may be boiling, Hidehiko Nishiyama,
deputy director-general of Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency, said in Tokyo.  “If it is boiling, the water level will drop and hydrogen
will be released,” Nishiyama said.  A Tokyo Electric worker at the Fukushima nuclear plant is
being treated for  radiation exposure , said Toshiriro Bannai,
director of international affairs for the Tokyo-based agency.  In Ibaraki prefecture, about 43 miles south of the nuclear
plant, radiation levels surged to as high as 3,560 nanosieverts
at 8:10 a.m. before falling to 821 nanosieverts per hour as of 3
p.m., the Ibaraki government said in the release today. That
compares with 50 nanosieverts as of 9:30 a.m. on March 13, when
the measurements began, according the statement.  “The radiation levels are above normal, but at most only
about one-10th of a chest X-ray and are not harmful to the
health,” the government said in a separate statement today.  Explosion    Asia ’s biggest utility said earlier the containment chamber
of the No. 2 reactor may be damaged after a blast at 6:14 a.m.
and radiation leakage was possible. The explosion occurred near
a suppression chamber that controls pressure in the No. 2
reactor’s core, Tokyo Electric said.  Tokyo Electric evacuated about 750 workers after the
explosion at the No. 2 unit and about 50 workers remain to
manage the three reactors, Hikaru Kuroda, head of nuclear
maintenance at the Japanese utility, said today.  Today’s blasts follow one at the No. 3 reactor yesterday
after a buildup of hydrogen gas and a similar explosion at the
No. 1 reactor on March 12. The utility’s stock fell by the daily
limit of 25 percent in Tokyo.  The No. 2 reactor is still being monitored while the fire
at the No. 4 unit appears to have been extinguished, Edano said.
Temperature at the plant’s No. 5 and No. 6 reactors is also
being monitored, he said.  Hydrogen Blast  Japan informed the  International Atomic Energy Agency  about
the explosion at the No. 2 reactor and reported a fire at the
No. 4 unit’s spent fuel pond that released radioactivity
directly into the atmosphere, the IAEA said in a statement.
“The Japanese authorities are saying that there is a
possibility that the fire was caused by a hydrogen explosion,”
the agency said.  About 140,000 people within a radius of 20 to 30 kilometers
from the plant were ordered to stay indoors. The wind near the
Fukushima plant was blowing southward from the east-north-east
at noon, the  Japan Meteorological Agency  said.  Edano said earlier the vessel containing the radioactive
core of the plant’s No. 2 reactor was damaged in today’s blast
and radiation levels could harm public health.  At 10.22 a.m. local time, radiation levels of 30
millisieverts were measured between the No. 2 and No. 3
reactors, while at the No. 3 reactor 400 millisieverts were
detected, Edano said. “This is a level that could harm
people,” he said.  Uranium Miners  Four-hundred millisieverts is 20 times the annual limit for
nuclear industry employees and uranium miners, according to the
 World Nuclear Association . A radiation dose of 100 millisieverts
a year is the lowest level at which any increase in cancer is
evident, the London-based WNA said on its website.  The Dai-Ichi plant’s No. 2 reactor experienced a drop in
water levels after a  power outage  on June 17, according to a
Tokyo Electric statement at the time. The plant used an
alternative pump to add water to the reactor to return it to
normal water levels, it said.  Iwaki City council member Kazuyoshi Sato asked Tokyo
Electric President Masataka Shimizu to investigate the causes to
prevent a repeat occurrence, the current crisis shows adequate
measures weren’t taken, he said.  ‘Too Much Faith’  “Tokyo Electric and the government’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency had too much faith and confidence in
the safety of the plant and were lax in their response,” he
said by phone today.  While workers battled to head off the risk of a potential
meltdown, the weather agency forecast snow in Fukushima
prefecture, with the temperature dropping tomorrow to a low of
minus 3 degrees Celsius (26.6 degrees Fahrenheit) in some areas.  About 1.3 million households were without power in Japan
and 1.4 million had no running water, according to a government
report on the earthquake.  The March 11 temblor -- updated yesterday to a magnitude of
9, from 8.9, by the  U.S. Geological Survey  -- and subsequent
tsunami have led to what Kan called the country’s worst crisis
since World War II. There have been 405 aftershocks since then.
Stocks plunged and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  poured record funds into
the economy.  More than 2,000 people are confirmed dead since the
earthquake and tsunami hit the northeastern part of Japan,
Deputy Cabinet Secretary for Public Relations Noriyuki Shikata
said. “In the Kanto area, we do not have to be concerned about
radiation levels affecting the human body at this juncture.”  The Kanto region encompasses seven prefectures, including
Tokyo, and is home to about one-third of Japan’s 127 million
people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  