-- 
Tokyo Metro Restores Limited Subway Services After Aftershocks Halt Trains

-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-03-14T08:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/tokyo-rail-operators-cut-services-by-up-to-80-amid-quake-power-shortages.html
  Tokyo ’s biggest  subway operator 
expanded operations this afternoon as power shortages eased and
more workers returned, while commuters endured aftershocks from
the March 11 quake and crammed themselves into trains and buses.  Tokyo Metro Co. was running all lines at 50 percent to 90
percent of the normal schedule after halting briefly this
morning following a 5.1-magnitude temblor. East Japan Railways
Co., the nation’s biggest rail company, was running nine of its
busiest commuter lines at about 20 percent of capacity and had
stopped 29 others, according to its  website .  Tokyo Electric Power Co., battling a possible meltdown at a
nuclear power station north of Tokyo, scheduled staggered
blackouts in parts of the capital and eight surrounding
prefectures to conserve power. The city’s subway network, the
world’s busiest, carries about 8 million commuters a day on
trains that normally arrive every few minutes in central Tokyo.  Service disruptions at JR East, which operates lines that
reach into the parts of  Japan  closest to the 8.9-magnitude
quake’s epicenter, helped push the company’s shares down by the
most in 18 years in Tokyo trading today. JR East dropped by the
exchange-imposed 1,000 yen daily limit, or 18 percent, to 4,450
yen at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo.  At Yurakucho station in the capital’s central business
district, commuters stood 12 deep, waiting to board at 8 a.m. As
a delayed train pulled in and passengers got off, people surged
forward to squeeze into carriages. Riders who usually read
newspapers or check their mobile phones were packed so tightly
inside the car, they couldn’t lift their arms to grab a hold.  Leave Early, Arrive Late  Mitsuhiro Okamoto finally got on the Chuo line after 40
minutes of waiting at  Tachikawa station , about 40 minutes by
express train from the main business districts. He’d left home
half an hour earlier than usual and still couldn’t make it to
work on time.  “This just can’t be helped because of the earthquake,”
said Okamoto, 42, whose office is in Roppongi Hills in central
Tokyo. “I will probably try to leave home even earlier.”  The Yamanote line, which  circles central Tokyo , and the
Chuo line bisecting the city were operating with reduced
services, as was the Keihin Tohoku line, according to the
website of  JR East . The Yokosuka and Tokaido lines running
between Tokyo, Kanagawa Prefecture and Chiba Prefecture weren’t
in service, it said.  JR East added limited service on three more lines this
afternoon. The Sobu, Takasaki and Chuo-Sobu Kankou lines were
operating at 20 percent or more of normal, according to a faxed
statement today from the railway.  Tokyo Metro said it increased limited services in the
afternoon as a power shortage eased and more workers were able
to reach their posts. The network’s Hibiya line is running at 90
percent of normal, while the Hanzomon is at 80 percent and the
Ginza, Yurakucho and Fukutoshin lines at 70 percent. The
Marunouchi and Nambu lines are operating at 60 percent, Tokyo
Metro said on its website.  Business Postponed  Some companies also asked employees to work from home and
reschedule business trips.  Anri Iida, a 36-year-old office worker for an electronics
installation company, said his commute to Tokyo station took 90
minutes today instead of the usual hour.  “There were fewer trains than usual, so it was extremely
packed,” Iida said, standing on a platform in Tokyo station.
“I could barely move. Even though my mobile phone was ringing,
I couldn’t get to it because we were crammed in.”  Iida said he was still waiting to hear from his company
after canceling plans to ride a bullet train to Nagoya,
southwest of Tokyo, where the firm has a second office.  “I’m meant to be going to Nagoya now, but my company told
me to stop my plans in case I go and I can’t get back,” Iida
said. I’m just waiting for them to get back to me on what’s
going to happen now.”  Tokyo Bay City Kotsu Co. added two buses to its Tokyo Bay
shuttle, bringing the total to 10 that deliver commuters from
the bedroom community of Urayasu, Chiba, to Tokyo station in the
city’s central business district, Takao Amano, spokesman for
Tokyo Bay City, said by telephone.  Keisei Electric Railway Co.’s bus line, which operates six
routes from Chiba to Tokyo reduced services on concern
overcrowding at pickup points and traffic jams would affect
safety, Kazuya Kitamura, spokesman for the line said by phone.  Taxis at Capacity  Nihon Kotsu Co., the capital’s biggest taxi company, was
operating at full capacity and may have to reduce services as
replacement drivers cannot make it to dispatch points because of
canceled or limited train services, said Naoko Kamigaki,
spokeswoman for the company.  “We are running all of our 3,200 cars all the time,” said
Kamigaki. “We may have to start parking some of them because
some of our drivers just can’t come to work due to the delays,
or stoppage in some train lines. Some drivers already had to
stay at our office on Friday and Saturday because there was no
public transportation to get them back home.”  Nihon Kotsu may cut service down to 2,100 cars spread
across the city’s 23 wards, Kamigaki said.  JR East also halted service on its Narita Express between
Yokohama, Tokyo and Narita International Airport. Keisei
Electric Railway, which also runs the Skyliner express train
between central Tokyo and Narita Airport, operated only two
services today, one at 6:30 a.m. and the other at 7:10 a.m.  Highway to Airport  There were no reports of traffic jams on the Shin-Kuko
expressway to Narita airport and roads leading up to Haneda
airport, according to the Japan Road Traffic Information Center.
Roads are operating as normal, the center said.  The Higashi-Kanto expressway between Ibaraki airport and
Ibaraki town is closed, according to the Japan Road Traffic
Information Center.  Parts of the Kita-Kanto expressway, Tohoku expressway,
Joban expressway, Tokyo-Gaikan expressway, Ken-O expressway,
Higashi-Kanto expressway and Higashi-Mito road were closed due
to the earthquake, according to the Japan Road Traffic
Information Center.  The Tokyo-Gaikan expressway, which links Tokyo’s Nerima
ward with Misato city in Saitama prefecture is closed between
Gaikan-Misato-nishi interchange and Misato-Minami interchange.  There have been hundreds of aftershocks since the March 11
quake, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. They include a 6.3-
magnitude temblor yesterday centered off the coast 115
kilometers (71 miles) southeast of the city of Sendai, the USGS
said. A quake this morning triggered an alert for a 5-meter
tsunami for Iwate prefecture that didn’t materialize.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  