-- 
Toledo Holds Lead in Peru Presidential Race, University Says

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/toledo-holds-lead-in-peru-presidential-race-university-says.html
Former Peruvian president  Alejandro Toledo  held his lead ahead of next month’s presidential
election, a poll of voters shows.  Toledo, who was president of Peru between July 2001 and
July 2006, had the support of 27 percent of those surveyed, down
from 29 percent in January, said Lima-based Catholic University
yesterday in a report posted on its  website .  Support for Keiko Fujimori, a Peruvian congresswoman and
daughter of jailed former President  Alberto Fujimori , fell 1
percentage point to 19 percent from two months earlier, the
university said. Former Lima mayor Luis Castaneda also slipped 1
percentage point to 17 percent.  Toledo, 64, has a high level of support and is perceived as
the most likely winner by those contacted in the survey, said
Fernando Tuesta, director of the university’s Institute of
Public Opinion, which conducted the poll. The low level of
objection among voters to a potential Castaneda presidency could
help the two-term former mayor reach the likely run-off vote,
Tuesta said in a video recording posted on the university’s
website yesterday.  The first round of voting is scheduled for April 10. A
second round will be held on June 5 if no candidate wins more
than 50 percent of the first-round vote.  “You have those who see Toledo as the winner in the second
round but there is also a sector that doesn’t want Toledo to
win,” said Tuesta, a former head of  Peru ’s national electoral
board. “Those voters could put their support behind Castaneda
if they feel Keiko Fujimori wouldn’t defeat Toledo in the second
round.”  Humala, Kuczynski Gain  Ollanta Humala, head of the Andean country’s Nationalist
Party, advanced 4 percentage points to 16 percent in the
university’s poll, and former finance minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski climbed to 11 percent from 4 percent.  The poll was taken from March 4 to 8 and contacted 1,570
people in 19 of Peru’s 25 regions. It had a margin of error of
2.5 percentage points.  The leading three candidates have seen a “slight decline”
in support in Lima, where one-third of the country’s voters
live, the university said. Support for Kuczynski has grown in
urban areas, especially  Lima , as the 73-year-old former U.S.
investment banker becomes better known as a result of his
presidential campaign, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  