-- 
Ping An Gets $2.5 Billion Selling Shares to Boost Solvency Ratio

-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-03-14T16:08:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/hong-kong-s-fourth-richest-billionaire-buys-ping-an-stake-for-2-5-billion.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
raised HK$19.4 billion ($2.5 billion) selling shares to a  Hong
Kong  billionaire to help China’s second-largest insurance
company bolster capital.  Chow Tai Fook Nominee Ltd., controlled by the family of the
Hong Kong tycoon  Cheng Yu-tung , bought 272 million shares at
HK$71.50 each, according to a Hong Kong exchange filing late
yesterday. The new stock represents 3.44 percent of expanded
share capital, and Ping An will use the money to increase its
solvency ratio and “broaden the capital scale,” it said.  Ping An is raising capital after saying in September it
will pay 29.1 billion yuan ($4.4 billion) for control of  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  to enhance banking operations.  “They need to raise capital for the medium- and long-term
as the acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank brings down its
solvency ratio,” said Nan Sheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at  
UOB Kay Hian Investment Co. “A private placement can be fast, 
but it dilutes existing holdings and it’s hard to tell what 
shareholders’ response will be.”  The solvency ratio of Ping An’s property and casualty unit
dropped 7.4 percentage points in the first half of 2010 to 136.2
percent as of June 30, as premiums surged by 61 percent, and the
gauge for its life insurance arm fell 20 percentage points to
206.3 percent, according to company filings.  Chinese insurer may be subject to restrictions when their
solvency ratios drop below 150 percent, according to government
rules.  Buying a Bank  Under the agreement, Ping An will pay 2.69 billion yuan in
cash and inject its existing banking unit into the Shenzhen-
based lender in return for a 22.4 percent stake, raising its
holdings to 52.39 percent.  The insurer, also based in Shenzhen, already raised its
holding in the Shenzhen bank to 29.99 percent in June by buying
a stake from Newbridge Capital LLC and new shares.  Ping An Insurance achieved “much better” underwriting
profitability for non-life business last year than in 2009 as
expenses dropped, Shi Liangxun, vice president of Ping An
Property & Casualty Insurance Co., said on March 1.  It will be “very difficult” to lower the unit’s combined
ratio, which measures expenses and claims as a percentage of
premiums earned, further this year, Shi said. The unit will also
find it hard to exceed an estimated 20 percent average in
premium growth for  China ’s non-life insurance industry this
year, Shi said.  The share in the placement announced yesterday will be
issued under Ping An’s general mandate, granted to the board at
the June 29 annual shareholders’ meeting, according to the
statement.  Trading Resumes  Ping An was suspended in Hong Kong yesterday and will
resume trading at 9 a.m. today, according to the statement to
the exchange. The stock has dropped 6 percent this year, while
Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index has risen 1.4 percent.  The insurer’s Shanghai shares dropped 4 percent on Jan. 6
after a Citic Securities Co. report saying it may need to raise
up to 40 billion yuan.  Cheng controls property company New World Development Co.
and was ranked by Forbes Magazine as Hong Kong’s fourth-richest
person.  Hong Kong’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing , last year invested in
a rights offer by London-based Prudential Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 