-- 
Hong Kong Air Woos Private-Equity Investors, Cathay Pacific's Passengers

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-03-14T05:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/hong-kong-air-woos-private-equity-investors-cathay-pacific-s-passengers.html
Hong Kong Airlines Ltd. expects to
win private-equity investment by early next quarter as it
prepares for an initial public offering of as much as $1 billion
and challenges neighbor  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)     Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is working on arranging a stake
sale to private-equity investors, who will become the second-
largest group of shareholders behind the investment arm of
China’s Hainan province government, President Yang Jiang Hong
said in an interview at the carrier’s Hong Kong headquarters on
March 10. He didn’t give details on the talks.  The airline last week agreed to order 38  Boeing Co. (BA) 
widebody planes to tap demand in Hong Kong and China, the
world’s fastest-growing air-travel market. The carrier, with
less than 10 percent of Hong Kong’s outbound travel, needs to
boost services to lure lucrative corporate flyers from Cathay,
said Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst Andrew Orchard.  “If they want to survive, they have to be aggressive,”
Orchard said.   Hong Kong  is dominated by Cathay.” Orchard, who
is based in the city, said he had only flown on Hong Kong Air
once or twice.  To help pay for expansion, Hong Kong Air plans to hold an
IPO next year, where it may raise from $500 million to $1
billion, Yang said. The carrier may also take full control of
affiliate Hong Kong Express ahead of the share sale, he said.  Profit Forecast  Hong Kong Air made a net income of about HK$110 million
($14 million) in 2010, its first annual profit, and it may
double that this year, Yang said. Passenger numbers will likely
rise to 4 million from more than 2 million, he said.  The airline also expects its cargo unit, which started last
year, to account for 30 percent of revenue this year from 20
percent, as it adds more freighter flights, he said.  Cathay, with a group fleet of about 170 planes, flew 26.8
million passengers in 2010. It boosted profit to HK$14 billion
from HK$4.7 billion a year earlier, helped by rising travel and
asset sales. The airline ordered 25 Boeing and Airbus SAS planes
last week.  Hong Kong Air and Hong Kong Express operate a total 18
Airbus A330-200s and Boeing 737-800s planes, including
freighters. Hong Kong Air agreed to order 32 Boeing 787s last
week, including two for VIP operations, and six 777 freighters.
The airline also has 30 A320s and 27 twin-aisle planes on order
at Airbus, according to the planemaker’s  website .    China  Network  The two carriers fly to nine cites in China, as well as to
Moscow and Asian destinations, according to their  website .
Taipei flights will begin as early as next month, and a second
daily service to  Singapore  is due to begin on June 28. Long-haul
routes including Paris, London,  Vancouver  and U.S. cities will
be added over the next two years, Yang said.  Hong Kong Air plans to add an all-business class service to
London next year after opening an executive lounge at its hub in
2010, Yang said. The carrier is also trying to lure premium
passengers by charging as much as 20 percent less than Cathay
and by tapping ties with Hainan province’s HNA Group, Yang said.
 HNA , which owns 45 percent of Hong Kong Air, also controls
Hainan Airlines Co. and Beijing-based Grand China Air, as well
as investing in airports, hotels and retail.  “Compared with Cathay, we know the China market better,”
Yang said. “We are in a stronger position to capture the
growth.”  China’s international air travel may grow 11 percent a year
through 2014, almost double the global pace, according to the
 International Air Transport Association .  Cathay Upgrades  Cathay is spending HK$1 billion rolling out new business-
class cabins and it’s also renovating lounges, incoming Chief
Executive Officer John Slosar said last week. The carrier is
used to competition from its experience battling international
carriers in its home market, he said.  “We compete everywhere, everyday,” he said. “Like any
business you need to give people a reason to buy your product
and we really try to keep focused on that.”  Cheaper fares may also do little to help win corporate
travelers as employers generally pay for trips, said RBS’s
Orchard. Cathay passengers may also be reluctant to give up the
chance to earn frequent-flyer points by using a different
carrier, the analyst said.  “I can’t see why people would want to lose the mileage,”
he said. “Cathay has a very good frequent-flyer program.”  Oasis Hong Kong Airlines Ltd., which challenged Cathay with
low-cost flights to  London  and Vancouver, collapsed after less
than two years of operations in 2008.  Hiring Plans  Hong Kong Air plans to hire 300 staff this year, including
200 cabin crew and 50 pilots, Yang said. The carrier received
more than 2,000 applications from pilots last year, so it isn’t
concerned about meeting its hiring targets, he said.  The airline also intends to begin hedging as much as 33
percent of its fuel usage after recently acquiring a trading
company, Yang said. The carrier had planned to start hedging,
which helps guard against jumps in fuel prices, even before
crude rose above $100 barrel because of political unrest in the
Middle East, he said.  Oil prices  will likely decline from this
level, he said.  “The high crude prices are only temporary,” he said.
“It’s just because of political reason -- not supply and demand
factors -- and it won’t weigh on our profits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 