-- 
Moody's Sees Risk That Japan Hits Fiscal `Tipping Point' Sooner on Quake

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-14T06:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/moody-s-sees-risk-that-japan-hits-fiscal-tipping-point-sooner-on-quake.html
  Japan  may “at some point” reach a
fiscal “tipping point” if investors lose confidence in the
soundness of government finances and demand a  risk premium  on
the nation’s bonds, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The March 11 earthquake “may have shifted such a potential
tipping point a bit forward, unless Japan’s political parties
are galvanized by the crisis to also address the country’s long-
term fiscal challenges,” Tom Byrne, a senior vice president
with Moody’s, said in an e-mailed note today.  Japan’s economy, the world’s third biggest, will be able to
absorb the shock of the earthquake and tsunami that have
devastated northeastern areas and a fiscal crisis is not
imminent, Byrne said. At the same time, the costs associated
with the disaster will likely halt any progress in reducing
“large” budget deficits, he said.  Estimates of the economic damage from the natural disaster
will “likely increase in the weeks and months ahead,” Byrne
said. “Already ripple effects beyond the devastated zones are
being seen in curtailed electricity supplies and suspended
production in some automobile, and petroleum refining plants.”  Government debt is set to reach 210 percent of GDP in 2012,
the highest among countries tracked by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, compared with an estimated
101 percent for the U.S. Japan’s debt will probably swell to
997.7 trillion yen ($12 trillion) in the year starting April 1,
the Ministry of Finance said in January.    Standard & Poor’s  cut its sovereign rating for Japan in
January to the fourth-highest investment grade, citing the lack
of a “coherent strategy” for reining in borrowing. Moody’s
lowered its outlook on Japan’s Aa2 grade, the third highest,
last month, also flagging the risk of political gridlock, with
economic and fiscal policies in danger of failing to contain
“the inexorable rise in debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  