-- 
Origin Energy to Raise A$2.3 Billion After NSW Acquisition

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-15T00:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/origin-energy-to-raise-a-2-3-billion-after-nsw-acquisition-1-.html
  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) ,  Australia ’s
largest energy retailer, plans to raise A$2.3 billion
($2.3 billion) selling shares to reduce debt after buying power
assets from the New South Wales state government.  Origin will offer about 177 million shares at A$13 each to
help fund a transaction that increased its customers by more
than 50 percent to 4.6 million, it said in documents filed today
with the Australian stock exchange. The sale price is 17 percent
less than yesterday’s closing price of A$15.66.  The offer price is a “nice discount” and lower than
expected,  Xavier Grunauer , a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said by telephone. Origin may aim to raise a
further A$2 billion selling shares to help pay for its proposed
Australia Pacific liquefied natural gas development with  ConocoPhillips (COP) , he said.  Origin in December agreed to purchase assets including
electricity retailers Country Energy and Integral Energy for
A$3.25 billion. The Sydney-based company said at the time that
the deal would be funded with debt, which it expected to partly
refinance with a share sale.  “The equity raising will also strengthen Origin’s balance
sheet for investment in other growth opportunities,” the
company said in the statement today. Origin is evaluating a
range of options to fund the proposed Queensland LNG venture
with ConocoPhillips, it said.  One-for-Five  Shareholders will be eligible to buy one new share for
every five they own, with sales to institutional and retail
investors raising about A$1.15 billion each, Origin said.  Origin was expected to raise A$1.75 billion in a share sale
to fund the New South Wales deal, Marie Miyashiro, a Sydney-
based analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a March 10 report.  Origin has fallen 6 percent this year, compared with the
2.5 percent drop in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. Trading in
the stock is halted.  Origin’s LNG venture with ConocoPhillips, which follows
rival  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and BG Group Plc projects, may cost more than
A$20 billion, according to a Citigroup estimate.  China Petrochemical Corp., the nation’s second-biggest oil
company, said last month it planned to acquire 15 percent of the
LNG project as part of a fuel-purchase accord. That agreement
would reduce the partners’ stakes to 42.5 percent each.  Origin may lower its interest in the project to 35 percent,
raising total proceeds of about A$1 billion, Miyashiro of
Citigroup wrote in the report. The APLNG venture, like the  Exxon
Mobil Corp (XOM) .-led project in  Papua New Guinea , also may seek
financing from export credit agencies, according to Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  