-- 
House Republicans Ask CFTC Watchdog to Probe Dodd-Frank Costs

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-03-14T14:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/house-republicans-ask-cftc-watchdog-to-probe-dodd-frank-costs.html
U.S.  House Republicans  have asked
the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s  internal watchdog to
ensure Dodd-Frank Act rules for derivatives markets are cost-
effective and don’t impose unnecessary burdens on companies.  Representatives  Frank Lucas  of Oklahoma and K. Michael Conaway of  Texas  want CFTC Inspector General  A. Roy Lavik  to
review how the agency assesses costs and benefits, and whether
rulemaking might be helped by extension of the mid-July deadline
for Dodd-Frank Act provisions, they wrote in a March 11 letter.
Lucas and Conaway asked Lavik to reply by April 15.  “It is incumbent upon the CFTC to approach cost-benefit
thoroughly and responsibly to understand the costs, and
therefore the economic impact any proposed regulation will have
on regulated entities and markets,”  the lawmakers wrote.  Scott Schneider , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the letter.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are writing
rules for derivatives markets after unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank, passed by a Democrat-
led Congress and enacted in July, seeks to reduce risk and boost
transparency in the market by having most swaps guaranteed by
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  The letter from Conaway and Lucas, the chairman of the
House Agriculture Committee, follows calls from financial-
industry lobbying groups and Republicans including CFTC
Commissioner Jill Sommers to increase scrutiny of the costs and
benefits of the new regulations.  Terrence Duffy, executive chairman of  CME Group Inc. (CME) , said
the CFTC is “operating under the mistaken interpretation” that
the agency doesn’t need to analyze the financial impact of
regulation.  “The drafters of the proposed rules have consistently
ignored the commission’s obligation to fully analyze the costs
imposed on third parties and on the agency,” Duffy  told 
lawmakers at a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing on March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  