-- 
Sony, Toyota Shut Factories After Power Shortages Follow Earthquake Damage

-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 
2011-03-14T04:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/toyota-sony-factories-shuttered-amid-earthquake-damage-power-shortages.html
Japanese manufacturers including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  closed plants today after the
nation’s strongest earthquake damaged factories and crippled
nuclear power plants, causing electricity shortages.  Sony,  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
halted operations at 10 factories and two research centers
because of power outages and damages, said  Mami Imada , a
spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based company. Toyota, the world’s
largest automaker, said it closed all 12 factories in Japan
through Wednesday, and its auto-body makers’ plants are closed
today. Honda Motor Co. said it would stop output at plants in
four locations.  Japan worked to contain an emergency at a nuclear plant
north of  Tokyo  as local police said the death toll from the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami may top 10,000. Tokyo Electric
Power Co., battling possible meltdowns at its nuclear reactors,
planned rolling blackouts in Tokyo and eight surrounding
prefectures to conserve power.  Profit Impact  “We don’t know how long it will take for manufacturers to
return to normal operations, with the current situation at the
nuclear  power plants ,” said Toshihiko Matsuno, a senior
strategist at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo. “If they can
resume output, they can sell as the  U.S. economy  is signaling a
recovery.”  Toyota’s profit may be reduced by 6 billion yen ($73
million) for each day it halts production, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. estimated in a report. Honda and Nissan Motor Co. may each
see a reduction of 2 billion yen a day, according to the report.  Toyota fell 7.9 percent to 3,310 yen as of 1:35 p.m.,
headed for the biggest drop since December 2008. Sony plunged
8.9 percent to 2,557 yen, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average declined 6.2 percent.  “It’s panic selling,” said Toshikazu Horiuchi, a market
analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo. “No one knows the
complete picture yet on how big the damage will be from the
earthquake.”  Toyota, Toshiba  Toyota closed all 12 plants from March 14 to March 16 to
make sure its employees and families are safe, said  Shiori Hashimoto , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for the Toyota City, Japan-
based company. The company is conducting surveys of plants, it
said in an e-mailed statement.  Toyota affiliate  Denso Corp. (6902) , Japan’s largest car-parts
maker, shut almost all of its factories in Japan, said Goro Kanemasu, a company spokesman. The Aichi prefecture-based
partsmaker hadn’t decided about operations tomorrow, he said.
The shares declined 7.2 percent.    Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest maker of cameras, said
yesterday it would suspend operations at eight production and
development facilities in northern Japan. It fell 6.1 percent in
Tokyo trading.  Nikon Corp. (7731)  halted four plants in Miyagi and
Tochigi prefectures and is assessing the impact on earnings, it
said today in a statement. Nikon shares dropped 9.1 percent.    Toshiba Corp. (6502)  halted five plants due to power outages and
closed one plant because of damages from the earthquake, the
Tokyo-based manufacturer said. Shares of the company, which
makes nuclear power plants, plunged 16 percent.  JAL, Asahi    Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  halted operations at seven
factories in the Tohoku and Kanto regions because of quake
damage and outages, Makie Uehara, a spokeswoman for the
Kawasaki-based maker of electronics components, said today by
phone.    Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) , the maker of semiconductors and computer
equipment, halted 10 plants in northern Japan as well as the
greater Tokyo region, it said today in a statement.  Japan Airlines Corp., the nation’s biggest carrier, said it
would resume flights to some northern airports tomorrow,
following cancelations after the earthquake.    East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , which operates trains in the Tokyo
region and northern Japan, was among the rail and subway
operators that cut services by as much as 80 percent today
around the capital.    Asahi Breweries Ltd. (2502) , Japan’s biggest brewer by volume,
will reduce production at a plant in Kanagawa prefecture by 50
percent because of blackouts, said Takayuki Tanaka, a spokesman
for the Tokyo-based company. It has halted operations at
factories in Fukushima and Ibaraki prefectures.  “The market will remain weak,” Matsuno said. “Japan’s
economy will be hurt for a while, and then will show a big
recovery on rebuilding efforts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  