-- 
Ozzy Osborne, Yves Saint Laurent Featured at Tribeca Festival

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-14T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ozzy-osborne-yves-saint-laurent-spotlighted-in-tribeca-festival-movies.html
Documentaries on Ozzy Osborne,  Yves Saint Laurent  and Carol Channing will be shown at the 10th
annual  Tribeca Film Festival , which announced the second half of
its lineup today.  Eighty-eight feature-length movies from 32 countries will
be screened at the festival co-founded by  Robert De Niro . The
event runs from April 20 to May 1 in New York.  “God Bless Ozzy Osbourne,” directed by Mike Fleiss and
Mike Piscitelli, recounts the turbulent career of the heavy-
metal musician turned reality-show star.  Dori Berinstein’s “Carol Channing: Larger Than Life”
tells the story of the Broadway diva who starred in the original
“Hello, Dolly!” “L’amour fou,” directed by Pierre Thoretton,
focuses on the relationship between designer Saint Laurent and
his onetime lover and longtime business partner  Pierre Berge .  Other documentaries include Sebastian Dehnhardt’s
“Klitschko,” about the two Ukrainian brothers who have
dominated heavyweight boxing for the past 15 years; and
“Catching Hell,” Alex Gibney’s film about Steve Bartman, the
Chicago Cubs fan whose deflection of a foul ball in the 2003
playoffs may have cost the team its first World Series berth
since 1945.  Bloom, Turner  Among the dramatic films announced today are “The Good
Doctor,” a psychological thriller starring Orlando Bloom as a
physician who becomes obsessed with a teenage patient, and
“The Perfect Family,” featuring Kathleen Turner as a devout
Catholic mother coming to terms with her imperfect family.  Bloomberg LP, which owns Bloomberg News, is a sponsor of
the Tribeca festival.  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 