-- 
HP Plans to Start Cloud Service, App Stores; Raises Dividend

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-03-14T22:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/hp-to-sell-cloud-computing-app-services-to-revive-growth-apotheker-says.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  plans to
introduce a cloud-computing service and will increase its
quarterly dividend, early efforts by Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  to boost sales and reverse a share-price decline.  HP will also put its WebOS mobile-operating system onto a
broader range of devices for consumers and businesses, in a bid
to make the company’s various products work better together,
Apotheker said today at an event in San Francisco.  “In this game, size does matter,” and HP will deliver more
than 100 million WebOS devices a year, Apotheker said. “We are
building an open platform that gives developers a brand that is
trusted.”  Apotheker, CEO since Nov. 1, is changing the emphasis set
by his predecessor  Mark Hurd  on cost-cutting to get sales
growing faster and improve product quality. Apotheker took over
HP as it faces more competition in cloud computing. The company
has an advantage when it comes to the corporate market, said  Tim Bajarin , an analyst at consulting firm Creative Strategies.  “That 100 million devices number is the most important
thing I heard,” Bajarin said. “It could be a big play for HP,”
in terms of enterprise customers, he said. “No one else is
driving that route.”  Dividend Boost  HP raised its quarterly dividend for the first time since
1998, increasing it 50 percent to 12 cents a share from 8 cents,
Chief Financial Officer  Cathie Lesjak  said at the event. She
also said the company will remain an “active acquirer” and focus
software growth on cloud products.  Apotheker plans to make better use of the WebOS software
that HP gained in last year’s $1.2 billion purchase of
smartphone maker Palm, installing it on every PC shipped by HP
next year. The PCs will also be able to run Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company plans to develop an
open cloud marketplace that will let businesses and consumers
access applications and handle computing tasks via the Internet.  In an interview last month, Apotheker said he would
overhaul the $41 billion personal-computer division and use
acquisitions to expand in software markets dominated by rivals
including  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
He has also said he’ll increase research and development
spending to help HP deliver innovative products to the market
faster.  Sales Growth  Hewlett-Packard’s sales may rise 3.7 percent in fiscal 2011
and 4.4 percent in 2012, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict,
compared with an average increase of about 8 percent annually
under Hurd. HP forecast quarterly and annual sales on Feb. 22
that missed analysts’ projections amid lackluster consumer
demand and sinking services revenue.  Hurd, who was HP’s CEO for more than five years, boosted
sales and shareholder returns through more than $24.3 billion in
acquisitions and cost-cutting that included plans to eliminate
at least 48,000 jobs. Research and development spending declined
from 4 percent of sales at the end of 2005 when Hurd took over,
to 2.3 percent of sales by the end of 2010.  Hurd departed Aug. 6 after HP said he had violated its
standards of business conduct.  Apotheker’s investments in innovation could accelerate
sales growth but limit earnings,  Jayson Noland , an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco , said in a March 11 note
to clients.  Comfort Level  “Mr. Apotheker is clearly taking a more revenue-focused
approach than his predecessor” Noland said. Increases in
operating expenses may limit the ability for HP to exceed
earnings estimates, said Noland, who has an “outperform” rating
on the shares.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect HP to earn $1.21 in
the second quarter, which ends in April, and $1.24 in the third
quarter, which ends in July. Shares of HP have declined 10
percent since Hurd left.  “Investors need to get more comfortable with the new
management’s ability to execute,”  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI
Group in  New York , said in a March 10 research note. HP needs to
invest more in sales, marketing, and product development to
become more competitive, said Lamba, who recommends buying the
shares.  HP’s R&D spending of 2 percent of revenue compares with
expenditures of 6 percent for IBM, 11 percent for Oracle, and 13
percent at  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  last year, according to Lamba.  Acquisition Strategy  IBM, Oracle and Cisco compete with HP in the market for
computers, storage and networking gear that run in corporate
data centers. In the first quarter, HP got about 70 percent of
sales from those products and from printers, about 27 percent
from providing information-technology services, and 2.2 percent
from software.  Apotheker is looking to buy software companies that can
help HP expand in areas including data analysis and computer
security. He also said in the interview last week that German
software maker SAP AG, where he served as CEO until last year,
and customer management software maker Salesforce.com Inc.
aren’t on his radar as acquisition targets.  HP fell 16 cents to $41.49 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 1.4 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  