-- 
Parmalat Should Aim to Be Among Top Dairy Companies, Rossi Says

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   D a n   L i e f g r e e n
-- 
2011-03-14T23:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/parmalat-can-become-top-five-dairy-company-with-acquisitions-rossi-says.html
  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  should pursue
acquisitions as part of a goal to become one of the world’s five
largest dairy-product companies, according to Massimo Rossi,
proposed by fund managers as an interim chief executive officer.  “It’s ambitious, but it can be done within six years,”
Rossi, 68, said in an interview in Milan yesterday. “With
calculated risk we can radically change the shape of the
company.” Parmalat,  Italy ’s largest dairy company, ranks about
12th globally in the industry, he estimated.  Mackenzie Financial Corp., Skagen AS and Zenit Asset
Management AB, which together own 15.3 percent of Parmalat, on
March 11 proposed a new board and management that would consider
acquisitions. Parmalat holds its annual meeting in April, when
the board’s election takes place.  Amid a decade of consolidation in  Europe ’s dairy industry,
Parmalat has made three purchases since returning to the stock
market in 2005, the largest of which was spending about $54
million to buy some fresh milk operations from  Australia ’s
National Foods Ltd., according to Bloomberg data.  Rossi, a former CEO at  Swedish Match AB (SWMA) , declined to
identify potential targets should the investors’ proposal be
successful, though emerging markets including  South America ,  Africa  and eastern Europe may be opportunities, he said.  Pursuing Yoplait, the French yogurt maker that PAI Partners
is selling its stake in, would be too expensive, the executive
said. “They’re asking for an impossible price,” he said.  Breakup Opposed  Parmalat has existing cash of about 1.5 billion euros ($2.1
billion) plus funds generated from asset sales of about 200
million euros, all of which could be “leveraged” for an
additional sum of as much as 1 billion euros, Rossi said.  Rossi opposes a breakup of Parmalat and a share buyback
program. “I believe we need the money to expand,” he said.  CEO Enrico Bondi should have considered some acquisitions,
according to Rossi. “By not taking a single risk on a single
company, Parmalat can become a prey for predators,” he said.  Rossi said he would cover the position of CEO, while
leading the search for a permanent successor to Bondi, who might
assume the role “by autumn.” The investor group has identified
candidates “who are masters of this sector,” he said.  Rossi said his “guess” was that the proposal to appoint
the new board could gain the support of as much as 25 percent of
the company’s capital.  Rainer Masera, former Sanpaolo IMI SpA chairman, was
proposed as Parmalat chairman on the slate of candidates filed
by the investors. Peter Harf, chairman of the board of Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV and deputy chairman of  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc (RB/) , is also on the list of nine candidates.  Parmalat has recovered about 2 billion euros in legal
settlements from banks and auditors that the company accused of
sustaining fraud that led to its 2003 bankruptcy filing. The
Italian government appointed Bondi, a turnaround specialist, as
the company’s administrator when it collapsed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  