-- 
Pfizer May Shrink by Selling Units, Bernstein Report Says

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-03-14T20:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/pfizer-may-shrink-by-selling-units-bernstein-report-says-1-.html
  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, is reviewing the sale or spin off of business units
that may shrink the company’s revenue by almost half, said Tim Anderson, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Pfizer, based in New York, would split off four non-
pharmaceutical businesses as well as other units to reduce
annual revenue to $35 billion to $40 billion from $67 billion,
Anderson said in a research report today, citing a meeting with
Chief Executive Officer Ian Read.  Read said on Feb. 1 that he is looking at the company’s
entire portfolio of business units and will complete the review
later this year. That review includes Pfizer’s established
products division with medicines that have lost patent
protection and revenue of about $10 billion, Anderson wrote
today in a note to clients. The company may be remaking itself
as a pharmaceutical “pure-play,” focused on designing new
drugs, Anderson said.  “Pfizer may be destined for a significant shake-up in the
form of shrinking its behemoth $67 billion a year revenue
base,” Anderson said. Read “appears to want to narrow both the
focus and size of the future Pfizer, presumably with the goal of
achieving sustainable growth off a new base.”  Pfizer rose 34 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $19.81 at 4 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
climbed 13 percent this year.  Pfizer faces generic competition this year to more than
$10.7 billion in annual sales of its Lipitor cholesterol drug,
and the drugmaker doesn’t have enough new medicines to offset
the losses. Read has said he’s seeking buyers for Capsugel, a
unit that makes pill casings, and may consider additional sales.
No decisions have been made, said Joan Campion, a Pfizer
spokeswoman, in a telephone in interview today.  Campion declined to comment on whether anything new was
disclosed to Anderson or whether Pfizer was considering
shrinking the size of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  