-- 
TPG-Backed Company Preferred Bidder for Powerfuel Carbon Project

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-14T18:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/tpg-backed-company-preferred-bidder-for-powerfuel-carbon-project.html
2Co Energy Ltd. , a British carbon
capture and storage company owned by private equity group TPG
Capital, emerged as the preferred bidder for Powerfuel Power
Ltd., whose parent company is in administration.  2Co Energy plans to complete the transaction in the next
few weeks and is carrying out further review on Doncaster-based
Powerfuel Power, Jane Paxman, director of policy and
communications at 2Co Energy, said today by phone.  “We’re as confident as we can be at this stage that we’ll
be able to do that hopefully by the end of the month,” she
said. She declined to give details of a bid price.  Powerfuel Power’s plans to develop a carbon capture and
storage plant in northern  England  are some of the most advanced
in the U.K., Paxman said. It already won 180 million euros ($252
million) of European Commission funding to demonstrate the
emissions cutting technology at the site near the Hatfield
coalfield.  Its parent company Powerfuel Plc went into administration
in December. It was 653 million pounds ($1 billion) short of the
investment needed to develop the CCS project, according to its
administrators, KPMG International. 2Co Energy was appointed
preferred bidder by KPMG on Friday, a statement from the
accounting firm said.  TPG, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , will provide the funds to
buy Powerfuel Power, Paxman said.  “They are our backers for things like that,” she said.
TPG, which has more than $47 billion of capital under management
according to its website, owns the “lion’s share” of 2Co
Energy, Paxman said.    KPMG  was also making “positive progress” on the sale of
Powerfuel’s other business, Powerfuel Mining Ltd., which owns
the Hatfield Colliery, Brian Green, joint administrator and
restructuring partner, said in  Friday’s statement .  Cost Reduction  Powerfuel Power submitted a bid to win funds from a
European Commission program for CCS and other low-carbon
projects in February, known as the NER300. 2Co Energy will work
to include its enhanced oil recovery storage program into that
application, Paxman said.  The U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change said it
would accept some amendments to applications for the so-called
New Entrants’ Reserve before they’re passed on to European Union
officials in Brussels in May, Paxman said.  2Co Energy’s storage solution could reduce the overall cost
of CCS by about a third because of the incremental oil
production taxation revenue it generates for the U.K. Paxman
said. “In the current climate that’s worth having,” she said.  Its enhanced oil recovery technology boosts the amount of
oil that can be extracted from fields by injecting CO2 into
mature reserves to thin out deposits, making extraction easier
and prolonging the lifespan of fields.  2Co Energy was founded in 2010 following the U.K. Energy
Act which established an incentive for projects demonstrating
CCS technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  