-- 
Pheim Asset Urges Singapore Appeal Court to Overturn Stock-Rigging Ruling

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-03-14T05:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/pheim-asset-urges-singapore-appeal-court-to-overturn-stock-rigging-ruling.html
 Tan Chong Koay and his Pheim Asset
Management Sdn, each fined S$250,000 ($197,000) in  Singapore ’s
first civil lawsuit for market manipulation, urged the city’s
appeal court to overturn the ruling, saying the regulator was
wrong in claims they tried to undermine the stock market.  “There was a genuine commercial intent to buy the
shares,”  Vinodh Coomaraswamy , Tan and Pheim’s lawyer, said at
the appeal hearing today. The court reserved its decision,
giving no indication of when it would rule.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which sued Pheim and
Tan, urged the court to dismiss the appeal, saying the integrity
of the city’s market would be undermined otherwise. The
regulator has stepped up oversight of the industry even as the
city attracts funds including Fortress Investment Group LLC to
set up shop. The central bank published 54 enforcement actions
on its website in 2010, three times more than a year earlier.  Pheim and Tan, named one of five  successful  Singapore-based
boutique fund managers by the Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. in 2002, have denied rigging the stock and said they’re
“value” investors. They bought almost 90 percent of the traded
shares of  United Envirotech Ltd. (UENV)  from Dec. 29 to Dec. 31, 2004.
The shares rose 17 percent over the three trading days.  “This is a pretty awful case” of market manipulation,
Cavinder Bull, the monetary authority’s lawyer, told the court
today. “This is a very experienced man who does it and conceals
it.”  Tan declined to comment after the hearing today.  Boost Reputation  Justice Lai Siu Chiu in her Sept. 17 ruling said Pheim and
Tan, 61, had sought to boost their reputation instead of seeking
monetary gains in rigging the stock. The jump in the share price
boosted the net asset value of the fund’s accounts, triggering
bonuses of S$50,790 and a S$115 management fee.  The monetary authority has said it won’t tolerate “window
dressing” and allow fund managers to think they can get away
lightly.  Pheim was prevented by foreign equity limits from buying
the shares earlier, Coomaraswamy said today.  The judge’s decision would “curtail genuine market
activity,” Pheim and Tan, who was named Malaysia CEO of the
Year on Jan. 20 by the magazine Asia Asset Management, had said
earlier. The firm and Tan wouldn’t have “risked their
livelihood and business” by rigging the stock, they said.  The Pheim Group, including its Singapore operations,
manages about $1.8 billion.  The case is Tan Chong Koay v Monetary Authority of
Singapore, CA186/2010 in the Singapore Court of Appeal.  -- Editors: Joe Schneider,  Garry Smith   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  