-- 
Plenum Plans New Fund to Trade Energy in Continental Europe

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/plenum-plans-new-fund-to-trade-energy-in-continental-europe.html
Plenum Investments Ltd., the
Zurich-based money manager, plans to expand its energy trading
by starting a hedge fund focused on continental  Europe .  Plenum is in talks with investors to provide initial
funding, and a first round of discussions was encouraging, Chief
Executive Officer Rainer Gruenig said March 11 by e-mail. No
start date has been set, he said.  Opening the fund, which aims to have assets of 250 million
euros ($347 million), would expand Plenum’s energy trading
beyond the Nordic power market, where its 43 million-euro Power
Surge fund has bought and sold electricity since 2007. The
continental energy fund will trade German and French power
futures, Dutch natural gas, emissions and coal, and 70 percent
of the capital will be invested using a quantitative computer
model, according to a marketing document dated this month.  “We see demand for energy commodities from the investors,
and the Americans are clearly ahead of the curve,” Gruenig
said. “Such a fund would be economically viable at 15 to 20
million euros.”  Plenum plans to hire Trond Svanes Jensen to manage the
fund, the document showed. His models developed at European
Commodity Management AS in Bergen,  Norway , returned 5.3 percent
in the five months through May 2010 and produced positive
results for investors since 2006, according to the documents.  Commodity  hedge funds  returned on average 10.7 percent in
2010, according to the Newedge Commodity Trading Index.
Investors in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity Index received
9 percent. Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profit from
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  Plenum managed 420 million  Swiss Franc  ($452 million) as of
Dec. 31, 2010, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  