-- 
Polish Interest Rates May Rise in April as Inflation Hits Two-Year High

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/polish-rates-may-rise-in-april-as-inflation-hits-two-year-high.html
Polish consumer prices probably
grew in February at the fastest pace in almost two years,
bolstering arguments for the central bank to raise  interest
rates  next month to curb inflation expectations.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.9 percent, compared with
3.8 percent in January, according to median estimate of 24
economists polled by Bloomberg. That would be the highest annual
rate since April 2009. The  Central Statistical Office  is due to
publish the report today at 2 p.m. in Warsaw. Prices probably
increased 0.4 percent from a month earlier.  “Any reading above 3.8 percent will probably trigger more
hawkish comments as the inflation rate approaches levels deemed
dangerous even by the Monetary Policy Council’s more dovish
members,” said Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at Societe
Generale in Warsaw.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  left borrowing costs unchanged
this month after a quarter-point increase in January, citing
lagging investment growth and high unemployment. Still, Governor  Marek Belka  said that more rate increases should be expected as
stronger economic growth boosts wage and price pressures, which
may keep inflation expectations at “elevated” levels.  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs
indicate the central bank’s benchmark seven-day rate may
increase 25 basis points to 4 percent next month, based on the
difference between the three-month FRA and the Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate which it is settled against. The Polish zloty
reached its weakest intraday level in more than three months at
4.0435 against the euro on March 11.  ‘Out of Control’  “There’ll be no shortage of inflation drivers in the
coming months, so the central bank needs to react adequately to
keep inflation expectations from sliding out of control,” said
Janecki of  Societe Generale . “It’s also important that the
zloty is undervalued, so even though the last rate increase was
two months ago, it’s difficult to justify keeping rates at their
current levels.”  Twenty-five of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted the central bank will decide to raise rates at least
once in the second quarter; eight said it will do so twice.  Andrzej Bratkowski, a member of the rate-setting panel,
said above-target inflation requires a “vigorous response”
from the central bank, whose 2011 policy guidelines call for
keeping annual price changes as close as possible to the 2.5
percent target. Bratkowski said interest rates should rise 50
basis points, or half a percentage point, by the end of June.  Policy makers around the world are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, which is being driven by surging food
and fuel prices. The  European Central Bank  may raise interest
rates next month, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 2.  Following Hungary  The central bank raised interest rates in January from a
record-low 3.5 percent, the first increase since 2008. Poland
was following Hungarian policy makers, who started tightening
policy in November to tame inflation.  January’s inflation rate may be revised because of the
statistical office’s annual changes to the basket of goods and
services.  “Shoppers have probably found cheaper substitutes for some
expensive products,” which may affect the basket weightings,
said Marcin Mrowiec, the chief economist at Bank Pekao in
Warsaw. He forecast the January consumer-price index will be
revised to 3.7 percent.  Price growth was also driven by higher value-added taxes,
which the government lifted to boost budget income and narrow
the fiscal deficit.  ‘Uncomfortable’  While policy makers are “uncomfortable” with the prospect
of inflation exceeding 4 percent this year, the central bank’s
projections show inflation is nearing a peak and will probably
slow in the second half, Belka said on March 2.  According to the latest version of the central bank’s
inflation  report , published on March 7, average annual inflation
will accelerate to 3.2 percent this year from 2.6 percent in
2010, then slow to 2.8 percent in 2012. The cutoff date for data
used to compute the report’s forecasts, which assume unchanged
interest rates, was Jan. 26.  “Figures published since then suggest the short-term
inflation risks are higher than those given in the report,”
said  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at Bank Millennium SA
in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  