-- 
Posco, SK Innovation Set to Benefit From Earthquake Disruptions in Japan

-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-15T07:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/posco-sk-innovation-set-to-benefit-from-disruptions-in-japan.html
Posco, South Korea’s biggest
steelmaker, and SK Innovation Co., its biggest oil refiner, may
follow  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and Samsung Electronics Co. in taking
market share from Japanese rivals after last week’s earthquake.  The record 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami cut
production at Japanese steel mills and refineries, with output
from Posco and SK Innovation likely to help fill the shortfall,
according to Mirae Asset Securities Co. and Solomon Investment &
Securities Co.  “It’s inevitable that the shutdown of Japanese refineries
after the quake will cut output in Asia and increase profit
margins,” Park Jae Chul, an analyst at Mirae Asset, said by
telephone yesterday. “Japan also needs more diesel for
reconstruction after the quake and South Korean refiners, who
already export to  China  and Singapore, will benefit.”  Korean refiners may gain most from shutdowns of Japanese
refineries after the quake, Citigroup Inc. said in a report,
raising its rating on refiners to “overweight”.  By contrast, Samsung Electronics and  Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. (000660)  source components from Japan including silicon wafers for
semiconductors and the disruption of supplies could be negative
to the companies, said Peter Yu, a Seoul-based analyst at BNP
Paribas SA. The companies fell 4.4 percent and 4.7 percent
respectively at close on the Korea Exchange.  Radiation Leaks  The local benchmark Kospi index fell 2.4 percent, the most
since November, as Japan warned of further radiation leaks after
a third explosion at a nuclear power plant.  SK Innovation was unchanged after yesterday gaining the
most since July 22.  GS Holdings (078930) , the parent of South Korea’s
second-biggest oil refiner, lost 0.8 percent following an 8.3
percent gain yesterday and  S-Oil Corp. (010950)  was down 0.7 percent
after yesterday jumping 13 percent.  Japanese companies including JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp.
and Cosmo Oil Co. face shutdowns or disruptions at seven
refineries, accounting for more than a third of the nation’s
processing capacity, or 1.6 million barrels of crude a day.  “Korean steelmakers may boost their market share in the
regional market as Japan’s capacity to export could dwindle,”
Bang Min Jin, an analyst with Solomon Investment, wrote in a
report yesterday. “Korean producers should also benefit from
increasing replacement demand in their home market if shipments
from Japan fall.”  Steelmakers    Posco (005490) , the world’s third-largest steelmaker by output,
dropped 3.5 percent to 471,000 won after yesterday making its
biggest gain since November 2008.  Hyundai Steel Co. (004020) , South
Korea’s second-biggest maker of the metal, fell 3.7 percent to
131,000 won after yesterday gaining the most since December 2008.
Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. slipped 7.8 percent to 34,800 won after
surging 13 percent yesterday.    Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  and  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) , Japan’s top
steelmakers, restarted blast furnaces at their factories near  Tokyo  after a halt triggered by the earthquake. Sumitomo Metal
Industries Ltd., the third largest, is unlikely to resume
operations at its Kashima plant north of Tokyo “for a while”
as the quake damaged blast furnaces and other facilities,
Chairman Hiroshi Shimozuma told reporters in Osaka.  Automaker Hyundai and its affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  will
benefit from higher profit margins by scaling back incentives to
customers as production halts at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda
Motor Co. plants in Japan disrupt supplies, said Park In Woo, a
Seoul-based analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co.  Automaker Capacity  The South Korean companies are already running many plants
at close to full capacity and won’t be able to increase sales
volume significantly, said Park. Hyundai Motor dropped 2.2
percent to 181,500 won while Kia Motors declined 3.3 percent.  Hyundai was the fastest-growing major automaker in the U.S.
last year as Toyota labored under the weight of the yen and
recall of faulty vehicles. Samsung Electronics overtook  Japan ’s
Sony Corp. as the world’s largest maker of televisions based on
the value of sales in 2006, according to the Suwon, South Korea-
based company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 