-- 
Prince's Kingdom Holding, Batelco Offer $950 Million for 25% of Zain Saudi

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-14T05:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/prince-s-kingdom-holding-batelco-offer-950-million-for-25-of-zain-saudi.html
  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , controlled by
Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, and Bahrain
Telecommunications Co. offered $950 million to purchase Mobile
Telecommunications Co.’s 25 percent stake in Zain Saudi Arabia.  The offer doesn’t include the assumption of $3.8 billion of
Zain Saudi’s debt, Kingdom Holding said in a statement to the
Saudi bourse today. Kingdom received preliminary acceptance of
the non-binding offer from the board of directors of Zain
Kuwait, it said. The offer is “subject to the findings of the
due diligence, which could take at least six weeks,” once
approval is granted to start the process, Kingdom said.  Approval of the offer by Zain, as Mobile Telecommunications
is known, will pave the way for a bid by Emirates
Telecommunications Corp., known as Etisalat, to acquire a
controlling stake in  Kuwait ’s biggest phone operator for about
$12 billion.  Etisalat last month missed a second deadline in its attempt
to acquire a majority stake in Zain, Al-Khair National for
Stocks and Real Estate Co. said March 1. Al-Khair is owned by
Kuwait’s Kharafi Group, Zain’s second-biggest shareholder which
was leading the sale talks with Etisalat.  Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said on March 2 it was still
interested in buying a majority stake in Zain and that
information related to its due diligence of Zain had been
collected and would be analyzed.  “We need to hold at least 15 percent and Kingdom Holding
10 percent, according to regulations,” Batelco Chief Executive
Officer Peter George Kaliaropoulos said in a phone interview
yesterday. “For the overall 25 percent stake, we will
contribute 60 percent of the investment and Kingdom Holding 40
percent.”  Zain’s board last month rejected separate offers from
Kingdom Holding and Bahrain Telecommunications, known as
Batelco, to buy the stake in its Saudi unit. The decision was
seen as thwarting Etisalat’s bid to buy a 46 percent stake in
Zain. Etisalat had said Zain needed to sell its stake in the
Saudi unit in a “timely fashion” for the deal to proceed.  Yesterday Zain Saudi rose the most since May, surging 9.2
percent to 7.15 riyals after the joint non-binding offer was
announced yesterday. Zain advanced 4.4 percent to 1,420 fils and
Kingdom Holding gained 6.9 percent to 9.3 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  