-- 
Profit Margins at 18-Year High Signal Bigger Dividends Coming for S&P 500

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T20:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/profit-margins-at-18-year-high-signal-bigger-s-p-500-dividends.html
Record earnings fueled by the
highest profit margins since 1993 are giving executives more
leeway than ever to boost dividends as the bull market enters
its third year.  Margins will climb to 8.9 percent in 2011, the highest
level in at least 18 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on non-financial companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index through March 11. Greater profitability combined with
dividend cuts during the credit crisis have pushed earnings to
6.53 percent of the gauge’s price, or 3.5 times more than its
payout rate, close to the record 3.6 multiple in January.  A total of 95 companies led by  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and Carnival
Corp. have raised dividends as the fastest economic expansion in
six years and five straight quarters of earnings growth
increased confidence among chief executive officers. Of the 380
that pay dividends, 378 are forecast to maintain or increase
them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg using options
prices, profits, management statements and peer comparisons.  “The economy seems to be doing well and earnings are on
the recovery path, which companies wanted to be sure about
before they raised their dividends,” said  John Carey , a Boston-
based money manager at Pioneer Investments, which oversees about
$250 billion. “I feel relatively confident that most of the
dividends out there are secure, and we’ll see some fairly broad
based increases.”  Weekly Decline  The  S&P 500  fell 1.3 percent to 1,304.28 last week, after
the U.S. trade deficit and claims for unemployment benefits
exceeded estimates and export growth in  China  slowed to the
lowest rate since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The retreat extended the S&P 500’s loss since reaching a 32-
month high on Feb. 18 to 2.9 percent. The gauge has rallied 93
percent from its March 9, 2009 low.  The benchmark index slumped 0.6 percent to 1,296.39 at 4
p.m.  New York  time today as investors struggled to assess what
impact the worst Japanese earthquake on record will have on the
world’s third-largest economy. The 8.9-magnitude temblor on
March 11 may have killed 10,000 in the Miyagi prefecture north
of  Tokyo , said Go Sugawara, a spokesman for the prefectural
police department. The official toll reached 1,833 dead, with
2,369 missing, the  National Police Agency  said.  Record Profits  Analysts say S&P 500 profits will rise 16 percent this year
and surpass $100 a share for the first time in 2012, helping
persuade executives at companies from  CBS Corp. (CBS)  to  Pioneer
Natural Resources Co. (PXD)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to boost payouts.
U.S. companies increased stock buybacks in 2010, making it the
fifth-biggest year for share repurchases since at least 1985,
according to Birinyi Associates Inc. With $76 billion announced,
February was the best month for buybacks since December 2007.  CEOs are spending more on shareholders after stockpiling
cash since 2008 when the financial crisis eliminated profits.
They bought back $325.8 billion of stock in 2010, more than
double 2009’s repurchases, Birinyi data show. About $191.1
billion of takeovers in the U.S. have been announced so far this
year, on track with last year’s $198.2 billion as of March 11,
according to Bloomberg data.  Companies that return the most money to shareholders have
beaten the index by 11 percentage points since the bull market
began, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Archer Daniels Midland
Co., the world’s largest grain processor, has the biggest
 weighting  in the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats index and has
jumped 20 percent this year. The Decatur, Illinois-based company
pays a dividend yield of 1.77 percent.  AT&T, Amazon  Dividends relative to share price exceed 6 percent for
Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, and Greensboro, North Carolina-based  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ,
maker of Newport cigarettes. Companies that pay nothing to
shareholders include Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest
online retailer, and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which produces iPhones and
iPads from Cupertino,  California .  The economic expansion that began in mid-2009 spurred the
biggest jump in profits since 1988 last year, pushing cash to an
all-time-high of $937 billion for companies in the benchmark
U.S. equity index, S&P data show. This year, there have been 95
increases and no decreases to payouts in the S&P 500.  Corporations with dividends have climbed 3.8 percent on
average this year, compared with a 2 percent rally for those
without. That’s helping mutual funds that focus on companies
trading at the cheapest levels relative to earnings and that pay
the highest dividends beat their peers this year. So-called
value managers overseeing at least $1 billion have returned 3
percent on average in 2011, compared with 2.5 percent for growth
funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Rewarding Quality’  “The market is continuing to be ready for rewarding
quality companies, and in general those companies tend to pay
dividends,” said Jay Kaplan, the co-manager of the Royce Value
Fund that beat 96 percent of its peers in the past five years.
“In this leg of the market, you have a good shot of quality
companies doing well.”  Higher  oil prices  may cut profits so much that dividend
increases won’t be enough to entice investors, said  Walter Todd ,
who helps oversee about $900 million at Greenwood Capital
Associates in Greenwood, South Carolina.  “If margins are rolling over, that could precipitate
weaker earnings and then stock prices following that down,” he
said. “The dividend’s going to help, but it may not offset the
decline in price.”  Oil’s Surge  Crude futures trading in New York jumped 28 percent to
$106.95 a barrel from their low on Feb. 15 to the high on March
7 as political unrest in Egypt and Libya threatened to curtail
supplies. A surge to $140 may spur a recession,  Nouriel Roubini ,
the New York University professor and chairman of Roubini Global
Economics LLC who predicted the financial crisis, said in Dubai
on March 8.  Oil will drop to $99 a barrel in New York next quarter,
according to New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. U.S. gross
domestic product will expand 3.1 percent in 2011, matching the
level in 2005, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 89 economists.  While the  bull market  just passed its second anniversary,
dividends haven’t increased during a calendar year since the
financial crisis began in 2007. Seventy-eight companies slashed
them by a record $48 billion in 2009 to maintain cash as sales
slumped, S&P data show. At the same time, corporate expense cuts
helped prop up earnings, driving last year’s 36 percent growth
and widening the ratio between yields on profits and dividends.  Exceeding Payouts  Earnings are exceeding payouts in the S&P 500 by a rate
that preceded higher dividends in the past. On average,
executives boosted payouts 16 percent during periods when the
ratio topped 3, according to Bloomberg data going back to 1998.  CBS, owner of the most-watched U.S. television network,
trades with an earnings yield of 6.9 times its dividend rate, a
ratio that reached 7.1 on March 3, the highest since at least
2006, Bloomberg data show. The New York-based company
outperformed the S&P 500 by surging 25 percent this year through
last week, compared with the index’s 3.7 percent climb.  CBS posted an almost fivefold increase in fourth-quarter
profit. The company cut the quarterly dividend in 2009 to 5
cents from 27 cents, and while earnings have surpassed estimates
for six straight quarters, CBS hasn’t boosted the payout. Data
compiled by Bloomberg shows it may increase the dividend to 8
cents a share when it declares on May 26.  ‘Very Good’  “Our cash position is very good,” Chief Executive Officer
Leslie Moonves said during a Feb. 24 conference with analysts
and investors. A dividend increase is “something we are
discussing very seriously, but no decision’s been made yet.”
Dana McClintock, a CBS spokesman, declined to comment further.  At Pioneer Natural, profit will more than double to $3.07 a
share in 2011, according to the average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The earnings yield is higher than the dividend
payout after the relationship flipped at the end of 2009. The
Irving, Texas-based oil and gas producer will double its payout
on Aug. 29, according to Bloomberg projections. Its shares have
risen 9.5 percent in 2011.  Susan Spratlen, a Pioneer spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
telephone message or e-mail seeking comment.  “We’ve seen that dividends are a huge way for you to lower
risk and lower volatility in the assets that you’re buying,”
said Dan Neiman, who helps manage the  Neiman Large Cap Value
Fund (NEIMX) , which beat 97 percent of peers in the past five years.
“The earnings growth we’re seeing is going to translate down
the road to more dividend payout.”  Wal-Mart  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, raised its dividend
by 21 percent to 36.5 cents on March 3. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company has increased its payout every year since
1974, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wal-Mart doesn’t have any plans to increase its dividend
further than the March 3 announcement, according to Greg Rossiter, a company spokesman.  “The big multinational, big dividend payers continue to be
where the value is,” Michael Holland, who oversees more than $4
billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York, said last week
in a Bloomberg Television interview. He owns Wal-Mart shares and
said he would “absolutely” buy more, “given the cash
generation they do, the dividends they are going to be paying in
the future, the kinds of things they’re doing for
shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  