-- 
Putin’s Party Fails to Win Majority in Russian Regional Vote

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-14T10:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/putin-s-party-fails-to-win-majority-in-russian-regional-vote.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s ruling party failed to gain a majority of the vote in
several regional polls, less than a year before parliamentary
and presidential elections.  United Russia , which has a two-thirds majority in the State
Duma, the lower house of parliament, got fewer than half of
ballots cast in seven regions yesterday, according to
preliminary results cited by state-run broadcaster Rossiya 24.
Voters were electing assemblies in 12 out of 83 regions.  United
Russia  got about 64 percent of the vote in 2006 elections. The
next nationwide parliamentary poll is due in December.  The opposition Communist Party complained of ballot-
stuffing in several regions including Tambov and Saratov in
central Russia. “All the dirty tricks devised over the past 20
years were used in the arsenal of United  Russia  and its
supporters,” Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov said in a
statement on his party’s  website .  Putin, 58, handed over the presidency to his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , in 2008, because of a constitutional ban on
serving more than two consecutive terms. Putin, who has remained
at the center of power as prime minister, hasn’t ruled out
standing for election as president in early 2012. This would
potentially give him almost a quarter century in power under
new, six-year presidential mandates.  A senior United Russia official,  Boris Gryzlov , thanked
Russian voters for voicing their approval of Putin, saying the
party had improved its score in the regions compared with
earlier provincial elections.  “This allows us to count on a rise in support in the
upcoming Duma elections in December,” Gryzlov, who is also the
lower house of parliament speaker, said in  comments  published on
the party’s website.  The results showed Russians’ trust in government, state
news service RIA Novosti cited Putin as saying today in the
Siberian city of Tomsk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  