-- 
Qiagen Expects to Make Biggest Acquisition Since $1.6 Billion Digene Buy

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-03-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/qiagen-expects-to-make-biggest-acquisition-since-1-6-billion-digene-buy.html
  Qiagen NV (QIA) , the Dutch company whose
tools are used to predict disease and isolate DNA, may make its
second-biggest acquisition to date this year.  Qiagen, based in Venlo, the Netherlands, is in talks with
several diagnostics companies and may make a purchase in the
“three-digit million dollar” range, Chief Financial Officer
Roland Sackers said in a March 8 interview at the company’s
research and manufacturing site in Hilden,  Germany . He declined
to be more specific.  An acquisition of that size would be the company’s second-
largest after the 2007 takeover of Digene Corp. of the U.S. for
$1.6 billion. Qiagen bought one company in 2010, compared with
three the previous year, as valuations of potential targets
began to get “very rich,” Sackers said.  “The focus on our acquisitions side is clearly on content,
adding more tests to the machines in the field of molecular
diagnostics, but also in the field of applied testing,” Sackers
said. Applied testing involves diagnostics using non-human
samples.  Qiagen fell 2.2 percent to close at 14.275 euros yesterday
in Frankfurt trading, giving the company a market value of 3.3
billion euros ($4.7 billion). The stock has fallen 13 percent in
the past year.  The market for acquisitions has cooled and become “more
realistic,” he said. Qiagen has about $940 million in cash to
help pay for purchases.  Borrowing Capacity  The company also can borrow money because its ratio of net
debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is about zero, Sackers said. “We would feel
comfortable with a net debt to Ebitda position of up to 2-3
times,” he said.  “We clearly see now as a good time for accretive deals and
more importantly value-enhancing deals” that boost Qiagen’s
strategic position, Sackers said.  Last year, Qiagen bought ESE GmbH, a German maker of
equipment for testing outside the laboratory, including in
hospital emergency rooms. On Jan. 11 it agreed to buy a minority
stake in  Alacris Theranostics GmbH  as well as the right to
develop products from biological labels identified by Alacris.
The German start-up uses computers to model a patient’s response
to certain drugs based on genomic information found in clinical
samples.  Bigger Markets  Qiagen is “in the middle” of its expansion into molecular
diagnostics and is eyeing bigger markets, according to Sackers.
While many of Qiagen’s products in the past were aimed at
markets with $5 million to $50 million in potential annual
revenue, a new companion test for metastatic  colon cancer  that
may be submitted for approval this year will target a market
worth about $100 million, he said.  The company also wants to expand in emerging markets such
as  Asia , Eastern Europe and Latin America, Sackers said.  Qiagen sells equipment and tests to hospitals,
laboratories, academic researchers and drugmakers. About half
its sales come from molecular diagnostics, which are used in
routine screening to detect influenza and identify the  human
papillomavirus , or HPV, which is linked to cervical cancer. In
addition, the kits are used to select the appropriate therapy
for ailments.    Switzerland ’s  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is competing in the HPV
market with the cobas test designed to detect the HPV-16 and
HPV-18 strains of the virus, which account for about 70 percent
of cervical cancer cases. Roche introduced the product in
several countries in 2009 and has filed for regulatory approval
in the U.S.  Cervical Cancer  The ability of Qiagen’s technology to process more samples
will give its HPV test an advantage when both tests are
available, Sackers said.  HPV, a group of more than 100 viruses, is the primary cause
of cervical cancer and the most common sexually-transmitted
disease in the U.S. It’s estimated that 1 in 145 women will be
diagnosed with cervical cancer, according to the  National Cancer
Institute .  Qiagen’s net income dropped 18 percent to $36.3 million in
the fourth quarter, the company said Jan. 31. Adjusted earnings
per share this year are expected to rise by about 7 percent to
13 percent, the company said. The company also sees revenue
increasing between 5 percent and 7 percent at constant exchange
rates, excluding the impact of any acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  