-- 
Rajaratnam Defense Team Plans to Assail Kumar’s ‘Monstrous Lie’

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/rajaratnam-s-defense-team-plans-to-assail-witness-kumar-s-monstrous-lie-.html
Last week, under questioning by a
prosecutor, former McKinsey & Co. director Anil Kumar told
jurors that he was pressured by Raj Rajaratnam to leak stock
tips. This week, defense lawyers will try in cross-examination
to depict Kumar as a “monstrous” liar.  Kumar is the first of several government witnesses to
testify that he leaked stock tips to Rajaratnam, the co-founder
of the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund who is on trial for trading
on inside tips. For 2 ½ hours on March 10, Kumar told federal
jurors in Manhattan about his decades-long friendship with
Rajaratnam and his reason for spilling the secrets of McKinsey
clients in return for $2.7 million in secret payments from
Galleon.  Kumar’s direct testimony resumes today. He’s expected to
testify that he tipped Rajaratnam about transactions involving  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
Business Objects SA, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Spansion Inc.
and other companies, according to court records. After that,
defense lawyers will cross-examine Kumar to “chip away” at his
account, which appears “really hurtful” to Rajaratnam, said  Andrew Stoltmann , a securities lawyer in  Chicago .  “It’s a two-pronged attack,” said Stoltmann, who isn’t
involved in the case. “The number one attack is on his
credibility. And also, the defense has to provide an alternative
explanation for why Kumar did things.”  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. Rajaratnam said
his trades were based on Galleon research.  Galleon Records  The government’s case rests on hundreds of secret wiretaps
of Rajaratnam and testimony from alleged accomplices including
Kumar, who has pleaded guilty and is hoping for leniency in
return for his testimony.  On the witness stand last week, Kumar, a native of Mumbai,
spoke softly and didn’t look Rajaratnam in the eye as he entered
the courtroom. He graduated in 1983 from the Wharton School at
the  University of Pennsylvania , where he met Rajaratnam. He
spent his first day testifying why and how he leaked information
to his friend.  “Mr. Rajaratnam kept asking for that information and I
felt that I owed him something, given how much money he was
paying me,” Kumar, 52, said. He quoted Rajaratnam as saying,
“You work very, very hard and you’re underpaid.”  In opening statements on March 9, defense attorney  John Dowd  held little back as he explained how the defense would try
to undermine Kumar.  Attack  First, the defense will use records from Galleon and
McKinsey to show that the funds paid to Kumar were “honest
payments” for “valuable consulting work,” as Dowd said in his
opening statement to jurors on June 9.  “Kumar was paid consulting fees for his advice and
guidance in the Indian and South Asian investment markets,”
Dowd said.  Next, the defense will go on the attack, telling jurors
that Kumar is telling a “monstrous lie” about the nature of
the payments, as Dowd said last week.  “He never shared these consulting fees with his McKinsey
partners,” Dowd said of Kumar. “Instead he hid them in shell
companies in overseas bank accounts and he failed to report
these consulting fees on his tax returns to the  Internal Revenue
Service .”  ‘Raj’s Mole?’  And now, facing 25 years in  prison  for  tax fraud  and other
crimes, Kumar is trying to win his freedom by turning on his
friend and testifying “that Raj made him do it,” Dowd said.
“He is trying to pass the blame to Raj in order to get a free
pass from the government.”  Third, Dowd will summon other facts that he said support
the defense argument. Why would Galleon maintain records of its
dealings with Kumar if Rajaratnam wanted to hide them, Dowd
asked jurors? Why would Rajaratnam help Kumar quit the
consulting firm if “Kumar was Raj’s mole inside McKinsey?” he
wondered.  Why was Kumar’s performance as a Galleon portfolio manager
so poor in 2007 and 2008 if Kumar could tap inside information?
Dowd asked, and then offered dozens of details about many of the
stock trades to show that Rajaratnam had legitimate reasons for
trading.  “It makes no sense,” Dowd, an ex-Marine, told jurors of
Kumar’s anticipated testimony. “What does make sense is why
Kumar is testifying against Raj now. He is now facing 25 years
in prison and the only way out is for him to testify to the
prosecutor’s satisfaction against Raj.”  ‘Legal Explanation’  “Dowd appears to be trying to give a legitimate legal
explanation for the payments,” said Frank Razzano, a former
federal prosecutor in  New Jersey  and now a partner at Pepper
Hamilton LLP in  Washington . He’s not involved in the Galleon
case. “He wants to show that Kumar is a liar who has made an
unholy alliance with the government.”  Prosecutors have already begun to anticipate and counter
Dowd’s arguments, Razzano said. In addition to playing wiretaps
that support Kumar’s account,  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter had Kumar say on
direct examination that his cooperation deal with the government
requires him to tell the truth, and prosecutors said they have
wiretaps that corroborate Kumar’s account.  Should he lie, Kumar said, the government may deny him the
leniency he seeks when he’s eventually sentenced and may even
prosecute him for perjury.  “That would be a very big mess,” Kumar testified.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 