-- 
Rajaratnam Told Colleague to Create ‘An E-Mail Trail,’ Tape Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-14T20:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/rajaratnam-told-galleon-colleague-to-create-an-e-mail-trail-tape-says.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder who is on trial for  insider trading , told a close
friend at the firm that Galleon needed to create “an e-mail
trail” to hide secret tips that the U.S. claims were illegal.  Prosecutors today played a tape of a conversation between
Rajaratnam and his friend Krish Panu, a Galleon managing
director. Rajaratnam called Panu on April 22, 2008, after
hanging up from a call with Anil Kumar, then a managing director
at McKinsey & Co. Testifying today, Kumar said he had just told
Rajaratnam about a transaction involving Spansion Inc.  Rajaratnam told Panu about Kumar’s tip and discussed how
they would cover it up, according to a tape played this
afternoon for jurors in  Manhattan  federal court.  “I’ll send you an e-mail and say, ‘Have you guys thought
about Spansion?’” Rajaratnam told Panu.  “Have a corporate record,” Panu replied.  “Yeah, we just have an e-mail trail,” Rajaratnam said.  The tape came on the second day of Kumar’s testimony for
prosecutors in Rajaratnam’s trial. Rajaratnam, 53, is the
central figure in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider
trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is
accused of making $45 million from confidential information
leaked by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders.  Chiesi Tape  Prosecutors played at least a half-dozen other tapes for
jurors, including conversations between Rajaratnam and Kumar
and, late in the day, one involving Danielle Chiesi, a trader at
New Castle Funds LLC who has pleaded guilty in the case.  The wiretapped recordings of Rajaratnam’s cell phone calls
are at the heart of the government’s evidence.  In one conversation played today, Kumar told Rajaratnam
that  Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co. has just entered into
“a handshake agreement” to invest up to $8 billion in a spin-
off of AMD, his client.  “You can now just buy,” Kumar said on Aug. 15, 2008,
eight hours after he learned that of the agreement.  Earlier today, Kumar testified that he was “terrified”
after Rajaratnam sent him confidential documents from  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  around 2005, while Kumar was providing consulting services
for AMD, Intel’s rival.  Open Door  “I was terrified of having such documents in my office,”
Kumar testified. “My office was an open door office. People
walked in and out. To see an Intel document was not appropriate
at all, so I asked my assistant to shred it.”  Rajaratnam didn’t say where he got the Intel documents,
Kumar testified. Prosecutors previously said Rajaratnam had
sources inside Intel including Rajiv Goel, who will also testify
for the government.  “He said, I know you’re working at AMD -- these might
help,” Kumar said, recounting Rajaratnam’s message to him.  Kumar’s testimony will last through tomorrow, as
prosecutors continue to play secretly taped recordings of
Rajaratnam’s conversations. A lawyer representing the wife of
former McKinsey employee David Palecek said in a statement today
that Palecek’s name will be mentioned on one tape.  The tape will be of Rajaratnam plotting with his brother,
Rengan, to try to get another person at McKinsey to “play
ball” with them, lawyer Catherine Redlich said. The person was
Palecek, a classmate of Rengan Rajaratnam’s, Redlich said in her
statement.  Staph Infection  Palecek died last year of a virulent staph infection, she
said.  “What the tape does not reflect is that Mr. Palecek never
agreed to ‘play ball’ with the Rajaratnams, never received money
from them, and never agreed to put his wife on Galleon’s
payroll,” Redlich said. “If David were alive today, he would
tell you that nothing was more important to him than his family,
especially his four young daughters, and he would never have put
them in harm’s way.”  A third ex-McKinsey official,  Rajat Gupta , also has been
named at the trial. Prosecutors said in opening statements that
Gupta, who was once worldwide director of McKinsey, leaked tips
to Rajaratnam about  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Gupta, who also served on the board of Goldman Sachs,
denies wrongdoing and hasn’t been criminally charged.  Kumar testified that he worked closely with top officials
at AMD in late 2005 and the first half of 2006 as the company
sought to acquire Nvidia Corp. and then ATI Technologies Inc.,
whose graphic computer chips would complement AMD’s. Kumar, who
had been paid $250,000 annually by Galleon for secret tips, said
he regularly briefed Rajaratnam on the status of the talks.  Talks with ATI intensified after a deal with Nvidia
collapsed, Kumar said.  ‘Red Hot’  “I told him this was red hot and not to be discussed with
anyone,” Kumar testified. “He said, ‘It’s astonishing that AMD
would be doing something like this.’”  Kumar said he told Rajaratnam that ATI would be acquired
for about $20 or $21 a share, while it was then trading at about
$16.50.  After the AMD-ATI deal was announced, Rajaratnam called
Kumar at home and sounded ecstatic, the McKinsey director said.  “‘I just wanted to thank you -- that was fantastic,’”
Rajaratnam told Kumar, according to Kumar’s testimony. “‘We’re
all cheering you at the office right now.’”  Rajaratnam said “the champagne was flowing” at Galleon,
Kumar said. “‘You’re a star,’” Rajaratnam told Kumar,
according to the ex-McKinsey director. “‘I want to give you a
million dollars.’”  Kumar said he grew “extremely nervous” as Rajaratnam
spoke because he now feared his name was being mentioned widely
at Galleon.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 