-- 
Ramsay Bounces Back With Steak Pudding at Savoy: Richard Vines

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-03-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/ramsay-bounces-back-with-steak-pudding-at-savoy-richard-vines.html
You need a good memory to recall
the excitement that surrounded the opening of  Gordon Ramsay  at
Claridges in 2001. In those days, Ramsay had it all: He was rich
and famous and was -- along with his mentor, Marco Pierre White
-- one of the most revered chefs the U.K. had ever produced.  Ramsay is now richer and more famous. It’s just the
reverence that has gone, to be replaced by sniping: Where once
Britons celebrated his success, now we dine out on his failures.
It’s an appetite that is fed almost daily by bad publicity.  The reopening of the Savoy Grill before Christmas came as
something of a surprise to Ramsay’s detractors, who had written
him off after his messy split with his father-in-law Chris Hutcheson, who had headed Gordon Ramsay Holdings, the company
that runs  Ramsay’s restaurants  from  New York  to  Tokyo .  The slightly outdated charm of the Grill has been replaced
by a restaurant that is modern and accessible yet holds onto
some traditions in terms of dishes such as Omelet Arnold Bennett
and the presence of a carving trolley with daily roasts. While
it’s not London’s best restaurant, it’s a success.  First, the place looks good. Russell Sage -- the designer
also responsible for Ramsay’s York &  Albany  -- has recreated a
glamorous feel for the room, which over the years has hosted
diners such as  Charlie Chaplin ,  Winston Churchill ,  Marilyn Monroe ,  Frank Sinatra ,  Elizabeth Taylor  and  Oscar Wilde : Not at
the same time, although that would be a memorable dinner party.  The Swarovski chandeliers, antique mirrors and mohair
fabrics all contribute to a luxurious ambience and there are
plenty of tables where anyone would be happy to sit. (The one
discordant note is the inclusion of photos of famous diners.)  Lobster Bisque  The menu of chef-director Stuart Gillies (ex-Boxwood Cafe)
and head chef Andy Cook is long and welcoming, and the prices
aren’t scary. Among the starters, lobster bisque with brandy
butter is 8.50 pounds ($13.64), while my favorite -- baked egg
cocotte with smoked bacon, wild mushrooms and red wine sauce --
is 10.50 pounds. I’ve tried most of the starters over four
visits and didn’t find one that wasn’t well conceived and
executed.  Among the mains, I’m a fan of the steamed steak and onion
pudding with onion sauce, which is rich and satisfying and costs
18 pounds, and the braised English hare with roasted saddle and
buttered spaetzle. (This may be absent from the menu for a
while: Under the  Hares Preservation Act of 1892 , it’s illegal to
sell hare in the months of March through July.)  There’s a good choice of fish and roasts and there’s a
vegetarian menu. The only disappointments have been a couple of
steaks that lacked the big flavor you find at Goodman and
Hawksmoor. The hand-cut chips are light and crispy.  Baked  Alaska   The desserts are a real treat, particularly the mandarin
baked Alaska, which is theatrically flambeed at the table. Other
highlights include custard millefeuille with mango.  The wine list is thoughtfully constructed, with plenty of
value -- a Torrontes at 24 pounds and Cotes de Rhone Villages at
30 pounds before you scale the heights of Burgundy’s finest. The
sommelier, Christopher Cooper, is one of the best things about
the Grill: He’s friendly, approachable and knowledgeable. Ramsay
restaurants are generally strong on service.  (I went back to Ramsay’s Petrus last month and for those
who were underwhelmed when it opened last year, it’s worth a
second look. There’s a lunch with wine pairings for just 50
pounds. Executive chef Mark Askew and head chef Sean Burbidge
were both cooking, and the front-of-house team under Jean-
Philippe Susilovic is among the best in  London .)  Some expectations of Ramsay have sunk so low, even a half-
decent restaurant sounds good. Savoy Grill is better than that.  Savoy Grill, 5 Strand, London, WC2R 0EU. Information: +44-
20-7592-1600 or  http://www.gordonramsay.com/thesavoygrill/ .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 40 pounds for the food.  Sound level? Buzz of conversation, about 70 decibels.  Inside tip? Ask for a corner table.  Special feature? It’s a restaurant with a history.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Very good choice.  Rating? ***  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 