-- 
RBA's Debelle Sees Economy Expanding With Slower Growth in Business Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-14T22:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/rba-s-debelle-sees-economy-expanding-with-slower-growth-in-business-credit.html
  Australia ’s economic growth in the
years ahead may rely less on business credit than in past
expansions as mining companies use cash or foreign investment,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said.  “If one thinks about the composition of growth in
Australia in the period ahead, it is likely to be investment-
intensive,” Debelle said in the text of a speech in Sydney
today. “But much of that investment is likely to be funded by
companies which are cash-rich or tap global capital markets
directly.”  Australia is undergoing its biggest mining investment boom
since the 19th century to meet rising demand for the nation’s
iron ore and coal from  China  and  India . The RBA boosted its
benchmark interest rate seven times from October 2009 to
November last year, to 4.75 percent, to contain inflation. The
central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged at the past three
meetings, citing weaker  consumer spending  and higher savings.  In his prepared remarks, which didn’t address monetary
policy, Debelle said demand for credit from households and
businesses has “slowed in tandem.”  “For businesses, the reduced appetite for debt was
initially due to a desire to strengthen balance sheets,” he
said. “More recently, strong profitability, most obviously in
the mining sector, is ensuring many segments of the business
sector have sufficient internal funding to meet their investment
needs.”  Australian business credit declined 0.1 percent in January,
the seventh consecutive drop, according to central bank data
released last month.  Export Sales  The government this month forecast A$220.6 billion ($222.6
billion) in export sales of commodities in the 12 months ending
June 30 as faster economic growth in China boosts demand for raw
materials.  China’s economy  expanded 10.3 percent in 2010, the
quickest pace in three years.  The boost from commodities has cut Australia’s jobless rate
to 5 percent, compared with 8.9 percent in the U.S.  “The economy in the period ahead may be associated with
less growth in business credit than has been the case in the
past,” Debelle said.  “For households, the slowing in demand for credit appears
to be driven by a more cautious approach to debt,” he said.
“Slower growth in household wealth, and particularly the large
negative shock to equity wealth at the height of the crisis, has
also contributed to the cautiousness, even though equity wealth
has recovered and household income growth has remained robust.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  