-- 
Treasuries Price Gauge Falls as Oil Fails to Move Forwards

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-14T15:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/treasuries-inflation-gauge-tumbles-9-5-as-100-oil-fails-to-move-forwards.html
Bond investors are siding with
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  when he says that crude
oil above $100 a barrel and record high food prices may only
cause a temporary jump in the inflation rate.  Since reaching a 10-month high in December, a bond market
measure of inflation expectations the Fed uses to help determine
monetary policy has declined to 2.97 percent from 3.28 percent.
The five-year five-year forward breakeven rate projects what the
rate of consumer price increases may be beginning in 2016,
smoothing blips in inflation expectations from swings in oil
prices and other temporary events.  The rate suggests that Bernanke can afford to keep interest
rates at record lows to foster the American economy while his
counterparts at the European Central Bank say they may need to
boost borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 to tame
inflation even as growth lags behind the U.S.  “I just don’t see the inflation case being told by the
markets,” said  Jeffrey Gundlach , who runs DoubleLine Capital LP
in  Los Angeles  and was a finalist in 2009 for Morningstar’s
fixed-income manager of the decade. “Commodity price increases
are not inflationary for the short-term. Without wage growth you
can’t get inflation.”  Yields May Fall  Gundlach, whose $5.3 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond
Fund has returned 19 percent since opening last April, also said
in New York on March 10 that Treasury 10-year yields may fall to
3 percent as rising raw material prices restrain growth. The 10-
year note yielded 3.33 percent at 11:01 a.m. in New York. The
Labor Department said March 4 that average hourly earnings for
Americans were unchanged in February.  The five-year five-year rate is signaling inflation will
remain benign over the long-term even as the gap between
Treasury yields and five-year  U.S. government debt  tied to the  consumer price index  reaches the widest in almost two years.  The difference, known as the break-even rate, climbed to
2.31 percent on March 8, a day after oil reached a 29-month high
of $106.95 a barrel on concern uprisings in North Africa and the
Middle East will disrupt supply. The rate dropped to 2.20
percent on March 11 as crude fell after  Japan ’s strongest
earthquake on record shut refineries in the world’s third-
largest oil-consuming country.  While JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommends investors buy
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, it forecasts
only a “modest and temporary” rise in consumer prices minus
food and energy costs through the first quarter because the U.S.
has become less energy dependent than it was in the 1970s.  Forward Rate  The measure that the central bank prefers is derived from
yields on five- and 10-year TIPS and Treasuries. Forwards are
calculated by using yields at different maturities to extract
where they imply rates for a particular maturity will be in the
future. The rate, which averaged 2.66 percent back through 1999,
is up from last year’s low of 2.18 percent on Aug. 24.    Brian Sack , who was responsible for monetary and financial
market analysis at the Federal Reserve Board in  Washington  in
2003 and 2004, and his colleagues persuaded the central bank to
use the five-year five-year measure. The Fed monitors inflation
expectations because consumers tend to seek higher wages and
businesses raise product prices when they believe inflation is
accelerating.  Bernanke Testimony  Bernanke said in Congressional testimony on March 1 that
past history of bouts of oil and commodity prices increases
combined with stable labor costs suggests a “temporary and
relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer price inflation”
and pledged to keep borrowing costs low. Fed officials meet
tomorrow to set monetary policy.  While prices may be contained now, the concern is that the
Fed’s zero to 0.25 percent interest rates and economic stimulus
measures will spark inflation. In November, the central bank
began buying $600 billion of Treasuries in a second round of
quantitative easing that will run through June.  “The market is extremely worried about inflation,” said
Keith Price, head of U.S. inflation trading in  New York  at BNP
Paribas SA. “The majority thought is that the other shoe will
have to drop at some point given the Fed’s printing of money.
This has been compounded by what is going on globally in North
Africa and the Middle East.”  The Fed has sought to boost inflation since August, when
Bernanke signaled the central bank might resume buying
securities to inject cash into the financial system and prevent
a general decline in prices, which can paralyze an economy. Core
consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in October from a year earlier,
the smallest gain since records began in 1958.  Inflation Targets  “Core inflation is not yet high by any stretch relative to
the Fed’s goals of it being somewhere near 2 percent,” said
Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. in
New York and a Fed adviser under former Chairman  Paul Volcker .
“Bernanke wanted inflation to move up a bit higher and it has.
Increases in oil or any item per se does not create a risk of
inflation in a generic sort of way.”  Unlike Bernanke,  European Central Bank  officials have
expressed concern over the jump in prices of oil, commodities
and food. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said March 3 that
policy makers may raise their benchmark rate from a record low
of 1 percent as soon as April.  ‘More Concerned’  “The ECB and the  Bank of England  are becoming more
concerned about headline inflation,” Michael Pond, co-head of
U.S. rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, said in a radio
interview March 8 on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“The Fed is in a very different mindset and focused on core
inflation, which they can control. And the measure that they
look at, the core personal consumption expenditure index, has
remained below 1 percent on a year-over-year basis.”  The Commerce Department’s PCE index excluding food and
energy rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, after
increasing 0.7 percent in December for the smallest advance
since records began in 1959. The index, which the Fed made their
primary focus in 2000, is an indicator of the average increase
in prices for all domestic personal consumption.  Surges in  oil prices  may pose a bigger threat to growth
because consumers suffer from a sudden drop in purchasing power.
An 85 percent to 90 percent increase in oil over a year was
followed by U.S. recessions in 1975, 1980, 1990, 2000 and 2008,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Crude Falls  Crude for April delivery fell 1.2 percent today to $99.96
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 22
percent from a year ago.  Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University economist who predicted the global financial crisis,
said in Dubai on March 8 that an increase in oil prices to $140
a barrel will cause some advanced economies to slide back into
recession and likely slow the pace of U.S. growth.  A Fed Bank of Cleveland model, which uses nominal  interest
rates , inflation swaps and surveys data,  shows  the public
expects inflation of less than 2 percent on average in the next
decade, according to the regional bank’s website.  “The oil shock will push inflation up only temporarily and
retard growth,” said Michael Darda, chief economist and market
strategist for MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “For all
the hand wringing out there, the Fed is basically getting it
right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  