-- 
Treasury Notes Advance as Japan’s Nuclear Meltdown Concern Bolsters Demand

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-03-14T21:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/treasuries-rise-on-demand-for-safety-following-japan-earthquake-tsunami.html
Treasury notes rose, pushing 2-year
yields to a 5-week low, as concern  Japan ’s biggest earthquake on
record will cause a nuclear meltdown spurred demand for the
safety of U.S. government debt.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 30-year bonds over
2-year securities increased to the widest since Feb. 4 on
speculation Japan’s insurers will sell the longer maturities to
pay claims for damage. Treasury notes also advanced as the U.S.
and its allies considered measures to halt the advance of
Muammar Qaddafi’s force against Libyan rebels.  “The earthquake in Japan and the potential for a nuclear
accident there as well as the situation in North Africa and the
Middle East has kept the market bid,” said Dan Mulholland, a
Treasury trader in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one of 20
primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .
“We’ll stay elevated until we know more about what’s going on
in Japan.”  Yields on 2-year notes dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 0.6 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 0.625
percent security maturing in February 2013 increased 3/32, or 94
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  The 2-year note yields touched 0.56 percent, the lowest
level since Feb. 1. The 10-year note yield slid five basis
points to 3.36 percent. The 30-year bond yield fell one basis
point to 4.54 percent.  Yield Spread  The difference in yield, or spread, between 2- and 30-year
securities rose for a second day, increasing to 394 basis
points, the widest in five weeks.  The Fed, as part of its $600 billion Treasury purchase
program to support the  U.S. economy , bought $7.56 billion of  U.S. debt  maturing from May 2018 to February 2021 today,
according to the New York Fed’s  website .  All of the 101 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect
the Fed tomorrow to hold its target rate for overnight lending
at zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008.  Japan may sell some of its foreign holdings, including
U.S. debt, to finance increased spending after the country’s
earthquake, according to  Brown Brothers  Harriman & Co.  “The scope for, again, massive fiscal spending, seems to
be there,”  Win Thin , the firm’s head of emerging-markets
strategy at Brown Brothers in New York, said in a Bloomberg
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt.
“If they have to raise these funds domestically, they may have
to sell some of their holdings elsewhere.”  Bill Auctions  At today’s $30 billion auction of 6-month Treasury bills,
the securities drew the lowest demand from a group of investors
including foreign central banks in almost two years.  The indirect bidders bought 20.4 percent of the debt, the
lowest since the buyers purchased 17.3 percent at an auction of
the bills in April 2009. They purchased 15.6 percent of the $32
billion 3-month bill auction, compared with an average of 29.1
percent at the last 10 auctions.  “There are certainly some seasonal effects that make these
bill auctions difficult to read,” said  William O’Donnell , head
U.S. government bond strategist in Stamford,  Connecticut , at
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS Securities Inc., a primary
dealer. “One of course is quarter-end, and another is fiscal
year-end in Japan. I think it would be wrong to mistake one bill
auction’s results into a broad-brush assessment of what retail
is or isn’t doing.”  Japan’s five-year notes rallied on demand for safety,
pushing yields down nine basis points to 0.475 percent in the
biggest slide since October 2008.  Drop in Stocks  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped for a third day,
sliding as much as 6.6 percent. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks
dropped as much as 1.5 percent to the lowest since Jan. 21.  “There’s a transfer of wealth bid from stocks to bonds,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “Everyone’s
going into short-term Treasuries right now. It’s the capital
preservation trade.”  The  Bank of Japan  said it pumped a record 15 trillion yen
($183 billion) into the financial system, with BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  telling reporters yesterday he’s ready to
unleash “massive” liquidity. The bank announced today plans to
double the size of a fund it uses to buy assets including
government and corporate bonds to 10 trillion yen, an increase
that’s about one-tenth the size of the Fed’s Treasuries buying.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for international help
and workers battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown after a second
blast rocked an atomic plant north of  Tokyo . Millions remained
without electricity or water following Japan’s strongest
earthquake, which may have killed 10,000.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami on March
11 has led to what Kan called the country’s worst crisis since
World War II.  In Libya, Qaddafi’s forces carried out air strikes against
rebels in the town of Ajdabiya. Diplomats at the  United Nations 
debated authorizing a NATO-run no-fly zone to help the rebels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  