-- 
Two-Year Drop in Reinsurance Rates May End After Japan Earthquake Losses

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-15T09:48:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/reinsurer-rates-may-reverse-two-year-decline-after-japan-quake.html
Insurance losses from the Japanese
earthquake may be large enough to turn prices for catastrophe
cover that have been falling for two years, according to
analysts, brokers and underwriters.  Insurers and reinsurers face claims of as much as 2.8
trillion yen ($34 billion) tied to the 9.0-magnitude quake on
March 11, excluding damage caused by the tsunami, catastrophe
modeler  AIR Worldwide  estimated. That would follow about $20
billion in losses from four previous disasters in the Asia-
Pacific region, based on projections by Guy Carpenter & Co.  “The Japanese quake finally exhausts the natural
catastrophe budget for 2011 of a majority of reinsurance
companies,” said  Fabrizio Croce , a Zurich-based analyst with
Kepler Capital Markets. “All the ingredients for market
hardening are now perfect.”  In reinsurance terms, a hardening of markets or rates
refers to an increase in prices for coverage. Reinsurers such as
Munich Re and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s biggest, renew
about two-thirds of their annual property and casualty contracts
in January, and the remainder in April and July. The renewals on
April 1 typically focus on the Asia-Pacific region.  More than 10,000 people may have been killed by the  Japan 
quake, which hurled a 7-meter (23-foot) wave landward after one
undersea plate slid beneath another off the coast of Sendai. The
country is battling to prevent a nuclear meltdown after blasts
rocked an atomic plant north of  Tokyo .    Hurricane Katrina   Based on AIR Worldwide’s preliminary estimate, the quake
would be the second-most costly disaster for insurers and
reinsurers after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The hurricane cost
the industry $62.2 billion, not accounting for inflation,
according to estimates from Munich Re.  The quake in Japan “comes ahead of the Asian reinsurance
renewals, so there may be payback for this loss,” said Ben Cohen, a London-based analyst with Collins Stewart.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance Index slid 3.3 percent to
160.65 as of 10:22 a.m. Frankfurt time today, following a 4.2
percent drop in the previous two days. Declines have been led by
reinsurers, which help protect primary carriers such as  Allianz
SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS)  against the cost of major claims from disasters
such as hurricanes and earthquakes. Hannover Re, Swiss Re and  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  have all tumbled more than 10 percent
following the quake.  Previous Disasters  Reinsurance rates fell for a second straight year in
January on high levels of capital available in the industry,
according to Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance brokerage of New
York-based Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Insurers and reinsurers were hit before the Japan quake by
four disasters in the  Asia  Pacific region -- two temblors that
struck  New Zealand  as well as Cyclone Yasi and floods, which
both hit  Australia , said David Flandro, London-based head of
global business intelligence at  Guy Carpenter .  “These claims have exceeded a large portion if not all of
the natural catastrophe budgets set aside by reinsurers, making
the Japanese catastrophe a capital event as well as an earnings
event for reinsurers,” he said in a phone interview.  In 2008, Hurricane Ike slammed into  Texas  in September,
costing the insurance industry $18.5 billion and helping push up
reinsurance rates by about 8 percent following a two-year
decline. After the 2005 hurricane season, rates measured by the
Guy Carpenter Global Property Catastrophe Rate on Line Index
rose to their highest since 1994.  ‘Market-Moving Event’  The Japan quake “is probably a market-moving event,” said
David Carson, head of property treaty at  Hardy Underwriting
Bermuda Ltd (HDU) , a Lloyd’s of  London  insurer. “The culmination of
losses in the international market over the past year means this
is the tipping point. A month ago Japanese clients were looking
for 5 percent to 10 percent reductions, now it looks as if
prices will rise globally.”  Patrick Hartigan, head of treaty reinsurance at  Beazley
Plc (BEZ) , the fifth-biggest publicly traded Lloyd’s insurer by market
value, said his company will negotiate with clients before the
April 1 Japan renewals.  “It will undoubtedly have an effect on international
catastrophe rates,” he said. “We have to wait and see how the
losses from this event and New Zealand last month pan out.”  Lloyd’s of London, the world’s largest insurance market,
said it’s too early to put a figure on industry losses from the
earthquake. “Lloyd’s routinely stress tests individual
syndicates and the market as a whole for large-scale natural
catastrophes of this nature and we are confident the market can
respond to any claims in the normal course of business,” it
said in a statement.  ‘In Disarray’  Aon Benfield, the reinsurance brokerage of  Aon Corp. (AON) ,
declined to give a price estimate, also saying it’s too early,
according to spokeswoman Alexandra Lewis. Broker  Willis Group
Holdings Plc (WSH)  is working with its reinsurance clients to evaluate
the losses, President Grahame Millwater said in a phone
interview from London. “The market may move, definitely in some
segments, but it is much too early to tell,” he said.  “The April 1 Japan reinsurance renewal season is in
disarray,” Barclays Capital analysts including  Jay Gelb  and
Sarah Dewitt wrote in a March 14 research note. “We anticipate
Asia/Japan property reinsurance rates will climb as a result of
increased demand for coverage and capacity constraints. The
impact on the rest of the global property reinsurance market is
less clear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  