-- 
Republicans Lay Traps for Obama in Budget Strategy to Pick Policy Fights

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-14T20:54:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/republicans-lay-traps-for-obama-in-budget-strategy-to-pick-policy-fights.html
U.S. Representative Mike Pence of  Indiana  had a simple message for his Republican colleagues last
week when they met privately on  Capitol Hill  to plot budget
strategy: “It’s time to pick a fight.”  Pence wasn’t just talking about holding firm on the $61
billion in cuts his party proposes for this year, he said in an
interview. He was advocating to keep so-called riders in the
legislation that bar funds for implementing the health-care
overhaul and for Planned Parenthood, a federation of
reproductive health centers that provide abortions.  House Republicans inserted dozens of such provisions in the
spending bill they passed last month. Some would block the
Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gases
and toxic emissions from cement plants and deny pay for special
advisers to President  Barack Obama  who aren’t Senate-confirmed.
As they work to break the budget impasse, Democrats and
Republicans must decide which are worth fighting over.  “These aren’t really budget items; these are political
statements,” Obama said in a March 11 news conference. He said
he told House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  that “we’re happy to
discuss any of these riders, but my general view is let’s not
try to sneak political agendas into a budget debate.”  The parties are stalemated over spending for the fiscal
year that ends Sept. 30, with Democrats rejecting Republican
cuts as excessive and harmful to economic growth. Democrats
offer about $9 billion in reductions. Current spending authority
ends March 18, though lawmakers will vote this week on a three-
week stopgap measure -- without the policy provisions -- to
allow more time for talks.  Best Chance  The must-pass spending plan offers  House Republicans  one of
their best opportunities to force policy changes on Obama and
the Democratic-controlled Senate. While there’s little chance
the president would sign legislation eviscerating the health-
care law, provisions to curb abortion and EPA rules may be
trickier because some Democrats support such moves.  Some conservative Republicans say they won’t support even
another short-term spending bill without the riders.  “It’s the most important thing,” said Representative
Steve King, an Iowa Republican working to defund the health-care
law. “It’s more important than $62 billion plus or minus $5
billion or $10 billion or $20 billion.”  Republican Defections  Representative Tim Huelskamp of  Kansas  announced today he
won’t vote for the next stopgap measure, in part because it
omits “many of the priorities the American people demanded,”
including the policy changes on the EPA, abortion and health
care.  Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  also said he wouldn’t back
it, calling the notion of keeping the government operating on a
string of temporary spending bills “absurd political theater”
that does nothing meaningful to rein in the deficit.  Representative Chris Smith, a New Jersey Republican and
chairman of the Congressional Pro-life Caucus, said preserving
provisions that bar federal funds from being used for abortion
is a shutdown fight worth having -- and one abortion rights
backers would lose, at least in the eyes of the public.  “Saving a large number of children’s lives from imminent
death is a prudent policy,” Smith said. “I would hope that the
president would say keeping the government open, versus a very
narrow agenda of public funding for abortion which has no
support among the American people, was more important.”  Applause Lines  The policy provisions -- not deep budget cuts -- get the
most enthusiastic plaudits from constituents at town hall
meetings in Republican Representative Jason Chaffetz’s district
in Provo,  Utah .  The riders are “a huge selling point. It’s a big applause
line back home,” Chaffetz said. Their inclusion made his vote
for a spending bill he felt had too few cuts “much easier.
Without them, it just loses its sex appeal,” the second-term
congressman said.  Most Democrats oppose the provisions and are demanding
their removal.  “The American people are not as concerned about the
numbers as what is in this bill, with those mean-spirited
riders,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada .  Republican moderates in the Senate also aren’t comfortable
with some of the provisions, adding to their unease at having to
 vote  on the House measure last week. It failed along with a more
expensive Democratic  alternative .  Senator  Olympia Snowe , a Maine Republican who backs
abortion rights, said she “obviously” did not agree with “all
of the riders. They wouldn’t be consistent with my long-held
views,” she said. Snowe, who is up for re-election next year,
voted for the bill anyway.  Process Concerns  Some Democrats who agree with the policies underlying the
riders said they are concerned about implementing them through a
spending bill.  “We should be trying to resolve this year’s budget debate
and not putting riders on appropriations bills,” said Senator
Bob Casey of  Pennsylvania , a Democrat who opposes abortion
rights. He said he doesn’t support cutting off funds for Planned
Parenthood because the organization provides family planning
services that reduce abortion, as well as care for women such as
breast cancer screenings for more than 40,000 in his state per
year.  Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat facing re-election
next year, wouldn’t say whether he would back using a spending
bill to stop the EPA from regulating carbon dioxide emissions.
He noted he’s co-sponsoring a bill to set a two-year delay on
imposing the rules on  power plants  and some other industries.  Rider Lobbying  Groups pressing for the policy changes are leaning on
wavering lawmakers to preserve the riders.  The  American Petroleum Institute  “believes that there is
broad, bipartisan support for a way forward for EPA to be
stopped from regulating  greenhouse gases ,” said Khary Cauthen,
one of its lobbyists. “The defunding piece is very important.”  The anti-abortion group Susan B. Anthony List is pushing to
keep the Planned Parenthood prohibition. “We are pressing,
asking, cajoling, lobbying, saying, ‘This should not be
negotiable,’” said Marjorie Dannenfelser, the group’s
president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  