-- 
Tribune Executive Says Noteholder Plan Will ‘Scare Away’ Business Partners

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/tribune-co-president-begins-testifying-on-bankruptcy-exit-plans.html
If Tribune Co.’s noteholders win
permission to reorganize the bankrupt publisher, they will
“scare away” potential business partners, company co-President
Eddy Hartenstein said.  The noteholders’ plan would put as much as 65 percent of
the company’s stock in a trust overseen by a court until a
lawsuit related to Tribune’s 2007 leveraged buyout was resolved,
according to court documents.  “It’s the proverbial man behind the curtain,” Hartenstein
said yesterday in a court hearing. “You don’t know who is there. 
If that 65 percent equity of the company is something that isn’t 
controlled by a normal board with normal governance rules, it is 
going to scare away the potential partners.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey in Wilmington,  Delaware , is conducting a hearing in which he is faced with
choosing between two reorganization proposals for Tribune. 
Hartenstein was the final witness in support of Tribune’s
proposal to reorganize about $13 billion of debt and settle the
proposed buyout lawsuit. That plan, sponsored by  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and two other lenders, would distribute new stock to
Tribune’s creditors sooner than the competing noteholder plan.  Under both plans JPMorgan and the other lenders would be
the majority owners, according to Aurelius Capital Management
LP, the main sponsor of the noteholder plan.  Orange County Register  Tribune is trying to buy the Orange County Register, a
Southern California newspaper that competes with the
Los Angeles Times for readers, according a person familiar with
Tribune’s plans. The company submitted an initial indication of
its interest to the Register’s owner, Freedom Communications
Inc., because it would help cut production and distribution
costs, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the
matter publicly.  In an interview before he testified, Hartenstein said
Tribune had considered buying the Register. He declined to say
if the company made an offer to Freedom.  Robert Emmers, a spokesman for  Irvine , California-based
Freedom, declined to comment on a possible purchase offer.  “Freedom for a number of months has been in the process of
evaluating its strategic options and the opportunities
available,” Emmers said.  While buying the Register would be more complicated while
much of Tribune’s stock is held by a trust, that’s a minor
problem, said Marshall Sonenshine, chairman of Sonenshine
Partners LLC, the New York-based investment bank that arranged
the bankruptcy auction of the Philadelphia Inquirer newspaper
last year.  ‘Problems of Newspapers’  “The problems of newspapers are so great that is like the
least of their worries,” Sonenshine said in an interview.  Hartenstein became publisher of the  Los Angeles Times ,
Tribune’s largest newspaper, in 2008 and last year was named one
of four co-presidents who form the executive council that runs
the company. Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the
 Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation of
1.9 million last year. The company’s 23 TV stations include
sites in  New York ,  Chicago  and  Los Angeles .  Hartenstein said the bankruptcy has prevented Tribune from
keeping up with the rest of the publishing industry through
consolidating operations and forming new joint-ventures.  Tribune, New York-based JPMorgan and the two  hedge funds  are 
sponsoring a plan that offers pre-buyout creditors more than 
$400 million to settle the most valuable of the potential 
buyout-related lawsuits.  Carey will decide whether to approve the settlement or
allow pre-buyout creditors to pursue claims against JPMorgan and
the lenders in a lawsuit. Pre-buyout noteholders, led by
Aurelius Capital, claim the lawsuit may yield $1.57 billion if
settled for its true worth.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
Or  schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 