-- 
Trichet Thwarted as Euro Leaders Decline Taking On ECB's Bond-Buying Role

-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 
2011-03-14T11:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/trichet-thwarted-as-euro-leaders-decline-taking-on-ecb-s-bond-buying-role.html
European leaders frustrated Jean- Claude Trichet’s bid to provide his central bank with an exit
from its role as buyer of last resort of bonds from struggling
debt-strapped euro nations.  In a deal to reinforce their bailout fund struck at 1:30
a.m. in Brussels on March 12, the leaders of the 17 euro nations
agreed to let the European Financial Stability Facility buy
bonds directly from governments, while declining to authorize
the purchase of bonds in the open market or allow it to finance
debt buybacks by governments.  The decision may sharpen differences between Trichet,
president of the  European Central Bank , and elected officials
over steering the euro region out of the financial crisis and
preventing a relapse. Trichet has also advocated tougher
enforcement of budget-deficit rules, saying March 3 that current
proposals “fall short of the necessary quantum leap.”  The euro leaders’ decision to buy bonds in the primary
markets “looks to be an alternative to providing liquidity
loans, rather than taking over the role of secondary market
support that the ECB has been doing,” David Mackie, JPMorgan
Chase Co.’s London-based chief European economist, said in a
March 12 note. “It looks like the ECB has failed in its attempt
to have the EFSF take over this task.”  The euro rose against the dollar today and was up 0.4
percent at $1.3968 as of 11:37 a.m. in  London . Bonds fell,
pushing the yield on the German 10-year bund up five basis point
to at 3.25 percent.  ‘Right Direction’  Trichet signaled a lack of enthusiasm with the measures,
which are due for final approval at a March 24-25 summit and
include easier terms for the Greek rescue and an increase in the
EFSF’s firepower to its full amount of 440 billion euros ($612
billion).  It “goes in the right direction,” the central banker told
reporters in Brussels early on March 12.  Trichet has said for months that governments can’t keep
banking on the ECB’s cheap credit to prop up the region’s
economy. The ECB has bought 77 billion euros of  government bonds 
since May and in December extended emergency liquidity measures
for lenders through the first quarter.  “It’s up to governments to assume their responsibility,”
Trichet said in a Feb. 14 interview in  France ’s  Les Echos  daily.
“That’s why I’ve said the EFSF’s operations should be improved
qualitatively and quantitatively. The possibility of purchases
of government bonds by the EFSF is part of that thinking.”  Expanding the fund’s mandate to take over the ECB’s task
was resisted by  Germany , the Netherlands and  Austria  even as
French officials had indicated backing for such a step.  Investors may be “disappointed” at the summit’s decision
not to endorse EFSF bond buying in markets, “arguably a more
credible alternative to the ECB’s current interventions,” said
Francesco Garzarelli, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategist.  In comments made before the summit and published afterward,
Trichet said the bank’s purchases, which divided its governing
council, weren’t a permanent solution.  “We won’t do this forever,” Trichet said, according to an
article in  Der Spiegel  that was released on March 12. “This
measure is, like all our extraordinary measures, temporary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  