-- 
Rising Oil Cost, Slower Spending May Lead Fed to Hold Assets From Stimulus

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/rising-oil-cost-slower-spending-may-lead-fed-to-hold-assets-from-stimulus.html
Rising energy costs will probably
provoke concern among Federal Reserve officials this week that
consumers and businesses will pull back on spending and slow the
U.S. recovery, said economists such as  Lou Crandall  at Wrightson
ICAP LLC.  The more than 9 percent increase in crude oil prices this
year may leave consumers with less money to spend on other goods
and boost corporate costs, curbing outlays for staff, plants and
equipment. To the Fed, the threat of a flagging recovery may
appear to be a bigger risk than inflation, Crandall said. Policy
makers say achieving self-sustaining growth is vital before they
begin to withdraw record monetary stimulus.  “The Fed is going to be worried about a soft patch in the
near term,” said Crandall, Wrightson ICAP’s chief economist,
who is based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . While Fed officials
will be prepared to react to inflation, “the high cost of a
downside surprise in growth probably trumps everything else.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  at the conclusion of a
meeting tomorrow will probably affirm its commitment to buy $600
billion in  Treasury securities  through June, said Roberto Perli,
a managing director at International Strategy & Investment Group
in Washington. Persistent uncertainty about the staying power of
private spending and investment would likely prompt Fed
officials to maintain a neutral policy for several months by
reinvesting proceeds from maturing bonds rather than letting
them run off, said Perli.  Such an approach would keep the central bank’s balance
sheet close to its current level. The Fed’s total assets stand
at a record $2.58 trillion.  ‘Easy Stand’  “Rising oil prices can affect both headline inflation and
output growth,” said Perli, formerly an economist at the Fed’s
Division of Monetary Affairs. If  oil prices  stay high, “the
Federal Open Market Committee would most likely react by
maintaining an easy stand for longer than it would have
otherwise unless inflation expectations rise.”  Consumer confidence fell to the lowest level in a month as
surging gasoline prices soured Americans’ outlook about their
finances and the economy. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
dropped to minus 44.5 in the week to March 6 from the prior
week’s minus 39.7.  Consumers this month expected an inflation rate of 4.6
percent over the next 12 months, the highest level since August
2008, compared with 3.4 percent in February, according to a
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey.  Still, companies such as Cincinnati-based Kroger Co., the
largest U.S. grocery-store chain, may have trouble passing
higher costs on to consumers whose income growth is limited.  Food Stamps  “Unemployment is high in most of our markets, and food
stamp use continues at its peak,” Kroger’s Chief Executive
Officer David Dillon said on a March 3 earnings call. “Rising
food prices and fuel prices will affect customer spending
behavior.”  The increase in oil prices coincides with other forces
inhibiting economic growth, including waning fiscal stimulus and
reductions in spending by federal, state and local governments.  Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, the St. Louis forecasting firm,
estimates that tighter fiscal policy will subtract nearly 1
percentage point from growth in U.S. gross domestic product in
2012. The economy will expand 3.5 percent from the fourth
quarter of 2011 to the fourth quarter of 2012, instead of 4.5
percent, according to the firm’s estimates.  Costlier oil is also prompting downward revisions in the
outlook. Economists at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on
March 11 cut their first-quarter estimate for annualized growth
by a full percentage point, to 2.5 percent, and their second-
quarter outlook to 3.5 percent from 4 percent partly because of
higher energy costs.  ‘Good Growth’  “The consumer is a little bit of a worry here, and there
is a question of whether the fundamentals are lining up for good
growth in spending,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at JPMorgan Securities.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  economists say a 20 percent rise
in crude oil prices beyond the firm’s forecast of $105 a barrel
in the second quarter could shave as much as a 1 percentage
point off of the economy’s annual growth rate by late 2011 or
early 2012, while raising the rate of  core inflation  no more
than 0.2 percentage points on an annual basis.  Oil for April delivery fell to $101.16 a barrel on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange last week, the lowest since March 1, on
concern the earthquake in  Japan  would limit demand. Prices are
up 25 percent from a year ago.  Easier Than Otherwise  “If higher oil prices slow growth but do little to core
inflation, it follows that Fed policy will tend to be easier --
not tighter -- than otherwise,” said Andrew Tilton, an
economist at New York-based Goldman Sachs. “All this suggests
that the Federal Open Market Committee will be in no frame of
mind to tighten financial conditions with its Tuesday
statement.”  A decline in the stock market could also erode  consumer
confidence  and spending, said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economist
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. LLC in New York.  The  S&P 500  has fallen 2.9 percent from this year’s high on
Feb. 18 as oil surged amid unrest in the Middle East.  “If you end up in a situation where the stock market
ceases to appreciate without a commensurate pickup in wage
growth, the economy could run into a stall,” Greenhaus said.  Policy makers can’t count on consumers to borrow to support
their spending, said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York.  “We are not going to enter a new era of leveraged  consumer
spending , and that is what you would need right now if you were
going to get a big kick in consumption,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  