-- 
Risk of 10% Stock Drop Tripled in a Month, Goldman Options Strategists Say

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-14T21:15:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/risk-of-10-stock-slide-tripled-in-a-month-goldman-sachs-says.html
The risk of a 10 percent U.S. stock
slide by April tripled in a month, options prices show, amid
rising  oil prices  that threaten the economic recovery and
Japan’s biggest earthquake, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index options show that traders are
betting that it has a 6 percent chance of losing 10 percent over
the next month, up from a 2 percent probability a month ago,
equity derivatives strategists Krag “Buzz” Gregory and John Marshall wrote in a report yesterday. The VIX, a gauge of prices
for options on the equity benchmark, is up 35 percent from last
month’s low.  Investors are boosting the price of protection as crude oil
climbed to a 29-month high this month amid fighting in  Libya  and
Japan’s 8.9-magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami killed
thousands, the New York-based strategists wrote. Traders see
more “tail” risk, or a higher chance that a lower-probability
event could erase a tenth of stock-market value.  “The U.S. options market has increased its likelihood of a
near-term ‘tail event’ dramatically given the uncertainty
surrounding the events in the Middle East and Northern Africa
along with the earthquake in  Japan ,” the strategists wrote in
the note. “The transmission of higher oil to slower growth is
now much more of a risk factor.”  Crude-oil futures jumped 28 percent to a 29-month high of
$106.95 a barrel in New York from their intraday low on Feb. 15
to the peak on March 7 as concern about supplies increased amid
fighting in Libya and threats of protests in  Saudi Arabia .  Oil Options  West Texas Intermediate crude oil options suggest a more
than 20 percent chance that it will end this year above $125,
the strategists wrote. Hedge funds’ bullish oil bets rose to an
all-time high for a third straight week, according to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of
Traders report.  Higher oil prices “could create strong headwinds for US
equities,” the strategists wrote. “The rise in oil is now
emerging as a more meaningful downside risk to U.S. growth later
in the year.”  Each 10 percent gain for crude prices reduces gross
domestic product growth over the next two years by an average of
0.2 percentage points, with a peak impact of 0.5 percentage
points after 4 quarters, the report said, citing Goldman Sachs
U.S. Economist Jan Hatzius. That could reduce growth by as much
as 1 point by late this year or early 2012, according to the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  