-- 
Rubber Slides to Four-Month Low as Demand May Slow Down After Earthquake

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-03-14T11:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/rubber-tumbles-trade-suspended-after-japan-quake-halts-car-production.html
Rubber futures tumbled to the
lowest level in more than four months after the worst earthquake
on record in  Japan  caused power-supply disruptions, forcing
carmakers to halt production, raising concern demand may slump.  August-delivery futures, the most-active contract, plunged
as much as 13 percent, the most since April last year, to 335
yen a kilogram ($4,088 a metric ton) in after-hours trading on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. That’s the lowest price since Nov.
4. Trading in this session will be settled tomorrow.  The bourse expanded the trading limit for rubber contracts
for a second time today to 50 yen from the previous settlement
price, the exchange said on its website.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said Japan is facing its worst
crisis since the end of World War II, as local media said the
death toll from the 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami
on March 11 may top 10,000. The  Bank of Japan  today injected 15
trillion yen ($183 billion) into the financial system.  “The widespread impact from the earthquake has soured  market sentiment ,” Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at Bangkok-based
broker DS Futures Co., said by phone. “It has a direct impact
on rubber because Japanese carmakers suspended production.”  Some of the nation’s largest manufacturers -- including
Honda Motor Co., Nissan Motor Co.,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and beermaker
Sapporo Holdings Ltd. -- shut down facilities in northern Japan
after the March 11 earthquake caused power supply disruption.  Toyota Motor Corp., the top carmaker, will suspend output
at its Japan factories March 15 and March 16, spokeswoman  Shiori
Hashimoto  said by phone today. Isuzu Motors Ltd., a Toyota Motor
affiliate, will halt production at its two Japan plants until
March 18, spokesman Koichi Ito said by phone today.  Plant Suspension  Hino Motors Ltd. will halt its Japan factories until March
16 at the earliest, spokesman Shigeru Ito said by phone today.  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest automaker, will
halt operations at factories in Tochigi and Iwaki until March
18. It will also shut its Oppama, Kyushu, Nissan-Shatai and
Yokohama plants until March 16, spokesman  Mitsuru Yonekawa  said.
About 2,300 new vehicles were damaged by the tsunami.  Honda Motor will stop production from today at its Sayama,
Mouka, Hamamatsu and Suzuka factories, the company said March
12. The production halt will have “a widening near-term impact
on company earnings,” Goldman Sachs Group said in a report
today. The impact will be temporary and earnings will normalize
as Japanese autoparts and tiremakers have recovered “swiftly”
from previous earthquakes, the report said.  Bridgestone, the largest tiremaker, has stopped production
at four facilities in the Kanto region, the company said on its
website. Another factory in Yokohama has partially restarted
production, it said.  Rebuilding  “In the short-term, the country’s economic and
manufacturing activities may be affected and it may have an
impact on rubber demand, but the impact isn’t substantial,” Jom
Jacob, senior economist at the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries, said by phone today.  Japan, the fourth-largest rubber consumer, accounts for
about 7 percent of global demand, and the area severely hit by
quake and tsunami represents about 7.5 percent of its gross
domestic product, Jacob said. Rebuilding activities could help
revive the economy and be positive for rubber demand, he said.  May-delivery rubber in  Shanghai  plunged by the daily 6
percent limit to 33,480 yuan ($5,096) a ton.  The Thai government plans to hold talks with exporters
today to discuss measures to try to prevent a slump in local
prices, according to Deputy Prime Minister Suthep Thaugsuban.  The free-on-board price, or cost without freight and
insurance, for  Thailand ’s benchmark ribbed smoked sheet fell
today for a eighth day, tumbling 7.1 percent to 150.25 baht
($4.94) a kilogram as buyers from China and  India  have delayed
purchases, the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand said. The
price reached a record 198.30 baht on Feb. 21.  The auctioned price of ribbed smoked sheet at a rubber
trading center in the southern province in Songkhla plunged 18.6
percent to 105 baht a kilogram, while the price of latex
declined 15 percent to 97 baht, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  