-- 
Trump’s Celebrity Alone Could Rescue U.S. Economy: David Pauly

-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 
2011-03-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/trump-s-celebrity-alone-can-rescue-u-s-economy-commentary-by-david-pauly.html
I was astonished the other day to
learn that real estate tycoon  Donald Trump  had become a brand.
Like Huggies or  Bud Light .  Trump is selling his name for use on two skyscrapers to be
built by another developer in  Georgia , the former Soviet
republic.  While I knew that Trump was assured of a niche in the self-
promoters hall of fame, I didn’t know there already were
buildings called Trump that he didn’t own or manage -- and that
his name was used to peddle vodka and jewelry. This is my fault.
Any hound on the celebrity trail would know this.  Now that I do know about the Trump brand, I propose that we
use it to help save America. The  U.S. Treasury  should lease the
Trump name just as a maker of chocolate products has done. As a
good citizen, one toying with the idea of running for president,
he probably would cut us a good deal.  Trump Treasury 10-year notes would be wildly popular.
Buyers such as China and  Singapore  -- ignoring the sad history
of Trump’s casino bonds -- would be attracted to the name. It
would lessen the worry that foreign buyers of our securities
will ultimately be turned off by the sinking dollar and huge
U.S. budget and trade deficits.  Demand for Trumps would be so great that the Treasury’s
borrowing costs would fall.  Saudi Arabia  and  Japan  might even
offer more than face value, just so they could brag they were
holders of Trump bonds. The Treasury would enjoy a negative
interest rate and curb its soaring financing costs.  Safety, Security  Trump’s name on 30-year bonds would offer the security
long-term investors savor. Safe in the hands of one of the
 richest  people in the world -- and, more important, a television
star.  Once the Treasury hires Trump, who turns 65 in June, it can
start licensing the names of others who excel in self-
aggrandizment. American teenagers and extended adolescents would
pour hunks of their allowances into Lady Gaga savings bonds.  Hard-strapped states could get into the game, too. New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  could cut his costs by selling
“Jersey Shore” bonds. People would buy the securities at lower  interest rates  and glow with the notion that they had a
connection with a  TV program .  Snooki Who?  The interest saving would make up in part for the
embarrassment this program has caused Christie. No matter your
political leanings, you have to love President Barack Obama for
not knowing who on earth  Snooki  was.  Trump’s ability to become a brand shows how slick he is. He
has built himself a second career outside the risks of financing
and managing building projects.  While he may have increased his family’s real estate
fortune, Trump’s only venture into publicly held business was a
flop. His  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , casino company, has gone
into bankruptcy proceedings no fewer than three times. Folks who
bought Trump-branded casino bonds didn’t do well.  Trump has puffed himself up so that failure is forgotten.
His brand is now supreme. Let’s hope that throwing out his name
as a presidential candidate is just another cry for adulation.
If he became president, the notion of Trump Treasuries would be
off the table. Being president doesn’t compare to having your
own TV show.    David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in Fort
Myers, Florida / or  dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  