-- 
Rush Turns Down ‘King’s Speech’ Planned for Broadway Next Year

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-03-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/rush-turns-down-king-s-speech-planned-for-broadway-next-year.html
If “The King’s Speech” comes to
Broadway next season as planned, it won’t be with the two stars
of the  Academy Award -winning hit movie.  Producer Michael Alden said  Colin Firth  and  Geoffrey Rush 
would not reprise their roles as the stammering Duke of York and
the speech therapist who treats and befriends him. Firth won an
Oscar and Rush was nominated for best supporting actor, losing
to  Christian Bale .  In an interview Thursday, Rush said that reading the play
three years ago helped persuade him to do the film. Writer David
Seidler, who overcame stuttering himself, wrote the script
before he completed the screenplay.  “I know David Seidler would like me to do the play,”
Rush, 59, said at a benefit for the  Brooklyn Academy of Music ,
where he was winding up his run in the title role of “The Diary
of a Madman.” “I have to keep myself alert and diversified.
I’m getting older and I have to be open to other
possibilities.”  Rush also cautioned against an immediate stage production.
“They have to let the film mellow with the audience,” he said.  Alden, a co-producer of the musical “Grey Gardens,” is
trying to raise $3.5 million to present the play, according to a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Premiere in U.K.  He hopes to open the play in the U.K. before coming to
Broadway, according to a person briefed on the production’s
plans. The minimum investment for a producer’s credit is
$280,000, which can be shared by two people, the person said.  It’s unusual for a play to be adapted from a recent movie.
Musical adaptations are more common. Much of the plot and
dialogue of the nine-character play “ The King’s Speech” is
identical to that of the movie, according to a draft obtained by
Bloomberg.  Alden declined to discuss his plans in detail. He said that
Adrian Noble, a former artistic director of the  Royal
Shakespeare Company , has committed to direct. Seidler told
reporters in  Los Angeles  after the Screen Actors Guild Awards on
Jan. 29 that the play is headed to the  West End  in late 2011.  The movie has sold over $300 million of tickets worldwide,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Baz Luhrmann, an
Australian director (“Moulin Rouge”) who also attended the BAM
benefit, said comparisons between the play and film will be
inevitable.  “It’s all about how good the production is,” he said.
“Seeing a great production of anything compels people to the
theater.”  Filling Rush’s and Firth’s shoes will be a top challenge,
said the veteran Broadway producer Emanuel Azenberg.  “These performances resonated,” Azenberg said. “You knew
within 15 minutes that you were in good hands. The actors in the
play would have to match that.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 