-- 
Russia Stocks Snap 3 Days of Losses as Steelmakers Gain on Japan

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-03-14T16:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/russia-stocks-snap-3-days-of-losses-as-steelmakers-gain-on-japan.html
Russian stocks snapped a three-day
losing streak, led by steelmakers and OAO Gazprom on speculation  Japan ’s earthquake will increase demand for the metal and
liquefied natural gas.  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov’s steelmaker, added 0.7 percent. Gazprom, the
country’s natural-gas export monopoly, jumped 3.3 percent to a 2
1/2-year high. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel advanced 2.1 percent after
billionaire Alisher Usmanov said his OAO Metalloinvest plans to
buy shares in Russia’s largest mining company. The Micex Index
closed up 0.4 percent at 1,726.78 by 6:45 p.m. in Moscow, paring
an earlier gain of as much as 1.6 percent.  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., Japan’s third-largest
steelmaker, said operations at blast furnaces at its Kashima
steel plant near  Tokyo  were suspended. Oil,  Russia ’s main export
revenue earner, fell to a two-week low in New York, easing
concern inflation will hurt growth domestic and global growth.  “Steelmakers are benefitting from the disruption to
producers in Japan,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares
at CF Global Trading in London, said by phone. “Oil going lower
has given an inflationary dividend to the Russian market.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts recommended investors buy OAO
Mechel, Russia’s largest producer of coal for steelmakers, and
Evraz Group SA, the second-largest steelmaker. Analysts  Vladimir Zhukov  and Valentina Bogomolova said Mechel and Evraz have the
highest “exposure” to the Asian market.  Mechel rose 0.9 percent to 842.6 rubles in Moscow while
Evraz increased 0.9 percent to $36.40 in  London . OAO Novolipetsk
Steel added 0.6 percent to 124.24 rubles.  Gazprom  Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly rose to
215.97 rubles, its highest close since Sept. 19, 2008. Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government asked the company to
consider increasing liquefied natural gas shipments to Japan
after the earthquake cut some of the country’s nuclear power
stations.  Japan is the world’s biggest buyer of LNG and may need to
import an additional 2.1 billion cubic feet a day of gas
following the earthquake damage of the nuclear power generators,
ICAP Energy said in a note on March 11. Nuclear energy provides
almost 30 percent of Japan’s electricity, according to the  World
Nuclear Association .  Norilsk Nickel jumped 2.1 percent to 6,913 rubles, its
biggest increase in more than two weeks. Usmanov said in a phone
interview that the Metalloinvest board approved a plan to buy
Norilsk Nickel shares.  Oil slid as much as 2.7 percent today to $98.47 a barrel in  New York  on bets the earthquake will limit demand. A price of
$90 a barrel is “more consistent with the fundamental
underlying global supply and demand dynamics” and would help
Russian stocks rally 10 percent this year, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts wrote in a research note e-mailed today.  The dollar-denominated RTS increased 0.8 percent to
1,944.91.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  