-- 
Russia, Japan May Join Global Race for U.S. Oil and Gas Assets

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T04:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/russia-japan-may-join-global-race-for-u-s-oil-and-gas-assets.html
U.S. and Canadian oil and natural-
gas companies are outpacing last year’s $122.5 billion in
mergers and acquisitions, with sales announced so far this year
valued at $19.2 billion more than in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  So far, U.S. and Canadian oil and gas companies have sold
assets in 85 transactions valued collectively at $28.5 billion.  Japanese, South Korean and Russian companies will likely
jockey for stakes in difficult-to-tap U.S. reservoirs, joining
cash-rich  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , China Petrochemical Corp.,
and Cnooc Ltd., which may expand their acquisitions from last
year, according to bankers, lawyers and company executives
interviewed during CERAWeek, a Houston conference sponsored by
IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates. Transactions won’t be
limited to North America.  “I think you’ll see more activity globally,” said David Asmus, leader of the energy practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
LLP, a lawfirm in Houston. “Certainly there will be some
significant-sized deals.” There’s a possibility of deals in
excess of $5 billion, he said.  Transactions already have edged toward the $5 billion mark,
as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  paid $4.75 billion for Chesapeake Energy
Corp.’s gas assets in the Fayetteville shale formation. Overseas
companies are competing to access U.S. shale reserves, which
hold enough gas to meet 34 years of demand at current
consumption levels, according to U.S. energy department
estimates.  Most Since 2007  Last year’s deal volume of $122.5 billion was the most
since 2007, when U.S. and Canadian energy companies were targets
in $125 billion of sales, according to Bloomberg data. The 580
oil and gas transactions in 2010 were the most since 2007.  In  North America , growing oil and gas production onshore is
creating a greater need for pipelines, processing plants and
storage. Demand for those assets also will drive deals, Asmus
said. Growth has been driven by development of more
“unconventional” resources such as those found in dense shale
rock and  Canada ’s oilsands. Advances in directional drilling and
so-called hydraulic fracturing techniques have increased
production from shale fields. Hydraulic fracturing injects
water, sand and chemicals into the rock to break it open and
release the gas.  The number of transactions this year should surpass 2010
because  oil prices  above $100 a barrel are offering greater  cash
flow , and because debt markets are making money more available
for independent producers, Asmus said. Private equity players
also are expected to be more active this year in the  energy
industry , he said.  ‘Corporate to Corporate’  “I think we’ll see more corporate to corporate business
than we did in 2010,” said Peter Gaw, global head of oil and
gas at Standard Chartered Bank. The deals will supplement
acquisitions of single assets or asset stakes.  U.S. natural-gas producers, increasingly cash-strapped
after a decline in gas prices, are eager to find partners to
develop new unconventional assets, said John B. Connally, a
partner with the Houston law firm of Vinson & Elkins LLP.  As U.S. producers paired their expertise with cash-rich
overseas companies inexperienced in operating in unconventional
oil and gas operations, “it was kind of a delightful match,”
Connally said.    Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which has clinched seven joint
ventures in the past four years, is planning another this year
in an undisclosed field, Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon said last month.  Asia Interest  Japanese and South Korean companies may lead the next round
of joint-venture stakes, Scott Sheffield, chief executive
officer of Pioneer Natural Resources said in an interview at
CERAWeek. Sheffield declined to name which companies might be
involved. Pioneer sold a 45 percent stake in its holdings within
the Eagle Ford oil and gas field of south  Texas  last year to  India ’s Reliance Industries Ltd. for $266 million in cash and a
commitment to fund $1.1 billion in Pioneer’s drilling costs.    Cnooc Ltd. (883)  is expected to generate free cash flow of $3.87
billion this quarter, second among global energy companies
behind  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , at $6.1 billion, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , refiner  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , BP Plc,
Chevron Corp.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Total SA,  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  and OAO
Lukoil all are forecast to have more than $1 billion left over
after operational expenses and planned capital spending.  Finding a Partner  OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest non-state-controlled oil
company, is scouting oil and natural-gas investments in U.S.
shale fields, President Vagit Alekperov said March 8 in an
interview at CERAWeek.  “If we are lucky in identifying a good partner, we are
ready to be actively involved in the U.S.,” Alekperov said.  “You will see more debt-funded acquisitions by
independents, which we haven’t seen for several years because of
the credit markets,” Asmus, of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, said.
“I think you may also see somewhat larger deals, because the
extra availability of credit will allow companies to make larger
acquisitions than they might have done otherwise.”  Bruce Bilger, a senior adviser at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  sees a global
convergence in mergers and acquisitions.  “It’s much easier today than it was five years ago, 10
years ago, to find investment opportunities” around the world,
he said, speaking at a forum at CERAWeek on March 8.  ‘Just the Start’  BHP’s purchase of Chesapeake’s Arkansas shale assets “is
just the start,” Mike Yeager, chief executive officer of the
Melbourne-based company’s petroleum division, told reporters
Feb. 21. ‘This now gives us an instant, credible avenue to go do
more.”  Sasol Ltd., the largest producer of motor fuels made from
coal and natural gas, doubled its initial investment in Canadian
shale-gas fields March 8, agreeing to pay C$1.05 billion for a
stake in a second project of  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)   “Shale gas is clearly a game changer in the U.S. and it’s
changing the dynamics, the gas market dynamics in North
America,” Pat Davies, Sasol’s Chief Executive said on an
earnings call on March. 7. “We’ll be looking at further gas
acquisitions.  “We certainly have the balance sheet to be able to do
that,” Davies said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net 
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 