-- 
Iran Criticizes Deployment of Foreign Soldiers to Subdue Bahrain Uprisings

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-03-15T10:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/saudi-arabia-gcc-troops-enter-bahrain-as-protests-threaten-gulf.html
  Iran  criticized the deployment of
soldiers from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states into Bahrain,
the first cross-border intervention since a wave of popular
uprisings swept through parts of the Arab world.  “The presence of foreign troops and meddling into
Bahrain’s internal affairs will only further complicate the
issue,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said in
Tehran today. Saudi troops were not visible in main areas of the
capital today.  A month of clashes between mainly Shiite protesters and
Bahraini security forces escalated on March 13, with more than
100 people injured as demonstrators demanded democracy through
elections from their Sunni monarch.  The protests have fueled fears that unrest may spread to  Saudi Arabia . Many Shiite Bahrainis retain cultural and family
ties with Iran and Shiites in eastern Saudi Arabia; Bahrain’s
ruling family has close links with Saudi Arabia, which holds 20
percent of the world’s oil reserves.  Credit-default swaps on Bahrain rose 18.5 basis points to
332.5 basis points, according to CMA, the highest since July
2009. Bahrain’s 10-year dollar bond fell yesterday with the
yield on the 5.5 percent bond maturing in March 2020 climbing 29
basis points, the most since Feb. 3, to 6.60 percent, according
to prices compiled on Bloomberg.  ‘Adding Fire’  In the center of the capital, Manama, more than a thousand
people were gathered in the main roundabout, a frequent site of
protests for the past month. A military helicopter flew
overhead. No police could be seen in the area.  Several dozen protesters camped out overnight on a main
street in Manama’s financial center, closing off the
thoroughfare. The demonstrators set up tents, including one to
provide first aid.  “The Saudis are adding fire to the situation,” said one
of the protesters, Hussein Ali, a 40-year-old mechanical
engineer. “We consider the Gulf force to be an invader.”  Small groups of young men set up barricades with poles,
concrete and trash containers on streets in the diplomatic
section of Manama last night, not far from the central bank and
justice and foreign affairs ministries. Armed with metal pipes,
they monitored passing cars.  National Dialogue  Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa has offered a
national “dialogue” toward changes in response to the
demonstrations, which hasn’t quieted protesters. Gulf states
said on March 10 that they plan to provide Bahrain and Oman,
which also faces a popular protest movement, with $10 billion
each over a decade. Shiites comprise as much as 70 percent of
the Bahraini population.  Saudi Arabian troops moved into Bahrain as part of a
regional force from the  Gulf Cooperation Council . The  United
Arab Emirates  sent some 500 soldiers, U.A.E. Foreign Minister
Abdullah bin Zayed al Nahyan said. The troops are part of Joint
Peninsula Shield, a GCC military coalition established to
protect the six member states from outside attack. More than 100
military vehicles have crossed into Bahrain, Al Jazeera
television reported.  The forces will protect “vital installations in Bahrain
and maintain stability and security,” Jamal Fakhro, the first
deputy chairman of the Bahrain Shura Council, said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  The deployment of Gulf soldiers signals that the Bahraini
regime has lost confidence it can deal with the protests and
underscores Saudi Arabian concerns about uprisings at home,
according to Christopher Davidson, a scholar in Middle East
politics at Durham University and author of “Power and Politics
in the Gulf Monarchies,”  Similar Protests  “It is in Saudi’s interest that nothing serious happens in
Bahrain, because it would embolden similar protests in its
eastern provinces,” Davidson said in a telephone interview late
yesterday.  Saudi Arabia’s Shiite population, who make up about 10 to
15 percent of the population, have been holding protests every
Thursday and Friday for the past few weeks in towns and villages
a short drive from the Bahrain causeway. The Saudi Shiites have
demanded the release of Shiite prisoners held without public
trial since 1996.  The U.S. State Department urged citizens to defer travel to
Bahrain and advised those in the island kingdom to “consider
departing,” the State Department said in an e-mailed statement.  Restraint Urged  The U.S. is urging Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, to allow nonviolent protests and encouraging Gulf nations
to use restraint, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told
reporters.  Bahrain’s Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa said he
was committed to starting a dialogue with the opposition that
would address demands including a “parliament with full
authority,” and a “government that represents the will
of the people.”  The decision to “invite another country’s military under
the pretext of the GCC, means that negotiations” for a
constitutional monarchy have become more than a distant
prospect, Davidson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  