-- 
Saving Ireland Makes Patrick Honohan Banker People Will Have to Trust Most

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-14T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/saving-ireland-makes-patrick-honohan-banker-people-will-have-to-trust-most.html
Irish ministers tried to avoid  Patrick Honohan ’s office in the 1980s because of the plume of
smoke spiraling from the economist’s pipe.  “We’d be reluctant to go in there,” said  Michael Noonan ,
who served in government when Honohan was a prime ministerial
adviser from 1981 to 1986.  Three decades later, Noonan, 67, has re-entered government
as finance minister to work with Honohan, now the nation’s
 central bank  governor, to lead Ireland’s effort to cut through a
different haze and regain credibility in the markets after an 85
billion-euro ($117 billion) international  bailout  last year.  Honohan will take a step in that process this month when he
provides details about the scope of losses incurred by Ireland’s
banks and tries to convince investors that he has a plan to fix
them without crippling the state with debt. Honohan, 61, was the
first Irish official to tell the public that their country
needed to be rescued when he let them know in November.  “He has an openness to him that is very rare in a central
banker,” Garrett FitzGerald, 85, who Honohan advised during his
two terms as premier in the 1980s, said in an interview in
Dublin. “His handling of the bailout was very skillful. When
the government went into a mess on this issue, he saved the day
by revealing on his own account what was happening.”  Financial Tightrope  The bailout continues to dominate Ireland. At a March 11
meeting in Brussels, euro-area leaders rejected Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s bid for lower borrowing costs and insisted that the
government raise its company taxes in return.  Back in Dublin, Honohan, who has led the Central Bank of
Ireland since September 2009, is walking a familiar tightrope
when it comes to disclosing the state of the country.  The results of stress tests due this month will determine
how much of the 35 billion euros of the bailout set aside for
banks the government needs to draw down. Draw too little, and
investors will continue to shun the lenders. Draw too much, and
he risks imperiling the government’s ability to repay the loans.
The banks may need the full 35 billion euros, the Sunday
Independent reported yesterday, without citing anyone.  A year ago, Honohan and financial regulator Matthew Elderfield produced estimates of the banking losses and their
capital needs. Six months later, the  central bank  increased the
amount for Dublin-based  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  by 3 billion
euros, or 40 percent.  Anglo Irish  For Anglo Irish Bank Corp., the lender that bankrolled the
lion’s share of the property boom that turned to bust in 2008,
the sum had risen 56 percent to a worst-case scenario of 34.3
billion euros from about 22 billion euros. Authorities had been
too optimistic about the value of loans transferred to the
National Asset Management Agency set up to take on risky debt.  “They seriously underestimated the scale of the losses
inside the banks,” said Karl Whelan, a professor at University
College Dublin and a former economist at the  Federal Reserve .
“This time, the numbers need to be realistic and far more
detail released. They will be believed if that’s the case.”  Honohan declined to comment for this story ahead of the
results of the bank stress tests. He told national broadcaster
 RTE  on March 1 that the country has had enough of footing the
bill for the lenders who doled out money to property developers.  Yields on Ireland’s 10-year bonds have risen to 9.65
percent from 9.02 percent at the start of 2011. Investors demand
a yield premium of 643 basis points to buy Irish debt rather
than German bunds of similar maturity, compared with 680 two
days after the November bailout.  ‘Really Fed Up’  “I’m really fed up because I never thought I would get
into the situation where I would announce a range of figures and
get very soon overtaken by events,” Honohan said during the RTE
interview. “People are fed up.”  Honohan, who keeps fit by weaving around Dublin traffic on
a blue bike from the city’s rental scheme, entered a more public
domain in November. For five days after it emerged that Ireland
might need a bailout, the government declined to comment on the
rescue talks.  Enterprise Minister Batt O’Keeffe said Nov. 14 that the
government wouldn’t give up the country’s “hard-won”
sovereignty 90 years after gaining independence from Britain.
Four days later, Honohan appeared on Ireland’s biggest morning
radio show from a phone line in  Frankfurt  to declare that
Ireland would need a multi-billion euro financial rescue.  “The handling of the bailout by the government was a
disaster,” said Whelan. “Patrick would have seen what was
going on in terms of the needs for a bailout, and on the fifth
day, told the public the truth.”  ‘Clean Hands’  The bespectacled, bearded Honohan studied economics and
mathematics at  University College Dublin , where he graduated
with first-class honors. He completed a doctorate at the  London
School  of Economics before working at the  International Monetary
Fund  and the Irish Central Bank.  Honohan worked for FitzGerald, who had taught him at
university, in the 1980s, and spent a decade at the  World Bank 
before returning to teach financial economics at  Trinity College
Dublin  in 2007. Former Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  conferred
with Honohan on the banking crisis before Lenihan picked him to
serve as the 10th governor of the central bank since its
 founding  in 1943.  “Because Honohan wasn’t in charge during the boom, he has
clean hands,” said Philip Lane, an economics professor at
Trinity who has collaborated with Honohan on papers. “He has
credibility that some other policy makers seem not to have.”  Following Trichet  Within 18 months of his appointment, the Washington-based
IMF and the European authorities had arrived to bail out
Ireland, as deposits fled the banking system, investors shunned
bank debt and soaring yields effectively locked the government
out of the credit market.  After all that, Honohan, an opera lover and amateur
astronomer, is someone people want to listen to.  In January, demand for seats for a Honohan speech forced
the Institute of  International and European Affairs to  move an
event from its Georgian headquarters in north inner city Dublin
to a nearby hotel ballroom.  Previous guests include European Central Bank President
Jean Claude Trichet, former U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  and
former Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev .  “It seems as though he has become rather popular,” said
Gerard Caprio, a friend of Honohan since they worked together at
the World Bank who now teaches economics at  Williams College  in
Williamstown,  Massachusetts . “Whether he remains so is unclear,
but I am willing to wager that he will rank at the top in terms
of being the most effective governor ever.”  Ireland’s Reputation  As he seeks to rebuild Ireland’s economic reputation, he
will again work alongside Noonan, who was named last week as
finance minister in the Fine Gael-Labour government. Fine Gael
prevailed in Feb. 25 elections, ousting the 14-year-old  Fianna
Fail  government as voters abandoned the party in record numbers.  The last time Honohan worked with a Fine Gael-led
administration he told FitzGerald in 1985 to move quickly to cut
spending as the  budget deficit  ballooned. That was blocked by
the party’s Labour coalition partners, FitzGerald said.  “In the 1980s, his advice was ignored,” said Noonan. “In
retrospect, it turned out to be right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  