-- 
SEC Approves Nasdaq's Request to Place Trading Curbs on Individual Stocks

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-03-14T19:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/sec-approves-nasdaq-s-request-to-place-trading-curbs-on-individual-stocks.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission approved  Nasdaq  Stock Market’s request to set trading
curbs for individual stocks, adding to the market-wide circuit
breakers already in place.  The measure, which will halt trading on the exchange for a
minute if a stock’s price rises or falls more than a set
threshold over a 30-second period, aims to curtail “abrupt and
significant” price movements resulting from potentially
aberrant volatility,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)   told  the SEC in June.
Circuit breakers for individual securities introduced in June
provide coordinated trading halts across all markets when prices
move 10 percent over a five-minute period.  The exchange proposed the curbs for stocks in the Nasdaq-
100 Index after the May 6 plunge that briefly erased $862
billion in equity value. While the SEC decided to allow the
Nasdaq pauses because they’re similar in purpose to the New York
Stock Exchange’s curbs called liquidity replenishment points,
which have operated on that market for years, it also said both
volatility constraints may eventually be eliminated.  The SEC is working with  stock exchanges  and the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority “to develop an appropriate
consistent cross-market mechanism to moderate excessive
volatility that could be applied widely to individual exchange-
listed securities,” the agency said in a March 11 notice. The
completion of that initiative may also end the use of NYSE’s
LRPs and Nasdaq’s volatility curbs, it said.  Trading Curbs  Under the Nasdaq program, stocks with prices up to $25
would be delayed on Nasdaq for a minute when shares move at
least 10 percent in 30 seconds. In most cases, such swings would
halt trading on all venues because they would also trigger the
SEC’s nationwide circuit breakers. Companies above $25 could see
trading paused on Nasdaq for moves of less than 10 percent.
Those stocks would stop when shares move 5 percent or 3 percent,
depending on the price, Nasdaq said.  Deutsche Bank AG and the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, which represents the interests of brokers
and banks, criticized the use of different constraints and rules
on different markets, which they said may confuse investors and
limit the effectiveness of the single-stock circuit breakers.  “Nasdaq’s volatility guard system would create another
situation where a market imposes a discrete trading pause that
is not used by other markets trading the stocks,” Jose Marques,
New York-based global head of electronic equity trading at the
Frankfurt-based bank,  told  the SEC on July 21. “These
differences between the markets lead to confusion among market
participants, particularly in times of market stress, leading to
increased volatility.”  No Evidence  The SEC said critics of Nasdaq’s proposal provided no
evidence to support their claims. It also said the Sept. 30
 joint report  on the May 6 crash by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and SEC found that NYSE’s LRPs didn’t exacerbate
price moves, despite initial speculation from exchange
executives that the curbs were partly to blame for rapid
declines in some securities as traders ignored the Big Board and
routed orders to other markets that had less liquidity.  The SEC said Nasdaq’s pilot program of volatility curbs may
be implemented “without delay.” Silvia Davi, a Nasdaq OMX
spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an e-mail sent yesterday asking
when the exchange would institute the curbs.  Reducing Volatility  “LRPs were developed to reduce volatility, as evidenced by
their success on May 6,”  Ray Pellecchia , a spokesman for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said in an e-mail. “We will continue to monitor their
effectiveness and role as additional marketplace enhancements
such as circuit breakers and limits are introduced.”  Circuit breakers for individual stocks were implemented in
June for companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
expanded in September to the Russell 1000 Index and more than
300 exchange-traded funds. The SEC has been working to expand
the curbs and adjust them to incorporate a limit-up, limit-down
mechanism that prevents shares from moving beyond a certain
threshold instead of immediately halting trading across markets.  Such a system, which is used in some U.S. futures markets,
allows trading to continue within a price band for some time
instead of immediately preventing investors from buying or
selling the stock. Some shares including in actively traded
stocks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  have been halted by a single
transaction outside the 10 percent threshold.  Circuit Breakers  Measures to curb volatility on NYSE and Nasdaq, as well as
the SEC’s market-wide circuit breakers, apply to individual
securities. Another circuit breaker governs all securities and
futures trading when the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  falls at
least 10 percent from the prior day’s closing price. Last month
another curb went into effect for short sales, which is intended
to reduce rapid price declines once a stock has fallen 10
percent from the previous day’s closing price. Short sellers
sell borrowed securities, hoping to buy them later at a lower
price and return them to the lender.  Imposing volatility-based pauses on markets dominated by
electronic trading is a “can of worms,” said Tim Quast,
founder and managing director at ModernNetworks IR LLC. He said
he’d prefer a broader set of rule changes that reduce the
emphasis on speed in trading.  “Exchanges get revenue streams from data and
transactions,” he said. So markets with clear controls on price
movements can try to preserve their share of trading and get
more high-frequency trading within a narrower price range.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 