-- 
Serbian Lawmakers Approve Cabinet Shuffle Focused on New Jobs

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/serbian-lawmakers-debate-cabinet-shuffle-focused-on-new-jobs.html
Serbia’s Parliament approved a
Cabinet shuffle as Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  focuses on  job
creation  and increasing  living standards  before heading into
elections next year.  Lawmakers voted 129-19 late yesterday in favor in the 250-
seat legislature a week after Cvetkovic said he was downsizing
his Cabinet and adding the finance minister’s portfolio to his
duties as premier for the final year of his term. The three
largest opposition parties, which together hold 102 seats,
walked out of the lower house before the vote.  The government, the longest-serving since the fall of  Slobodan Milosevic  in 2000, is clinging to power after clashing
with Mladjan Dinkic, the leader of the junior coalition party
G17 Plus. Last month, Cvetkovic ousted Dinkic, his former
deputy, raising the risk of a government collapse and early
elections. The next general elections are scheduled for 2012.  “The citizens of  Serbia  should live better today, now, and
we will do everything to make that happen,” Cvetkovic said
before the vote.  The ruling coalition, dominated by the Democratic Party of
President  Boris Tadic , is facing growing public discontent after
unemployment hit 19.2 percent. It is trying to survive at least
until Oct. 12, when European Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule may deliver the bloc’s opinion on whether Serbia is ready
to become a candidate to join the EU.  The overhauled government will retain its commitments to
fast EU entry, keeping Kosovo a part of Serbia, fighting crime
and corruption and cooperating fully with the Hague War Crimes
Tribunal as two war crimes fugitives, Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic , remain at large, Cvetkovic said.  ‘Live Better’  To improve living standards, the government will implement
measures to ensure the supply of basic consumer goods at
“prices acceptable for all citizens,” he said. The government
also plans new incentives for job creation and to reduce public
spending and the fiscal deficit, according to Cvetkovic.  Under its 3 billion-euro ($4.2 billion) bailout loan from
the  International Monetary Fund , Serbia needs to keep its 2011
fiscal gap below 4.1 percent of GDP. The Balkan country ended
2010 with a shortfall of 4.4 percent, below the 4.8 percent
plan.  Serbia’s economy contracted 3 percent in 2009 as foreign
investors pulled out during the global financial crisis and the
dinar lost 40 percent of its value against the euro. The economy
is expected to grow 3 percent this year from 1.7 percent in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  