-- 
Shekel Climbs to 8-Week High on Bets Rates to Rise; Bonds Fall

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-03-14T15:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/shekel-climbs-to-8-week-high-on-bets-rates-to-rise-bonds-fall.html
     March 14 (Bloomberg) --The shekel strengthened to the
highest level in almost eight weeks and Israeli  government bonds 
fell for the first time in five days on bets the central bank
will raise  interest rates  to curb inflation.  Consumer prices likely increased 3.9 percent in February,
according to the median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics will
release the figure at 5:30 p.m. tomorrow. Governor Stanley
Fischer raised the benchmark rate for March after annual
inflation in January accelerated to 3.6 percent, above the
government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 2 that economic
conditions continue to justify holding the central bank’s target
rate at near zero, as well as additional monetary stimulus.  “The  Bank of Israel  will need to raise interest rates to
combat high inflation, widening the interest-rate differential
with the U.S.,” Leonor Terkieltaub, head of the foreign-
currency department at Tel Aviv-based IBI  Israel  Brokerage &
Investment Ltd. said by telephone. “The shekel is weathering
regional turmoil supported by the strong economy.”  Israel’s economy expanded 7.7 percent in the fourth quarter
as exports, fixed investment and  consumer spending  climbed, the
statistics bureau said March 10.  Bahraini lawmakers today urged King Hamad bin Isa Al
Khalifa to impose martial law to stamp out worsening protests as
local newspapers said neighboring Gulf countries may be sending
troops to the country. Libyan Leader Muammar Qaddafi is fighting
rebels inspired by popular revolts that have led to the ouster
of longtime leaders in neighboring Tunisia and  Egypt .  Foreign Reserves  The shekel strengthened as much as 0.7 percent to 3.5405
against the dollar, the highest intraday level since Jan. 19,
and was 0.4 percent higher at 3.5500 as of 4:54 p.m. in Tel
Aviv. The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020 fell,
pushing the yield up 4 basis points to 5.22 percent at the 4:30
p.m. close, matching the level reached March 7, the highest
since December 2009.  At these levels, “we expect the central bank to intervene
in the market to weaken the currency,” Terkieltaub said.  The Bank of Israel has been buying foreign currency since
March 2008 in an effort to moderate shekel gains, more than
doubling reserves to a record of $73.8 billion at the end of
February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  