-- 
SL Green Sale Shows Interest in Class B Buildings, Holliday Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-03-14T18:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/sl-green-s-manhattan-sale-shows-interest-in-class-b-assets-holliday-says.html
  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) ’s sale of a
mid-block building near  Manhattan ’s Times Square demonstrates
institutional buyers’ increased interest in Class B office
properties, Chief Executive Officer Marc Holliday said.  SL Green agreed to sell 28 West 44th St. for $161 million,
or $448 a square foot, to a joint venture of APF Properties and
a fund managed by Prudential Real Estate Investors, the real
estate investment trust said today. SL Green, based in New York,
is Manhattan’s biggest office landlord.  In the past, “the buyers were traditionally leveraged
entrepreneurial capital for these B buildings,” Holliday said
today in a presentation at the Citigroup Global Property CEO
Conference in Hollywood,  Florida . “That’s who we would sell to
on exit. Now it’s more institutional.”  The building will be the second Class B property sold by SL
Green since September, when the neighboring 19 West 44th St. was
acquired by Deka Immobilien Investment GmbH for $123.2 million.
Chairman Stephen L. Green gained the nickname “King of the Bs”
in the 1980s for his strategy of buying older, mid-block
buildings that tend to sell for lower prices, renovating and
selling them, and using the proceeds for higher-quality assets.  The initial yield for the buyers of 28 West 44th St. will
be 5.4 percent, according to materials prepared for today’s
Citigroup presentation. That’s comparable to what Class A office
buildings in  New York  have been trading for, Holliday told
investors at the conference.  The 359,000-square-foot (33,000-square-meter) property sits
on “Club Row” east of Times Square, where the Harvard Club of  New York City  and the Algonquin Hotel are neighbors. Tenants
include American National Standards Institute and the  City
University of New York , according to SL Green’s website. The
company bought the building in 2005 for $105.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  