-- 
Slower Growth Signaled by Wal-Mart Shares as Commodities Depress Consumers

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-14T04:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/slower-growth-signaled-by-wal-mart-shares-as-commodities-depress-consumers.html
Economists ignore volatile
commodity prices when calculating inflation. The poorest
families, who spend as much as 25 percent of their after-tax
income on food and fuel, don’t have that luxury.  Rising prices “will shave a couple tenths off  consumer
spending , and the consumers that are going to get hit the most
are at the lower end of the income scale,” said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . On
March 11, he lowered his forecast for first quarter growth to
2.5 percent from 3.5 percent and second quarter growth to 3.5
percent from 4 percent, citing in part the persistence of higher
energy costs.  America’s poorer families are suffering more than richer
households as they face a bigger squeeze from the highest
gasoline expenses in more than two years, stagnating wages and a
jobless rate that has remained at or above 8.9 percent since
April 2009. Their pain is shared by their preferred retailers,
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and J.C. Penney Co.  “Rising gas prices and still-high unemployment levels
weigh on the minds of our customers,” Bill Simon, U.S. chief
executive officer of Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said
on a Feb. 22 earnings call. “Pressure from higher energy and
commodity costs are factors that we will watch closely, as they
affect our own logistics and transportation costs, as well as
the prices the customer pays,” he said.  More Vulnerable  Wal-Mart, Plano-Texas-based J.C. Penney,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)  in Cincinnati appear more vulnerable to gasoline
inflation than  Macy’s Inc. (M) , also in Cincinnati,  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST)  and  BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ) , said Richard Hastings,
consumer strategist at Global Hunter Securities LLC.  Hastings, who is based in Charlotte,  North Carolina ,
analyzed survey data for 12 retailers from Worthington, Ohio-
based BIGresearch.  Eighty-two percent of Wal-Mart shoppers earn less than
$75,000 annually, compared with 63 percent at BJ’s and 55
percent at Costco, according to the BIGresearch data Hastings
studied. Only 8 percent of Wal-Mart customers earn more than
$100,000 a year, while the share is 28.2 percent at Issaquah,
Washington-based Costco and 25 percent at BJ’s in Westborough,
Massachusetts.  Since the start of the year, Wal-Mart stock has dropped 2.5
percent to $52.59. BJ’s is up 2.4 percent to $49.04, Costco has
risen 0.5 percent to $72.55.  Reduce Consumption  As the squeeze from commodities puts immediate pressure on
businesses to raise prices, it also tends to reduce consumption
of non-necessities and thus over time eases some of the
inflationary pressure on such goods and services.  “Costs are expected to be up significantly across all
apparel categories, approximately 10 percent to 15 percent
overall,” said Kevin Mansell, chief executive officer of
Kohl’s. “We’ve been preparing for these cost increases for some
time and have been working diligently to minimize” their impact
on Kohl’s customers, who are “less open to paying higher prices
for goods that are really discretionary.”  Half of shoppers at the Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-based
department-store chain said they’d be driving less and 29
percent would spend less on clothing in response to  gas prices ,
according to the BIGresearch data.  One reason for the cutbacks is slowing wage growth. Average
hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, rose at a 1.9 percent
annual rate in January, down from 3.9 percent in June 2007,  six
months  before the recession began.  Poorest Consumers  America’s poorest consumers also have missed out on a two-
year rally in equities as governments and central banks
worldwide pumped more than $12 trillion into their economies to
spur the recovery.  Before the slump, the median family in the lowest-earning
20 percent of the U.S. had $1,700 in financial assets, compared
with $404,000 for the top 10 percent, according to the Fed’s
 Survey of Consumer Finances  in 2007. The  S&P 500  has soared 93
percent to 1,304.28 since the recession low of 676.53 on March
9, 2009.  The financial restraints on lower-income consumers mean
they have less flexibility when food and energy prices climb.
Families making $15,000 to $20,000 a year use 19 percent of
their after-tax income for food and those earning $20,000-
$30,000 typically use 18 percent, compared with 8 percent for
families earning more than $70,000 annually, according to the
Labor Department’s  2009 Consumer Expenditures Survey , released
October 2010.  Gallon of Gasoline  Gasoline and motor oil account for 6 percent of spending
for the lowest groups, compared with 2 percent for the over-
$70,000 cohort. A gallon of regular gas cost $3.557 on March 12,
the highest since October 2008, according to Heathrow, Florida-
based AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization.  “If you’re living paycheck to paycheck or you’re on a
fixed income, the rise of gas prices impacts your habits,” said
Troy Green, a AAA spokesman. “If you’re more affluent and can
afford gasoline at any price, then you’re going to drive
regardless.”  Fifty-one percent of Wal-Mart’s shoppers will be driving
less as a result of fluctuating gas prices, compared with 44
percent at Costco and 46 percent at BJ’s, according to the
BIGresearch data.  Core Inflation  Prices of all goods and services will rise 2.3 percent this
year, according to the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey, compared with 1.6 percent in 2010. The  Federal
Reserve  prefers to focus on the core personal-consumption
expenditures index, which excludes food and energy costs. The
economists predict it will increase 1.1 percent, after rising at
an annual rate of 0.8 percent in December and January, the
lowest in records going back to 1960.  Gas and food prices traditionally are more volatile than
other costs. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  raised its
forecast for food prices to an increase of as much as 4 percent
this year, up from a January estimate of 2 percent to 3 percent,
after a surge in costs of farm goods, Chief Economist  Joe Glauber  said Feb. 24 at a government-sponsored agriculture forum
in Arlington, Virginia.  The department boosted its estimates for meats, eggs,
cooking oils, fruits and vegetables, cereals and baked goods,
and sweets as food inflation accelerates at the fastest pace
since reaching a 28-year high in 2008, the USDA said in a Feb.
24 report. Higher costs for corn, the primary feed for pigs and
chickens, may boost pork prices as much as 6.5 percent and eggs
4.5 percent.  ‘Buy Chicken’  “There’s some substitutability for food, where if beef
goes up faster than chicken, you might not like chicken as much
but you buy chicken,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff
Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,  Pennsylvania . “On the energy
side it gets a lot tougher. If you’re locked into a commute for
your drive, you don’t have a whole lot of substitutability.”  Naroff, who accurately predicted the bursting of the
housing bubble, says inflation could accelerate as much as 3.7
percent this year.  “There seems to be almost a sea change in attitudes toward
price changes,” said Naroff, who added that some companies are
starting to raise prices and see demand hold up.  The “high visibility” of food and fuel costs may “pose a
little more risk for inflation dynamics this time than in the
past,” Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker told reporters
Feb. 26. Even so, “economic conditions are likely to warrant an
exceptionally low” target interest rate “for an extended
period,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 1 in testimony
before the Senate Banking Committee.  Holding Rates Steady  The policy-making Federal Open Market Committee meets March
15, and investors see a 68 percent chance the Fed will hold its
benchmark federal funds rate at a record zero to 0.25 percent
through December, based on futures contracts on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from March 4 to March
10 revised down their forecast for growth this year to 3 percent
from 3.2 percent in February and predicted unemployment will
average 8.8 percent, not much changed from last month’s actual
8.9 percent.  Their outlook helps explain a split in the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which dropped to minus 44.5 in the week
ending March 6, the lowest level in a month, on surging gasoline
prices. Sentiment suffered the most among respondents who lacked
a full-time job or any employment and those earning less than
$50,000 a year.  “The income divide is likely to become even more apparent
in the year ahead, as the most vulnerable suffer
disproportionate pain in the face of higher energy costs,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in
Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  