-- 
Soskic Sees ‘Significant’ Slowing of Serb Inflation From July

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-14T12:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/soskic-sees-significant-slowing-of-serb-inflation-from-july-1-.html
  Serbia ’s inflation rate should see
a “significant decline” as of July, central bank Governor
Dejan Soskic said.  Immediate price pressures remain strong due to rising
global food and fuel prices as well as domestic prices
controlled by the government, Soskic told reporters in Belgrade
today.  “Global crude  oil prices  will be one of the factors
affecting inflation, but the full inflationary effect will also
depend on the exchange rate of the euro against the dollar and a
further potential appreciation of the euro against the dollar
will be reducing those pressures,” Soskic said.  There is still room for the consumer price index to rise
before it begins to decline, as a 13.5 percent electricity price
increase as of April 1 will add an annual “1.1 percent to 1.2
percent to this year’s inflation,” Soskic said.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and the price of oil rises amid
turmoil in the Middle East. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week an increase in the ECB’s rate
from a record low 1 percent is “possible.”  Serbia’s state-run Statistics Office said last week
February’s inflation rate at an annual 12.6 percent, the highest
in almost three years, up from 11.2 percent in January.  Even though February inflation was more than double the
upper end of the central bank’s target band for the year of 3
percent to 6 percent, Soskic said the Belgrade-based  Narodna
Banka Srbije  will not change its target.  “We do not want to change anything as it’s more important
that inflation moves toward its target in the medium term,” he
said. “We believe that inflation will start to significantly
decline as of July.”  The National Bank of Serbia targets inflation at 4.5
percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage points in late 2011 and at
4 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at the end of
2012.  With price pressures and inflationary expectations still
showing that the  consumer price index  will stay outside the
target band even one year from now, the central bank raised its
benchmark, two-week repurchase rate on March 10 by a quarter-
point to 12.25 percent, the seventh time since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  