-- 
South Africa's Rand Declines Most in Week; Debt Accord Boosts Euro Allure

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-14T14:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/south-africa-s-rand-declines-most-in-week-debt-accord-boosts-euro-allure.html
The rand declined to its lowest in
a week against the euro after European leaders extended an
accord to address the region’s debt crisis, boosting the allure
of the regional currency.  The South African currency depreciated as much as 1.1
percent to 9.6715 per euro, its weakest intraday level since
March 7, and traded 0.8 percent down at 9.6305 by 4:04 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Against the dollar, the rand slipped 0.3 percent
to 6.8975.  Euro-area officials broadened the scope of their 440
billion-euro ($614 billion) bailout fund and eased the terms of
Greek rescue loans on March 12, two weeks earlier than expected.
The euro region is  South Africa ’s biggest trading partner.  “The euro is on the front foot,” said  Michael Keenan , a
Johannesburg-based analyst at  Standard Bank , African’s largest
rand trader, in an e-mailed note.  The euro advanced against all but one of 25 emerging-market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg, losing 0.2 percent versus
Iceland’s krona.  The rand also weakened on concern an earthquake in Japan
may slow growth in the world’s third-biggest economy and the
struggle to contain the nuclear accident it triggered damped
demand for high-yielding assets.  “One could easily appreciate how this might translate into
some rise in  risk aversion ,” Tradition Analytics researchers,
led by Quinten Bertenshaw in Johannesburg, wrote in a client
note. “This should prove a net negative for the local unit.”  Rand Trading Band  The March 11 earthquake in  Japan  triggered a tsunami that
swept as far as 20 kilometers (12.4 miles) inland along the
northern coast. Radiation levels around the  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co. station in Fukushima, north of Tokyo, rose after cooling
systems at a second reactor failed, heightening concern about a
meltdown. A hydrogen explosion occurred at the No. 3 reactor at
the site today, the Ministry of Economy, Trade & Industry said.  Rand losses are likely to be limited as the  Bank of Japan 
steps in to stabilize markets, Bertenshaw wrote. The Bank of
Japan poured a record 15 trillion yen ($183 billion) into the
financial system today and increased the size of its asset-
purchase program to help stabilize markets.  “Looking at unfolding events in Japan dispassionately, the
direct and initial economic impact may be far less than many may
think,” Bertenshaw wrote. The currency will likely trade
between 6.87 and 7 per dollar, and may fall as low as 7.04 in
coming days, he added.  Bonds Climb  South African bonds snapped two days of losses as the price
of oil fell for a fifth day, cushioning the country from
inflation. The European debt agreement also boosted investors’
appetite for higher-yielding assets, driving a gain in South
African bonds.  “Lower energy prices and renewed confidence surrounding  Europe  could support South African rates,” Keenan said. “The
possibility of energy costs topping out could lend itself to a
week of consolidation for South African rates.”  The 13.5 percent bond due September 2015 added 16 cents to
121.07 rand, driving the yield down 4 basis points to 7.845
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 