-- 
Southern Sudan Fighting Displaces 20,000 in Jonglei, UN Rights Expert Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-14T14:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/southern-sudan-fighting-displaces-20-000-in-jonglei-un-rights-expert-says.html
Clashes between  Southern Sudan ’s
army and rebels in Jonglei state over the past two months killed
more than 200 people and displaced as many as 20,000, an expert
of the  United Nations ’  Human Rights Council  said.  Fighting in the region has intensified with “at least 16
incidents of violence” since almost 99 percent of Southern
Sudanese voters chose in a Jan. 9 referendum to secede from the
rest of Sudan, Mohamed Chande Othman said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “The government of Southern Sudan has a primary
responsibility to ensure the protection of civilians even as it
embarks on measures to address the insecurity in the region,”
he said.  The fighting in Jonglei started following the collapse of a
Jan. 5 cease-fire agreement signed between the authorities in
Juba, the regional capital, and George Athor, a former chief of
staff of  Southern Sudan ’s army. Athor first took up arms against
the government after he lost a state election in April.  Southern Sudan is due to gain independence on July 9 and
assume control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of
proven oil reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S.
Energy Information Administration .  War Legacy  Before Southern Sudan and the north signed a  peace accord 
in 2005, the region had been the scene of fighting for all but
11 years since  Sudan ’s independence from the U.K. in 1956. While
the referendum on independence passed off peacefully, the
clashes with rebel forces show the area remains unstable.  Following attacks on March 12 by another rebel militia in
Upper Nile state, Southern Sudan’s ruling party announced it was
suspending talks with President Umar al-Bashir’s government in
Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, over issues such as oil-revenue
sharing, citizenship and border demarcation.  Pagan Amum, the secretary-general of the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, accused al-Bashir’s government of funding,
training and arming rebel militias in the south to overthrow the
administration in Juba.  Southern Sudan is investigating alternatives to the north,
its only current export route, to ship its oil, Amum told
reporters on March 12 in Khartoum. Sudan’s only oil refineries
and the sole export route runs north from oilfields to  Port
Sudan  on the  Red Sea .  Sudan’s government denied the accusations. The clashes in
the south are a result of tensions in the region and it’s the
southern government’s responsibility to defuse them, Salah Gosh,
al-Bashir’s adviser for security affairs, told reporters in
Khartoum yesterday.  “These problems are not impossible to solve, but the SPLM
doesn’t want to solve them due to reasons related to internal
conflicts,” Gosh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 