-- 
Allen Stanford’s Bail Request Denied by New Orleans Federal Appeals Court

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-03-14T19:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/stanford-s-bail-request-is-denied-by-u-s-appeals-court-in-swindling-case.html
Indicted financier R. Allen Stanford was denied release from prison while he awaits trial on
charges he led a $7 billion investment swindle.  A U.S. appeals court in  New Orleans  issued the ruling today
in Stanford’s fourth bid to be allowed to post bail. Stanford,
60, has been detained since June 2009 because of concern that he
might try to flee.  “We dismiss this appeal for lack of jurisdiction,’’ the
three-judge appellate panel said in a ruling posted to the
court’s website.  The appellate court refused three times before to order
Stanford’s release based on what he claimed were violations of
his constitutional rights. The former billionaire alleged in the
latest request that he has been denied his right to a speedy
trial under a federal statute that guards against unreasonable
prosecution delays.  Stanford was deemed a flight risk by U.S. District Judge
David Hittner of Houston, who ordered him held without bond
after the Stanford Group Co. founder was indicted on 21 criminal
counts in June 2009.  Ali Fazel, one of Stanford’s criminal defense lawyers, said
the legal team is considering its next moves.  ‘Do Some Homework’  “I need to do some homework before we decide,” Fazel
said. “This was a different issue here, one that doesn’t come
up often.”  Fazel said Stanford could ask for the entire Fifth Circuit
to review his bail request or ask for a hearing at the U.S.
Supreme Court on the matter. He declined further comment, citing
Hittner’s gag order on attorneys in the case.  Stanford denies charges that he swindled investors of more
than $7 billion through a scheme prosecutors say was built on
fake certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank. Stanford also denies parallel civil fraud
allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The former financier was transferred in February from a
Houston lockup to a North Carolina prison hospital, where he’s
being treated for a jail-acquired dependence on anxiety drugs
and lingering mental injuries suffered in a jailhouse beating.  Stanford had been set for trial in January of this year
until Hittner, on the advice of three psychiatrists, found him
mentally unfit to participate in his defense. Hittner ordered
Stanford into a prison rehabilitation facility and indefinitely
postponed his trial until he is mentally able to assist his
attorneys.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas   Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 