-- 
Steel Authority, Kobe in Talks to Consider Second India Plant

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-03-14T10:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/steel-authority-kobe-in-talks-to-consider-second-india-plant.html
  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , the
nation’s second-largest producer, is in talks with  Japan ’s  Kobe
Steel Ltd. (5406)  to consider building a second factory in  India  as
demand increases from automobile and construction companies.  Steel Authority, which agreed last month to form a venture
with Kobe for plant in eastern India, is conducting a joint
feasibility study with Japan’s fourth-largest steelmaker for a
complex in northern India, the New Delhi-based company said
today in a statement.  Indian steelmakers are seeking technology to make superior
grades of the metal as rising incomes boost sales of cars, home
appliances and transformers. Japanese steelmakers including Kobe
and rivals Nippon Steel Corp. and JFE Holdings Inc. are seeking
alliances in emerging markets as demand languishes at home.  Steel Authority shares gained 2.8 percent to 159.80 rupees
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The key Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange rose 1.5 percent.  The joint study with Kobe also includes a 1,000 megawatt
power plant as part of reviving a unit acquired in February 2009,
Steel Authority said today in a statement, citing Steel Minister
Beni Prasad Verma. The minister today announced an investment of
100 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) for this complex in Jagdishpur
in Uttar Pradesh state, the company said, without giving details.  Steel Authority said last month it will form a venture with
Kobe for a 16 billion rupee ($353 million) plant in the eastern
city of Durgapur in West Bengal state. The Japanese steelmaker
will consider setting a venture with Essar Steel Ltd. to produce
auto-grade alloy, the Indian company said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in Delhi at 
 Rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  