-- 
JD Group Falls as Steinhoff Agrees to Sell Its Retail Units, Buy 26% Stake

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-14T13:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/steinhoff-to-sell-units-to-jd-buy-26-of-south-african-retailer-s-shares.html
JD Group Ltd., a South African
furniture retailer, fell the most in nine months in Johannesburg
trading after agreeing to buy two divisions from  Steinhoff
International Holdings Ltd. (SHF)  while selling it a 26 percent stake.  JD declined as much as 7.2 percent to 42.94 rand, the
biggest intraday drop since June 4, and was down 4.5 percent as
of 2:55 p.m. The stock has dropped 24 percent this year, valuing
the company at 7.54 billion rand ($1.1 billion).  The company plans to buy the furniture manufacturer’s
Unitrans Motor Enterprises (Pty) Ltd. vehicle dealer unit and
the Steinhoff Doors & Building Materials (Pty) Ltd.
construction-supply business also called Steinbuild, the
Johannesburg-based companies said today in separate statements.
JD will in turn sell its stake in Abra, a Polish furniture
retailer, to a Steinhoff associate.  JD is “going to be more competitive in the furniture
retail market,” and will be able to expand its financial-
services business, said Rob Forsyth, an analyst at Investec
Asset Management in  Cape Town . At the same time, some investors
may think JD is paying more for Unitrans than is justified by
the car dealer’s earnings.  Steinhoff,  Africa ’s largest furniture maker, regards JD as
a “perfect platform through which Steinhoff will grow and
expand its own retail exposure in Africa,” the manufacturer
said in its statement. “The JD Group’s retail businesses are
expected to benefit from Steinhoff’s expertise in global
household goods retailing, and sourcing.”  JD expects to pay 3 billion rand for Unitrans, excluding
its cash and debt, through the issue of 60.7 million of its
shares at 50 rand each. JD will pay about 169 million rand for
the building-supply unit, which owns the Timbercity, Tilehouse
and Pennypinchers chains, to be settled through the issue of
3.38 million shares at 50 rand each.  Acquisition in Poland  Steinhoff will pay about 134 million rand for Abra,
excluding its cash and debt. The cost will be offset by reducing
the number of shares JD issues for the two Steinhoff units.  The final number of shares issued to Steinhoff will be
based on Unitrans’s probable “warranted” profit of 263.7
million rand for the year ending June 30, the asset value of
Unitrans and Steinbuild on that date, and Abra’s profit for the
year ending Aug. 31, JD said. The transaction requires approval
from regulators and JD’s shareholders.  Steinhoff will be left with a “business which is much more
focused on furniture,” Investec’s Forsyth said. “They had
ambitions over time to provide some kind of retail exposure to  South Africa  and Africa. This fast-tracks that exposure,” and
“in the longer term, it is a reasonably good idea.”  Steinhoff stock fell as much as 1.7 percent to 23.63 rand
and was down 0.3 percent, giving the manufacturer a market value
of 36.8 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 