-- 
Swiss Market Index Drops to Five-Month Low; Swiss Re, Zurich Lead Decline

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-03-14T17:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/swiss-market-index-drops-to-five-month-low-swiss-re-zurich-lead-decline.html
Swiss stocks retreated to a five-
month low, led by Swiss Reinsurance Co., as investors assessed
the cost inflicted by March 11’s earthquake and ensuing tsunami
in  Japan .  Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer, sank 4.5
percent, while  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  slid 1.8 percent.
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the  luxury-goods  company that gets
12 percent of sales from Japan according to analysts at UBS AG,
fell 2 percent. Nuclear operator  BKW FMB Energie AG (BKWN)  tumbled 7.2
percent after the Swiss government put projects for atomic power
stations on hold.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the largest and most actively
traded companies decreased 1.3 percent to 6,274.47 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich, the lowest since Oct. 4. The gauge has
fallen for four straight days, the longest losing streak in four
months. The broader Swiss Performance Index dropped 1.2 percent
today.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday that the
country faces its worst crisis since World War II after the
March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami killed an estimated
10,000 people.  The tremor caused the cooling systems to fail at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station’s No. 1 and No. 3 reactors,
Yomiuri newspaper reported, citing Fukushima prefecture. The SMI
has retreated 2.5 percent this year, extending 2010’s 1.7
percent drop.  “Clearly we have had this large array of concerns, all
these different worries affecting the market,” said Tristan Hanson, manager of  asset allocation  and strategy in Jersey,
Channel Islands-based Ashburton Ltd., which oversees $1.7
billion. His team reduced equity allocations in February, he
said. “It’s not surprising given the news that there would be
some weakness in the market.”  Added Cash  The Bank of Japan poured a record amount of cash into the
financial system and doubled the size of its asset-purchase plan
to shield the economy from the effects of the nation’s strongest
earthquake on record.  Swiss Re dropped 4.5 percent to 49.36 Swiss francs,
extending last week’s 6.9 percent tumble. Zurich Financial,
Switzerland’s biggest insurer, fell 1.8 percent to 250.40
francs.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  slipped 1.7 percent to 147.80
francs.  Richemont, the world’s largest jewelry maker, declined 2
percent to 51.10 francs. Some of the company’s units, including
the Chloe fashion label, count Japan as their largest market.  Japan is the world’s second-largest market for luxury goods
after the U.S., accounting for 11 percent of total sales,
according to consulting firm Bain & Co.  Nuclear Plants  BKW FMB, which is majority-owned by the canton of Bern,
slumped 7.2 percent to 72.35 francs, the largest retreat in two
years.  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) , another Swiss nuclear operator, fell
1.1 percent to 367.75 francs.  The Swiss government put projects to renew three of the
country’s five nuclear power stations on hold today as engineers
struggled to prevent meltdowns at earthquake-stricken plants in
Japan.    Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  rose 2.3 percent to 18.51 francs.
The third-biggest dental implant maker has managed a turnaround
and booked growth between 5 percent and 6 percent,
SonntagsZeitung reported, citing an unidentified official. Sales
in the U.S. grew 16 percent in January, and about 14 percent in
February, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 