-- 
Swiss Put Nuclear Projects on Hold, Order Safety Inspections

-- B y   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 
2011-03-14T12:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/swiss-put-nuclear-projects-on-hold-order-safety-inspections.html
The Swiss government put projects
to renew three of the country’s five nuclear power stations on
hold as engineers struggled to prevent meltdowns at earthquake-
stricken plants in  Japan .  Legal procedures to prepare for construction of the new
plants at Beznau, Goesgen and Muehleberg were suspended, the  Environment Ministry  said today in an e-mailed  statement . Safety
inspections at existing facilities were brought forward.  “Safety and the population’s wellbeing have top
priority,” Environment Minister Doris Leuthard, whose
department is also responsible for  energy policy , traffic and
communication, was quoted as saying in the release. Nuclear
operator  BKW FMB Energie AG (BKWN) , which is majority-owned by the
canton of Bern, slumped the most in two years.  Two nuclear plants at  Beznau  and one at  Leibstadt  are
located near the Rhine valley, which has had minor earthquakes.
Leuthard ordered an analysis of the causes of the Japanese
nuclear emergency and what lessons can be drawn, especially
regarding earthquake safety and the reliability of cooling
systems, the ministry said in its statement.  Last month, Bern canton voters approved the replacement of
the  Muehleberg  power station east of the Swiss capital. Plans
for a new reactor at the BKW FMB plant, in operation since 1972,
were backed by 51 percent of voters.  Public Opinion  The non-binding vote was seen as a test of public opinion
ahead of a nationwide referendum on atomic power likely to be
held in late 2013.  BKW FMB dropped as much as 7.1 percent, the most since
March 2009, and was down 5.45 Swiss francs at 72.55 francs by
1:35 p.m. That gave the utility a market value of 3.83 billion
francs ($4.16 billion).  Of the two other Swiss nuclear operators,  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) 
fell 0.7 percent to 369.5 francs, while Axpo Holding AG is
privately held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  