-- 
U.K. Lawmakers to Vote on Reversing VAT Increase on Gasoline

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-14T14:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/u-k-lawmakers-will-vote-on-reversing-vat-increase-on-gasoline.html
U.K. lawmakers will vote to reverse
an increase in value-added tax on fuel in a motion put forward
by the main opposition  Labour Party , which said it wants to
lessen the impact of rising oil prices on drivers.  The motion, which will be debated in the  House of Commons 
in London on March 16, calls for VAT, a  sales tax  that was
increased to 20 percent from 17.5 percent on Jan. 4, to be
reduced. The increase added 1.35 pounds ($2.17) to the price of
filling a 50-liter (13.2-gallon) tank, the party said.  The motion is part of a broader effort by Labour leader  Ed Miliband  to highlight the squeeze on voters’ incomes as economic
growth falters. The party called today for a repeat of last
year’s tax on bankers’ bonuses to fund a program to build homes,
increase aid for Britain’s regions and help the young unemployed
back into work.  “We are under no illusions that at this stage this
government will abandon their deficit-reduction plan; they are
too dug in for that,” Miliband told a news conference in  London 
today. “But at least they should take some steps to deal with
faltering growth in our economy.”  Labour said a new tax on bonuses would raise 2 billion
pounds. That would give it 1.2 billion pounds to spend on
housing, 600 million pounds on a jobs fund for the young and 200
million pounds to boost the Regional Growth Fund.  ‘Cost-of-Living Crisis’    Ed Balls , who speaks for the party on economic affairs,
said Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne should use next
week’s annual budget to address a “cost-of-living crisis” in
which earnings growth is falling behind inflation.  Retail-price inflation accelerated to 5.1 percent in
January, while growth in basic pay was unchanged at 2.3 percent
in the fourth quarter, the  Office for National Statistics  said
on Feb. 16. Consumer-price inflation, the measure the central
bank uses to set monetary policy, quickened to a 26-month high
of 4 percent.    Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  is “doing all the
work” to support the economy while still attempting to keep
inflation to its 2 percent target, Balls said.  Balls said wouldn’t “rule out looking at the issue of the
target,” suggesting he might allow the bank to tolerate higher
inflation while the economy is recovering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  