-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Told Stronger Methods Needed to Stop Web Piracy

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-03-14T22:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/u-s-lawmakers-told-stronger-methods-needed-to-stop-web-piracy.html
U.S. law enforcement agencies need
stronger methods to crack down on so-called rogue websites,
which sell stolen content and copycat products, a U.S.
government official told lawmakers today.  Congress could grant the  U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement  the authority to request a court order requiring
credit card companies and payment processors such as PayPal Inc.
to stop providing services to the illegal websites, Maria
Pallante, the acting U.S. register of copyrights, said in
prepared testimony to the House Judiciary Committee.  She said legislation also could prevent U.S. advertising
networks from placing ads on such websites.  “The Copyright Office believes that copyright enforcement
against the operators of rogue websites could be enhanced and
improved with mechanisms that follow the money within the
Internet ecosystem,” Pallante said.  Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who is chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee, plans to reintroduce a bill
that would make it easier for U.S. authorities to close websites
that sell pirated content and products on the Web.  In November, federal courts ordered the seizure of 82
websites alleged by authorities to have sold counterfeit goods,
including fake  Coach Inc. (COH)  and  Timberland Co. (TBL)  products, the  Justice Department  said.  Pallante said the issue of what role Internet-service
providers should have in enforcing laws against rogue websites
requires “further investigation and analysis.” She said it’s a
“legitimate question” whether search engines “should be
involved in solving the rogue website dilemma.”  Search Engines  “Unfortunately, search engines routinely point people to
rogue websites, including in situations where the customer is
looking for a legitimate site,” Pallante said. “In fact,
sometimes the illegitimate sites appear much higher in search
results, displacing authorized sources of copyrighted content.”  Frederick Huntsberry, chief operating officer of movie
studio Paramount Pictures Corp., told lawmakers that “every
single film we distribute is promptly stolen and then illegally
made available online without creating any jobs, without
reinvesting any revenue in the creation of new films, without
paying taxes, and without contributing to the  U.S. economy .”  David Sohn, senior policy counsel at the  Center for
Democracy and Technology  in  Washington , said a recent federal
operation targeting 10 child-pornography websites that led to
the inadvertent seizure of a number of lawful sites is a
“cautionary tale” in U.S. law enforcement’s current approach
to anti-piracy.  Immigration and Customs Enforcement “had not thoroughly
ensured that the action it was taking was narrowly tailored to
the criminal actors, and the result silenced protected speech
and harmed the reputations of innocent parties,” he said in
prepared testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  