-- 
Uganda Increases Cost Estimate for Karuma Hydropower Plant to $2.2 Billion

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-03-14T15:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/uganda-increases-cost-estimate-for-karuma-hydropower-plant-to-2-2-billion.html
  Uganda  raised the cost estimate for
the 650-megawatt Karuma hydroelectric dam it is planning to
build on the Nile River later this year,  Uganda Electricity
Generation Co.  Managing Director John Eric Mugyenzi said.  The results of a feasibility study show the project will
cost about $2.2 billion to complete, Mugyenzi said in an
interview at a conference in Cape Town today. The plant was
initially projected to cost around $1.3 billion, according to a
statement by President Yoweri Museveni in February last year.
The dam is expected to start producing electricity in the next
five years, Mugyenzi said.  The government has prequalified a list of interested
contractors, he said. Uganda is talking to the  African
Development Bank  to finance the project and is also considering
floating a government bond to pay for the project, he said.  Uganda’s first large hydroelectric project, the 250-
megawatt Bujagali dam, is expected to start producing 50
megawatts in October, with full production anticipated in April
2012, Mugyenzi said.  The facility will double the country’s hydropower capacity
when complete, he said. Uganda currently faces a power deficit
of between 120 and 160 megawatts, he said.  Current cost estimates for the project, which has taken 20
years to develop, stand at about $800 million, although this is
not the final cost estimate, he said.  The project is being jointly developed by Sithe Global LLC
and Industrial Promotion Services Kenya Ltd., an affiliate of
the  Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development SA .  “The unpopularity of hydro in the nineties because of
environmental concerns meant that there was a stigma against
financing Bujagali,” Mugyenzi said. “Now that hydro is seen as
green energy, we see fewer challenges to developing Karuma,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  