-- 
Dangers for Human Health From Radiation Poisoning: Questions and Answers

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-15T07:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/understanding-risk-of-radiation-poisoning-in-japan-questions-and-answers.html
The danger of radiation leaks from  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant is
rising after explosions at the site caused by Japan’s earthquake
and tsunami, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said today.  As of 10:22 a.m. local time, radiation as high as 400
millisieverts was detected at the plant’s No. 3 reactor, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said at a briefing. That’s 20
times the annual limit for nuclear industry employees and
uranium miners, according to the World Nuclear Association, a
London-based advocate for the nuclear  energy industry . A
radiation dose of 100 millisieverts a year is the lowest level
at which any increase in cancer is evident, the London-based WNA
said on its website.  “This is a level that could harm people,” Edano said. The
station is about 220 kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo.  Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about
radiation poisoning. The information is drawn from the  World
Nuclear Association , the Science Media Centres of Japan and  Australia , the  World Health Organization  in Geneva, the U.S.
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta, and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in  Washington .  Q: How does the situation at Fukushima compare with the 1986
disaster in  Chernobyl , Ukraine, and 1979 Three Mile Island
accident in  Pennsylvania ?
A: The  International Atomic Energy Agency  has rated the
seriousness of the nuclear situation at the Fukushima reactors
as 4 on a  scale of 7 . Three Mile Island was rated as 5/7 while
Chernobyl was rated 7/7. Each additional point on this scale
represents a factor of ten, so the situation at Fukushima is
1/10th as serious as that at Three Mile Island, and 1/1000 that
at Chernobyl.  Q: What level of radiation is dangerous to human health?
A: One hundred  millisieverts  a year is the lowest level at which
any increase in cancer is clearly evident. Above this, the
probability of cancer occurrence increases with higher doses.  A cumulative dose of 1,000 millisieverts would increase the
incidence of fatal cancer by about 5 percent. A single dose of
1,000 millisieverts causes temporary radiation sickness and
decreased white blood cell count, but not death. A single dose
of 5,000 millisieverts would kill about half those receiving it
within a month.  Air crew on flights over the  North Pole  between  New York 
and Tokyo are exposed to about 9 millisieverts of radiation a
year, and a chest x-ray radiates about 0.1 millisieverts. Humans
are exposed to about 2 millisieverts a year from naturally
occurring radiation in soil and cosmic rays.  Q: What are the health consequences of radiation?
A: Exposure to high levels of radiation can cause  acute
radiation syndrome , or radiation poisoning, resulting in
substantial damage to human body tissues, premature aging and
possibly death. Prolonged exposure to lower levels is also
associated with increased risk of ill health.  Q: How is radioactive contamination spread?
A: People who are  externally contaminated  with radioactive
material can contaminate other people or surfaces that they
touch. For example, people who have radioactive dust on their
clothing may spread the radioactive dust when they sit in chairs
or hug other people.  People who are internally contaminated can expose people
near them to radiation from the radioactive material inside
their bodies. The body fluids (blood, sweat, urine) of an
internally contaminated person can contain radioactive materials.
Coming in contact with these body fluids can result in
contamination and/or exposure.  Q: What are the symptoms of radiation poisoning?
A: The first symptoms of acute radiation syndrome are typically
nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. These symptoms can start within
minutes to days of exposure and can last for days. After that, a
person with acute radiation syndrome may look and feel healthy
for a short time, then become sick again with loss of appetite,
fatigue, fever and possibly seizures and coma. This stage may
last a few hours or several months. Radiation poisoning also
typically causes skin damage.  Q: How is radiation poisoning treated?
A:  Potassium iodide  can be used to block radioactive iodine from
being taken into the thyroid gland, protecting it from injury.
It cannot protect other parts of the body or reverse damage to
the thyroid once it has occurred.  Prussian blue , a dye used by
artists and manufacturers since 1704, can also be used to remove
certain radioactive materials from the body. It should only be
used under medical supervision.  Q: What is being done to protect human health?
A:  Japan  has distributed 230,000 units of stable iodine to
evacuation centers from the area around Fukushima Daiichi and
Fukushima Daini nuclear power plants. The iodine has not yet
been administered to residents; the distribution is a
precautionary measure in the event that this is determined to be
necessary.  Q: What is the worst-case scenario?
A: It depends on how much radiation leaks and the prevailing
weather conditions. Radioactive iodine, or I-131, is heavier
than air and won’t spread far in mild wind. Iodine 131 has a
half-life of eight days, meaning it takes eight days of decay
to decrease by half.  Q: How do radioactive materials contaminate food?
A: Atomic bomb tests in  Nevada  during the 1950s and 1960s
released I-131 into the atmosphere that was blown thousands of
miles away. Animals grazing on pastures contaminated with I-131
had the radioactive material in their milk, which poisoned some
children. People exposed to I-131 may have an increased risk of
thyroid cancer.  Q: What is ionizing radiation?
A: Ionizing radiation is the energy or particles produced by
unstable atoms of radioactive materials. Humans are exposed to
low levels of radiation naturally from the Earth and the sun.  Q: What risk does Cesium-137 pose?
A: External exposure to large amounts of Cs-137 can cause burns,
acute radiation sickness and even death. Exposure to Cs-137 can
increase the risk for cancer because of exposure to high-energy
gamma radiation. Internal exposure to Cs-137, through ingestion
or inhalation, allows the radioactive material to be distributed
in the soft tissues, especially muscle tissue, exposing these
tissues to the beta particles and gamma radiation and increasing
cancer risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 