-- 
Turkey to Ask Russia to Raise Nuclear Plant Safety Standards

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-03-14T19:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/turkey-to-ask-russia-to-raise-nuclear-plant-safety-standards-1-.html
  Turkey  will ask Russia to increase
safety precautions at the atomic power plant it will build on
the southern coast after the biggest earthquake in Japan’s
history threatened to trigger a nuclear meltdown.  The plant is meant to withstand a magnitude-8 earthquake
and that could be increased if necessary, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said in an interview in Istanbul today. The request will
be made during a visit to Russia by Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  tomorrow, Yildiz said.  Russia’s Rosatom Corp. and Atomstroyexport ZAO were picked
by the Turkish government to build the country’s first nuclear
power plant in southern Akkuyu town and will employ Turkish
contractors in the process, Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said on Dec. 15.  “The increasing of the design criteria against earthquakes
is something we will discuss with the Russians,” Yildiz said.
“We can’t ignore what is happening at the Japanese nuclear
plant.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. engineers are struggling to
stabilize the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power reactor after it
was struck by an 8.9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami. Engineers
are flooding three reactors with seawater in an effort to cool
down their cores and avert a meltdown.  “Our plan to build nuclear power plants will go ahead,
only with more safety measures, and we will build the one with
the latest technology,” Yildiz said. “What we will build is a
third-generation power plant. Fukushima is a first-generation
plant.”  Turkey started exclusive talks in December with Japan to
build the country’s second nuclear power plant with an aim to
strike an agreement by the end of this month, Yildiz said in an
interview in Tokyo on Dec. 23. Turkey is holding talks with  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Tokyo Electric Power Co. and  Itochu Corp. (8001)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  