-- 
Turkish Stocks Rise 5th Day on Merger Speculation; Bonds Rally

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-03-14T15:54:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/turkish-stocks-rise-5th-day-on-mergers-speculation-bonds-rally.html
Turkish stocks rose for a fifth
day, their longest series of advances this year, on speculation
foreign banks may be preparing to buy stakes in the country’s
lenders and falling oil prices will reduce its trade deficit.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 1.2 percent to 64,530.05
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul, its highest since Feb. 22.
Yields on two-year bonds fell 10 basis points to 8.77 percent,
according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  The stock exchange’s index of banks increased 0.8 percent
today, bringing its advance in the past five days to 10 percent.
HSBC Holdings Plc was hired to find a Turkish partner for a
foreign bank, Reuters reported March 9, while the Haberturk
newspaper said on March 10 that  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK)  wants to buy
a 25 percent stake in Asya Katilim AS. Crude oil fell in  New
York  to the lowest level in two weeks on speculation demand from  Japan  may decline after a 8.9-magnitude earthquake.  The average price-earnings ratio estimate for the 17 banks
making up the Istanbul banking index for the current year is 9.5
percent, versus 10.5 percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets Banks
Index. The ratio based on current earnings for the Turkish banks
rose to more than 18 percent in 2006.  “Valuations are attractive and the bad news on the banking
sector is over,” Bali Ekin, head of equity trading at Credit
Europe Bank NV in Amsterdam. “There are mergers and
acquisitions expectations in  Turkey .”  Turkish stocks have fallen 2.2 percent so far this year on
concern that rising oil prices may widen the trade deficit and
the Middle East violence would hurt the country’s exports to
that region. The Turkish banking index is still down 3.3 percent
since the central bank increased the amount of reserves banks
must aside Dec. 17, seeking to restrain a credit boom.  Foreign Interest    Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , which accounts for 15 percent
of the ISE 100, rose 1.1 percent to 7.66 liras. Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA expects to complete its purchase of a 24.9
percent stake in Garanti in the second quarter, Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  told shareholders in a speech March 11.  Qatar Islamic Bank wants to enter the Turkish market, its
acting Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Meshari said in Doha
yesterday. Meshari declined to comment on the Haberturk report.  OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest bank, applied to Turkey’s
state investment agency to buy a Turkish bank in order to
benefit from the industry’s growth potential, Sabah reported
March 11 without citing anybody. Sberbank is “interested” in
acquiring a Turkish bank, Chief Executive Officer  German Gref 
told reporters in Moscow that day.  Rabobank of the Netherlands is seeking a banking license in
Turkey, Hurriyet newspaper reported, also on March 11.  The lira advanced 0.5 percent to 1.5747 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  