-- 
Usmanov Says Metalloinvest to Buy Norilsk Stock on Market Amid Merger Push

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-14T17:47:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/usmanov-says-metalloinvest-to-buy-norilsk-stock-on-market-amid-merger-push.html
Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov
said his Metalloinvest holding company plans to acquire shares
in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel on the stock market as he seeks a
merger of the country’s biggest metals producers.  “The board of Metalloinvest recently approved a plan to
buy Norilsk shares,” Usmanov said by telephone, without
specifying the size of the proposed purchase. Usmanov already
holds a 4 percent stake in Norilsk, which will be transferred to
Metalloinvest during the year, he said.  The acquisition would revive a plan to combine  Russia ’s
largest metals producers and create a mining company to rival  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest. A 2008 proposal by
Usmanov and fellow billionaire  Vladimir Potanin , who controls 30
percent of Norilsk, to pool their metals assets stalled later
that year when Metalloinvest announced its intention to hold an
initial public offering, a plan that hasn’t been realized.  “I still believe in the possibility and need for a merger
of mining companies into one large holding, which will produce
steel and base metals and explore for  iron ore ,” Usmanov said
March 12. United Co. Rusal, the aluminum maker with a 25 percent
stake in Norilsk, also wants to create such a holding, he said.  Vera Kurochkina, a spokeswoman for Moscow-based Rusal,
declined to comment.  Shareholder Dispute  Usmanov’s 2008 merger plan coincided with a shareholder
conflict at Norilsk over control of the company, which pit Oleg Deripaska’s Rusal against Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. Potanin
indicated Usmanov could act as a so-called white knight to stave
off an alternative proposed tie-up between Norilsk and Rusal.  The dispute was rekindled last June after a Norilsk board
election gave Rusal three seats to Interros’s four, prompting
shareholder bids to buy each other out. The latest offer,
rejected by Rusal on March 4, was a $12.8 billion bid from
Norilsk to buy back 20 percent of its stock.  “Metalloinvest could derive potentially more synergies
from an alliance with Rusal than with Interros,”  Vladimir Zhukov , a Moscow-based analyst at Nomura International Plc, said
today, adding that Usmanov may help Rusal “strengthen the
shareholder position” in Norilsk. “On the other hand, Rusal
may bring Metalloinvest into its potential deal with Norilsk
should it decide to sell its stake, so that Metalloinvest ends
up selling its shares on the same terms as Rusal.”  Norilsk rose 2.1 percent to 6,913 rubles by the 6:45 p.m.
close of trade in Moscow, its biggest gain in two weeks. The
increase outpaced the 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF) ’s 0.4 percent
advance. Norilsk jumped 69 percent last year.  Mining Merger  In 2009, Potanin made a further proposal, to merge Norilsk,
Metalloinvest, steelmakers Evraz Group SA and OAO Mechel,
titanium maker OAO VSMPO-Avisma and potash miner OAO Uralkali.
The plan, backed by Deripaska, followed a request by President  Dmitry Medvedev  that the company owners study the benefits of a
so-called national champion in which the state may take a stake.  Usmanov bought his Norilsk shares in 2007 and early 2008
for as much as $2 billion, according to newspaper Vedomosti. On
March 11, Metalloinvest Chairman Farhad Moshiri was elected to
Norilsk’s board, Vedomosti reported. Moshiri’s candidacy was
backed by Rusal, Usmanov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  