-- 
Vodafone Said to See Vivendi’s $9.7 Billion SFR Stake Ceiling as Too Low

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-14T16:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/vodafone-said-to-see-9-7-billion-vivendi-s-sfr-price-ceiling-as-too-low.html
  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  sees  Vivendi
SA (VIV) ’s proposed ceiling of about 6 billion pounds ($9.7 billion)
for its stake in French mobile operator SFR as too low,
according to a person familiar with the situation.  Vivendi is reluctant to pay much more than that, another
person familiar with the matter said, declining to be identified
because the talks are private.  “Both sides need to figure out a way to give the other
side a bit of a win,” said Claudio Aspesi, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .  The amount values SFR, France’s second-largest mobile-phone
operator, at about 5.5 times estimated 2011 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, based on
figures from Citigroup Inc. analysts. In the last three years,
the average multiple paid for western European
telecommunications assets was 6.4 times Ebitda, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile operator by revenue,
holds 44 percent of SFR. Vivendi, which owns the rest, has said
it wants full control of the unit. While valuation is Vodafone’s
primary concern, the Newbury, England-based company would have
to consider the risks were Vivendi to walk away from the talks,
one of the people said.  Vodafone spokesman Simon Gordon declined to comment as did
Vivendi spokesman Antoine Lefort.  Vivendi’s Cash  Vivendi Chief Executive Officer Jean-Bernard Levy
reiterated this month that he is keen to buy out Vodafone’s
stake in SFR, the Paris-based company’s biggest unit. Vodafone
is meanwhile speeding up asset sales, with Chief Executive
Officer Vittorio Colao taking charge of a new unit pooling
minority interests last year.  Citigroup analysts value the SFR stake at 6.67 billion
pounds, or 6 times 2011 Ebitda. Vodafone, which has said it
won’t be a forced seller, is also seeking a mobile-phone roaming
agreement with SFR in  France  following any deal, one of the
people said.  Vodafone fell as much as 2.8 percent, or 5.1 pence, to
173.85 pence in London. Vivendi fell as much as 1.1 percent, or
21 cents, to 19.53 euros in Paris.  Vivendi gained cash for an SFR deal in January after
receiving a $3.8 billion payment from  General Electric Co. (GE)  for
its former 20 percent stake in NBC Universal entertainment
group. The company received a $2 billion transfer in September.  “For Vivendi, every day you sit on cash is dilutive,”
Sanford C. Bernstein’s Aspesi said.  Iliad Entry  Selling the SFR stake now would also give Vodafone a chance
to make a deal before the entry of a fourth operator complicates
the French mobile-phone market.    Iliad SA (ILD) , a discount broadband provider, is planning to
start a mobile-phone service called Free Mobile in 2012 and has
pledged to bring down prices in a country where charges for
phone services are higher than in other European countries,
according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 