-- 
Warner Chilcott’s $3 Billion of Term Loans Rise in First Trades

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-03-14T23:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/warner-chilcott-s-3-billion-of-term-loans-rise-in-first-trades.html
  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) ’s $3 billion of
term loans to refinance existing bank debt and cut borrowing
costs rose in their first trades, according to information
provider Markit Group Ltd.  The company’s $1.75 billion term loan B first changed hands
at 100.25 cents on the dollar and the $1.25 billion term loan A
was quoted at 100.125 cents, Markit said. Both loans were issued
at face value.  Warner Chilcott reduced the B portion of the debt by $500
million and increased part A by the same amount, according to a
person briefed on the transaction.  The Dublin-based maker of birth-control pills also reduced
the interest rate it will pay on its term loan A by cutting the
floor on the London interbank offered rate to 0.75 percent from
1 percent, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private. The spread over the lending
benchmark is unchanged at 3 percentage points.  The term loan B has a margin of 3.25 percentage points more
than Libor and a 1 percent floor on the benchmark, the person
said. It also has a six-month soft-call protection of 101 cents
on the dollar.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group
AG, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG arranged the financing, which
also includes a $250 million revolving  credit line .  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan A is
sold primarily to banks, while so-called B loans are mainly
bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, mutual funds and  hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in  New York  at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 