-- 
Buffett Cancels Trip to Japan’s Tungaloy After Earthquake

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-14T04:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/warren-buffett-cancels-trip-to-japan-following-earthquake-tungaloy-says.html
Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
has canceled a trip next week to attend a plant opening ceremony
of Tungaloy Corp. in Japan’s Fukushima prefecture following the
nation’s strongest  earthquake .  Buffett, chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , was
originally scheduled to arrive in Fukushima, north of  Tokyo , on
March 21 and attend the ceremony the next day, Tungaloy said in
an e-mailed statement. Buffett didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail sent yesterday to his assistant, Debbie Bosanek.  The 8.9-magnitude quake and subsequent tsunami on March 11
in Japan may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture north of
Tokyo, according to the police. Radiation levels around the
Tokyo Electric Power Co. station in Fukushima, 135 miles north
(217 kilometers) of the capital, rose after cooling systems at a
second reactor failed, heightening concerns about a possible
meltdown following an explosion over the weekend.  Buffett, 80, was scheduled to visit  Japan  to attend a
ceremony hosted by Tungaloy, owned by Iscar Metalworking Cos.,
Berkshire’s largest acquisition of a non-U.S. firm.  The billionaire investor is still scheduled to visit
TaeguTec Ltd., a Daegu, South Korea-based manufacturer, on March
21, said Yang Sun Young, a spokeswoman at the Korean firm.  Building Berkshire  Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire has been transformed by
Buffett over four decades from a failing textile maker to a $200
billion seller of insurance, electrical power and  consumer goods .
Berkshire doesn’t pay a dividend or buy back shares, leaving
Buffett with the task of investing the firm’s earnings in stocks,
bonds and takeovers.  Buffett, also Berkshire’s chief executive officer and
biggest shareholder, paid $4 billion for 80 percent of Iscar in
2006. In 2009, he injected about $2.6 billion into Swiss
Reinsurance Co., the second-biggest seller of backstop coverage
for insurers.  His net worth was estimated at $50 billion by Forbes
magazine, which this month ranked him as the world’s third-
richest person after billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Bill Gates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  