-- 
Weight-Loss Surgery Cuts Risks for Severely Obese, Heart Association Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-14T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/weight-loss-surgery-cuts-risks-for-severely-obese-heart-association-says.html
Severely  obese  people benefit from  weight-loss  surgery, the American Heart Association said after
researchers from the U.S. and  Canada  assessed the heart risks of
bariatric procedures.  Operations such as  gastric bypass  and gastric banding may
lead to weight loss and improvements in diabetes, cholesterol
and blood pressure, and those benefits may outweigh the hazards,
the Dallas-based heart group said in a paper today in the
journal  Circulation .  Almost  34 percent  of Americans are obese, a number that has
doubled in the past 30 years, and more than 5 percent are
considered extremely obese, according to the Atlanta-based
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Overweight or obese
people have a greater risk of diabetes, heart attacks and
strokes. Efforts with diet, exercise and drugs have been
“disappointing,” so doctors need to look at  surgical options ,
said  Paul Poirier , lead author of the report.  “At the moment, bariatric surgery should be reserved for
patients who can undergo surgery safely, have severe obesity and
have failed attempts at medical therapy,” Poirier, director of
the cardiac prevention and rehabilitation program at Quebec
Heart & Lung Institute at Laval University Hospital in  Quebec
City , said in a statement.  Further Research  The report isn’t an “across-the-board” endorsement,
Poirier said. More studies are needed on the weight-loss
procedures in adults and children, he said.  About 220,000 people in the U.S. had weight-loss surgery in
2009, according to the  most recent figures  from the American
Society for Metabolic & Bariatric Surgery, a doctors’
organization based in Gainesville,  Florida . The procedures cost
on average of $14,000 to $26,000, the group said on its website.  Allergan Inc., based in Irvine,  California , won U.S.
clearance in February to broaden marketing of its Lap-Band
weight-loss device. The  Food and Drug Administration  now will
let the company target people with a body mass index of at least
30 and at least one obesity-related condition. Lap-Band competes
with Realize, a band sold by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , of  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  Body mass index , or BMI, is a measure of weight and height,
with a 5-foot, 4-inch (160-centimer) woman weighing 175 pounds
(80 kilograms) having a BMI of 30. BMI of 30 or more is
considered obese, while a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is considered
overweight, according to the  National Institutes of Health ,
based in Bethesda,  Maryland . A BMI of 40 and more is considered
extremely obese.  ‘Treatment of Choice’  “The AHA hasn’t addressed this issue in such a direct
manner previously, but has included bariatric surgery as an
option for severely obese patients in other documents,” Robert Eckel, past president of the group and a professor of medicine
at the University of  Colorado  Anschutz Medical Campus, in
Aurora, Colorado, said in an e-mail on March 11.  For people who have a BMI of 40 and higher, surgery is the
“treatment of choice,” Eckel said.  The heart group’s researchers found that surgery “provides
the greatest sustainable weight loss.”  The surgeries also reversed diabetes and improved high
blood pressure, sleep apnea and liver disease, according to the
heart group. A review of eight studies showed that those who
underwent weight-loss surgeries had a lower risk of dying
compared with those who didn’t have the procedures, according to
the paper.  One study  showed  the risk of dying was 9 percent in those
who had surgery compared with 28 percent in those who didn’t.  Allergan’s Applause  “The medical literature has found that diet and exercise
alone simply does not work for everyone who is obese and that
without effective treatment the obese will likely remain obese,
which is why we applaud the  American Heart Association  for
recognizing that weight-loss surgery needs to be part of the
obesity treatment continuum,” Cathy Taylor, a spokeswoman for
Allergan, said an e-mail on March 11.  In gastric bypass, doctors create a small pouch about the
size of a walnut at the top of the stomach and connect it to a
passage that bypasses the rest of the stomach and part of the
small intestine. That arrangement limits the body’s ability to
absorb calories. Gastric bypass accounts for than 80 percent of
weight-loss procedures, according to the heart association.  In  laparoscopic gastric banding , a band is placed around
the upper end of the stomach, creating a pouch that narrows the
passage into the rest of the stomach, causing a patient to feel
fuller.  The heart group’s statement adds to growing awareness of the
weight-loss surgery, said  Bruce Wolfe , president of the
bariatric surgery society, in a telephone interview on March 11.  Heart doctors are “recognizing it as an important tool in
the battle against obesity and cardiovascular risk,” said
Wolfe, a professor of surgery at  Oregon Health & Science
University , in  Portland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  