-- 
Tokyo Electric Says Reactor's Fuel Rods May Be Melting After Record Quake

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-03-14T18:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/hydrogen-explosion-occurs-at-nuclear-power-plant-135-miles-north-of-tokyo.html
  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said fuel
rods may be melting inside a nuclear reactor, heightening the
danger of a meltdown as engineers struggle to stabilize the
plant damaged by the biggest earthquake in  Japan ’s history.  The cooling system failed at the Daiichi No. 2 reactor
yesterday, said Tokyo Electric, which runs the Fukushima nuclear
plant 220 kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo. The fuel rods
were exposed for a second time after water levels dropped, the
company, known as Tepco, said early today.  Earlier a hydrogen explosion struck the No. 3 reactor,
following a similar blast on March 12 at the No. 1 unit that
destroyed the walls of its building. The utility has been
flooding the three reactors with water and boric acid to reduce
the potential for a large release of radiation following the
March 11 earthquake-generated tsunami that smashed into the
plant, disabling power supply and backup generators.  “It’s a situation that is requiring emergency measures to
cool the reactors,” Andre-Claude Lacoste, chairman of French
nuclear watchdog Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, said in Paris
March 14. “If there is a complete meltdown of a core we will
have a much more serious accident on our hands.”  An air flow gauge was accidentally turned off at the No. 2
reactor causing air pressure into the reactor to rise suddenly
and blocking the flow of cooling water,  Tokyo Electric  said in a
press conference posted on NHK television’s website early today.
Tokyo Electric is now attempting to reopen the valve to release
pressure building inside the reactor and inject water to cool
the rods, the company said.  Radiation Concerns  Japanese officials yesterday evacuated more than 200,000
people and handed out iodine, used to protect the thyroid from
radioactivity, as they extended an exclusion zone around the
plant to 20 kilometers.  Radiation levels reached 3,130 microsieverts an hour at the
monitoring site near the gate of the plant as of 9:37 p.m. local
time, twice the previous record, Tokyo Electric said. That level
dropped to 326.2 microsieverts per hour at 10:35 p.m.  Prevailing winds in the area were heading east into the
Pacific, which would carry radiation away, the  Associated Press 
reported, citing Japan’s meteorological agency.  U.S Navy ships and planes involved in earthquake rescue
efforts were moved after radiation was detected on three
helicopters.  “Low level radioactivity” was detected on 17 air crew
members when they returned to the USS Ronald Reagan aircraft
carrier operating about 100 miles northeast from the plant, Navy
spokesman Jeff Davis said in an e-mail.  Mounting Pressure  The vessel containing the No. 3 reactor’s radioactive core
is intact after yesterday’s blast, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio
Edano told reporters. The likelihood of a large radiation leak
is very small, even as radiation levels at the No. 3 reactor are
rising, said Edano, the government’s spokesman.  At least four employees and two contractors were injured in
the blast, Tokyo Electric said. The company’s shares slumped 24
percent.  There are six boiling-water reactors at the Fukushima
Daiichi plant, three of which were shut for maintenance before
the earthquake.  Unit No. 1 is a  General Electric Co. (GE)  model that can
generate 439 megawatts of power and began commercial operation
in 1971, according to the  International Atomic Energy Agency .
The No. 2 reactor was built by GE Toshiba and the No. 3 by
Toshiba Corp.  Sea Water  Tokyo Electric said the sea water used to cool the reactors
is being retained at the plant. “We will look into what we will
do about the water,” spokesman Shogo Fukuda said by phone.  Flooding the reactors with sea water renders them useless
for future power production. The practice is “horrible,”
Lacoste of the French nuclear watchdog said. It’s never been the
subject of experimentation because reactors normally require
water that is as clean as possible so as not to clog up pipes
and cooling circuits.  The disaster at Fukushima isn’t the first quake-related
accident for Tokyo Electric.  A 6.8-magnitude temblor on July 16, 2007, caused a fire and
radiation leaks that shut down the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear
plant, the world’s biggest. It took almost two years to restart.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  