-- 
Yen Weakens as BOJ Injects More Funding, Third Blast Rocks Nuclear Plant

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-15T01:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/yen-falls-versus-dollar-on-prospect-bank-of-japan-will-inject-more-funds.html
The yen fell against the dollar,
ending a two-day gain, as the  Bank of Japan  pumped more money
into financial markets after the nation’s biggest earthquake,
damping demand for its assets.  Japan’s currency declined against 14 its 16 most-traded
counterparts after  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. confirmed a third
explosion occurred at a nuclear plant damaged in the temblor.
The dollar rose versus most of its peers before reports this
week forecast to show an expansion in industrial production. The
euro gained for a second day against the yen amid speculation
demand for the region’s debt will increase after European Union
leaders agreed on a retooled bailout plan.  “The BOJ has made bold moves and clearly pledged to keep
doing so,” said Misato Nakashima, a currency analyst at
Himawari Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “The yen will be under
downward pressure in the mid- to long-term as the central bank
has no choice but to maintain monetary easing for a long time.”  The yen fell to 81.83 per dollar as of 10:22 a.m. in Tokyo
from 81.63 in  New York  yesterday, when it rose as much as 1.5
percent to 80.62, the strongest since Nov. 9. The Japanese
currency declined to 114.40 per euro from 114.22. The dollar was
at $1.3980 per euro from $1.3992.  The BOJ added 5 trillion yen ($61 billion) to the financial
system in a one-day operation today. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has pledged to keep pumping cash into the economy to
stabilize markets after a magnitude 9 quake struck  Japan ’s
northern coastline on March 11, triggering a deadly tsunami. The
central bank injected 15 trillion yen yesterday and doubled its
asset-purchase program to 10 trillion yen.  The containment chamber of the No. 2 reactor at Tokyo
Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant may be damaged after
today’s blast and radiation leakage is possible, company
spokesman Kaoru Yoshida said. It was the third explosion at the
site since March 12.  U.S. Growth  The U.S. dollar strengthened before a report today likely
to show manufacturing in the region covered by the Fed Bank of
New York expanded this month at the fastest pace since June.
Separate Fed figures to be released March 17 are predicted to
show output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.6
percent in February after a 0.1 percent contraction in January,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The greenback also was supported on speculation the  Federal
Reserve , meeting today, may acknowledge the labor market is
improving.  “We only need some hawkish news out of the U.S., or some
positive sentiment, for the dollar to turn around,” said  Matthew Brady , executive director for foreign exchange at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “In the medium-term, I am
positive for the U.S. dollar.”  ‘Positive Outlook’  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will likely repeat its
commitment to “exceptionally low levels” for the benchmark
rate, analysts led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker , London-based global
head of foreign-exchange strategy at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a
note. Policy makers may also acknowledge recent improvements in
employment data, according to the analysts.  “A more positive outlook on the labor market from the FOMC
would likely be a small  U.S. dollar  positive,” they wrote.  The U.S. unemployment rate declined to 8.9 percent in
February, the lowest in almost two years, the Labor Department
said March 4. The Fed has held its benchmark between zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  The euro rose against the yen before a March 17 sale of
Spanish bonds maturing in 2021 and 2041. That follows an
agreement by EU leaders last weekend to widen the scope of a
rescue fund aimed at resolving the region’s debt crisis.  ‘Holding Firm’  “Overall, the euro-zone is looking ahead and getting
positive news, such as an agreement to increase the rescue
fund,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The euro is holding firm.”  Yields on 10-year Spanish debt slid 16 basis points to 5.27
percent yesterday. Investors bid for 1.54 times the 10-year
securities on offer at a sale of the debt in February, the
lowest bid-to-cover ratio for the securities since September
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.    Portugal  will continue tapping the bond markets without
falling back on official European aid, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  