-- 
Yuan Forwards Strengthen as Policy Makers Show Inflation Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-14T09:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/yuan-forwards-strengthen-as-policy-makers-show-inflation-concern.html
  China ’s yuan forwards strengthened
for the first time in six days on speculation policy makers will
seek a stronger currency after saying more needs to be done to
curb inflation.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated today a pledge to push
forward reform on the yuan’s  exchange-rate  regime, while saying
any appreciation will be gradual. China still has a “lot of
work” to do to control inflation, Ma Jiantang, head of China’s
National Bureau of Statistics, said yesterday. The country is
facing price pressures from oil, agricultural commodities and
wages, he said.  “The exchange rate is supplementary to the tightening
measures,” said Cliff Tan, head of emerging-markets research at
Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “If you don’t let it
strengthen a bit, the market may view it as undervalued and it
could attract capital inflows.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.1 percent to
6.4405 per dollar as of 5:19 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets
the currency will strengthen 2 percent in a year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan rose 0.07 percent to 6.5698 per dollar, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched 6.5628 on
March 7, the strongest level since China unified official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The central bank set the  reference rate  0.07 percent
stronger at 6.5701. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5
percent on either side of the official rate.  Consumer-price growth will peak at 6 percent in June-July
on “surging”  oil prices , Issac Meng, an analyst at BNP
Paribas, wrote in a report dated March 11. The “inevitable”
future tightening of monetary policy “could see” an extra 100
basis-point deposit-rate increase to 4 percent and a 200-basis-
point rise in the reserve requirement ratio to 22 percent, Meng
wrote.  --Fion Li, Judy Chen. Editors: Sandy Hendry, Ven Ram  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  