-- 
Zimbabwe's Economy Is `Stuck;' Ivory Coast `Dysfunctional,' AfDB Head Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-14T13:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-14/zimbabwe-s-economy-is-stuck-ivory-coast-dysfunctional-afdb-head-says.html
  Zimbabwe ’s economic progress has
become “stuck” because of a lack of clarity on policy, while
Ivory Coast is threatened with collapse amid a political crisis,
said African Development Bank President Donald Kaberuka.  Kaberuka visited Zimbabwe last week as part of a three-
nation tour of Southern Africa, urging authorities to clear up
confusion about the Indigenization and Empowerment Act, which
compels foreign companies to sell stakes to black Zimbabweans.
He also called for political parties to stick to a power-sharing
agreement, or risk investors fleeing the country again.  “Zimbabwe has done the basics, but now they’re stuck,”
Kaberuka said in an interview yesterday in Pretoria, the capital
of neighboring  South Africa . “They’ve stabilized the
macroeconomic environment, but they can’t move” to the next
phase of development “until there’s policy clarity on property
rights, less uncertainties and more predictability.”  While the indigenization laws have been passed by
lawmakers, there have been conflicting messages from policy
makers about their implementation. The legislation requires
foreign and white-owned companies to cede 51 percent to black
Zimbabweans.  “The signals coming out of Zimbabwe can be quite
confusing” and they discourage investors, Kaberuka told
reporters in  Pretoria  today. “I’ve urged the Zimbabweans to
give signals which are less confusing, to have greater policy
clarity especially on matters of property rights and to give
some long term predictability to their policies.”  Risk of Collapse  The Movement for Democratic Change, led by Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , formed a power-sharing government with
President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National Union-
Patriotic Front in 2008 after disputed elections. While the
coalition helped end a decade of recession, it has often come
close to breaking down.  The risks that a collapse in the coalition government would
pose to the economy “are considerable,” Kaberuka said
yesterday. “In the short-term, confidence will be lost, and re-
engagement with international partners will be seriously
compromised. For the long-term investment outlook, it’s a no
brainer.”  The power-sharing agreement “is what gave confidence for
the return of macro stability,” Kaberuka said. “So you
understand our concern. When the global political agreement
seems to be shaky, investors get worried, external partners get
worried, and I suppose, Zimbabweans should be worried as well.”  Ivorian Crisis  The  African Development Bank , based in  Tunisia ’s capital,
Tunis, is helping Zimbabwe improve its debt management as it
seeks to have $7 billion in debt owed to the AfDB,  World Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund  canceled.  The AfDB has set aside $500 million to help Zimbabwe clear
its arrears, a first step toward a debt write-off, Kaberuka
said. A pre-condition to making the funds available would be for
Zimbabwean authorities to agree on an IMF-monitored plan that
aims to sustain economic growth.  Kaberuka said the political crisis in Ivory Coast following
a disputed Nov. 28 election had continued for “too long,” to
the detriment of the economy and its people.  The West African nation’s economy “has become
dysfunctional,” Kaberuka said. “Credit to the economy has
dried up. They’re having challenges paying the civil service;
they’re having challenges exporting cocoa and coffee. I can’t
use the term breakdown of the economy, but it’s become
dysfunctional. And the entire region is becoming affected.”  Backs Ouattara  The  African Union  said on March 11 it backs  Alassane Ouattara  as the legal president of  Ivory Coast , the world’s
largest cocoa producer. Incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  has
refused to relinquish power following the vote. The World Bank
and AfDB have suspended funds to the country, while cocoa
exports have been disrupted.  “I hope the appeal by the African Union is adhered to
because it’s a unanimous position,” Kaberuka said. “I’d like
to see civil war in Ivory Coast avoided at all costs. Certainly,
the crisis in Ivory Coast has gone on for far too long. The
damage to the wellbeing of the people, increased poverty levels
and increased dysfunctionality of the economy, is not in the
interest of anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  