-- ‘The Godfather,’ Anti-Piracy: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-14T11:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/-the-godfather-anti-piracy-mitsubishi-intellectual-property.html
Proceeds from the sequel to Mario Puzo’s novel “The Godfather” published last week will be put
in escrow while  Paramount Pictures  and the late novelist’s
estate pursue litigation over the publishing rights.  “An interim agreement allows publication of the novel to
go forward, pending resolution of this matter,” Richard
Kendall, a lawyer for Los Angeles-based Paramount, said at a
hearing May 11 in Manhattan federal court.  Paramount, a unit of New York-based  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , sued
 Anthony Puzo , Mario’s son and the executor of his estate, in
February to prevent the publication of a third sequel to “The
Godfather,” claiming that it wasn’t authorized.  Puzo countersued in March, saying that Paramount
disregarded contractual promises to his father and breached a
1969 agreement. Puzo said the contract between the late author
and the studio excluded book publishing rights.  “It’s a question of fact, of how much importance it was to
Puzo to reserve publishing rights,” Bertram Fields, a lawyer
for the writer’s son, told U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan on
May 11. “We’re seeking cancellation of the contract.”  The parties will attempt to resolve the dispute in
mediation, the lawyers said.  Paramount said in its complaint that after  Mario Puzo  died
in 1999, the company agreed to allow Bertelsmann AG’s Random
House to publish a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather
Returns” in 2004. The estate published another novel, “The
Godfather’s Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, the
studio said. Paramount said the estate informed it last year of
plans to publish a third sequel.  That volume, “The Family Corleone” by Ed Falco, was
published on May 8, according to the  website  of Grand Central
Publishing.  The case is Paramount Pictures v. Puzo, 12-01268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Copyright  EU’s Highest Court Asked to Rule on Global Anti-Piracy Treaty  The European Union’s top court was asked to rule on the
legality of a global anti-piracy treaty, delaying the region’s
approval for the accord aimed at preventing counterfeiting
worldwide.  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s executive
arm, asked the  European Court  of Justice to check if the
agreement, known as ACTA, is compatible with EU treaties and the
region’s Charter of Fundamental Rights,  John Clancy , an EU
spokesman, said in en e-mailed statement from Brussels on May
11.  “The Court’s opinion is vital to respond to the wide-
ranging concerns voiced by people across  Europe  on whether ACTA
harms our fundamental rights in any way,” Clancy said.  The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement is intended to set
global rules for cracking down on the pirating of copyrighted
materials, including illegal file sharing on the Internet.
Protesters in  Germany  and other European countries have
complained that the treaty may harm freedom of expression and
information sharing online.  In addition to the EU, signatory countries include the
U.S.,  Japan  and  South Korea . The accord needs to be ratified by
all 27 EU governments before it can come into effect.  Germany’s government was at odds with national lawmakers
over the ACTA agreement, the Passauer Neue Presse newspaper
reported in February. Bulgaria refused to ratify ACTA in
February pending a clear EU position on the accord. Finland also
postponed its final approval on the treaty until the EU had
ruled, the government said in March.  EBay Says Fines May Be Cut After Appeal on Sales of LVMH Fakes  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  said it may win a reduction in fines after
France’s high appeals court overturned part of a 2010 decision
holding it responsible for sales of counterfeit  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  goods on its website.  The Cour de Cassation on May 3 referred the case back for
retrial by a Paris court of appeal. An earlier appeals court had
maintained a Paris commercial court’s finding that EBay didn’t
do enough to stop the sale of fakes, while slashing fines
imposed by the tribunal.  “We are pleased that the ability of lower courts to impose
an injunction against EBay has been lifted and that the damages
against EBay are likely to be further reduced,” the world’s
largest Internet marketplace said in an e-mailed statement.  EBay has been in a multi-year dispute with brand owners
over how vigilant it is in policing its site for fakes. The  San
Jose , California-based company already claimed victory in 2010
when the appeals court cut the fines imposed by the commercial
court in 2008 to 5.6 million euros ($7.4 million) from almost 40
million euros.  LVMH, the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, also
called that decision a win, for maintaining the earlier finding
that EBay was liable for fakes sold between 2001 and 2006 on its
site.  Hugues Schmitt, an external spokesman for LVMH, said the
company had no comment.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trials  Mitsubishi Electric Loses $124 Million Jury Verdict to Grail  Mitsubishi Electric & Electronics USA Inc. was told by a
 California  jury to pay Grail Semiconductor Inc. $124 million in
a breach-of-contract lawsuit.  Mitsubishi Electric disclosed Grail’s confidential
information for a memory chip to an affiliate company,
Mitsubishi-Japan, and a jointly owned Japanese company, Renesas,
Raymond P. Niro, a lawyer representing Grail, said in a phone
interview.  The May 10 verdict, issued by a state court jury in San
Jose, is the seventh-largest jury award in the U.S. so far in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest, for
$900 million, was awarded by a Florida jury to a nursing home
resident who suffered multiple injuries from untreated bed
sores.  “We believe that the decisions on liability and damages
are fundamentally flawed and that Mitsubishi Electric &
Electronics USA Inc. will be fully vindicated,” David S.
Elkins, a lawyer representing Mitsubishi Electric, a unit of
Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , said in an e-mail.  Grail co-founder Donald Stern met with a team from
Mitsubishi Electric in April 2001 in San Jose and “disclosed
technology for a memory chip,” Niro said. Mitsubishi Electric
“took the information, introduced it and captured the market,”
Niro said.  Grail and Stern sued, claiming Mitsubishi Electric used the
technology on memory chips it introduced in 2004, Niro said.  The case is Grail Semiconductor Inc. v. Mitsubishi Electric
& Electronics USA Inc., 1-07-cv-098590, Santa Clara County
Superior Court (San Jose).  Bankruptcy  Betsey Johnson Allowed to Sell Merchandise to Liquidators  Betsey Johnson LLC, the bankrupt women’s fashion retailer,
won approval to sell all of its merchandise to a joint venture
formed by liquidators Hilco Merchant Resources LLC and Gordon
Brothers Retail Partners LLC.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan  on May 10
approved the deal after lawyers for the company said it was the
best one achieved through an auction. Liquidating sales started
May 11.  Betsey Johnson will get 102 percent of the merchandise’s
cost value, estimated at as much as $6.7 million, according to
court papers.  The deal was reached after nine rounds of bidding that
started with an initial guaranteed percentage of 89 percent,
James Wallack, a lawyer for Betsey Johnson with Goulston &
Storrs PC, told Peck. Liquidators take on selling costs for
merchants to quickly sell merchandise.  Betsey Johnson listed assets and debt of as much as $50
million each in its April Chapter 11 filing. Formed as B.J.
Vines in 1978, the company sells clothing, footwear, handbags
and a signature fragrance through 66 Betsey Johnson boutiques,
according to the company’s  website .  In 2010,  Steven Madden Ltd. (SHOO)  a footwear designer and
marketer, swapped $27.6 million of secured debt for ownership of
Betsey Johnson’s trademarks and  intellectual property . The unit
that filed for bankruptcy isn’t part of Steven Madden.  The case is In re Betsey Johnson LLC, 12-11732,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  IP Moves  Greenberg Traurig Adds Shareholder in Orange County Office  J. Rick Tache, a registered patent attorney who represents
clients in patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret
litigation and transactional work, has joined Greenberg Traurig
LLP in its Orange County, California, office as a shareholder.  Tache has more than 20 years of experience and has a
longstanding patent and trademark prosecution practice serving
the medical devices, aerospace, software, hardware and high-tech
industries, according to a statement by the firm.  Prior to Prior to joining Greenberg Traurig, Tache was a
partner with Snell & Wilmer LLP. Before that, he was executive
vice president and general counsel of Northpole Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  