-- Hacking Focus to Grow as U.S. Prosecutor Urges Disclosure
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-14T19:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/hacking-focus-to-grow-as-u-s-prosecutor-urges-disclosure.html
Companies need to be quicker to
disclose they have been victims of cyber-crimes, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said, telling defense lawyers the
government will focus “more and more” on prosecuting such
offenses.  Speaking today at a conference at the Association of the
Bar of the City of New York, Bharara said  law enforcement  is
hampered when companies delay revealing they are victims of
computer crimes, as many “routinely” do.  “They wait and wait, and such delays can be disastrous,”
Bharara said. Prosecutors will be more active in fighting cyber-
crime, Bharara said.  The U.S. announced in March that it had charged six leaders
of an underground hacking movement that targeted the Central
Intelligence Agency and Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc. Today
in Manhattan federal court, accused hacker Jeremy Hammond
pleaded not guilty to charges of stealing client information
from Austin, Texas-based intelligence firm Stratfor.  In his remarks to the bar association, Bharara urged
defense lawyers and the companies they represent to play a
“more central role” in fighting computer crime, whether it’s
by hackers, corporate insiders or foreign groups or nations.  ‘Culture of Security’  The prosecutor told the lawyers to help their clients
create a “culture of disclosure” and a “culture of
security,” and to foster “high-level leadership” that takes
these issues seriously.  “We need leadership from the top, not just from the bar,”
Bharara said, warning that the hacking threats will probably
“proliferate.”  “No one is immune,” he said.  Bharara also urged defense lawyers to serve as the
gatekeepers of company ethics by encouraging executives and
employees to act honestly.  Public confidence in corporations “continues to ebb,” he
said, especially “when a CEO blithely swats away criticism and
it turns out matters are far worse” or when executives lie
about their experience.  Bharara didn’t cite specific cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  