-- Tadic Calls for Closer Monitoring in Serbian Runoff Vote
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-14T15:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/tadic-s-democrats-call-for-closer-election-monitoring-in-runoff.html
Serbia’s ruling  Democratic Party 
asked local and foreign watchdogs to step up scrutiny of the
presidential runoff vote after the opposition claimed election
fraud during May 6 balloting.  The party, led by incumbent President  Boris Tadic , urged
the Vienna-based  Organization for Security and Cooperation in
 Europe  and the Belgrade-based  Center for Free Elections and
Democracy  to deploy more observers during the May 20 second
round between Tadic and  Tomislav Nikolic , the leader of the
opposition Serbian Progressive Party.  “It is in our deep interest that we have fair and regular
elections and that the legitimacy of elected institutions is not
in question,” the Democrats said in the e-mailed statement.  The outcome of the presidential elections may determine
whether  Serbia  keeps striving for European Union membership
under Tadic or turns east for political and economic ties under
Nikolic’s leadership. Tadic won the first round, while his party
finished second in a concurrent parliamentary race, giving it
six seats less than the Progressive Party’s 73 in the 250-member
assembly.  The Progressive Party claimed vote rigging on May 10, a day
after the second-place Democrats and the third-ranking Socialist
Party of former strongman  Slobodan Milosevic  agreed to stay in a
coalition, leaving Nikolic’s party in opposition.  Probe, Protests  The allegations led to a police probe and scattered street
protests. The prosecutor’s office said more than 2,000 ballots
that Nikolic presented last week as alleged proof of tampering
were missing from a polling station in Pancevo, east of
Belgrade, after being counted, Tanjug news service reported.
Whoever stole the ballots faces as many as three years in
prison, the report quoted spokesman Tomo Zoric as saying.  The Progressives are “ready to physically defend every
vote” and I will “fight at polling stations” against any
attempt at rigging, Nikolic told reporters in Belgrade today.  The Democrats accused him of plotting to use violence that
may plunge the country “into chaos.”  The OSCE and partner organizations such as the
Parliamentary Assembly of the  Council of Europe  had a total of
70 observers in Serbia on May 6.  The Belgrade-based Center for Free Elections and Democracy,
or CeSid, had more than 1,000 locally recruited monitors and its
program director Marko Blagojevic said in a phone interview they
didn’t have enough resources to expand their presence for the
May 20 ballot.  With assistance from Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  