-- Ageas Posts Loss on Cost of Unwinding Ties With Fortis Bank
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-05-14T11:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ageas-posts-loss-on-cost-of-unwinding-ties-with-fortis-bank-1-.html
Ageas (AGS) , the insurer formerly known as
Fortis, posted a third straight quarterly loss after sharing the
cost of unwinding debt ties with its former banking unit and the
value of an option on  Belgium ’s  stake  in  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  fell.  The first-quarter  net loss  narrowed to 83.8 million euros
($108 million) from 153.6 million euros a year earlier, the
company, based in Brussels and the Dutch city of Utrecht, said
today in a statement. Profit from insurance operations rose 15
percent to 154.8 million euros. That beat the 127.7 million-euro
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ageas compensated BNP Paribas, which bought control of
Fortis Bank SA in May 2009, for the value loss resulting from
the conversion of hybrid capital notes into Ageas shares
following a discounted tender for the securities by  France ’s
largest bank. The settlement, which also involved reimbursement
of other debt securities by Fortis Bank, gave the insurer 666
million euros of additional cash to  spend  on acquisitions,
shareholder distributions, debt buybacks or keep as a cushion
against  legal claims  from investors who suffered losses in the
Fortis collapse.  “Insurance earnings were better than expected, supported
by strong performance in  Asia  and Belgium and by recovering
financial markets,” Dirk Peeters, an analyst at KBC Securities
NV in Brussels, wrote in a note to clients. “Life activities
contributed with good margins, but also overall higher net
realized  capital gains .”  Capital Gains  Capital gains boosted first-quarter insurance profit by
about 43 million euros, a 12 million-euro increase from the same
period a year earlier, Chief Executive Officer Bart De Smet told
analysts on a conference call.  Ageas fell 3.5 cents, or 2.6 percent, to 1.319 euros by
1:01 p.m. on Euronext Brussels,  trimming gains  so far this year
to 9.9 percent. The 32-company Stoxx 600 Insurance Index fell
2.9 percent.  Profit from Ageas’s life insurance businesses rose to 125.5
million euros from 105.7 million euros in the same quarter a
year earlier. Life funds under management rose to 65.6 billion
euros from 64.4 billion euros at the end of last year.  First-quarter earnings in the non-life business increased
to 26.2 million euros from 24.8 million euros a year earlier as
gains and lower motor-insurance claims in the U.K., as well as
an expansion into  Turkey , compensated for weather-related claims
in Belgium.  Combined Ratio  The combined ratio, which shows costs and claim payments as
a percentage of premium income, rose to 101.9 percent from a
restated 101.5 percent in the first three months of 2011.  Shareholders’ equity  increased to 8.3 billion euros, or
3.48 euros a share, as of March 31 from 7.76 billion euros, or
3.23 euros, at the end of last year as narrowing corporate and
sovereign bond spreads offset the first-quarter loss.  Ageas sold almost all of its remaining Greek sovereign debt
following the debt restructuring, netting a gain of 5 million
euros, and took advantage of the narrowing spreads to reduce
holdings of Spanish and Italian bonds by 28 percent and 12
percent respectively at a combined loss of 62 million euros.  Chief Financial Officer Christophe Boizard reiterated his
Feb. 20 comments that Ageas is in talks to take over corporate
loans from undisclosed banks to increase investment yields
following the reduction of higher-yielding southern European
 government bonds .  Ageas seeks to reach an agreement with the banks by the end
of the second quarter and plans to allocate as much as 5 percent
of investment assets to corporate loans, Boizard said on the
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  