-- Ally to Sell Non-U.S. Units as ResCap Goes Bankrupt
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-14T22:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ally-to-sell-non-u-s-units-as-rescap-goes-bankrupt.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
whose mortgage unit went bankrupt, may sell international car-
finance and insurance operations to help repay a $17.2 billion
U.S. bailout, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  said.  Ally is seeking to divest more than $30 billion of assets
in  Canada  and  Mexico  as well as in  Europe  and  South America ,
Carpenter said in an interview. The sales may allow Ally to
repay two-thirds of the government rescue that left the  U.S.
Treasury  Department with a  74 percent stake ,  he said.  “They are capital-intensive and perhaps somewhat less
strategic than the U.S. business,” Carpenter said yesterday
before the Detroit-based firm’s Residential Capital mortgage
unit declared bankruptcy and agreed to sell most of itself to
 Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)  “We recognize that the U.S.
Treasury would like to get repaid, and this seems to us to be a
great way to get from here to there.”  Ally said in a statement today that ResCap sought court
protection. The Chapter 11 reorganization for ResCap, once among
the largest originators of subprime and Alt-A mortgages, is one
of the biggest collapses of a home lender since  Wells Fargo &
Co . agreed to acquire Wachovia Corp. at the end of 2008. A
Chapter 11 filing protects a company from creditors and allows
it to operate while a turnaround is devised. Ally’s auto-lending
and banking units aren’t affected, according to the companies.  ‘Softest Landing’  Ally agreed to pay $750 million to ResCap to settle any
claims against the parent company, such as those brought by
bondholders or other third parties, Carpenter said. ResCap will
be deconsolidated from Ally’s financial statements and the
parent’s  equity interest  in ResCap will be written down to zero,
according to a company statement.  The auto lender also agreed to purchase $1.6 billion of
securities if others don’t, and provide $150 million in
financing for ResCap while under court protection, said
Carpenter, 65. Ally’s online bank signed an agreement to support
ResCap’s mortgage originations until it emerges from bankruptcy,
he said.  “We’re trying to get the softest landing that we can,”
Carpenter said. “We felt that there was a value to us in
putting these issues behind us.”  No Interruption  ResCap’s board voted to declare bankruptcy and arrange a
sale to Fortress and Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. for about
$2.3 billion, ResCap Chairman and CEO Thomas Marano, 50, said in
an interview. Nationstar, majority-owned by Fortress, will buy a
portfolio of servicing assets, as well as a mortgage-origination
unit, and business will continue uninterrupted, he said.
Mortgage servicers handle billing, collection and foreclosures.  “This was not a decision we took lightly,” said Marano,
who will remain at ResCap through the bankruptcy and join
Fortress. “Despite everything we have been able to do we have
had mounting  litigation  from private-label security-holders and
representation-and-warranty claims. This will put us in a solid
position to move forward and grow our business.”  ResCap has a preliminary agreement with a bondholder group
represented by White & Case LLP and is negotiating with other
claimants, said Marano, who also has served as CEO of Ally’s
mortgage division. Between $1 billion and $1.2 billion in U.S.-
backed loans will be left with ResCap, he said. Barclays Plc
will provide $1.45 billion in financing for ResCap while under
court protection, Marano said.  Freedom for Ally  The filing may free Ally from what Carpenter once called a
“millstone around the company’s neck” and represents a bet
that the bankruptcy and settlement between the companies will
shield the parent from the subsidiary’s debts.  Carpenter has said a planned initial public offering that
would help reimburse taxpayers will be delayed until there’s
progress on resolving the fate of the mortgage business.
President  Barack Obama  has vowed to recover “every last dime”
of bailout money given to banks. The lender already has repaid
$5.5 billion through dividends and the sale of Ally securities,
 Gina Proia , a company spokeswoman, said last week.  A ResCap bankruptcy is the “single most important” action
that could have been taken to ensure taxpayers are repaid, and
those with claims against the mortgage unit will have
“absolutely no case” to go after Ally for additional funds,
Carpenter said. The ResCap board agrees, otherwise it wouldn’t
have voted for the settlement, he said.  Legal Opinion  “You better believe that I spent millions of dollars with
major law firms trying to assess that risk before we went down
this route,” Carpenter said. “It doesn’t mean someone couldn’t
make a lot of noise.”  Ally and ResCap may struggle to placate creditors who
haven’t settled, said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor
at  Seton Hall University  in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  “As these new parties come to the table, you can’t
negotiate with them in a way that you will lose the consent you
have with prior parties,” Lubben said in a phone interview.
“That’ll be one of the challenges of the bankruptcy case, to
bring all those people together. If they don’t agree to what
other people have agreed to, you have this tricky negotiation.”  The sale of the international businesses and the bankruptcy
may be completed by the end of the year, Carpenter said. Once
those occur, the company will consider other plans to “create
value,” he said.  General Motors Co. is interested in acquiring Ally’s
international operations, according to CEO Dan Akerson. “We’re
interested in it, but we’re not going to bleed to buy it,” he
said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters.  Servicing Contracts  Nationstar said the deal will help make it the largest non-
bank residential mortgage servicer and one of the largest
originators. Wells Fargo ranks first in both categories among
U.S. banks. Fortress and Nationstar acquire servicing contracts
on about $370 billion in loan balances, as well as $1.8 billion
in so-called advances, Fortress Co-Chairman Wes Edens said in an
interview.  ResCap’s staff of more than 3,500 services at least 2.4
million loans, Carpenter said in Ally’s statement. The deal will
“preserve the existing jobs,” according to a ResCap statement.
Edens said while there haven’t been any offers of employment,
“a great majority” of ResCap’s people will get one.  About $450 million in equity for the purchase came from
Nationstar, while Fortress, a private-equity firm, and its
 Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT) , a mortgage-asset buyer, contributed
more than $400 million, Edens said. The rest of the price will
be financed, he said. New York-based Newcastle said in a
statement it will acquire as much as a 65 percent stake in
excess mortgage-servicing rights.  ‘Next Step’  “This is the next step in the natural reorganization of
the mortgage business in the U.S.,” Edens said. “The banking
industry historically was dominant in the servicing business but
post-financial crisis, with new  capital requirements  and lots of
regulatory oversight and scrutiny, banks have shown less
interest. It’s a new paradigm.”  The Treasury’s objective is to get out of Ally in a way
that “balances speed of recovery with maximizing returns for
taxpayers,” Timothy G. Massad, assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in a statement. “While it is
unfortunate that a Chapter 11 filing became necessary for
ResCap, we believe that this action puts taxpayers in a stronger
position.”  Speed Against Value  The bankruptcy could end Ally’s ownership of GMAC Mortgage,
which housed Ditech, the online mortgage lender that became
known for television ads that pitched low rates and showed a
rival exclaiming, “Lost another loan to Ditech.”  Ally, with the bankruptcy behind it, will focus on its
operating units, an online bank and auto-finance business,
Carpenter said.  They face increasing competition. Chrysler Group LLC, the
third-largest U.S. automaker, said last month it will let expire
in 2013 an agreement that allows Ally to finance a minimum
percentage of vehicles with loans made to consumers at below-
market rates. Chrysler is in talks with other banks about its
financing needs, CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said Feb. 28.  The agreement covered about 5 percent of Ally’s total U.S.
consumer originations in the first quarter, the lender said in
an April 25 regulatory filing. It doesn’t cover other business
Ally does with Chrysler dealers, such as wholesale financing,
so-called standard-rate financing for consumers and leasing,
according to the filing.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC when it was part of General
Motors, ranked No. 1 in financing U.S. consumer auto sales for
2011 with more than $40 billion in contracts for new or used
cars and trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles.  The online bank faces competition from ING Direct USA,
which McLean, Virginia-based Capital One Financial Corp.
acquired this year, as well as London-based Barclays, which is
starting its own Internet bank in the U.S., the Wall Street
Journal reported earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  