-- American Express $1 Million Grant Aids Japan, India Sites
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-05-14T19:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/americna-express-1-million-grant-aids-japan-india-sites.html
The Cathedral Church of St. Michael
in Coventry,  England ; the historic center of Brazil’s  Salvador
de Bahia ; and the earthquake-ravaged city of Sawara, Japan, are
among  World Monuments Fund  sites that will share a $1 million
restoration grant from American Express Foundation.  The other sites are the  Ruta de la Amistad  in Mexico City,
22 sculptures created for the 1968  Olympic Games ; the Canterbury
Provincial Government Buildings in Christchurch,  New Zealand ;
and the fragile  Balaji Ghat  in Varanasi, India.  “It’s a great boost to have corporate support for the
World Monuments Watch,” WMF President Bonnie Burnham said by
phone. “The visibility of these grants will make the public
more aware of the importance of saving these buildings and
sites.”  Founded in 1965, the WMF has worked to preserve more than
600 architectural and cultural sites in about 130 countries such
as  St. Paul’s Cathedral  in  London .  American Express has given more than $10 million to the
nonprofit from 1996 to 2006, aiding the conservation of more
than 150 heritage sites around the world. The aid program was
renewed last year with American Express pledging $5 million
during the next five years to the fund’s “at-risk” sites.  The grant for the restoration of the Coventry cathedral
will aid the development of a management plan for the ruins,
stabilize its structure and restore medieval stained glass
salvaged during World War II.  A portion of the grant will assist the rebuilding effort of
seven Edo-period (1603-1867) townhouses (known as  machiya ) in
Sawara that function as residences and workspaces. Government
funding and insurance policies covered some of the rebuilding
costs. More than a third of the city’s 300 machiya were damaged
in the March 2011 earthquake, Burnham said.  “The authorities in Sawara had a shortfall, and the
(American Express) grant will help them close the gap,” Burnham
said.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 