-- AMR Pilots Back US Airways Deal to Compete With Rivals
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-14T21:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/amr-pilots-back-us-airways-deal-to-compete-with-rivals-1-.html
American Airlines ’ pilots support a
merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to compete better against
larger rivals while forcing the pilots to give up $130 million
less in annual concessions, a union negotiator testified.  A combined company would be in a position to compete
against  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  for corporate accounts, which American has lost to rivals,
Neil Roghair, chairman of the pilots’ negotiating committee,
said today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “It presented a more viable exit from this process that we
would support and pursue,” Roghair said of a US Airways merger.  The pilots and unions representing flight attendants and
mechanics and airport ground workers are in court fighting
efforts by American parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  to reject labor contracts
as it restructures in bankruptcy. American says it needs
$1.25 billion a year in labor savings to reorganize and become
profitable.  US Airways, which reached agreement on contract terms with
the three unions, is pursuing a deal as AMR and the committee
that represents American’s unsecured creditors agreed to
consider a potential merger. AMR and the creditors have “a
binding protocol agreement to jointly explore strategic
alternatives involving a potential business combination
transaction,” the committee said in court papers.  Concessions Sought  American, based in Fort Worth, Texas, is seeking
$370 million in annual concessions from the pilots, while the
agreement with US Airways would require $240 million, according
to a court filing by the union. In negotiations with American on
a new contract, the pilots offered $270 million in concessions,
Roghair said.  “We took this very seriously, and we put a proposal on the
table that makes the pilots competitive in the industry,” he
said.  Bruce Hicks , an AMR spokesman, said the pilots’ agreement
with  US Airways  lacks detail for achieving the savings. The
union also agreed to contract changes it has refused to provide
American, he said in a statement.  ‘Real Values’  “While American’s proposal is specific and detailed so
that we know the real values, the so-called agreement with US
Airways is based on a term sheet that does not include specifics
of how the supposed $240 million in concessions would be
achieved, nor does it address how the APA will fund the wage
improvements and other protections contained in the agreement,”
Hicks said.  AMR is overreaching with its proposal and is asking for
more cuts than are necessary for its restructuring, Edgar James,
an attorney for the pilots union, said at the start of today’s
hearing.  “It’s basically I want what I want and I want it the way I
want it,” he said of the company.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  