-- Manchester City Apologizes After Tevez Parades ‘RIP Fergie’ Sign
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-15T02:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/manchester-city-apologizes-over-tevez-s-rip-fergie-banner.html
Manchester City  apologized after
striker  Carlos Tevez  was pictured with a sign goading Manchester
United manager Alex Ferguson during the Blues’ Premier League
title parade.  Tevez, who spent two years at United before leaving for
City in 2009, said he “didn’t mean any disrespect” after
holding up a mock tombstone reading “RIP Fergie” as City
paraded the trophy on an open-top bus in Manchester yesterday.  “The creation of the tasteless material is in itself
reprehensible and, in accepting and brandishing it, Carlos has
made a significant error of judgment,” City said in a
statement. “The club wishes to express its sincerest apologies
to Sir Alex Ferguson and Manchester United Football Club for any
offense or distress caused.”  The sign may have referred to a comment Ferguson made in
2009 when asked if United would ever be City’s underdog, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported. “Not in my lifetime,”
Ferguson said at the time, according to the  BBC .  City scored two stoppage-time goals in a 3-2 win against
Queens Park Rangers in the final round of games two days ago to
beat crosstown rival United to the title on goal difference. It
was City’s first league championship since 1968.  Tevez, 28, won two Premier League titles and the  Champions
League  in two seasons with United after joining from West Ham.
He was the top goal scorer in each of his first two seasons at
City. He missed three months of the title-winning campaign after
leaving the team without permission following a touchline
disagreement with manager  Roberto Mancini  during a Champions
League game in September.  “I got carried away in the excitement of the moment and I
certainly didn’t mean any disrespect to Sir  Alex Ferguson , who I
admire as a man and a manager,” Tevez said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  