-- Manchester City Chases Neighbor on Global Stage After Title Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-14T02:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/manchester-city-chases-neighbor-on-global-stage-after-title-win.html
Manchester City  squeezed by defending
champion Manchester United to win the Premier League soccer
title. The Blues still have a long way to go to match their
neighbors’ financial success.  City defeated Queens Park Rangers 3-2 yesterday to clinch
its first English league championship in 44 years. Edin Dzeko
and Sergio Aguero’s stoppage-time goals gave City the title on
goal difference ahead of United, which won 1-0 at Sunderland,
after both teams finished the 38-game season with 89 points.  United, which has a record 19 English titles, last month
topped Forbes magazine’s annual list for the eighth straight
year with an estimated valuation of $2.24 billion. City was
ranked 13th at $443 million even after owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  spent $1 billion on improving the team after
taking over in 2008.  “United has the best business model,”  Tom Cannon , a
sports business professor at England’s University of Liverpool,
said in a telephone interview. “They have the three big
revenues streams: gate incomes, TV and commercial activities. No
other English club comes close to that.”  A worldwide fan base of about 330 million helps make United
the most valuable team in any professional sport, worth $385
million more than  Major League Baseball ’s  New York  Yankees and
the Dallas Cowboys of the  National Football League , Forbes said.  City’s title triumph, the club’s first since 1968, denied
United what would have been a record-extending 20th English
league championship and 13th since the Premier League’s
inception in 1992.  Billionaire Buyer  The new champion’s fortunes turned when Sheikh Mansour, a
billionaire member of the  Abu Dhabi  royal family, bought the
club from former Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.  The Blues won the F.A. Cup last season, their first trophy
in 35 years, and also qualified for the  Champions League  for the
first time, where they were eliminated in the group stage. City
is the fifth team to win the 20-year-old Premier League after
United, Blackburn Rovers, Arsenal and Chelsea.  “Hopefully this will be just the start of days like
this,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said yesterday. “We set
out to make history and that is what we have done.”  City’s spending has attracted stars including Carlos Tevez,
David Silva and  Sergio Aguero . The Blues trail only Barcelona
and Real Madrid among the world’s best-paid sports teams with an
average of $7.4 million, according to Sporting Intelligence’s
Global Sports Salaries Survey. That’s nearly $2 million more
than No. 11 United.  Financial Power  “Nobody can match their financial power, no one,” United
manager Alex Ferguson said of City ahead of his team’s May 6
match against Swansea. “You have to accept that, so we do it a
different way.”  Although City can outspend United on players, it still
trails in revenue, according to accountant Deloitte LLP, which
ranked United third behind Real Madrid and Barcelona in its
“Money League” report of the highest-earning soccer clubs.
City was 12th with 169.6 million euros ($220 million) in revenue
in 2010-11 compared with United’s 367 million euros.  “There’s a global brand that United possesses and City
doesn’t,” Kieran Maguire, principal lecturer in accounting and
finance at Manchester Metropolitan University, said in a
telephone interview. “United is still the brand that people are
seeking.”  United’s worldwide appeal has attracted major sponsors
including AON Corp., DHL Worldwide Express and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  The
club also runs off-season tours to  Asia  and  North America , where
fans will pay to watch the team train or play exhibition games.  Asian Appeal  “Manchester United makes regular trips to Asia to show
commitment to the fans and that makes a huge difference,”
Marcus Luer, group chief executive officer of Total Sports Asia,
a Kuala Lumpur-based sports marketing agency, said in an e-mail.
“If a CEO goes to a game and sees a full stadium and fanatical
fan support, it’s easy to see why he would want to be associated
with the brand.”  United’s global growth has also been helped over the years
by players such as  David Beckham , Cristiano Ronaldo and George Best, known as much as celebrities as athletes.  “It’s not just about the club doing well, it’s about
building the image up with individual players,” Cannon said.
“City doesn’t have anyone you’d say is a glamorous player. In
certain markets like  Japan , you need that glamor.”  City’s major sponsor is Etihad Airways, Abu Dhabi’s
national airline, which last year signed a 10-year deal worth
about $482 million to have its name on the club’s stadium and
shirt. Cannon said City can use its ties to the  Middle East ,
though needs to look outside the Abu Dhabi border.  “There is a lot of money in the Middle East which isn’t
dependent on the link to Abu Dhabi,” he said.  City must also learn how to win consistently, according to
Luer and Cannon. The accumulation of titles and trophies leads
to commercial success, so even when United misses out, it’s
brand is unaffected.  “ Manchester United ’s brand value will not diminish,” Luer
said. “It’s built on years of success and other elements and
not one season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  