-- Another Earth Needed to Meet Humans’ Demand for Resources
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-15T10:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/another-earth-needed-to-meet-human-demands-for-natural-resources.html
Humans are using resources at such a
pace they need another world to meet demand for land to grow
crops and forests and raise animals, WWF International said.  People required 18.2 billion hectares (45 billion acres) of
land by 2008, with 12 billion productive hectares available, WWF
said today in its biennial Living Planet report. About 55
percent of land needed was for forest to absorb carbon dioxide
emissions. The Earth takes one and a half years to regenerate
natural resources used annually by human inhabitants, WWF said.  “We are living as if we have an extra planet at our
disposal,” WWF International Director General Jim Leape said in
the report. “We are using 50 percent more resources than the
Earth can provide, and unless we change course that number will
grow very fast. By 2030, even two planets will not be enough.”  The report, which urges humanity to cut waste and use food,
energy and water more sustainably, is published before a United
Nations  conference  in  Rio de Janeiro  next month where leaders
from around the world will debate how governments can eradicate
poverty while also halting the degradation of the environment.  The average person required 2.7 so-called global hectares,
or biologically productive hectares, to produce the resources
they consumed in 2008, the most recent data available, according
to the report. That compares with the Earth’s so-called bio-
capacity of 1.8 hectares per person, it said. The UN has said
the world’s human population passed 7 billion in October.  Overdrawn Account  National variations ranged from almost 12 hectares a person
in  Qatar , which will host this year’s round of UN climate treaty
talks, to less than 1 hectare in the Palestinian territories.
Kuwait, the  United Arab Emirates ,  Denmark  and the U.S. followed
Qatar as the biggest per-capita users of resources.  “Similar to overdrawing a bank account, eventually the
resources will be depleted,” the study’s authors wrote. “At
current consumption rates some ecosystems will collapse even
before the resource is completely gone.”  Not all the nations with the biggest ecological footprints
are developed or oil-rich. Mongolia ranked 15th of the more than
140 nations surveyed because of the large amount of grazing land
it uses for its cattle. Uruguay was 20th for the same reason.  The study also found 28 percent of the Earth’s biodiversity
was lost from 1970 to 2008. The measure, which gauges the
abundance of 2,688 animal species in different parts of the
world, showed that biodiversity in the tropics declined by 61
percent, and in temperate regions it increased by 31 percent.  The paper was prepared by WWF International along with the
Oakland, California-based Global Footprint Network and the
Zoological Society of  London . WWF, based in Gland, Switzerland,
is known as the World Wildlife Fund in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 