-- Hapoalim Chairman Comments on Challenges, Growth Possibilities
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-05-14T10:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/hapoalim-chairman-comments-on-challenges-growth-possibilities.html
Bank Hapoalim (POLI)  Ltd. Chairman Yair Seroussi discusses the challenges this year amid a global
economic slowdown. He also commented on the possibilities for
growth and the impact of the government initiative to get
conglomerates to sell off assets and increase market
competition.  On economic growth:  “The main challenge is going to be growth, because banks
are linked to growth in gross domestic product and the economy,
and we see slower growth in  Israel  expected this year.”  “This year, 2012, we see growth of 3 percent influenced
from different reasons, including of course, worldwide and
European effect on the economy. This is the number one
challenge. How do you grow and continue to grow in a general
environment which is slower?”  On possibility for growth:  “The strategy of Bank Hapoalim, which started three years
ago, was looking for areas of growth which are faster than the
GDP.”  “For example, the Arab sector. We spent a lot of time
increasing the the coverage we had in the Arab sector, believing
that with the growth in education, having so many more students,
more doctors in this segment, we will see more and more income
and more transactions for the banking sector.”  “Another sector that is growing faster than the economy
and will compensate us is the ultra-religious sector. We see
here a change as well. More and more women that are working and
more educated. We see more in the high-tech sector coming from
the ultra-religious sector. We think there is a certain
revolution here that brings potential for growth.”  “Another sector we are after is small- to mid-sized
companies where we can improve the market share of Hapoalim.”  On the government initiative:  “If it will be done gradually and in a way that will not
risk the companies and will be done in a way that in the end we
will see more and more owners, of course, long term, it will be
good for the portfolio of the banks.”  “The banks, and us as well, are looking to diversify
portfolios and ownerships, so in the long term I think it could
be good for the banks as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  