-- Apple Said to Plan Thinner Mac Laptops With Intel Chips
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-05-15T20:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/apple-said-to-prepare-thinner-mac-laptops-sporting-intel-chips.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is preparing a new lineup
of thinner MacBook laptops running on more powerful chips made
by  Intel Corp. (INTC) , people with knowledge of the plans said.  The MacBook Pro machines, to be unveiled at Apple’s annual
developers conference starting June 11, also will feature high-
definition screens like those on the iPhone and iPad, as well as
 flash memory  to cut startup times and extend battery life, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the plans
haven’t been made public.  Apple’s Mac sales are growing faster than the personal-
computer market, benefiting from the popularity of its mobile
devices. Since 2007, when the iPhone was introduced, Apple’s Mac
sales have more than doubled, reaching $21.8 billion last year.
As Apple’s share has grown, competitors such as  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. have followed suit in
making thinner, aluminum laptops that start up more quickly.  Apple’s new laptops will run on Intel’s new processors,
code-named Ivy Bridge, and will have a slimmed-down body design
from the current 0.95-inch (2.4 centimeter) thickness, the
people said. Apple’s other lines of computers -- MacBook Air
laptops and iMac desktops -- also may receive an overhaul next
month to add high-definition screens and Intel’s stronger chip,
according to a report today from Ben Reitzes, an analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc.  Bill Evans , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment, while  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for
Intel, referred questions to Apple.  Apple shares fell 0.9 percent to $553.17 at the close in
 New York . The stock has gained 37 percent this year.  Mountain Lion  At the developer conference, Apple also may announce the
debut date of its latest Mac operating system, called Mountain
Lion, one person said. The new software, which Apple previewed
in February, more closely aligns Mac computers with its mobile
devices -- the operating system includes many elements of the
iOS mobile software that runs the iPhone and iPad. One feature
lets users send a text message to an iPhone from a Mac.  Mountain Lion also expands Apple’s iCloud digital-storage
service to let Mac users access and share saved documents across
the Internet. It also allows users to create and access
reminders and notes, and receive notifications, on all their
Apple devices. Another new iCloud feature will make it easier to
share photographs, the  Wall Street Journal  reported yesterday.  The emphasis on the Mac at next month’s conference suggests
that Apple will concentrate on the iPhone later in the year.
Analysts, including  Gene Munster  of Piper Jaffray Cos., have
predicted Apple will release its next smartphone model by
October. The iPhone is Apple’s top-selling product, accounting
for 58 percent of its  revenue  in the most recent quarter.  New Mobile Software  Apple is expected to preview some of the new mobile
software features that will be part of that release at the
developer conference in  San Francisco .  While Mac computers account for just 13 percent of Apple’s
sales and are no longer the main sales engine for the company,
the machines are gaining market share. Apple controlled 11.6
percent of the PC market in the U.S in the fourth quarter of
 last year , compared to 6.1 percent in the same period of  2007 ,
according to Gartner Inc.  Apple last redesigned the body of the MacBook Pro in 2008.
The devices have more memory and stronger graphical and
computing capabilities than MacBook Air laptops. The MacBook Pro
now costs $1,200 to $2,500, depending on the size and
components.  Apple is looking beyond Intel for chips to power its iPhone
and iPad. While Intel provides the semiconductors for Apple’s
new laptops, the chipmaker is facing questions from investors
about why it hasn’t made better inroads into the market for
components that power phones and laptops. Instead of using the
 Santa Clara , California-based company for chips inside its
mobile devices, Apple uses competing components based on the
designs from  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM)   Intel’s Goals  At an investor meeting last week, Intel Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Otellini  was asked whether the company was at risk
of losing the Mac business altogether if Apple moves its
computers to an ARM design. He said Intel’s plan is to improve
the performance of its designs to the point where Apple will use
its products more widely.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, also is helping boost
Apple’s competitors in the PC market, who are seeking to respond
to the popularity of Apple’s iPads and laptops by introducing
their own new products. Intel has been promoting a new type of
thinner laptop, called an  Ultrabook , that uses its components.
Ultrabooks are less than an inch thick, have days of battery
life, start up in seconds and sell for less than $1,000. The
features are similar to those of Apple’s MacBook Air.  Intel also has been working closely with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  on
the release of its Windows 8 operating system, which was
designed to work on both PCs and mobile devices. The Ivy Bridge
processor design is made with an updated manufacturing process,
resulting in more powerful chips that use less battery life.  The technology website 9to5Mac.com  reported  earlier
yesterday that Apple is working on a thinner version of the
MacBook Pro with a sharper screen.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  