-- Court Lets Apple Pursue U.S. Ban on Samsung Galaxy Tablet
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-14T17:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/apple-wins-review-of-tablet-patent-in-samsung-dispute-1-.html
Apple Inc., (AAPL)  maker of the iPhone and
iPad, can pursue efforts to halt sales of  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer in the U.S. while a
patent-infringement case is pending, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  Apple’s patent on a design of the tablet is likely to
withstand validity challenges, so the trial judge should
consider if it’s in the public interest to block sales until a
trial can be held, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit ruled today. The court  upheld  the trial judge’s
rejection of a pre-trial ban on Samsung products, including its
phones, based on three other Apple patents.  The Samsung dispute is the biggest front in Apple’s efforts
to curtail growth of phones that run on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, the most popular platform for mobile devices.
The Cupertino, California-based smartphone maker contends
Samsung has copied the look and feel of the iPhone and iPad to
lure away customers.  The case ruled on today is one of more than 30 filed in 10
countries between Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung and Apple.
Samsung was forced to delay the release of some Galaxy devices
or alter the product in  Germany , the Netherlands and  Australia 
because of the legal battle.  Siri Dispute  Apple filed another U.S. suit against Samsung in February
and is asking U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh to block sales of
Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus phones until a trial could be held. The
newer case involves patents related to Apple’s Siri digital
personal assistance and slide-to-unlock feature. A hearing on
that request is scheduled for June 7 in  San Jose ,  California .  Koh said in December that Samsung had raised a substantial
question of invalidity of Apple’s tablet-design patent. Samsung
argued the design was an obvious variation of tablets existing
as early as 1994, including one made by Hewlett-Packard Co.  The Federal Circuit said there were substantial differences
between the Apple design and earlier readers, and the only
comparison was that they were rectangular tablets with four
evenly rounded corners and a flat back.  “Rather than looking to the ‘general concept’ of a tablet,
the district court should have focused on the distinctive
‘visual appearances’ of the reference and the claimed design,”
the court ruled.  ‘Bounce Back’  Circuit Judge Kathleen O’Malley said she would have sent
the case back to the lower court with orders to impose a ban on
the sales of the Galaxy Tab. The majority said the judge may
still side with Samsung after reviewing what’s in the public
interest.  In the tablet market, Apple had 58 percent in the fourth
quarter, while Android products, which include Samsung,
Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle Fire and Barnes & Noble Inc.’s Nook
readers, had 39 percent, according to data from Boston-based
researcher  Strategy Analytics .  Apple said Galaxy S and Infuse phones copied two of its
patented designs, and that all three products, along with the
Droid Charge, infringed a patent for a function known as
“bounce back.” That means that when an image is dragged past
the final screen’s edge, it goes back to fill the entire screen.
The Federal Circuit said Koh didn’t abuse her discretion when
she refused to impose a ban on those patents until a trial can
be held.  Apple contends Android devices have copied features that
make the iPhone and iPad unique, and it’s filed patent-
infringement suits against Android-phone makers HTC Corp. and
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Global Sales  All three companies have filed their own patent cases
against Apple, creating a global war over share of a market that
researcher Gartner Inc. said increased 47 percent in the fourth
quarter to 149 million units worldwide.  Apple and Samsung vie for the title of world’s largest
maker of smartphones. Apple had 23.9 percent of the global
market in the fourth quarter, while Samsung was No. 2 with 23.5
percent, according to data from Boston-based researcher Strategy
Analytics.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1105,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The
lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-1846, U.S. District Court for the District of California (San
Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  