-- Arabtec Surges After Aabar Boosts Stake to 21%: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-14T12:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/arabtec-stake-raised-by-aabar-to-more-than-20-shares-rise-1-.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  surged the most
in three weeks after  Abu Dhabi ’s state-owned Aabar Investments
PJSC boosted its stake in the Dubai builder through its units to
more than 20 percent.  The shares of the biggest construction company by market
value in the  United Arab Emirates  extended gains following a
bourse disclosure, surging 4.7 percent, the most since April 24,
to 2.91 dirhams at the close in Dubai today, giving the company
a market value of 4.57 billion dirhams ($1.24 billion). The
stock was the most traded by volume on Dubai’s benchmark  DFM
General Index (DFMGI) , which fell 0.4 percent.  Aabar Petroleum Investment PJSC, a unit of Aabar
Investments, boosted its holding to 5.23 percent, and Aabar
Energy Co. increased its stake to 5.2 percent, according to data
posted on the website of the  Dubai Financial Market.  That’s in
addition to a 5.18 percent stake already held by Aabar Real
Estate Co. and Aabar Petroleum Investments Co. 5.32 percent
shareholding in Arabtec.  “The stock now represents a buying opportunity after” a
recent slump and after the filing on the stock exchange
clarified Aabar’s ownership levels, said Samer Darwiche, a
Dubai-based analyst at Gulfmena Investments Ltd.  Arabtec has jumped 92 percent this year on speculation the
builder will benefit from regional infrastructure spending. That
compares with a 9.5 percent gain in Dubai’s DFM General Index.
The builder earlier today denied a report in newspaper Alrroya
yesterday that said Aabar and its units held a 53 percent stake,
stating that it instead owned 20.76 percent as of May 10. The
shares sank 5.8 percent yesterday on speculation Arabtec may de-
list.  Aabar Investments in 2010 canceled a plan to buy most of
Arabtec for an estimated $1.74 billion, saying they would work
instead on a “strategic partnership,” after Dubai’s government
support of Dubai World improved the builder’s prospects. Aabar
had offered to buy 70 percent of Arabtec through the purchase of
bonds that would be exchanged for shares at 2.3 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  