-- Largest Korea Fund to Seek More Investment Quota in China
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-05-15T02:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/largest-s-korea-fund-to-seek-more-investment-quota-in-china.html
South  Korea ’s  National Pension
Service , the country’s biggest investor, plans to seek approval
to buy more yuan-denominated Chinese stocks after using up the
initial quota of $100 million it received in March.  The $316 billion pension fund plans to use that allotment
by September and will pick two managers “soon” to handle the
investments, Chairman Jun Kwang Woo said in an interview in
Seoul yesterday. The fund also aims to expand investments to
Chinese bonds and so-called alternative investments later, he
said, without being more specific.  “Given the size of our portfolio and the size of the first
tranche, I think it’s natural to increase the quota down the
road,” Jun, 63, said, without detailing how much more quota the
fund plans to apply for. “I do expect some bumps in the road to
further growth. But that doesn’t give an excuse to understate
the true potential of the economy.”  Jun’s comments come as data show  China ’s economy, the
world’s second largest, is slowing and as the nation’s stocks
get cheaper. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has fallen
61 percent from its October 2007 record and traded for 12.7
times reported earnings as of yesterday, or 61 percent below the
average level of 32.4 since 1997. The gauge slipped 0.8 percent
as of 10:35 a.m. Shanghai time.  China said on May 12 it will cut the amount of cash that
banks must set aside as  reserves  for the third time in six
months after data showed that industrial  production  grew the
least since 2009 in April and new yuan loans missed estimates.
International interest in yuan-denominated assets is rising as
 China’s economy  expands and its government accelerates the
opening of its  capital markets .  Qualified Investors  Foreign institutions must get a license as a qualified
foreign institutional investor from the China Securities
Regulatory Commission first before they obtain quota from the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange to buy yuan-denominated
stocks and bonds. The CSRC has increased the quotas for QFII to
$80 billion from $30 billion, according to a  statement  in April.
China had approved a combined $26 billion of investment quotas
for 141 QFIIs as of May 8.  The  Bank of Korea , the nation’s central bank, said in March
it received permission to invest $300 million in China, while
Korea Investment Corp., the sovereign wealth fund, said the same
month it was granted a quota of $200 million.  China may set up a new mechanism for foreign pension funds
to invest in the country’s capital markets, the Wall Street
Journal reported today, citing unidentified people familiar with
the matter. The program would be separate from QFII, and  Taiwan ,
 Hong Kong  and Singapore pension funds without QFII licenses may
be among the first to be included in the new program, the report
said.  Industrial Production  The Shanghai Composite Index was the worst performer among
the world’s 10 biggest markets in 2010 and 2011, tumbling a
combined 33 percent, as the central bank increased  interest
rates  and lenders’ reserve ratios to tame inflation. China’s
growth rate slowed to 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the
slowest pace in almost three years.  China’s  industrial output  increased 9.3 percent in April
from a year earlier, the biggest negative surprise against
forecasts in two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Local-
currency loans of 681.8 billion  yuan  ($108 billion) last month
compared with the median economist estimate of 780 billion yuan.  Banks from Citigroup Inc. to UBS AG cut their economic
growth forecasts after the data. Citigroup projects second-
quarter expansion of 7.5 percent, down from a prior target of
7.9 percent, according to a research note yesterday.  ‘Enormous Potential’  A more moderate rate of economic growth is “desirable from
a long-term perspective,” National Pension’s Jun said. “The
country has enormous potential.”  China’s longest bear market since 2005 is ending amid
government efforts to bolster the economy, strategists at Morgan
Stanley Huaxin Securities and Guotai Junan Securities Co. said
last month. Their buy recommendations two years ago preceded a
34 percent gain in the  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)  Banks’ reserve
ratios will fall 50 basis points, effective May 18, the  People’s
Bank of China  said on its  website  on May 12.  National Pension plans to focus more on Asian markets,
where economic growth is likely to outpace the rest of the
world, Jun said. It aims to open an office in a “key location”
in  Asia , adding to one in  New York  and another to open in  London 
next month.  New Office  National Pension forecast its assets to increase to 565
trillion won ($490 billion) by 2016, according to a government
statement on June 3. The fund is seeking to boost overseas
investments to at least 20 percent by 2016, from about 15
percent in March, to diversify its assets. National Pension had
64.5 percent of assets in domestic bonds and 17.8 percent in
local stocks as of end of 2011, it said.  The fund was set up in 1988 to manage pensions for private-
sector employees and the self-employed. It is overseen by the
nation’s  Ministry of Health and Welfare .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  