-- Harrisburg Ex-Mayor Left Pennsylvania City Near Bankrupt
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/harrisburg-ex-mayor-left-pennsylvania-city-near-bankrupt.html
Stephen Reed, Harrisburg’s mayor for
28 years, pushed  Pennsylvania ’s capital into insolvency as the
more than $500 million in bond deals he oversaw to finance
community development drained city coffers.  An incinerator overhaul, with related debt now topping $300
million, capped the Democrat’s mayoral career. While not the
largest, it was the riskiest of his credit-fueled projects,
which may lead the city of 49,500 to enter bankruptcy as early
as July, after a law barring that step expires.  “He leveraged things and wasn’t concerned about paying any
debt off, just getting more and more money,”  Dan Miller , the
city controller, said of Reed.  Known for enjoying a light beer over ice in his off hours,
Reed, 62, often worked into the night in his City Hall office,
cigarettes and  Diet Coke  at hand. His penchant for borrowing
saddled Harrisburg, where 30 percent of residents live in
poverty, with $459.2 million in debt.  Reed’s indulgence in credit also generated millions of
dollars in bank fees, sometimes for deals that auditors said
didn’t make sense. It even extended to his own home, on which
deed records show he took at least 18 loans over about 35 years.  Reed also used guarantee fees on incinerator debt to boost
Harrisburg’s general fund. Now assets may be sold, including the
trash-to-energy plant to help restore the city’s finances.  Put Off Solutions  “The tragedy of Reed is that he did have 28 years, he did
have a generation, to do positive things,” Miller said in an
interview. “Instead he kicked the can down the road.”  Reed declined to comment about his tenure in an e-mailed
response to six separate inquiries, including by telephone and
visits to his home and office. He left office in 2010.  The litany of borrowing he oversaw ran from $391.3 million
in 1986 for a hydroelectric dam, which regulators blocked, to $7
million for the Harrisburg Senators Double-A baseball team,
which the city sold in 2007. An incinerator audit, released in
January, questioned  interest-rate swaps  with a  Royal Bank of
Canada  unit, including one costing about $8 million.  Calling the audit “fundamentally flawed,” Elisa Barsotti,
a Royal Bank spokeswoman, said the swaps cut the interest costs
tied to the trash-to-energy plant. “We stand by our work.”  Reed, who hasn’t been accused of any crime related to
municipal finances, also pledged the city’s backing for debt
taken on by the Harrisburg Authority, which controls the
incinerator. Reed appointed members of the authority’s board. 
The facility doesn't generate enough revenue to meet its 
obligations.  Collecting Pension  The former mayor, who collects an annual pension of about
$56,000, according to the city controller’s office, now shares
 office space  with and has worked as a consultant for Frederick
Clark, a one-time authority chairman.  “No one did anything wrong,” Clark said by telephone.  The city got fees from the agency for debt guarantees, and
records show some of the money went into municipal accounts set
up under Reed’s control. He used the cash to help finance
municipal development projects that reflected his interest in
history, such as collecting a wooden Indian, wanted posters and
vintage weapons for an Old West museum that never got built. A
showplace dedicated to the Civil War opened in 2001.  Borrowing for one of his earliest plans, the Susquehanna
River dam, opened the door to bankers seeking lucrative
financing fees, said John Brinjac, a former Reed campaign
manager and chief executive officer of Harrisburg-based  Brinjac
Engineering Inc.  The company has worked for the city.  Swarming Bankers  “You had a lot of investment-banking guys, financial
managers, bond counsel people swarming over the city,” he said.  Reed oversaw repeated borrowing to pay off previous debt
while he held office. In 1997, Harrisburg sold securities to
help fund the Civil War museum and to refinance bonds issued two
years earlier.  Harrisburg’s predicament, placing it alongside Stockton,
 California , on the brink of seeking court protection,
underscores the risk of piling up debt. More than $3 billion in
sewer bonds led Jefferson County,  Alabama , to become the
nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy last year.  Property records show Reed used his Harrisburg home, with
peeling green paint and a rusty knocker on the door, to generate
cash. State ethics forms indicate that in some years, he listed
balances of at least $6,500 each on nine credit cards, a number
that fell to seven by 2010, suggesting $45,500 or more in debt.  Curbs Sought  More than once, residents and City Council members went to
court to curb Reed’s power. In 1997, Dauphin County Judge Joseph Kleinfelter ruled that he shouldn’t have spent $2.9 million
obtained from the 1990 municipal-water system sale. Yet the
judge declined to impose a fine, saying he had no doubt that
“the mayor had the best interests of the city in mind” even if
Reed had taken a “Machiavellian” view of his role.  A state ethics panel in 1993 failed to uncover evidence
linking more than $50,000 in political contributions to Reed’s
official actions in hiring donors to work on the dam project.
The commission also found no proof that the private Mayor’s Club
fund, which collected $30,000 from 1982 through 1986, violated
the law. Reed spent the donations on antiques, artwork and
expenses during trips to  Texas ,  New York  and  Israel , according
to the ethics probe.  From 2004 through 2010, 13 percent, or $90,000, of the
mayor’s campaign expenditures were reimbursements to him,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News from financial
reports. Yet the forms didn’t say what the payments covered.  Raises Questions  “If a candidate just turns in a bill for $10,000 for
reimbursement with no definition, we don’t really know whether
that was used for influencing the outcome of an election,” said
Barry Kauffman, executive director of watchdog group Common
Cause Pennsylvania.  Reed also spent more than $19,000 from his campaign fund on
“shipping” from 2005 through 2009, without specifying in
disclosure forms what was sent.  The web of borrowing under Reed left Harrisburg with a debt
of more than eight times its general-fund budget, according to a
recovery plan from David Unkovic, the first state receiver to
take over a Pennsylvania city. After calling for probes of the
incinerator financing, he resigned in March, citing “political
and ethical crosswinds.”  Unkovic has refused requests for comment on his departure.
William B. Lynch, a retired U.S. Air Force general, has been
named to replace him.  Old-Fashioned Methods  As mayor, Reed usually arrived at his office by midday and
worked into the evening, said David Black, president and chief
executive officer of the Harrisburg Regional Chamber & CDREC, or
Capital Region Economic Development Corp. The memorabilia-
stuffed chamber overlooked Restaurant Row, a nightlife district
Reed avoided, preferring take-out meals and a light beer over
ice at a now-closed bar, according to supporter Annette Antoun.  Reed’s confident, resolute air made business leaders feel
welcome, Black said. The mayor’s old-fashioned methods added to
his reputation for hard work. He replied to e-mailed appointment
requests with typewritten notes sent through an aide. Often
smoking, Reed would greet visitors by saying he was swamped,
Black said.  As mayor, Reed cultivated an image of a CEO in command.
Appearing at major floods and fire calls, he sometimes directed
firefighters where to point hoses, said Reizdan Moore, a former
council president. Candidates backed by Reed ousted Moore and
three others after they fought his baseball project.  Ousted in Primary  A 1967 graduate of Bishop McDevitt High School in the city,
Reed drew on a stock of community goodwill, which grew as
blighted downtown buildings became busy bars and restaurants. He
won a state representative’s seat in 1974, and then a post on
the commission governing Dauphin County, which encompasses
Harrisburg. He lost the 2009 mayoral primary election.  After becoming mayor, Reed embarked on development projects
at a time when the city was losing wealthier residents to the
suburbs, pressuring  tax revenue . About half the property in
Harrisburg is government-owned and exempt from levies.  “It looked ugly,” said Joseph Harenza, a Reading,
Pennsylvania, lawyer whose firm,  Stevens & Lee , worked on city
bond issues in the 1980s. “There was not a lot of community
spirit, and it was just a tough place.”  While Reed pushed his projects, Harrisburg’s median
household income slid to about $31,500 in his last years in
office from an inflation-adjusted $53,800 in 1979, U.S. Census
Bureau data show. The amount declined to 61 percent of the
national figure in the latest survey, from 68 percent in 1989.  “When you win, you stand up there, there are accolades,”
said Clark, the former Harrisburg Authority chairman. “When you
don’t do so well, there’s criticism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  