-- AT&T CEO Says Economy Hard to Gauge as Consumers Diverge
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-14T20:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/at-t-ceo-says-economy-hard-to-gauge-as-consumers-diverge.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson  said traditional economic indicators have
become less reliable as the spending patterns of affluent and
lower-income Americans grow further apart.  An economy of haves and have-nots is evident in both the
consumer and business sectors, Stephenson said in an interview
last week at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . Companies and
individuals with money are spending it, while the rest are more
constrained than usual, he said.  Stephenson, who runs the largest  U.S. phone company , has a
broad view of consumer and corporate spending. While he sees
signs of strength in areas such as home construction, there’s a
lingering slump in the number of new businesses being created.
That makes it hard to predict the direction of the economy
almost three years after the official end of the last recession.  “I’ve never seen it like this,” Stephenson said. “Small
business starts are still negative. That used to be the early
warning indicator. When you saw small business starts turn
positive, that was a great sign.”  Government spending  and near-zero  interest rates  have
helped keep the  U.S. economy  growing, even as  Europe  falls back
into recession. America’s GDP will expand 2.3 percent this year,
while Europe’s economic output shrinks 0.3 percent, according to
surveys of economists.  AT&T shares  fell less than 1 percent to $33.53 at the close
today in New York. The stock has climbed 11 percent this year.  ‘Alive and Well’  On the positive side, the high-end consumer market is
“alive and well,” Stephenson said.  “They are spending money,” he said. Those consumers are
so eager to upgrade their phones that it’s constraining Dallas-
based AT&T’s network, Stephenson said. “They’ll upgrade as fast
as you upgrade.”  AT&T also is looking at the need to increase spending on
network facilities to handle new  home construction , he said.
That hasn’t happened in four or five years, Stephenson said.  The business sector’s continued doldrums are working
against those trends, he said. While larger corporations are
spending more on telecommunications, those investments are going
toward efficiency and not toward expansion.  The real driver is businesses “hiring and putting people
on payroll -- that’s when our business catches leverage and
starts to take off,” Stephenson said. “We’re still not seeing
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  