-- Tata Steel Seen Gaining From New Quality Rules: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-05-15T11:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/tata-steel-seen-gaining-from-new-quality-rules-corporate-india.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  Steel Authority of
India Ltd.  and  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  may increase their share of the
$34 billion Indian market as new rules to upgrade product
quality force smaller rivals to shut factories.  The  Bureau of Indian Standards  will introduce norms in
September to improve steel used in buildings, bridges and roads,
G.K. Basak, executive secretary at the steel ministry’s joint
plant committee, said in a May 14 interview. The government
plans to improve the quality of infrastructure steel in the wake
of last year’s earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , he said.  The rules will impact about 11 million metric tons of low-
grade steel capacity, according to a Bloomberg survey of six
companies, government officials and analysts.  “With the focus on quality, Tata Steel, Steel Authority
and JSW, which are raising capacity, will expand market share
and profits,” said  Niraj Shah , an analyst Fortune Equity
Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai. “Demand for construction steel is
set to grow at a much faster pace than flat steel with higher
spending on roads, ports and power infrastructure.”  Tata Steel gained 2.4 percent, the most in six weeks, to
418.15 rupees at the close in Mumbai. JSW, in which Japan’s JFE
Steel Corp. holds a 15 percent stake, surged 5.4 percent to 653
rupees, the most in a week. Steel Authority climbed 2 percent.
The key Sensitive Index rose 0.7 percent.  China , the world’s biggest steel producer and user, began
improving product quality after the Sichuan earthquake in 2008,
with the industry ministry reiterating in January the need to
use more high-strength bars in construction.  Low Cost  About 23 percent of  India ’s 88 million ton steel capacity
comes from low-cost induction furnaces that use coal and are
unable to remove phosphorus and other impurities that weaken the
alloy. While using gas will lift the grade, the producers will
need funds, time and technology to switch to the new fuel, said
R.S. Borwankar, assistant vice-president at Welspun Maxsteel
Ltd., which uses gas to fire its furnaces.  “Low-priced and poor-quality products will be out of the
market,” Mumbai-based Borwankar said in a telephone interview.
“That’ll help in building stronger structures that can
withstand natural calamities.”  Mandatory standards for steel products are set in most
major economies, including China and Japan, according to  BSI , a
global standards provider. Nations without their own rules adopt
either the European or the U.S. guidelines.  Certification from the Bureau of Indian Standards for steel
products, now optional, will become mandatory in September,
Basak said. While the large  steel mills  that make certified
products will benefit, steel produced in induction furnaces will
need to invest in further refining, he said.  Steel Demand  India’s steel demand is expected to grow 8 percent in the
year ending March 31, faster than the previous year’s 5.5
percent, Basak said last month. While the new guidelines will
also apply to imports, India’s overseas steel purchases are
unlikely to be hampered as they mostly comprise flat products
used in cars and appliances, Fortune Equity’s Shah said.  India’s imports of steel products gained 0.4 percent to 6.8
million tons in the year ended March 31, according to steel
ministry data. Products coming under the new quality norms will
include bars, wires, ingots and structural steel.  “Imposing mandatory quality standards for steel is a bold
step by India,” K.T. Chacko, director at New Delhi-based Indian
Institute of  Foreign Trade , said in a telephone interview.
“It’ll be wrong to see this as a technical barrier to imports,
as the onus is more on the domestic industry.”  Legal Recourse  Enforcing the new rules may not be straightforward. Small
steelmakers apprehending closure may approach local courts to
restrain the ministry from imposing the new quality standards,
said S.C. Mathur,  executive director  at Cold-Rolled Steel
Manufacturers Association of India.  “Considering the challenges, implementing the order is
neither possible nor necessary,” Mathur said.  Large producers such as Tata Steel and JSW have in the past
six months already taken market share from smaller mills, which
became inviable because of high  interest rates  and raw material
costs, Fortune Equity’s Shah said. The central bank increased
key interest rates a record 13 times since March 2010, before
lowering them last month.  Prices of construction steel have risen 8 percent since
February, while flat steel remained little changed. A decline in
supplies and higher demand may lead to an increase in long-
product prices when the new rules come into effect, Shah said.  Tata Steel, Steel Authority and JSW would together have
increased capacity by 45 percent to about 40 million tons in the
two years ending March 31 on forecasts that consumption will
surge on  government spending . Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
plans to attract $1 trillion in investments by 2017 to build
 power plants , ports and highways, to support economic growth.  “The new guidelines will give us an opportunity to enter
new markets,” said Seshagiri Rao, joint managing director at
JSW Steel, India’s third-largest producer. “Our products match
the best in the industry and we’ll produce more this year
following our capacity increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  