-- Maurice Greenberg Asks New York Court to Hear Lawsuit Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-15T01:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/maurice-greenberg-asks-new-york-court-to-hear-lawsuit-appeal-1-.html
Former  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg asked
New York’s highest court to let him challenge parts of a ruling
that allowed a state lawsuit against him to proceed.  An appeals court in  Manhattan  last week affirmed New York
state Supreme Court Justice Charles Ramos’s October 2010 order
denying motions by Greenberg and former AIG Chief Financial
Officer Howard Smith to dismiss the lawsuit.  Former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  sued
Greenberg and Smith in 2005 in state court in Manhattan,
accusing them of using sham reinsurance deals and other
transactions to distort the insurer’s financial condition.  Greenberg and Smith today filed court papers asking the
state Court of Appeals in  Albany  for permission to challenge
parts of the appellate court ruling, said  David Boies , an
attorney for Greenberg with Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP. The
filing couldn’t immediately be confirmed with the court.  “This case was filed almost seven years ago,” Boies said
in a statement. “In that time, almost all of the original
allegations have been rightfully dismissed. All that remains in
dispute are two transactions, each of which are more stale than
the case itself, and neither which were material to AIG.”  The main issue that should be resolved by the Court of
Appeals is whether the New York attorney general may invoke the
state’s Martin Act securities fraud statue and executive law to
attempt to recover monetary damages from a class of private
shareholders, Boies said.  Laws ‘Conflict’  The state laws “conflict with the federal laws
specifically enacted to provide uniformity and certainty in the
regulation of nationally traded securities,” Boies said.  “We also believe the Court of Appeals should resolve
questions regarding the evidentiary standards under which a
defendant’s motion for summary judgment may be opposed,” he
said.  The defendants’ efforts to seek further review is
“completely without merit,” James Freedland, a spokesman for
the  New York  Attorney General’s Office, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We are pleased that the court has paved the way for a
trial to hold the defendants accountable for perpetrating a
major reinsurance scheme to defraud investors, and we are
confident that their latest attempt to reverse decades of
settled law to escape responsibility for their misconduct will
be rejected,” Freedland said.  The appellate court in last week’s ruling also reversed
Ramos’s order granting the attorney general’s request for
summary judgment on another transaction known as CAPCO, saying
that “summary resolution of their knowledge or participation in
this alleged fraud cannot be determined as a matter of law.”  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  