-- Aussie Falls Below U.S. Dollar Parity on Greek Concerns
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-05-14T02:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/aussie-falls-below-u-s-dollar-parity-on-greek-concerns.html
The Australian dollar declined to
less than parity with its U.S. counterpart for the first time
this year amid concern that  Greece  will leave the euro bloc,
curbing demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, remained lower against the yen after completing a
three-week drop amid a worldwide slump in shares.  Australia ’s
dollar weakened and bond yields fell to records even after
 China , the South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner,
lowered banks’  reserve requirements  on May 12 to support growth.  “Greece’s exit from the euro is becoming more and more a
mainstream discussion, and this is potentially destabilizing for
markets,” said Emma Lawson, a currency strategist in Sydney at
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  “In this generally risk-off
environment the risk is to the downside in the Aussie,”  Australia’s currency fell to 99.96 U.S. cents, the lowest
since Dec. 20, before trading at $1.0002 as of 12:28 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0020 on May 11. It lost 0.1 percent to 80.02
yen.  Government bonds  rose, sending yields on notes due in three
years or longer to new all-time lows. The 10-year rate fell five
basis points to a record 3.238 percent. The rate on the 15-year
security touched 3.573 percent, the lowest in data compiled by
Bloomberg that goes back to 1991.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 1.2 percent in the
week ending May 11 and the MSCI World Index of developed-market
shares fell 1.8 percent.  Greek President Karolos Papoulias will meet with party
leaders today after Syriza, the largest anti-bailout party,
rejected a unity government following last week’s inconclusive
elections. The nation may face new national elections unless a
government is formed following the May 6 vote.  Greek withdrawal “is not necessarily fatal, but it is not
attractive,” European Central Bank Governing Council member
 Patrick Honohan  said in Tallinn on May 12. An exit was
“technically” possible yet would damage the euro, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  