-- Australia’s $1.4 Trillion Pension Funds Chase Property Assets
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-05-14T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/australia-s-1-4-trillion-pension-funds-chase-property-assets.html
Australian pension funds, managers of
about $1.4 trillion in assets, plan a property buying binge that
may drive up prices, as new laws force employers to increase
contributions to retirement savings programs.  Construction and Building Union Super  and  AustralianSuper 
plan to double investments in offices, malls and retirement
villages, seeking income-producing assets that have potential to
rise in value.  Industry Superannuation Property Trust , the
property-investment manager of A$7.5 billion ($7.5 billion)
owned by 23 pension funds, expanded assets under management 16.7
percent since 2010 as clients reinvested returns.  Superannuation funds, as the managers of the world’s
fourth-biggest pension pool are known, will almost double to
A$35 billion their investments in privately owned property over
the next two years, said Martin Lamb, Sydney-based director for
Asia-Pacific real estate at  Russell Investments . That will
exacerbate a scarcity of prime real estate, raising prices,
compressing yields, and eventually sapping returns.  “We are poised for the highest ever new amount of super
capital to be allocated to private property over the next two
years,” Lamb, who helps oversee $140.8 billion, said in an
interview. Investors will benefit as the new capital pushes
values higher, Lamb said, though “supers will be faced with the
prospect of diluting their returns as they chase assets.”  Pension savings are compulsory for workers in  Australia ,
with the government-mandated employer contribution to
superannuation payments set to increase to 12 percent of wages
by July 2019, from 9 percent now.  Allocations  Pension funds  invested  an average 7 percent of capital in
unlisted property and 3 percent in listed property in the year
ended June 30, according to data from the Australian Prudential
Regulatory Authority. Local shares made up 29 percent,
international shares 24 percent and domestic bonds 10 percent.  Local pensions’ median balanced option -- the default for
as much as 80 percent of Australians -- lost 1.87 percent in the
2011 calendar year, as stocks were roiled by  Europe ’s debt
crisis, according to pension-fund research company  Super Ratings .
Direct commercial property, in contrast, had a total  return  of
10.5 percent, according to real estate researcher Investment
Property Databank Ltd.  AustralianSuper, an industry pension fund with 1.8 million
members, plans to consider farmland, timberland and retirement
properties as part of an allocation to alternative investments,
in addition to commercial property, as it doubles its  real
estate  holdings to about A$8 billion by 2016, Elana Rubin,
chairwoman of the fund, said at a conference in March.  Rental Income  “We’ll be shifting more to core real estate property and
away from opportunistic investing,” she said. “We’re going to
increase our weighting to core real estate by focusing on
properties where a substantial part of the return to investors
is underwritten by secure and sustainable rental income.”  A fifth of the fund’s property could be overseas in five
years, primarily in Europe and  North America , from less than 10
percent now, said Jack McGougan, head of property at the pension.  “We’re trying to preempt the fact that if we double our
size, there’s going to be fewer domestic opportunities to access
the high-quality properties that we’re looking for,” he said.  While Australia has benefited from demand for resources
from China and  India , it has also experienced five straight
quarters of  home price  declines, contraction in services and
manufacturing, and slower-than-expected  economic growth . The
central bank reduced its benchmark  interest rate  by half a
percentage point this month, the deepest cut in three years.  More Deals  Limited supply of office buildings will raise rents in
Australia by 3.8 percent and values by 3 percent by 2016, Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. figures show. Industrial property rents will
add 3.2 percent and values 4.1 percent, while retail rents will
climb 3.3 percent and values 3.6 percent, the Chicago-based
broker said.  About A$1.4 billion of  transactions  involving commercial
properties priced at more than A$20 million each took place in
the first quarter of 2012, higher than comparable periods in the
past three years, property broker  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , based in  Los
Angeles , said in March.  Institutional investors are willing to accept lower returns
for prime properties to mitigate global risks, Rob Sewell,
regional director for institutional property at CBRE, said in a
February report.  Industry Superannuation Property Trust has boosted funds
under management to A$7.5 billion in 2012 as clients reinvested
proceeds rather than withdrawing them, said Chief Executive
Officer Daryl Browning.  Domestic Bias  Local pension funds will boost their real estate
allocations to 10.5 percent of total funds over the next two
years, according to a report by Russell based on a survey of
institutional investors it conducted with two industry bodies.
Almost 97 percent of investments will go into domestic real
estate at a time the supply of prime property is forecast to
grow by 2 percent to 3 percent a year, it said.  “The prospect exists that a substantial amount of domestic
capital is on course to chase a largely static set of property
assets,” according to the October report.  CBUS, the largest building industry pension fund, expects
to double its  property investment  to A$5.2 billion in five years
from A$2.6 billion now while keeping its real estate allocation
at 14 percent, according to Trish Donohue, executive manager for
investments. It will seek investments in development projects
through its subsidiary CBUS Property, and in prime commercial
property, she said.  “Property gives you a combination of capital return and
income-returning assets,” she said.  Replacing Banks  Pension investment manager  Queensland Investment Corp. ,
which oversees A$8.6 billion of property, will invest A$2.5
billion over the next five to seven years in developments,
managing director Robert Carter said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “We might see new buildings being developed, which might
be funded with superfund money, rather than bank debt,” CBRE’s
Sewell predicted. “The other shift will be super funds
investing in property debt.”  Sydney-based  AMP Capital (AMP) , a unit of asset manager AMP Ltd.,
will buy more offices and warehouses for some of its funds,
driven by “reasonably attractive entry levels,” according to
Debbie Alliston, head of  portfolio management .  AMP Capital, whose diversified funds manage about A$60
billion, primarily in pension money, is also investing A$190
million in real estate debt for Axa Life, the pensions unit of
Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd., which AMP bought from French
insurer  Axa SA. (CS)  It plans to expand its commercial loan pool to
as much as A$500 million with contributions from pension funds
by May 2013, according to Linda Cunningham, chief manager for
commercial lending at AMP Capital.  “There’s a lot of capital chasing prime property,” CBRE’s
Sewell said. “You’re going to see values rising for those
assets. Some of these funds, to get these assets, to get that
money invested, are going to be prepared to accept a lower
return out of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  