-- Avon Products Shareholder Seeks Records Over Bribery Probe
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-14T23:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/avon-products-shareholder-seeks-records-over-bribery-probe-1-.html
An  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  shareholder
asked a New York court to compel the cosmetics maker to let it
inspect its books and records in connection with a bribery
probe.  The York County,  Pennsylvania ,  retirement plan  today asked
a New York state Supreme Court judge in  Manhattan  to order Avon
to allow it to inspect the company’s books and records in order
to identify “mismanagement and breaches of fiduciary duties”
by the board and executives and assess whether the directors
lack the “independence necessary to exercise their business
judgment,” according to the court filing.  The case arises out of an internal probe into potential
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in 2008 that has
escalated into a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation of Avon, according to the court filing.  In regulatory filings last year, Avon said it had fired
four executives suspected of paying bribes to officials in
 China . The company also disclosed an internal investigation into
its compliance with the FCPA. The ex-executives included the
general manager and finance chief of the China unit, which
generates 2 percent of Avon’s revenue.  ‘Internal Controls’  “Despite having spent over $240 million, conducting a
four-year investigation which it admitted has no end in sight,
and having knowledge that Avon executives are sabotaging efforts
to implement internal controls designed to comply with the FCPA,
Avon has refused to produce the requested documents,” lawyers
for the plaintiffs said in the filing.  Avon said in October that it was the subject of SEC probes
into its international operations and its dealings with
financial analysts. A person familiar with the matter said in
February that the company is also the subject of a U.S. grand
jury investigation into whether ex-employees in China paid
bribes to officials in violation of U.S. anti-corruption laws.  Avon confirmed on May 11 that the SEC is investigating
trading activity before Coty Inc. offered to buy the door-to-
door cosmetics retailer last month for $10 billion.  York County has been a shareholder of New York-based Avon
since at least July 2005 and currently owns about 21,500 shares,
according to documents filed in  New York  State Supreme Court in
Manhattan today.  An Avon Products spokesperson didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on today’s court filing.  The case is County of York Retirement Plan v. Avon Products
Inc., 651673/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 