-- Laxative-Free Scans Work Almost as Well as Colonoscopies
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-05-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/laxative-free-scans-work-almost-as-well-as-colonoscopies.html
Colon cancer  screenings that don’t
require laxatives are almost as effective as colonoscopies and
may encourage more people to be tested, researchers said.  Computed tomography, or CT scans that add a contrast agent
to identify fecal material in the colon, found polyps at a size
most likely to turn cancerous in 91 percent of patients,
according to a study published today in the  Annals of Internal
Medicine . That compares with 95 percent of patients identified
using standard colonoscopy, which involves clearing with
laxatives and then inserting a tiny camera into the bowel.  People are reluctant to have the procedure because they
have to spend the day before taking laxatives to clear out the
bowels to remove feces that may interfere with seeing lesions.
The results suggest a less-invasive approach may work just as
well, although more studies are needed, the researchers said.  “Rightly or wrongly, people really do harbor a strong
aversion to the prep,” said Michael Zalis, director of CT
Colonography at  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston  and an
associate professor of radiology at  Harvard Medical School , in a
May 11 telephone interview. “To the degree that we can make
something easier for them, that’s an important step. Nobody
should be dying of colon cancer. The key is getting people
involved in screening,”  General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s biggest maker of medical
imaging equipment, and the  American Cancer Society  funded the
study.  103,000 New Cases  More than 103,000 new cases of colon cancer will be
diagnosed this year and about 50,000 people die of the disease
in the U.S., according to the  National Cancer Institute . Many of
the deaths could be prevented by screening, said Zalis, the
study’s lead author.  The study included 605 adults ages 50 to 85 years who were
at average to moderate risk for colon cancer. Patients first
underwent CT-scan colon screenings with contrast and then the
more-common optical colonoscopy with laxatives.  To prepare for the  CT scan screening , patients ate a low-
fiber diet for two days before the procedure and ingested small
doses of a contrast agent to help identify the fecal material in
the intestine. Software programs developed by the researchers
were able to take out the labeled feces to analyze the images
for lesions.  Patients then also underwent a standard colonoscopy, which
involved taking a laxative with as much as a gallon of liquid
the day before the procedure. During a colonoscopy, patients are
sedated while a fiberoptic tube with a camera and light are
inserted into the intestine. Patients also completed
questionnaires about the procedures.  Cancer Detection  The researchers found that the CT scan screening detected
20 out of 22 confirmed lesions that were 10 millimeters or
greater in size, which are most likely to become cancerous,
Zalis said. The optical colonoscopy found 21 out of the 22, he
said. During the study there were three cases of colon cancer
diagnosed among the patients, all detected by both screening
types.  CT scan with contrast wasn’t as good at finding smaller
polyps, the study showed. The laxative-free test found 59
percent of lesions 6 millimeters or bigger, while the laxative
test identified 76 percent, Zalis said.  The false-positive rate for the laxative-free scan for
polyps 10 millimeters and larger was 15 percent compared with 11
percent for colonoscopy, the study showed.  Not Good Enough  Douglas Rex , a professor of medicine at Indiana University
School of Medicine in Indianapolis, who wasn’t involved in the
study but researches colon cancer screenings, said a procedure
that’s unable to identify smaller polyps won’t be a tool that
experts would consider good enough to use on patients. He said
many patients want polyps that are six millimeters and larger
removed.  “The results of this study indicate that patients are
better off having a colonoscopy and only choosing a study like
CTC if they can’t tolerate or refuse the prep,” he said in a
May 12 e-mail. “The advantages of screening colonoscopy are
worth the inconvenience of the bowel preparation. This test is
an alternative if you can’t tolerate the preparation but the
results are not as reliable as colonoscopy and commonly lead to
unnecessary colonoscopy to find a lesion that isn’t really
there.”  He said a head-to-head study comparing CT scan colonography
to optical colonoscopy in the U.S. would be useful.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  