-- BackOffice Associates in Talks With Goldman Sachs for an IPO
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-05-14T20:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/backoffice-associates-in-talks-with-goldman-sachs-for-an-ipo.html
BackOffice Associates LLC , a provider
of data management software and services, is talking to bankers
about an initial public offering, Chief Executive Officer  David
Booth  said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., (GS)  an investor in the South Harwich,
Massachusetts-based company, is among banks discussing an IPO,
Booth said in an interview. BackOffice hasn’t determined the
size or price, though Booth said the company might sell more
than a 10 to 15 percent stake. Proceeds would fund acquisitions
and expansion outside the U.S.  “In the next 12-15 months, we’ll be ready to file an S-
1,” Booth said, referring to the U.S. regulatory filing
required before an IPO. “That’s the direction.”  BackOffice is meeting with bankers following the successful
debut of Web-data analysis provider  Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , which has
surged 82 percent since its IPO in April. John Kinzer, who
helped take education-software maker Blackboard Inc. public in
2004, joined BackOffice as chief financial officer last week,
when the company also added former SAP AG executive Rex Ahlstrom
as chief strategy officer and hired Mark Logan to lead sales.  Founded in 1996, BackOffice has about 350 clients --
including many Fortune 500 companies -- which use its software
and services to streamline databases for sales and customer
contacts. It helps businesses switch from custom database
systems to alternatives made by SAP or  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   The global market for master data management software will
grow 21 percent to $1.9 billion this year,  estimates  researcher
Gartner Inc. Other companies competing for this market include
 Informatica Corp. (INFA) , Talend, Utopia Inc. and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Revenue Growth  BackOffice is “highly” profitable, and has annual sales
of $100 million to $200 million, Booth said. Revenue growth is
in double-digits, he said.  At about three times sales -- a valuation typical for this
market -- the company may be worth $300 million to $600 million,
said  Tom Taulli , who runs IPOPlaybook.com in  Newport Beach ,
California.  “Data is a hot business right now,” Taulli said in an
interview. “The company is addressing a pain point for
customers.”  The company is expanding operations in  Canada , Brazil, U.K.
and Germany, and later plans to expand in Japan,  China  and
Australia, Booth said. Typically, BackOffice has bought one
company a year.  “My expectation would be we’d ratchet that up,” Booth
said. “We’ll be looking at acquiring some of the smaller
players out there. In the next several years, we believe we can
grow to a $500 million company and eventually to $1 billion.”  Michael Duvally, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  