-- Bonus Curbs Endorsed by EU Lawmakers in Vote on Basel Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-15T10:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/bank-bonus-curbs-endorsed-by-eu-lawmakers-in-vote-on-basel-rules.html
Banks may face tougher bonus curbs
including a ban on awards stemming from carry-trade profits on
cheap European Central Bank loans under proposed changes to a
law on Basel capital rules endorsed by European Union lawmakers.  Lenders should also be forbidden from giving staff bonus
awards that exceed fixed salaries, in the proposals approved by
members of the European Parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee in Brussels yesterday. The amendments will be
part of the EU assembly’s negotiation position in talks with
governments on the legislation.  “The parliament has taken a firm line on variable
remuneration,”  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the committee, said
in an e-mail. “It is clear that these ultra-high levels of
remuneration cannot continue, as indeed recent shareholder votes
are beginning to show.”  Lawmakers and governments in the 27-nation EU face a
January deadline to implement an overhaul of bank capital and
liquidity rules agreed on by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in the wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The rules would more than triple the core reserves
that lenders must have to protect themselves from risk, and
would force banks to hold a minimum amount of easy-to-sell
assets to survive a credit squeeze.  Limiting the proportion of bonuses in compensation
“intrudes on the important role of shareholders to determine
key questions on pay and commercial strategy,” Simon Lewis,
chief executive of the Association for Financial Markets in
 Europe , said in an e-mailed statement. “It could also introduce
additional fragility to the European banking system by
increasing banks’ fixed costs.”  ECB Loans  The EU legislators voted to add the ECB loan and bonus
rules to a draft implementing law presented last year by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief. The final version of
the law must be negotiated between the parliament and national
governments. The first round of talks is scheduled for May 23,
Bowles said after yesterday’s vote.  The ECB has flooded financial markets with more than 1
trillion euros ($1.29 trillion) of cheap loans to prevent credit
markets from freezing up. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has left
open the option of further stimulus if the region’s economy
continues to deteriorate. The interest on the loans is tied to
the average benchmark rate, currently at 1 percent, over the
maturity of the loan.  The carry trade involves investors borrowing money at a
lower  interest rate  to buy higher yielding securities. Aside
from the bonus restrictions, the parliament is also seeking to
force lenders to disclose their profits derived from the carry
trade using the ECB loans.  Finance Ministers Clash  Yesterday’s vote is being followed today by a meeting of
the region’s 27 finance ministers who failed to reach a deal on
the dossier during 16 hours of talks on May 2-3.  Ministers have clashed over how much freedom national
regulators should have to impose tougher capital rules on their
banks than those required in the draft law.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said
that the proposal could prevent the U.K. from fully implementing
tougher rules for lenders recommended by a panel led by former
Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers .  Finance ministers will review compromise proposals prepared
by  Denmark , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU.  Lawmakers in the parliament voted yesterday to give nations
some room for maneuver to go beyond the EU-mandated capital
levels.  The parliament text offers national authorities
“sufficient flexibility within an EU framework,” Bowles said.
Nations will be able “to take the necessary action to protect
themselves.”  Living Wills  Lawmakers also voted to make other additions to Barnier’s
proposals, including that banks should have to prepare so-called
living wills indicating how they could be safely wound down if
they fail.  Banks would also have to disclose more information on
 repurchase agreements  and their other so-called securities
lending activities.  Governments have avoided seeking extra curbs on bonuses in
the draft law, saying that the legislation is targeted at
improving lenders’ stability rather than tackling excessive
remuneration.  Tough Fight  Philippe Lamberts, the lawmaker leading work on the rules
for the parliament’s Green group, said he expected a tough fight
between the assembly and EU government negotiators over the
bonus restrictions, which European lenders have warned could
make it harder for them to attract top talent.  “We will stand firm,” Lamberts said in an interview.
Members of the parliament will “expose” attempts by
governments to resist the curbs, he said. “Then we’ll see if
they want to be seen defending these people.”  In yesterday’s vote, lawmakers included a so-called
safeguard clause that would allow the region to roll back the
implementation of the Basel rules if other nations don’t comply
with them. They also called on regulators to review and compare
the models lenders use to assess the riskiness of their assets,
and so calculate how much capital they need to hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  