-- Baseball Fires Arbitrator Who Overturned Braun Drug Suspension
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/baseball-fires-das-arbitrator-who-overturned-braun-suspension.html
Major League Baseball fired Shyam
Das, the arbitrator who overturned Milwaukee Brewers outfielder
 Ryan Braun ’s drug suspension this year, and rescinded a  drug-
related penalty against a minor-league player.  Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney, who confirmed Das’s
dismissal, declined yesterday to comment on a reason for the
move.  Das had been baseball’s permanent arbitrator since 1999.
Baseball’s labor agreement says arbitrators can be removed by
the league or its players association at any time with written
notice.  Braun, the 2011 National League Most Valuable Player,
received a 50-game suspension last year for violating baseball’s
drug rules. The suspension was overturned in February by a
three-person arbitration panel consisting of Das and one
representative each from MLB and the MLBPA.  Das had the deciding vote in the panel’s 2-1 decision,
which Braun said resulted from the test taker’s mishandling of
his urine sample.  Rob Manfred , MLB’s executive vice president for labor
relations, said in a statement following that decision that
“ Major League Baseball  vehemently disagrees with the decision
rendered today by arbitrator Shyam Das.”  MLB officials announced yesterday that the 100-game drug
suspension of Eliezer Alfonzo, a catcher in the  Colorado
Rockies ’ organization, had been rescinded because “his
suspension raised issues that were nearly identical to those
resolved in the arbitration involving Ryan Braun.”  “It is not anticipated that any other future cases will be
impacted by the circumstances raised in the grievances of these
two players,” baseball officials said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  