-- Belka Says Poland's Positive Rates Mark Return to Normal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2012-05-14T10:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/belka-says-poland-s-positive-rates-mark-return-to-normal.html
Poland’s rate increase last week
marked a “return to normal” because it restores positive real
interest rates and buttresses confidence in  price stability ,
central bank Governor Marek Belka said today.  The following are excerpts from Belka’s interview published
today on the Obserwatorfinansowy.pl website operated by the
Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw.  On inflation:  “The Council doesn’t react to monthly inflation figures;
it looks at what happened in recent months and what is likely to
happen in the next few months. Today, the inflation rate is
bouncing around 4 percent, but the important thing is its
stubborn persistence at this high level.  “The Council saw that the inflation rate was persistently
high and signaled this in its statements. However, we needed to
wait for a full set of data from the first quarter before making
a decision. You must remember that the March inflation forecast
was essentially based on data from the previous year. So the
first-quarter figures were key to verifying our knowledge of
inflation and the economic growth rate. We only had a complete
set of data at the end of April. The data confirmed our view
that there won’t be a drastic, significant economic slowdown.
From what we hear at the  Central Statistical Office , the economy
expanded at a 3.5 percent rate in the first quarter, despite
weaker global growth. Companies are also in good shape, while
consumption has stayed at a good level.  “At the same time, we saw that the monthly figures weren’t
showing a gradual fall in the inflation rate. Our first
opportunity to react was the May meeting and that is why we made
the decision to increase rates. However, we’d already sent a
clear signal in our statements that the Council was more and
more concerned about the persistently high inflation rate.”  On “spooking” markets with talk of a rate increase:  “A policy of direct inflation targeting has to be aimed at
influencing expectations of future inflation. If we were to
tolerate persistently high inflation, we’d be violating our own
policy guidelines. We had to send an appropriate signal and
gradually increase its intensity.  “Spooking markets is nothing more than preparing them.
Only a few months ago they were expecting rate cuts, not an
increase. That would have been a shock. The Council consciously
decided to prepare markets for a possible rate hike, we didn’t
want a surprise. Unfortunately, investors didn’t want to listen
for quite some time. Now I hope they will pay close attention to
our opinions and not just rely on their own judgment.”  On the impact of higher rates on economic growth:  “It’s no secret that rate increases don’t foster economic
growth. However, our view of the economy is more optimistic than
that of most analysts. The economy is slowing, as everyone
expected, but more gradually than had been feared. Next year
growth should rebound, which can be seen in the government’s own
budget forecasts for 2013. I wouldn’t be concerned about any
negative effect on growth. We can expect to see the impact in
four to six quarters and it will be to stabilize growth.  “In the first half of 2011, we definitely had a tightening
of monetary policy. Raising  interest rates  by 100 basis points
was tightening, but from an abnormally low level, by Polish
standards, of 3.5 percent. I call last week’s decision a return
to normal in monetary policy, not tightening. After the increase
interest rates are still relatively low, but at least they’re
now positive in real terms.  “The experience of emerging-market countries shows that
keeping real interest rates negative for too long demolishes an
inflation-targeting strategy. It erodes newly-acquired
confidence in the central bank and uproots inflation
expectations. People have confidence in the zloty because they
believe that inflation won’t spin out of control. Of course they
complain about low interest on bank accounts, but at least
they’re not losing money. And in most developed countries,
customers are losing money on their deposits. We can’t risk
spoiling that. After the rate increase we returned to positive
real interest rates. That’s why I call it a return to normal.”  On the future rate outlook:  “Will there be another rate increase? Let’s not judge that
now. The Council signaled that it’s determined to fight
inflation and I think it was a powerful signal. You can see from
the scale of the reaction.”  On the impact of the EU crisis on Polish monetary policy:  “We’re taking account of European developments in our
monetary policy, but it’s not a nervous reaction. Our monetary
policy is accommodative and we’re not trying to curb inflation
at all costs, because we know that the economic cost could be
very high. Our interest rates are higher than in the euro area
or the U.S., but thanks to that, we have monetary policy ready
to use to protect the economy if there were a drastic worsening
of  Poland ’s economic outlook. The developed countries have been
stripped of this weapon since their interest rates are
practically at zero. That’s why they had to resort to
quantitative easing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  