-- BHP to Assess Value of Shale Assets, Cut Gas Drilling
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-05-14T09:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/bhp-plans-to-take-accounting-snapshot-of-shale-gas-deals.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  plans to decide at
the end of next month whether to write down the value of the
U.S. shale gas assets it acquired for $20 billion, while cutting
back on drilling natural gas wells until prices recover.  Australia ’s largest oil and gas producer will take an
“accounting snapshot” as of June 30, when its financial year
ends, J. Michael Yeager, chief executive officer of BHP’s
petroleum division, said today at a media briefing in Adelaide
when asked about potential writedowns.  BHP’s  foray  into U.S. shale gas has been hit by a plunge in
natural gas prices to a decade low, prompting Citigroup Inc. to
say in a May 1 report that the mining and energy company may cut
the value of the assets by as much as $5 billion. BHP has
increased production of higher-priced liquids from its shale
fields following a similar decision by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “It looks like they have paid a lot of money for those
shale assets,” Steven Robinson, a Sydney-based senior
investment manager at Alleron Investment Management Ltd. who
helps oversee about A$2 billion ($2 billion) including BHP
shares, said by phone. “What you want to see from BHP is the
investments that they’re making are generating at least the same
sort of return on investment as their existing operations.”  Gas Slump  U.S. gas prices have declined about 46 percent since Marius Kloppers, BHP’s CEO, announced the company’s entry into shale on
Feb. 22 last year with the $4.75 billion purchase of the
Fayetteville shale assets from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  The
world’s biggest mining company also acquired  Petrohawk Energy
Corp. for $15.1 billion, including debt.  The purchases followed three deals of more than $100
billion that were aborted or rejected in the past five years
under the leadership of Kloppers, including hostile bids for Rio
Tinto Group and Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  “There have been a lot of investments that BHP has made
over a very long timeframe that haven’t necessarily been that
positive,” said Robinson. “It’s BHP’s traditional assets that
are  earning  all the money for them.”  Petrohawk reported a $55 million loss in the three months
to March 31, wider than the $29 million loss a year earlier, the
company said May 11. BHP’s net income fell 5.5 percent to $9.9
billion in the six months ended Dec. 31, the Melbourne-based
company said Feb. 8.  BHP boosted liquids production from its onshore acreage in
the U.S. by 35 percent in the quarter ended March 31, compared
with the previous three months, the company said in April.  Petroleum Boost  The company plans to recover about 1.5 billion barrels of
liquids in the U.S., or 500 million barrels more than what BHP
expected in November, Yeager said today.  BHP expects to spend “a little less than” the $4 billion
it previously targeted for its onshore U.S. operations this
financial year as it shifts toward liquids, Yeager said. BHP
plans to increase that investment next year, he said.  “ Gas prices  could stay down, they could get back up, but
whatever they do, we will have an advantaged position we think
over the longer term,” he said. “We can drill wells that do
not depend on gas prices for their economics for a minimum of
five years, maybe 10, because of our endowment of liquids.”  While BHP is also considering increasing its stake in some
petroleum liquids acreage in the U.S., it would be “impractical
to make another large acquisition, Yeager said.  ‘‘There’s running room in the plays that we’re already
in,” he said. However, “we’re not doing anything of a material
nature until we get more comfortable that we’ve got bedded down
what we have.”  Though the company is scaling back drilling of wells to
extract gas -- released through a process where shale-rock
formations are injected with water, sand and chemicals -- the
commodity will be valuable in the long term, Yeager said.  “The long term view we have is it’s irrefutable that this
is going to be valuable,” Yeager said. “If we have to take an
accounting snapshot here, we hope everyone knows we’ll take
another accounting snapshot in the future. When circumstances
change, whatever action we take now may get reversed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  