-- BMC Adopts Takeover Defenses After Elliott Gains 5% Stake
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-05-14T20:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/bmc-adopts-takeover-defenses-after-elliott-acquires-5-stake.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , a maker of
software to manage corporate  computer networks , surged the most
in more than three years after saying Elliott Associates LP
would seek five board seats and push for a sale.  The shares rose 8.7 percent to $43.92 at the close in New
York, for the biggest gain since Oct. 28, 2008. The  stock  had
climbed 23 percent this year before today.  Takeover offers might come from a private-equity firm or
from strategic buyers such as Cisco Systems Inc., Dell Inc.,
Hewlett-Packard Co., Oracle Corp., and International Business
Machines Corp., said Matthew Hedberg, an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets LLC in  Minneapolis . BMC could sell for about $60 a
share, he said in a research note today.  “We don’t believe management is necessarily opposed to
selling at the right price, but view the involvement of an
activist shareholder as more along the lines of short-term trade
versus ultimately maximizing the long-term value of the
company,” said Hedberg, who recommends buying shares and has a
$47 target price on the stock.  Elliott has amassed more than a 5 percent stake in the
company, Houston-based BMC said in a statement today. As a
takeover defense, BMC is issuing one preferred stock purchase
right for each common share outstanding as of May 24. The rights
generally will only become exercisable if a person or group
acquires at least 10 percent of the company’s stock in a
transaction not approved by the board.  ‘Always Open’  “We are always open to any alternative that fully reflects
the value and prospects of the company,” Bob Beauchamp, BMC’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement. “We
do not believe the Elliott proposal is in the best interests of
our stockholders.”  Rather than an outright sale, the company might seek buyers
for its server and mainframe management units, which could be
attractive to private-equity buyers, said Walter Pritchard, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., in a report today. If Elliott gains
board seats, BMC might also consider a stock buyback or a
dividend increase, he said.  “A simple sale of the company even with push by outsider
such as Elliott is unlikely,” said Pritchard, who has a $36
target price and a neutral rating on the shares.  Hewlett-Packard spokesman Michael Thacker said he couldn’t
comment on speculation. IBM spokesman Michael Fay declined to
comment on “rumor or speculation.” Dell spokesman  David Frink ,
Oracle spokeswoman  Deborah Hellinger , and Cisco spokeswoman
Karen Tillman declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley is serving as BMC’s financial adviser, and
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is providing legal advice.  -- With reporting by  Nick Turner  in  New York . Editors: Lisa
Rapaport, James Callan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  