-- Boeing Says 777 Backlog Damps Sales as Airlines Shun Wait
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-14T20:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/boeing-says-777-backlog-damps-sales-as-airlines-shun-wait.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said a wait of more than
three years to deliver new 777 jets is crimping sales of the
wide-body aircraft, which has become airlines’ top choice for
international flights.  To meet demand, Boeing plans to boost production of the
twin-engine jet to 8.3 per month by the first quarter of next
year from seven now. The output increase can’t come soon enough
for John Wojick, chief of Boeing’s North American sales, who
called the wait “frustrating” in an interview.  “That’s probably our biggest challenge in the sales
department right now,” he said. “To be honest with you, if we
could build more today, we could sell more today.”  Last year, carriers snapped up  202  of Chicago-based
Boeing’s 777s as they seek to cut fuel costs on international
routes. The success of the 777, the largest twin-engine plane on
the market, contributed to Airbus’s halting production of its
four-engine A340 in November. It’s also putting pressure on the
European planemaker to redesign the largest variant of the twin-
engine A350, which boosts range and passenger capacity.  The 777 is the best plane for international routes, such as
those to China and  Brazil , where traffic is growing the most,
said  Michael Derchin , an analyst with CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . The aircraft is also popular as a long-
distance freighter, he said.  “There’s a real, immediate demand for 777 capacity,
particularly in these longer-haul growth markets,” Derchin
said.  Production Boost  Boeing fell 0.6 percent to $73.12 at the close of trading
in  New York . The shares have dropped 7.5 percent in the past
year.  Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney and Jim Albaugh, head
of the commercial airplanes unit, will update shareholders on
their strategy at an investor meeting in  St. Louis  tomorrow,  Boeing won’t boost 777 production for now beyond the
planned ramp-up next year because of “significant investment
that we would incur to go above that rate,” Wojick said in an
interview May 11 at the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport,
where the 787 Dreamliner arrived as part of a worldwide tour.
Output of the 777 increased to seven a month from five last
year.  The company is looking at making improvements to the
777-300ER, introduced in  2004 , which will keep the plane popular
into the future, he said.  Dreamliner Waiting List  Boeing, which delivered the 1,000th 777 last quarter after
entering it into service in 1995, had 358 unfilled orders for
the plane through April. New orders of the 777 have dropped to
 seven  for the first four months of the year. Wojick said orders,
which “come in clumps typically,” declined after all-time
highs in 2011.  “We had a record year last year,” he said. “That speaks
for itself on the demand and attractiveness of the 777.”  The 787 Dreamliner, the first composite-plastic  passenger
jet , will also suffer because of the waiting list, Wojick said.
The plane entered into service last year after a three-year
delay because of design-to-production complications. Through
April, there were 843 unfilled orders for the 787, which is
being produced at a rate of 3.5 per month.  “We’re still seeing people firming up options and some
incremental customers for the product, which is great,” Wojick
said of the 787.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  