-- BofA, SocGen Head to Trial Over MBIA’s 2009 Restructuring
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-14T19:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/bofa-socgen-head-to-trial-over-mbia-s-2009-restructuring.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  went to court today seeking to overturn New York’s
approval of  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s restructuring in 2009, alleging the bond
insurer misled the regulator.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick is
beginning a nonjury trial in Manhattan on the banks’ claims that
the approval of MBIA’s proposal by then Insurance Superintendent
Eric Dinallo was based on misleading information and violated
insurance law.  “There’s no question that the burden here is going to be
on the banks,” said  Elliott Kroll , an insurance law attorney at
Arent Fox LLP who isn’t involved in the case. “You look at this
and say, ‘Absolutely give deference to the state,’ but the state
still has to have some kind of rational basis to support this.”  More than a dozen financial institutions sued MBIA and the
insurance department in 2009 over the restructuring. Bank of
America and  Societe Generale  are the only banks left in the
litigation after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and others dropped out.  The banks claimed the restructuring harmed them as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of the
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt, exposing the banks
to potential losses. Bank of America and Societe Generale have
another lawsuit pending against MBIA, while MBIA is suing Bank
of America over mortgage loans.  ‘Fraudulent Conveyance’  A victory for MBIA would move the Armonk, New York-based
insurer closer to resolving litigation over its restructuring
and may push Bank of America toward a settlement, said  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LCC in  New York , who has a “buy”
rating on MBIA.  “It all ties together because what MBIA wants is to have
the fraudulent conveyance cases go away, which would unlock the
value of the municipal bond insurance unit,” Palmer said.  Kapnick said today during a hearing that the trial will be
“more akin to a glorified oral argument,” with some possible
testimony. The judge said she has set aside at least three weeks
for the case. Opening statements are scheduled for tomorrow.  The banks have asked Kapnick to allow them to call and
question Dinallo and Jack Buchmiller, a former supervising risk
management specialist at the New York State Insurance Department
who reviewed the restructuring when it was proposed. Lawyers for
MBIA and the state have objected, saying that there is a
“voluminous record” in the case that includes affidavits and
depositions.  Getting Truth  “Our view remains that cross examination is the best way
to get to the truth,” Robert Giuffra, a lawyer for the banks,
said during a hearing today.  Kapnick said she will decide later whether there are
“triable issues of fact, and whether witnesses, including
Dinallo and Buchmiller, can be called.  ‘‘I’m sure this case will wind up in the appellate division
or the Court of Appeals no matter what I do,’’ Kapnick said
today.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , and
Paris-based Societe Generale claim the insurance department
approval violated insurance law and was based on false and
misleading information. MBIA concealed from the insurance
regulator a Lehman Brothers study, paid for by the insurer,
showing its MBIA Insurance unit was insolvent and that a
policyholders’ surplus of $3.3 billion ‘‘was in reality
negative,’’ the banks said in a court filing.  ‘Half-Truths’  ‘‘If an applicant for a regulatory approval misleads its
regulator, the law is clear that the approval must be vacated,’’
Robert Giuffra, a lawyer for the banks, said before the trial.
‘‘An applicant can’t speak in half-truths or keep in its back
pocket information that contradicts what it has told its
regulator.’’  The insurance regulator approved the restructuring after
finding that all policyholders would be protected, while a well-
capitalized insurer would be established for the municipal  bond
market , Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office said in
court papers. The state and MBIA argue the insurance
department’s approval is entitled to ‘‘deference.”  “We remain confident that the New York State Insurance
Department’s approval of transformation was appropriate and will
be upheld by the court,”  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  David Neustadt , a spokesman for the New York Department of
Financial Services, declined to comment on the trial. The
department combines the former New York state insurance and
banking departments.  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New York
State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  