-- Brazil Real Weakens to 2 Per Dollar for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-05-14T21:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/brazil-real-touches-2-per-dollar-as-rate-yields-fall-on-greece.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled to 2 per dollar
for the first time in almost three years as Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said the  exchange rate  doesn’t worry the
government, encouraging bets the currency may fall further.  The currency extended the biggest loss against the dollar
this year among the 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg after economists reduced their forecast for the target
lending rate as Greece’s debt turmoil and  China ’s slowdown
weighed on the prospects for global growth.  “The government is loving it,” Alfredo Barbutti, an
economist at Liquidez DTVM Ltda., said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“The government wanted this. It’s not a movement that escaped
its control.”  The real slid 1.5 percent to 1.9962 per  U.S. dollar  in  Sao
Paulo  after touching 2.0062, the weakest level since July 2009,
when the world was trying to recover from the financial crisis.
The currency has fallen 6.5 percent this year.  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 decreased nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 8.38 percent. The Bovespa index of stocks
fell 3.2 percent to 57,539.61, its lowest closing level this
year.  Brazil’s currency dropped as Mantega told reporters in
Brasilia that the stronger dollar is good for the economy
because it makes imports more expensive and exports cheaper.  “The government has never set parameters for the dollar
and will not do so,” he said. “The dollar floats, and
therefore will fluctuate according to the market.”  Weaker Real  Brazil’s currency has been weaker than 1.90 since April 30
as central bank interventions to aid manufacturers and
reductions in borrowing costs coincided with fiscal and
political instability in  Europe .  Policy makers will cut the Selic, as the target lending
rate is known, to 8 percent by the end of 2012, down from the
previous forecast of 8.5 percent, according to the median
estimate in a May 11 central bank survey of about 100 economists
published today.  “The worsening outlook abroad and weak economic activity
in Brazil reinforce the trend for the Selic to fall,”  Newton Rosa , the chief-economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “The drop in commodity prices helps
control food prices a bit and neutralizes the impact of the
currency on inflation.”  Lower Borrowing Costs  The central bank has reduced the target rate 3.5 percentage
points since August, the most among the world’s 25 largest
economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Policy
makers may reduce the benchmark to as low as 8 percent from 9
percent by the end of August, trading in interest-rate futures
shows. The central bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market 
in April, the most since $8.4 billion in March 2011.  Brazil’s bigger-than-expected 0.64 percent increase in
prices last month won’t keep inflation from slowing toward its
target, central bank President Alexandre Tombini told reporters
in  Rio de Janeiro  last week.  “We are in a process in which inflation is converging”
toward target, Tombini said. “Over the next three months,
monthly inflation will be slower than in April.”  While annual inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
has slowed to a 19-month low of 5.10 percent, the rate has
remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of the country’s target
since August 2010. Brazil seeks to keep inflation within a range
of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent.  Economic Outlook  Economists raised their forecast for 2012 inflation in
Brazil to 5.22 percent, from 5.12 percent a week earlier,
according to the central bank survey published today.  Brazil’s real declined today against the dollar along with
most of its major and emerging-market counterparts as  Greece ’s
struggle to form a government entered a second week and China’s
stocks fell to a three-week low on concern a cut in banks’
reserve ratios won’t be enough to stem an economic slowdown.  Tombini also said last week that the real is weakening as
part of a global trend that is strengthening the dollar against
most currencies and that the floating exchange rate helps
“protect the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  