-- Brooks to Learn If She Will Be Charged in Phone-Hacking Case
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-14T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/brooks-to-learn-if-she-will-be-charged-in-phone-hacking-case-1-.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British unit, will learn
today whether she’ll be charged with trying to cover up the
phone-hacking scandal at the News of the World tabloid.  The U.K.’s Crown Prosecution Service will tell her this
morning whether she will be charged with perverting the course
of justice, her lawyer, Stephen Parkinson, said yesterday in an 
e-mail. He declined to comment further. The charge, which can be
related to destroying evidence or misleading an investigation, 
carries a maximum sentence of  life imprisonment .  The decision will come four days after the 43-year-old
Brooks, a former editor of the News of the World and News
Corp.’s Sun, testified at an inquiry into media ethics led by
Judge Brian Leveson triggered by the phone-hacking scandal.
London police are investigating whether journalists at the now-
defunct News of the World hacked into the mobile-phone voice
mails of celebrities, athletes and politicians.  Brooks was detained a second time in March, along with her
husband Charlie, a former race-horse trainer, in a new probe
dubbed Operation Sacha, which is investigating perversion of
justice allegations. Mark Hanna, who headed security for the
News International unit, was also arrested.  The Metropolitan Police turned over evidence to the  Crown
Prosecution Service  on April 18 with details on possible
criminal charges against as many as 11 people, including four
journalists, a police officer and six members of the public.  Four Files  The files outline claims including violations of Britain’s
data-protection law, perverting the course of justice and
witness intimidation. The information from the police was
included in four files on possible charges, with each file
involving one unidentified journalist.  One file relates to a journalist and six members of the
public accused of perverting the course of justice.  The probe has expanded to include bribery of public
officials and computer hacking and has resulted in the arrests
of about 45 people. Brooks remains a suspect in the underlying
phone-hacking investigation.  Brooks told the inquiry last week that she discussed phone-
hacking cases with Prime Minister  David Cameron  in late 2010.  As civil lawsuits by phone-hacking victims mounted in late
2010, and the company was accused of a cover-up, Brooks
discussed the situation with Cameron, who became prime minister
in May of that year. Phone hacking had “been on the news that
day and I explained the story behind the news,” she said.  Prosecutors decided not to file charges last month against
Neville Thurlbeck, the former chief reporter at the News of the
World, over allegations he threatened a witness in the probe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  