-- Brown Calls for $8.3 Billion Cuts to Close Wider Deficit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s ,   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-14T21:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/brown-calls-for-8-3-billion-cuts-to-fill-15-7-billion-deficit.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ,
confronting a widening $15.7 billion deficit, proposed a four-
day government workweek to reduce pay and more cuts in spending
on welfare and indigent medical care.  A reduction to 38 hours in a four-day week, from 40 hours
in five days, would cut pay 5 percent, for a savings of $400
million, Brown said. He’d slice $1.2 billion from healthcare for
the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help for the
elderly and disabled, and $500 million from courts.  The deficit grew after he overestimated  tax revenue  by $4.3
billion when he proposed his budget in January, the governor
said today. At the same time, some cost savings in the current
year’s budget have been blocked by the federal government and
judges, while Democrats in the Legislature resisted other
reductions.  “You never can quite get it right because in our
particular free-enterprise system -- a free flow of capital --
stuff moves and it goes up and down,” the 74-year-old Democrat
told reporters in Sacramento. “Even  Jamie Dimon  just blew $2
billion. That’s a big risk. We all have to live with the
uncertainties of the business cycle, but we do our best.”  One Million Jobs  California, with the world’s ninth-biggest economy, lost
more than 1 million jobs in the recession that started in 2007,
reducing the most populous U.S. state’s revenue by 24 percent.
The new deficit estimate increases the urgency of Brown’s call
to boost income taxes on top earners to the highest in the
nation, and raise sales levies that now top all states. Without
the taxes, he said he’d cut another $6 billion, most of it from
schools, midway through the year.  For the last four years, California lawmakers have trimmed
spending and temporarily raised taxes to combat deficits of more
than $100 billion combined. Deeper cuts now threaten to shred
safety nets for the poor, elderly and disabled, reduce subsidies
to the state’s renowned universities and strain funding for
public safety and schools.  Brown’s new plan would reduce state spending by $8.3
billion, though less than half would come from cuts in services.  For instance, he would siphon $292 million from
California’s share of a $25 billion national mortgage-relief
settlement reached with  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and three other U.S. banks to end a probe of abusive
foreclosure practices stemming from the collapse of the housing
bubble. He would use that money to pay for homeowner assistance
programs now financed through the general fund, allowing him to
count that amount as a savings.  School Spending  School spending would increase as required by law, though
by $1.5 billion less than previously planned, so he counts that
as a reduction. He also plans to take $1.4 billion of the cash
assets from the state’s now defunct redevelopment agencies and
give it to schools to reduce the state’s obligation to fund
education by that amount.  “I said in the beginning, when I ran for this job, that
it’s taken a long time, nearly a decade, to get into this
mess,” Brown said at a briefing for reporters in  Sacramento .
“We’re not going to get out of it in a year.”  The state’s sinking finances may threaten its chances for a
higher credit grade. California is  Standard & Poor’s  lowest-
rated state, at A-, six levels below AAA. While the company
raised its outlook to positive in February, a larger deficit
will “test the Legislature’s commitment to a stronger fiscal
position as a public-policy priority,” Gabriel Petek, an S&P
analyst in San Francisco, said May 1 in a report.  Bond Trading  A California bond due in 10 years traded today at a yield
of 2.45 percent, or about 0.68 percentage point above an  index 
of similar-maturity muni debt with a top rating, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It was issued in March at a yield of
2.78 percent, or 0.87 percentage point above the benchmark.  It costs the annual equivalent of about $232,000 to protect
$10 million of California debt against default for 10 years,
compared with about $496,000 for  Spain , data compiled by CMA
show.  The initiative for higher taxes is the linchpin of Brown’s
budget-balancing plan. His campaign has begun handing in more
than 1.3 million signatures to county election offices to
qualify the measure for the ballot.  The plan would temporarily raise the statewide  sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent. It would also boost rates on income starting at
$250,000. Those making $1 million or more, now taxed at 10.3
percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  California’s constitution requires legislators to pass a
budget by June 15 with a simple majority vote. Democrats control
the Senate and the Assembly, though they don’t hold enough seats
to pass a tax increase, which requires two-thirds approval.  A
voter initiative passed in 2010 strips lawmakers of their pay
for every day they’re late. Brown has until July 1 to enact the
plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  