-- Brown Tax Boost Gains Urgency as Gap Rises to $16 Billion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-14T15:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/brown-tax-increase-gains-urgency-as-deficit-rises-to-16-billion.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  bet
that a nascent financial recovery would lift the world’s ninth-
largest economy enough to whittle down a $9.2 billion deficit.
Instead, the gap has widened to $16 billion.  Today the 74-year-old Democrat will unveil his revised
budget and explain what additional spending must be cut. Tax
collections have run $3.5 billion below what he calculated four
months ago. Spending has grown $2 billion above projections. The
federal government and court ruling blocked some savings he
expected, while his fellow Democrats in the Legislature balked
at others.  California, with an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, lost more
than a million jobs in the recession that struck in 2007,
costing the most populous U.S. state 24 percent of its revenue.
The new deficit estimate increases the urgency of the governor’s
plans to increase income taxes on some earners to the highest in
the nation, and boost sales levies that are now more than any
other state.  “We are still recovering from the worst recession since
the 1930s,” Brown said May 12 in a YouTube video. “Tax
receipts are coming in lower than expected and the federal
government and the courts have blocked us from making billions
of necessary budget reductions.”  Four Years  For the last four years,  California  lawmakers have cut
spending and temporarily raised taxes to combat deficits that
exceeded $100 billion combined. Deeper cuts now threaten to
shred safety nets for the poor, elderly and disabled, reduce
subsidies to the state’s renowned public universities and strain
funding for public safety and schools.  Brown set out a budget in January with $92.6 billion in
spending for the year starting July 1. To get to that figure, he
proposed taking more than $4 billion from health and welfare
programs, while raising sales and income taxes. The tax increase
will be put to a vote in November; if rejected, schools will
lose $4.8 billion midway through the year, the equivalent of
three academic weeks.  The nonpartisan Legislative Analysts Office said Feb. 27
that Brown’s budget overestimated  tax revenue  by about $6.5
billion because it relied too heavily on  capital gains  and other
types of income taxes.  Savings Denied  To make matters worse, the Obama administration in February
said California couldn’t count on $575 million in savings Brown
factored into the current year’s budget by making some poor
patients pay medical co-payments.  A federal court has blocked California’s attempt to shave
$500 million in spending by lowering reimbursement payments to
doctors and pharmacists caring for low-income residents. Another
federal judge in January said the state couldn’t cut $100
million from subsidies to low-income elderly and disabled
residents, after advocates sued to block the reductions.  It could be worse. Brown’s new budget will count on $1.5
billion of taxes California expects to collect from Facebook
Inc.’s initial public offering as the company’s Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  and other insiders exercise options,
according to Brown’s finance spokesman, H.D. Palmer.  The state’s sinking finances may threaten its chances for a
higher credit grade. California is  Standard & Poor’s  lowest-
rated state, at A-, six levels below AAA. While the company
raised its outlook to positive in February, a larger deficit
will “test the Legislature’s commitment to a stronger fiscal
position as a public policy priority,” Gabriel Petek, an S&P
analyst in  San Francisco , said May 1 in a report.  Bond Trades  A California bond due in 10 years traded today at an
average yield of 2.45 percent, or about 0.68 percentage point
above an  index  of similar-maturity muni debt with a top rating,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was issued in March
at a yield of 2.78 percent, or 0.87 point above the benchmark.  It costs the annual equivalent of about $232,000 to protect
$10 million of California debt against default for 10 years,
compared with about $496,000 for  Spain , data compiled by CMA
show.  Leaders of the public employee unions have been told to
expect an 8 percent to 10 percent cut in worker costs. State
workers have already agreed to concessions, including higher
contributions toward pension and health-care benefits, according
to  David Miller , president of the California Association of
Professional Scientists.  ‘Unreasonable’ Cuts  “We have an agreement with Governor Brown and we expect
him to uphold his end,” Miller said in a statement. “Further
cuts after years of unpaid furloughs and benefit concessions
seem unreasonable and must be subject to the collective
bargaining process.”  This isn’t the first time Brown and legislative Democrats
have counted on optimistic forecasts. The current year’s budget
was passed with the assumption that the economy would push an
extra $4 billion into state coffers.  When the revenue failed to materialize as planned,
lawmakers had to cut $1 billion for school busing subsidies,
public universities, programs for the elderly and disabled,
child care, libraries and prisons.  “The imaginary money the majority party counted on in last
year’s sham of a budget never materialized, and they have
refused to cut big government,” the Assembly Republican
minority leader,  Connie Conway , said in a statement.  Tax Vote  The initiative for higher taxes is the linchpin of Brown’s
balancing plan. His campaign has begun handing in more than 1.3
million signatures to county election offices to qualify the
measure.  “We can’t fill a hole of this magnitude with cuts alone
without doing severe damage to our schools,” Brown said in the
YouTube statement. “That’s why I have bypassed the gridlock and
am asking you, the people of California to approve a plan to
avoid further cuts to schools and public safety.”  The plan would temporarily raise the statewide  sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent. It would also boost rates on income starting at
$250,000. Those making $1 million or more, now taxed at 10.3
percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  The Golden State’s constitution requires legislators to
pass a budget by June 15 with a simple majority vote. Tax
increases require two-thirds approval. Democrats control the
Senate and the Assembly. A voter initiative passed in 2010
strips lawmakers of their pay for every day they’re late. Brown
has until July 1 to enact the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  