-- Caesars Targets Cleveland as Local Cash Eases Debt Burden
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-14T20:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/caesars-targets-cleveland-as-local-cash-eases-debt-burden.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , weighed
down by almost $20 billion in buyout debt, is opening its first
casino in five years today under a growth strategy that relies
on local partners for investment.  The largest operator of U.S. casinos, Caesars owns 20
percent of the $350 million Horseshoe Casino  Cleveland  and will
receive fees for managing it on behalf of majority owner Rock
Gaming LLC. Projects in Cincinnati, Baltimore and East Boston,
 Massachusetts  take a similar course.  The approach is born of necessity. Caesars, the most
leveraged big U.S. casino operator and the only one without a
presence in fast-growing Asian markets, continues to repair its
balance sheet. The company has total debt of $19.9 billion
following its 2008 buyout by private equity firms  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital LP, dwarfing its market
capitalization of $1.81 billion.  “Investments that were made in 2008 in almost every
industry have turned out to struggle a bit in the years that
followed,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.” “Our job is to
work our way back and we have a path forward.”  The Cleveland casino and another Caesars opening next year
in Cincinnati with Rock Gaming, backed by Quicken Loans founder
Dan Gilbert, may generate as much as $350 million in combined
earnings before interest, taxes, deprecation and amortization,
according to Dennis Forst, an analyst with KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc.  “Cleveland is going to be a home run,” Forst said. “It
certainly is better than not growing.”  Leverage Ratios  Caesars has little room to sink money into projects. Total
debt is 9.7 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  has a leverage ratio of 2.8,  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) 
2.1 and  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  9.1, the data show.  The Las Vegas-based company, formerly Harrah’s
Entertainment, was acquired by the private equity firms for
$30.7 billion as casino stocks peaked, Loveman said. The
investors put in $6 billion, according to a regulatory filing,
and sold a limited number of shares to the public in February.  Caesars fell 4.7 percent to $13.75 at the close in  New
York . The stock had climbed 53 percent since going public at $9
a share on Feb. 7. In that time, competitor Wynn is down 4.1
percent,  Las Vegas  Sands has lost 3.4 percent and MGM Resorts
has declined 20 percent.  Investment Partners  Last year, Caesars lost $687.6 million on revenue of $8.83
billion, according to its annual report. While Caesars has
extended maturities and bought back debt at a discount, it is
the only casino-industry company among 16 tracked by Bloomberg
that doesn’t generate enough Ebitda to cover interest expense.  The asset-light expansion strategy, similar to the way
hotel companies expand by franchising, may be emulated by other
gambling firms, according to Michael Paladino, a debt analyst
with  Fitch Ratings .  “There is a long-term trend to increase the branding of
the industry and develop the fee-based part of business,”
Paladino said. “This is in the embryonic stages.”  On May 7, Caesars announced the sale of its Harrah’s St.
Louis casino to Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based  Penn National
Gaming Inc. (PENN)  for $610 million. The company will use the proceeds
for its share of new casinos and its online gaming business,
Loveman said.  Pedestrian Friendly  In addition to the  Ohio  properties, Caesars is pursuing a
casino license in Baltimore with Rock Gaming. The company is
also seeking a license in East Boston, Massachusetts, with horse
track operator Suffolk Downs, controlled by developer Richard Fields and catering business owner Joe O’Donnell. The company is
also building a shopping mall and Ferris wheel attraction in Las
Vegas.  Gilbert, majority owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers
basketball team, co-sponsored the 2009 ballot measure that
legalized casino gambling in Ohio. The Detroit native is
investing hundreds of millions of dollars to spark downtown
revivals in Cleveland, Cincinnati and his hometown, according to
Matthew Cullen, a former  General Motors Co. (GM)  real estate
executive who serves as president of Rock Gaming.  The Cleveland project involved renovating the historic
Higbee department store. It will include pedestrian-friendly
features such as windows to the outside, an easily accessible
entrance, and later, street-level restaurants, Cullen said.  Downtown Cleveland  It is modeled after Harrah’s  New Orleans , which after
disappointing results and bankruptcy built an adjacent hotel,
added outdoor restaurants and closed off a street, Cullen said.
Based on that property, he said, “We identified them as a
partner.”  Gilbert’s group bought a $60.8 million stake in Caesars’
online gambling business in April and separately acquired an
interest in Turfway Park, a horse track in Florence,  Kentucky ,
co-owned by Caesars.  The Cleveland project allows Caesars to take part in the
city’s renaissance, Loveman said. He said the company will make
use of its loyalty programs targeting hundreds of thousands of
Ohio residents, and gain the expertise of a local developer.  “I think having a partner on the capital side of these
businesses makes sense,” Loveman said in the interview. “We
have to grow our way out of this. The business cannot de-lever
simply by paying down enough debt over time. We can’t shrink our
way to a better balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  