-- Cameron’s Cuts Widening North-South U.K. Wealth Rift: Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-05-14T13:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/cameron-s-cuts-widening-north-south-u-k-wealth-rift-mortgages.html
Underwater mortgages and missed home-
loan payments were almost unheard of when Joe Michna started
listening to the troubles of residents in the northern English
town of Hartlepool. Now, 26 years later, one in seven coming to
him for help are worried about losing their home.  “When I first began as a volunteer, mortgage and rent
arrears were comparatively rare,” said Michna, the 59-year-old
manager of the Hartlepool Citizens Advice Bureau in a May 3
interview. “Now, it’s quite the opposite.”  The average price of a home in the industrial port town
fell 9.4 percent to 115,809 pounds ($186,000) in the 12 months
through February, according to research company Acadametrics
Ltd. In  London , 225 miles (362 kilometers) south of Hartlepool,
the average price is 396,094 pounds after rising 1.2 percent.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s effort to slash Britain’s
record budget deficit is widening a housing and wealth gap
between the north of the country and the London area. The U.K.
capital was the only one of 12 U.K. regions tracked where  home
values rose  in April, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said in a May 8 home-price index that fell to a six-
month low.  Cameron’s coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats
are trying to remedy a budget shortfall by 2017 with 155 billion
pounds of tax increases and spending cuts to stave off the type
of fiscal crisis engulfing countries such as Spain and  Greece .
The economy shrank in the first quarter as construction output
slumped, pushing Britain into its first double-dip recession
since the 1970s.  Economic Impact  “You cannot separate the wider economic picture from the
housing market,” said Iain Wright, Hartlepool’s  Labour party 
representative in Parliament and a member of the Housing
Ministry until former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  lost the 2010
election.  The number of government workers will fall by 730,000 in
the six years through March 2017, according to the  Office for
Budget Responsibility , a government-funded economic research
company. More than 70 percent of those cuts will be outside of
London, according to the Centre for Cities, a non-partisan
research group.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne may need to slow
the pace of his deficit squeeze to accommodate the weakness of
Britain’s economy, two former  Bank of England  officials said
yesterday.  Ed Miliband , the leader of the Labour Party, is
gaining ground on Cameron in British opinion polls after weeks
of setbacks took their toll on the coalition government.  Shipbuilding Centers  The northeast of England, encompassing former coal mining
and shipbuilding centers such as Newcastle upon Tyne and
Sunderland, is the region most dependent on public-sector
employment. Four of the seven council areas with the biggest
proportion of employment in public administration, health and
education are in the northeast.  Government job cuts and a slump in manufacturing and
construction are driving a decline in home values in the north,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report last month. More than half of
the increase in arrears in the 18 months ending in 2011 was in
the north, the ratings company said.  “Unemployment is rising again and interest rates on
mortgages are potentially rising too,” Andrew South of S&P’s
structured-finance division, who co-authored the report, said by
phone. “Arrears seem to be driven by a diverging labor market”
and “we expect it to continue diverging.”  S&P defined the “North” as the East Midlands, West
Midlands, Northeast, Northwest, Yorkshire and Humber in  England ,
as well as  Wales  and Scotland, delineating a divide that’s
defined as much by geography as culture.  ‘Billy Elliott’  While London is the financial and political capital, areas
including Manchester, Liverpool and Leeds were industrial
centers that saw declines after the end of World War II.
Political divisions grew as unemployment increased and labor
industrial relations worsened including a yearlong coal miners’
strike that began in 1984. That strike was the backdrop of the
musical and movie “Billy Elliott.”  The fallout marked the premiership of Conservative Party
Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher , whose policies of selling
state assets and reducing union power hit hardest in the north
of England and Scotland.  Tony Blair , who took over as prime minister from
Conservative  John Major  in 1997, and his successor tried to
revive northern areas hurt by the decline of mining and other
manufacturing industries. For every job that was created in the
U.K.’s north and the Midlands, 10 private-sector jobs were
created in London and southern regions between 1998 and 2008,
Paul Swinney, an economist at the Centre For Cities, said by
phone.  Northern Rock Nationalized  Three months after Brown replaced Blair as prime minister
in 2007, Newcastle-based lender Northern Rock Plc sought
emergency funding from the Bank of England, becoming the first
U.K. victim of the subprime mortgage crisis. Days later,
customers lined up at branches to withdraw savings in the first
run on a British bank in more than a century. Chancellor of the
Exchequer Alistair Darling nationalized the lender in February
2008.  More people are seeking employment in London and are
competing for fewer jobs and fewer homes, said Swinney. That’s
pushing up  home prices  in the southeast and those constraints
are less prominent elsewhere in the country.  “The probability of finding employment in London is so
much greater,” said Swinney, who grew up in Sunderland.  ‘Closer to Europe’  “Once upon a time it was about being near ports and rail
networks,” Swinney said. “Now it’s about being close to
motorways and being closer to  Europe , so you see a shift from
the industrial towns in the north to the smaller places around
London.”  Northern parts of the U.K. accounted for about 60 percent
of the rise in total mortgage arrears from the second quarter of
2010 to the end of 2011, S&P said its report. About 8.5 percent
of mortgage borrowers in northern regions were in negative
equity, where the loan amount exceeds the property value, in the
fourth quarter 2011, compared with 3.3 percent in southern
areas, the ratings company said. Borrowers in the north were 30
percent more likely to be behind in mortgage payments than
homeowners in the south, S&P said.  Northern Rock  Northern Rock mortgages secured on homes in northern
regions are also being repaid at a slower pace than other parts
of the country. The collateral backing its Granite Master Issuer
Plc´s mortgages declined 64 percent since May 2007 to 19.4
billion pounds, compared with a reduction of 60 percent on the
outstanding mortgages in the Northwest, Northeast and Northern
Ireland, and an 83 percent reduction of home loans in Greater
London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With unemployment rising and home values falling, lenders
are less willing to provide new credit or refinance existing
loans. Last year, 141 billion pounds of mortgages were
originated compared in the U.K. with 363 billion pounds in 2007,
according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders.  That’s had more of an impact on areas outside of London,
according to Dipesh Mehta, a securitization analyst at  Barclays
Capital .  “The London housing market has performed better over the
last year than the rest of the U.K. and hence provides a safer
option for risk averse lenders,” said Mehta.  “Mortgage lenders are starting to turn the screws on some
of my residents,” said Jenny Chapman, a Labour lawmaker
representing Darlington, a town near Hartlepool, where  home
prices  fell 12.9 percent in a year, the most in England and
Wales, according to Acadametrics. “The future is quite scary
for them. They’ve had all the leniency that they’re going to
get.”  Time Bombs  Tighter credit is giving rise to so-called mortgage time
bombs, a legacy of the easy credit of the boom years, according
to the Financial Services Authority. Two of every five U.K.
mortgages are interest-only, where borrowers pay no principal on
the actual loan, according to FSA data. About 78 percent of the
borrowers had no repayment strategy in the third quarter of
2011, with many relying on home values rising to help pay the
principle or refinance, the FSA said.  FSA Director Martin Wheatley warned in March of a “ticking
time bomb” of interest-only mortgages. The regulator estimates
that 1.5 million such mortgages, valued at 120 billion pounds,
are due for repayment between 2011 and 2020.  Hartlepool’s Wright said he’s spoken with residents who are
struggling to pay their mortgage as lenders increase  interest
rates .  ‘Big House’  “They bought quite a big house at the height of the boom
on an interest-only mortgage,” Wright said. “They can’t afford
to pay their mortgage.”  The main street is peppered with vacant stores, theme bars
and fast-food spots. Unemployment in Hartlepool rose to 14.2
percent in the year through September 2011, the most recent data
and highest rate since the  Office for National Statistics  began
collecting information in 2004.  Hartlepool “is a little rough around the edges,” said
Susan Grecian, who owns the Skin Deep beauty parlor near the
center of town and lives in nearby Sunderland. “I wouldn’t buy
a home here because the prices have fallen very far.”  Around the corner from Skin Deep and a half-block from
Tasty Bites II, where southern fried chicken and pizza are
served until 3:00 a.m., is Michna’s red-brick advice office.  Missed rent and mortgage payments account for about 15
percent of inquiries lately and that’s likely to rise, said
Michna, who lives a 25-minute drive away in Middlesbrough.
“It’s very worrying,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  