-- Canada’s Banks Pursue Mobile Payments to Catch U.S., Europe
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-14T17:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/canada-s-banks-pursue-mobile-payments-to-catch-u-s-europe.html
Canada ’s banks set guidelines to
encourage the use of mobile phones for routine payments as the
country’s financial services firms race to catch up with  Europe 
and the U.S. on the technology.  Canada’s six-largest lenders including  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , the biggest bank, as well as Credit Union Central of
Canada and Desjardins Financial Group agreed to voluntary
guidelines to develop mobile payments at retail outlets across
the country, the Canadian Bankers Association said today in a
statement.  “The goal is to ensure safety, security and ease of use
for merchants and consumers,” the association said.  Consumers worldwide will spend about $50 billion using
their mobile phones through near field communication by 2014,
Juniper Research said in a 2011 report. Canadian banks and
technology firms are racing to catch up to Europe and the U.S.
where wireless operators began earlier to invest more in
technology that allows people to pay for a bus or movie ticket
by swiping a mobile device across a scanner.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  introduced its Google Wallet payment system
across the U.S. last year, and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and its software
partner  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are also building functionality into
phones sold through their partnership.  Canada risks falling behind other countries in
competitiveness unless it adopts a “modern” digital payments
system that allows consumers to pay with mobile devices,
according to a December  report  from a  task force  set up by
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty .  Payments Task Force  Canadian banks dominate the current system, preventing new
entrants from bringing innovations to market, the task force
found. It recommends the federal government introduce
legislation to “define a discrete payments industry” and
create a public oversight body to monitor it.  Financial services firms in Canada have already been
experimenting with various electronic payment systems.  Bank of
Montreal  in September introduced its Mobile PayPass Tag,
allowing its MasterCard users to make purchases through a
sticker affixed to their mobile phone.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the Waterloo, Ontario-based
BlackBerry maker, is among handset makers introducing Near Field
Communication technology, also known as NFC, into its latest
models to allow wireless payments by swiping the device across a
scanner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  