-- Canadian Dollar Gains on North American Growth Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-14T21:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/canadian-dollar-falls-as-political-turmoil-reduces-risk-appetite.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against most of
its major counterparts on speculation North American economic
growth will outpace other regions’ as the failure of Greece to
form a government spurs  risk aversion .  The Canadian currency is up 0.7 percent in the past week,
rising with haven currencies the yen and U.S. dollar, amid
concern Greece may be the first member state to exit the euro.
Employment climbed almost six times more than economists
forecast,  Statistics Canada  said last week, fueling bets the
central bank will be the first in the Group of Seven nations to
raise interest rates.  “There are some structural factors that work in Canada’s
favor,” David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets,
said by phone from Toronto. “We have one of the lowest debt to
GDP ratios in the world. We’ve also had signs of a strong
domestic economy. We’re looking for a stronger Canadian dollar
over the course of the year.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose against all
but four of its 16 major counterparts. It dropped 0.3 percent to
C$1.0037 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian
dollar buys 99.63 U.S. cents.  The loonie has traded within a three-cent range versus the
greenback since the end of January, sliding to C$1.0063 on May 9
and strengthening to 98 cents on April 27. It will trade at 98
cents at year-end, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists.  “The Canadian dollar remains a preeminent trade because
the employment data was very good,” said Boris Schlossberg,
director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex, by
phone from  New York . “From every aspect, growth and balance
sheet, the Canadian dollar continues to look the best in the
Group of 10. The North American bloc is going to outperform.”  Sovereign Debt Concern  Ten-year government  bonds  rose for a second day, pushing
the yield down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
1.94 percent. It touched 1.91 percent, the lowest since Feb. 2.
The price of the 2.75 percent securities due in June 2022
increased 31 cents to C$107.45.  “Lingering uncertainty in  Greece ” caused the 10-year
yield to drop, said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for
fixed-income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Capital Markets unit, in an e-mail.  Canada’s statistics agency said May 11 that employers added
a net  58,200 jobs  to payrolls in April, after an increase of
82,300 in March, for the biggest two-month gain in more than 30
years. Economists predicted jobs would rise 10,000, according to
median forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We came out of the weekend with no deal done in Greece,”
said GFT’s Schlossberg. “I don’t expect the Canadian dollar to
strengthen against the U.S. dollar, but to stay relatively firm
against everybody else, simply because the dollar is naturally
going to get flight-to-safety flows as the crisis deepens.”  Weighted Indexes  The Canadian dollar rose 0.7 percent during the past week
versus nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar advanced 1.3
percent, while the yen gained 1.4 percent.  Investors are becoming more convinced that Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney will focus more on surging domestic job and
 housing  markets rather than weakness abroad, swaps trading
suggests.  Close to one interest rate increase by Carney this year
remains priced in, according to Bloomberg calculations on
overnight index  swaps . At the same time, the difference between
two-year and 10-year government bond yields narrowed to 66 basis
points today, the flattest yield  curve  among Group of Seven
nations.  Expectations for Canadian  interest rates  have seesawed
during the past two months as investors try to reconcile signs
of a domestic housing boom in an  economy  returning to full
output against the risk demand will be eroded by international
forces such as a deepening debt crisis in  Europe  and signs of
weakness in the U.S. jobs market. Carney has kept his  key
lending rate  unchanged at 1 percent since September 2010 in the
longest pause since the 1950s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  