-- Cannes Opens With Willis; Kidman, Pitt Vie for Top Prize
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/cannes-opens-with-willis-kidman-pitt-vie-for-top-prize.html
Bruce Willis  plays a small-town
sheriff searching for a pair of eloping 12-year-olds in
“Moonrise Kingdom,” which opens the  Cannes Film Festival 
tomorrow.  Set in 1965 and directed by Wes Anderson (“ The Royal
Tenenbaums ”), it shows a group of adult oddballs hunting for
the underage lovebirds on an island off the New England coast.
“Moonrise Kingdom” is one of two dozen titles vying for the
Cannes top prize, the Palme d’Or, to be handed out on May 27.  “It takes you into a completely new world from the first
page,” Tilda Swinton, who plays a character called Social
Services, says in the film notes. “In this story, our community
of adults doesn’t really know what they’re doing, and in the
process find themselves to be no less childlike, and no more
grown-up, than the two children.”  Picking the winners will be the job of a nine-person jury
steered by Italian director Nanni Moretti (“Dear Diary”) and
including actor  Ewan McGregor  and couturier Jean-Paul Gaultier.
This year, there are five U.S. contestants in the official race,
which is usually dominated by European and world auteurs.  One contender for the Palme d’Or is “Killing Them
Softly,” starring  Brad Pitt  and James Gandolfini. Pitt plays a
rifle-wielding enforcer who is assigned to probe a robbery
committed during a mob poker game. The 48-year-old actor and his
partner  Angelina Jolie  are red-carpet regulars in Cannes.  Kidman’s Paperboy  Just as certain to set the paparazzi flashes crackling are
 Nicole Kidman  and Matthew McConaughey, who will present their
movie “Paperboy,” another competition entry. Directed by Lee
Daniels (whose 2009 “Precious” won two Oscars), it’s the story
of a reporter who goes back to his Florida hometown to find out
more about a death-row inmate. Zac Efron and John Cusack co-
star.  Kidman also plays Ernest Hemingway’s war-reporter wife
Martha Gellhorn in a production screening out of the Cannes
competition: Philip Kaufman’s “Hemingway & Gellhorn,” with
Clive Owen in the role of the Nobel-prizewinning novelist.  A third U.S. participant in the competition is “Lawless,”
a Prohibition-era bootlegging story starring  Shia LaBeouf . It’s
directed by John Hillcoat and written by Nick Cave.  Cannes pursues its portrayal of financiers after hosting
the 2010 premieres of “ Wall Street : Money Never Sleeps” and the
documentary “Inside Job.”  Asset Manager  This year, “ Cosmopolis ” (directed by David Cronenberg and
adapted from the Don DeLillo novel) plots a tumultuous day in
the life of a 28-year-old billionaire asset manager as he rides
around  Manhattan  in a white limo. The film stars Robert Pattinson from “Twilight.”  This year’s selection is otherwise packed with previous
Cannes winners. Austria’s Michael Haneke (whose “The White
Ribbon” clinched the Palme d’Or in 2009) is back with “Amour”
(“Love”) starring Isabelle Huppert.  Ken Loach -- the 2006 Palme d’Or winner with “The Wind
That Shakes the Barley” -- brings “The Angels’ Share,” about
a former offender who develops a passion for distilling whisky.  France ’s Jacques Audiard (director of the 2009 “A
Prophet”) presents “Rust & Bone” starring Marion Cotillard,
the story of a single dad who meets a killer-whale trainer.  Italy’s Matteo Garrone, who in 2008 stunned Cannes with the
organized-crime movie “Gomorrah,” is back with “Reality,”
about a Neapolitan fishmonger who tries out for a reality show.
And Iran’s Abbas Kiarostami, whose “Certified Copy” earned
Juliette Binoche a best-actress trophy in Cannes two years ago,
is in the race with “Like Someone in Love,” shot in  Japan .  This year’s festival is the 65th of its kind. The first
Cannes Festival took place in 1946, a year after World War II
ended. Among the event’s earliest award winners were directors
Orson Welles,  Luis Bunuel , Ingmar Bergman and Satyajit Ray.  Today’s Muse highlights include: Scott Reyburn on  art ,
 Amanda Gordon  on  Scene Last Night .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 