-- Carson Legend Included Cutthroat Ways; Obesity: TV Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-05-14T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/carson-legend-included-cutthroat-ways-obesity-tv-review.html
Master of the quip, maker of careers,
mean drunk, frequent philanderer and TV legend: Heeeere’s
Johnny.  “ Johnny Carson : King of Late Night” is an appreciative if
pointed   “American Masters”  entry, crammed with archival
footage, “Tonight Show” clips and testimonials, complimentary
and otherwise, from acolytes and arm’s-length friends (the only
type Carson seemed to have).  Carson replaced Jack Paar in 1962, and at least through the
’70s “Tonight” was the only party worth watching consistently.
His banter with cigarette smoking guests gave mainstream America
a watered-down sip of Playboy Club sophistication.  If the final decade was formulaic and predictable, “The
Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson” remains revered by TV’s
Conans and Fallons.  And they all pop up on “King of Late Night.”  David Letterman ,  Ellen DeGeneres ,  Jay Leno , Mel Brooks,  Jerry Seinfeld , Ray Romano, Carl Reiner, Don Rickles and Bob Newhart,
among others, sing Carson’s praises.  Steve Martin , getting to the point, simply calls him “the
best.”  Off screen, Carson was harder to love.  “He was a tough, aggressive killer,” says Joan Rivers,
who incurred Carson’s ire when she traded her gig as his
permanent guest host for her own rival program.  Natural Reticence  Friends without axes are more sympathetic, recalling a man
whose natural reticence grew in direct proportion to his fame.
Bandleader Doc Severinsen gets choked up recalling Carson’s last
days, even though he was often “intimidated” by his
standoffish boss.  With unprecedented access to Carson’s archives and
“Tonight Show” tapes, filmmaker Peter Jones compiles the most
comprehensive Carson documentary to date. The monologue fodder
-- four marriages, network feuds, business rifts -- is well
covered and footage from Carson’s early career is charming.  But much of “King of Late Night” seems familiar and
handed-down. Just once I’d like to hear a comic admit that
Carson’s “okay” gesture was more routine than rarity, that his
vaunted laugh often seemed forced, and that Aunt Blabby was
never, ever funny.  “Johnny Carson: King of Late Night” airs tonight on PBS
at 9 p.m. Rating: **1/2  ‘Weight of the Nation’  HBO (TWX) ’s four-part  “The Weight of the Nation”  should scare
the soda out of you.  Running nearly five hours over two nights, it’s the
centerpiece of an obesity awareness campaign sponsored by HBO
and the Institute of Medicine, in association with the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention and the  National Institutes
of Health .  Does that sound like a heaping dose of spinach? Certainly
“Weight of the Nation” can feel like a public service
announcement bloated with statistics and “Biggest Loser”
profiles. The first two installments, which provide an overview
of obesity and its health risks, can be particularly tiring.  There’s a payoff, however, in the final two episodes, which
take a harder-hitting approach to the link between childhood
obesity, government farming subsidies and, in the words of one
industry expert, “powerful, pernicious and predatory” junk
food marketing.  “The Weight of the Nation” airs tonight and tomorrow on
 HBO  at 8 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and
 Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 