-- Casino to Become Sole Controller of Brazil’s Pao de Acucar
-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2012-05-14T23:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/casino-to-become-sole-controller-of-brazil-s-pao-de-acucar.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , the
French supermarket retailer, will exercise its option to become
the sole controlling shareholder of Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo  Pao de Acucar ,  Brazil ’s largest retailer.  Casino’s Chief Executive Officer Jean Charles Naouri will
become chairman of Wilkes Participacoes SA, the holding company
that controls the Brazilian retailer, Casino said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. Casino will also name most board members
of Pao de Acucar, the statement added.  The move seals the exit of Abilio Diniz, chairman of the
Brazilian retailer, from the group that controls the company
that started as a bakery in 1948, founded by his father. Diniz,
the oldest of six children, worked at the company, and bought
control from his siblings in 1992. In 1999, Casino bought 24
percent of the group’s voting shares, and in 2005 increased its
stake to 34 percent in an agreement that gave the French group
the option to buy control of Pao de Acucar.  Diniz hasn’t been notified of Casino’s decision, according
to his press relations office in Sao Paulo.  Casino on March 22 took the first step to take control of
Pao de Acucar when it told Diniz that the French company would
name Wilkes’s chairman. Diniz remains chairman of Pao de Acucar.  Last year, Diniz teamed up with billionaire banker  Andre
Esteves , CEO of Banco BTG Pactual SA, to merge Pao de Acucar
with the Brazilian unit of Carrefour SA. The proposed merger,
which would be financed in part by Brazil’s development bank
BNDES, was a move to fend off the agreement that gave control of
Pao de Acucar to Casino.  Casino described the proposal as hostile, filed a complaint
against its Brazilian partner and denounced the move as illegal
and in violation of the 2005 shareholders agreement.  After rejecting Diniz’s proposal to merge Pao de Acucar
with Carrefour, Casino increased its stake in the retailer to
more than 40 percent.  -- Editor: Jonathan Roeder  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helder Marinho in  Sao Paulo  at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ; 