-- CBS Rides NFL to Vie for Young Viewers After 20 Years
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-16T18:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/cbs-rides-nfl-to-vie-for-young-viewers-after-20-yearso.html
(Corrects timing of new games in 11th paragraph of story
published May 14.)  CBS Corp. (CBS) , the perennial second-place
network with the younger prime-time viewers prized by television
advertisers, is poised to claim that crown for the first time in
two decades with its new schedule.  The network, the U.S. leader in total viewers for nine of
10 years, hosts Super Bowl XLVII in February and a crucial
prime-time  National Football League  playoff game, promising two
of the largest audiences of 2013. At the same time, Fox’s
“American Idol,” a longtime hit with viewers ages 18 to 49, is
down 30 percent in that group.  With the most-watched prime-time lineup already, football-
rich CBS will outdraw News Corp.’s Fox and the other networks
next season in the target group, predicts  Brad Adgate , research
director at  Horizon Media , a  New York  ad company. CBS Chief
Executive Officer Leslie Moonves “guarantees” the network will
lead all others in advance sales and in ad rates.  “There’s little standing in CBS’s way,” Adgate said in an
interview. “It’s theirs to lose.”  Broadcast and cable networks unveil their September 2012
schedules this week in upfront meetings with advertisers in New
York.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC introduced its lineup yesterday. News
Corp.’s Fox network releases its schedule today. The network is
poised for its eighth-straight win this season in the 18-to-49-
year-old demographic, carried by “American Idol.”  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC takes its turn on May 15.  CBS, which took in $9 billion in TV, radio and  billboard ad (5BP) 
sales last year, introduces its plans May 16. The network has
renewed two-thirds of its schedule, including “NCIS,” the
most-watched scripted program, according to Nielsen data, and
“The Big Bang Theory,” the No. 2 comedy with young viewers. It
also renewed “Two and a Half Men” with Ashton Kutcher, while
canceling “CSI: Miami.”  Ad-Rate Increases  Chris Ender , a spokesman for CBS in  Los Angeles , declined
to comment on ratings predictions for next season, as did Gaude Paez, a spokeswoman for Fox.  CBS expects to win ad-rate increases in excess of 10
percent and post larger gains than competitors, Moonves said in
March and May. The network charged an average of $191,800 for a
30-second spot in prime time in March, the latest month
available, compared with $247,500 for Fox, $85,000 for NBC and
$83,100 for ABC, according to Nielsen data supplied by Adgate.  Sports will play a starring role.  In addition to the Super Bowl, which drew a record 111.3
million viewers to NBC this year for the  New York Giants ’
victory over the  New England Patriots , CBS will carry the
American Football Conference championship in prime time, Chief
Financial Officer Joe Ianniello said on a May 1 call. Fox’s
evening coverage of the NFC finale in January attracted 57.6
million viewers, to rank among the year’s most-watched programs.  $4 Million Spots  CBS is also adding seven National Football Conference games
starting in the 2014 season as part of a new nine-year $9.5
billion NFL broadcast pact.  The network will seek $4 million for 30-second commercials
during the  Super Bowl , scheduled for Feb. 3 in New Orleans,
Moonves said on a February call.  Moonves, 62, who joined CBS in 1995 after running Warner
Bros. Television, has never won with the younger demographic,
placing second in seven of the past eight years, according to
Nielsen data. CBS’s last victory in 18-to-49 was in 1991-1992,
when the network carried “Northern Exposure,” the Winter
Olympics and the Super Bowl.  “Moonves says when he started at CBS the sexiest thing on
the schedule was Angela Lansbury,” Adgate said. “He’s
transformed that network.”  At the same time, the competition is in decline. As of May
6, Fox is averaging 4.06 million younger viewers this season, an
11 percent decline from a year earlier, according to Nielsen
data. CBS is unchanged at 3.83 million, while ABC is down 3.7
percent to 3.09 million. NBC is drawing 3.2 million, a 4.2
percent increase.  Absent Friends  Next season, Fox’s “House” and ABC’s “Desperate
Housewives” aren’t returning, the networks announced earlier.  “American Idol,” which has delivered the biggest 18-to-49
year-old audience for seven straight years, is averaging 7.6
million viewers in the demographic over two nights a week, a 30
percent drop. That’s more than the 10 percent drop Fox
entertainment chief  Kevin Reilly  forecast in January as the
aging singing contest began its 11th season.  Shares of CBS fell 0.7 percent to $32.80 on May 11 in New
York. The stock has gained 21 percent this year, ranking sixth
in the 16-stock S&P 500 Media Index. Comcast has gained 24
percent, while Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , has
advanced 21 percent.  News Corp. (NWSA)  is up 13 percent.  CBS will seek advance commitments for as much as 80 percent
of next season’s advertising inventory in meetings with
marketers, Moonves said on the May call.  “I know people think I sound cocky about our schedule but
we do feel very good about it,” Moonves said. “If we don’t get
our right pricing, we’re not going sell. I’m more than happy to
hold out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  