-- Celesio Repeats Forecast as Drug Wholesaler Sells Units
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-05-14T15:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/celesio-repeats-forecast-as-drug-wholesaler-sells-units.html
Celesio AG (CLS1)  reiterated it expects
profit this year will at least match 2011 as  Europe ’s largest
drug wholesaler sells units and expands in  emerging markets .  First-quarter profit excluding restructuring costs rose 4.7
percent to 53 million euros ($68.3 million) from 50.6 million
euros a year earlier, the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said
in a  statement  today. Profit matched the 53 million-euro average
of two analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Celesio is in the process of selling its mail-order
pharmacy business DocMorris, as well as Movianto, which offers
contract logistics services to drugmakers, and Pharmexx, which
provides sales and marketing support. Chief Executive Officer
Markus Pinger, who took over in August, plans to overhaul the
company and increase investment in emerging markets, including
 Latin America  and the  Middle East .  “This year we will build upon the strategic realignment,
which we started in 2011,” Pinger said in the statement. “We
consider the current year 2012 to be a year of transition.”  Celesio fell 3.4 percent to 12.81 euros in Frankfurt,
giving it a market value of 2.18 billion euros.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, excluding one-time effects from a cost-saving
program, rose 5.1 percent to 139.9 million euros, the company
said, confirming a May 8 statement. Revenue increased about 2.5
percent to 5.64 billion euros, the company said previously.  Disposals  The company reported a non-cash impairment charge of 45
million euros from the revaluation of Pharmexx. The net loss
attributable to shareholders was 5.4 million euros compared with
a profit of 53.3 million euros a year earlier.  Ebitda excluding one-time effects from the cost-saving plan
will be at least at last year’s level, the company said.  “Government cost-cutting and high levels of competition
are more of a concern than the benefits from euro weakness and
small-scale M&A,” Mark Belsey, an analyst with WestLB AG, said
in an e-mail today. He noted that while reported earnings were
down substantially, the adjusted numbers were positive.  Celesio has already received “sufficiently concrete” bids
for its Movianto and Pharmexx units as well as its Czech
pharmacy business, the wholesaler said in today’s statement.
This led to the writedown at Pharmexx. The company expects the
sale of the units and DocMorris to be completed this year.  Panpharma Purchase  Celesio bought the remainder of Brazilian drug wholesaler
Panpharma SA for about 260 million euros, the company said April
26.  The wholesaler said it is considering increasing the
dividend this year or in coming years.  The company could be a takeover candidate given the stock
is trading at a 20 percent discount to its peer group, Edouard Aubery and Konrad Lieder, analysts with Equinet Bank AG, said in
a note to investors May 10. The wholesaler will probably meet
its forecast and benefit from restructuring in the second half
of the year, the analysts said. A bid of 16.70 euros a share
would be a fair value for the company, they said.  U.S. wholesalers are unlikely to buy into the European
market because of a lack of synergies, and antitrust issues will
restrict an acquisition by another European wholesaler or retail
chain, Belsey said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  