-- Chesapeake Takes Texas Oil Sale Off Table to Keep Cash
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-14T20:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/chesapeake-s-3-billion-lifeline-escalates-pressure-on-mcclendon.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the worst-
performing U.S. oil and natural-gas stock this year, postponed a
sale of future production from  Texas  oilfields and the spinoff
of its drilling subsidiary as slumping prices worsened a cash
crunch.  The company canceled plans to raise as much as $1 billion
this year through a so-called volumetric production payment from
its Eagle Ford wells in south Texas, Chief Executive Officer
 Aubrey McClendon  said during a conference call with analysts
today. An initial public offering for Chesapeake’s oilfield-
services unit also is on hold until at least next year, he said.  The company, facing a  cash-flow shortfall  that Fitch
Ratings estimates will reach $10 billion this year, will keep
the Eagle Ford wells as it seeks to meet terms of a $4 billion
revolving credit facility. Chesapeake will sell other assets to
raise cash this year, McClendon said. The drilling IPO is on
hold because of “market conditions,” he said.  “We just thought directionally, given the drop in  oil
prices  and given where our cash flow is this year, it’s better
to hang on to that for the time being,” Domenic Dell’Osso,
chief financial officer of Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake, said
of the Eagle Ford assets on the call.  Goldman Loan  Chesapeake, the largest U.S. gas producer after Exxon Mobil
Corp., said on May 11 it will borrow $3 billion from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  to tide it over until
it can find buyers for assets and partners to help cover
drilling costs. McClendon said the banks loaning the money are
also advising it on asset sales “so it should give you a pretty
good look into what their assessment of the market is.”  Chesapeake  rose  4.8 percent to $15.52 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase in two weeks. Chesapeake has declined
30 percent this year, the worst performance by an oil and gas
producer on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Chesapeake plans to repay the new loan by the end of the
year with proceeds from the sale of oilfields in Texas’ Permian
Basin and a joint venture to develop the Mississippi Lime
formation that straddles the Oklahoma-Kansas border, Dell’Osso
said today.  Icahn Stake?  McClendon said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if activist
investor  Carl Icahn  became a large shareholder in Chesapeake
again. McClendon has a good relationship with Icahn, who he said
made more than $500 million after he took a stake in the company
in 2010.  Chesapeake said in a May 11 regulatory filing that some
asset sales may be delayed to maintain production and cash flow
required to comply with bank covenants.  “Poorly executed sales may have a negative effect on
Chesapeake’s stock price,”  James Sullivan , an analyst at
Alembic Global Advisors in New York who has a neutral rating on
Chesapeake, said in a note to clients today. “In the event of
further commodity price declines and insufficient asset sales,
Chesapeake may find itself unable to borrow further to fund its
drilling program.”  Chesapeake has  lost 22 percent  of its market value in the
past four weeks amid concern that private loans McClendon
obtained using his personal stakes in company wells as
collateral conflict with his professional duties.  The board said May 1 it will strip McClendon of the
chairman’s position and an internal review of his personal
transactions is under way. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission opened an informal inquiry earlier this month.  Cash-Flow Shortfall  The company’s  cash flow  will fall $10 billion short of
planned spending on new wells and leases, Fitch said in a May 4
note to clients. Chesapeake posted an unexpected $71 million
first-quarter loss and said on May 1 that it may run out of
money next year to fund its drilling program. The shares tumbled
15 percent last week for the biggest weekly decline since
September.  U.S. gas prices have plunged 43 percent in the past year as
new production from shale formations glutted North American
markets. The surfeit expanded as mild winter weather across the
northern U.S. stifled demand for gas to run furnaces, said  Ben Smith , president of First Enercast Financial, a Denver-based gas
broker.  Gas futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
touched a 10-year low of $1.902 per million British thermal
units on on April 19 and are down 19 percent this year. Prices
for June delivery fell 3.1 percent to settled at $2.431 today.  Chesapeake outspent its cash flow in 19 of the past 21
years as it amassed drilling rights from the  Gulf Coast  to the
Appalachians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  