-- Chevron Gets Some Claims Dismissed From Ecuador Lawsuit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-14T23:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/chevron-has-some-claims-dismissed-by-judge-in-ecuador-litigation.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s lawsuit claiming
attorneys for Ecuadorean plaintiffs in a pollution case
conspired to fabricate evidence was narrowed by a federal judge
in New York.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan today allowed racketeering
claims in the suit to continue while dismissing three of the
claims that included fraud and tortious interference.  In a separate ruling, Kaplan also denied Chevron’s bid to
attach $780 million it claims in damages.  Chevron was ordered last year to pay as much as $18 billion
in compensatory and punitive damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged
dumping of toxic drilling wastes in the Ecuadorean jungle from
1964 to about 1992. The ruling came in an 18-year-old lawsuit
decided by a judge in  Lago Agrio , a provincial capital near the
Colombian border.  Chevron has denied wrongdoing in the Lago Agrio lawsuit.
The company says Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at
its former  oil fields , which were taken over by PetroEcuador,
Ecuador’s state  oil company . Chevron says it was released from
any future liability by an agreement between Texaco and Ecuador.
Chevron acquired Texaco in 2001.  “Today’s order affirms the core premise of Chevron’s RICO
and fraud case,” said Justin Higgs, a spokesman for Chevron.
“We are eager to progress our racketeering case and remain
resolute in our efforts to hold the perpetrators of this
unprecedented fraud and misconduct accountable.”  “Judge Kaplan’s decisions to deny Chevron attachment and
to throw out several fraud claims represent yet another setback
for the oil company and its shareholders,” said  Karen Hinton , a
spokeswoman for the plaintiffs. “Chevron’s RICO charges always
have been baseless and are nothing more than a public relations
stunt to hide the company’s environmental abuses and fraud in
Ecuador that destroyed the rainforest and killed numerous people
with cancer and other oil-related diseases.”  The case is Chevron Corp. v. Donziger, 11-691, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  