-- Chile to Consider Further Cuts in Maximum Rates on Some Loans
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-14T18:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/chile-to-consider-further-cuts-in-maximum-rates-on-some-loans.html
Chile’s government may consider a
further push to reduce  interest rates  for consumers and small
businesses, if a bill currently under debate in Congress doesn’t
undermine people’s access to credit, Economy Minister Pablo Longueira said.  The government will wait six months for a reduction in the
maximum interest rate on small loans to take effect and then
assess the impact on bank lending to see if it’s feasible to
make a further reduction, Longueira said in an interview in Lima
today.  “It’s a measure that we can evaluate, revise and perfect
over the time,” he said. “It makes no sense making a brusque
change and then causing enormous damage. We can continue
reducing it if there is space and there hasn’t been” a
reduction in bank lending.  Chile ’s government sent legislation to Congress last year
that would reduce the maximum interest rate on loans of as much
as 4.3 million pesos ($8,750) to less than 50 percent. Under the
proposals, the rate ceiling would fall to 1.35 times the market
average, from 1.5 times, or the average plus 12 percentage
points, whichever is lower, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said
last year.  Any move by lawmakers to alter the bill to force a bigger
reduction in the maximum rate would carry “enormous risk”
because it may mean poorer customers are denied credit and have
to turn to loan sharks, Longueira said.  “We would put them in an even worse situation,” he said.
“One has to be very responsible in the way this is done. We’re
not going to tolerate populism or demagoguery on such an
important subject.”  Banks such as Banco Santander Chile, the country’s biggest
lender, say the legislation poses a threat to their profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 