-- Chile Says Growth May Top 5% as Copper Sales Drive GDP
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-14T17:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/chile-says-growth-may-top-5-as-copper-sales-drive-gdp.html
Chile ’s economic growth probably will
exceed analyst forecasts and  reach  about 5 percent this year,
and may even surpass that pace if the U.S. recovery boosts
global demand for copper, Economy Minister Pablo Longueira said.  Domestic demand is “very strong” while exports will
probably grow 8 percent this year, fueled by a 10 percent jump
in copper shipments from the world’s largest producer of the
metal, Longueira said in an interview in  Lima  today.  “Our budget proposal is based on 5 percent growth and we
think that despite the international recession we’ll be close to
this figure and could eventually exceed it,” he said.  Chile’s Finance Minister Felipe Larrain last year forecast
the Andean nation would grow 5 percent in 2012. He has since cut
that estimate, saying in a speech in New York last month that
exceeding 4 percent growth would be “very good” in light of
the Euro-area economic crisis and  China ’s deceleration.  At 5 percent, Chile would match  Bolivia  as the second-
fastest growing economies in  South America  behind  Peru  this
year, according to the Washington-based  International Monetary
Fund . Chile will expand 4.3 percent in 2012, according to the
fund.  “We’re traversing a very good moment,” Longueira said.
“In a volatile scenario with much international uncertainty,
we’re going to post very significant growth and job creation,
with wages rising like never before in our history.”  Inflation isn’t a concern and will be about 3 percent this
year as food-price growth eases, he said.  Copper Price  The minister’s forecast are more optimistic than those made
by the central bank, which estimates exports of goods and
services will increase 3.8 percent in 2012, while the economy
expands between 4 percent and 5 percent. It also expects
inflation to end the year at 3.5 percent -- matching levels
reported in April.  And while Chile’s state-run copper commission Cochilco
forecasts the country’s copper supply will increase 9.6 percent
in 2012, average copper prices have declined 6 percent so far
this year from all of 2011.  Copper futures for July delivery fell 2.5 percent to $3.557
a pound at 12:38 p.m. on the Comex in  New York , after earlier
slipping to $3.5475, the lowest level since Jan. 10. Copper fell
2 percent last week.  Longueira, 53, received his civil industrial engineering
degree from the University of Chile and is a member of the pro-
government UDI party. He was a member of the lower house Finance
Committee and was a senator before joining the government last
year, according to his biography posted on the ministry website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 