-- China’s Stocks Drop to Three-Week Low
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-14T08:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/china-s-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-on-economy-concern.html
China’s stocks  fell to the lowest in
three weeks after Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut
their growth forecasts and investors speculated a cut in banks’
reserve ratios won’t be enough to stem an economic slowdown.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  and  Aluminium Corp. of China Co.  led
declines for materials producers on concern a slowdown will
reduce demand for commodities. Liquor maker  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) 
slid 2.4 percent on speculation the stock’s rally to a record
high last week was excessive after a report showed retail sales
grew less than estimated.  China Eastern  Airlines Corp., the
second-biggest carrier, dropped the most in six weeks  after
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. said economy fares have dropped as
much as 10 percent this year amid waning  travel demand .  “The stock market was not impressed by the RRR cut,”
 Christopher Wood , chief equity strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, said in an interview in Beijing. “The external
environment has to deteriorate more significantly for more
aggressive easing.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.6 percent to 2,380.73
at the close, the lowest level since April 19. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
dropped 0.8 percent to 2,615.53. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, retreated 0.6 percent to 97.76 in  New York .  The Shanghai index dropped 2.3 percent last week, the most
since April. The decline trimmed the advance in the Shanghai
Composite to 8.2 percent this year. Stocks in the gauge are
valued at 10.2 times estimated earnings, compared with a record
low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Reserve Ratios  The reserve-ratio cut, effective May 18, reduces the
required level against deposits to 20 percent for large banks
and 18 percent for smaller institutions. The move will probably
release 450 billion  yuan  ($71 billion) into the financial
system, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Bank of America
Corp. and HSBC put the amount at 400 billion yuan.  Citigroup cut its full-year China growth forecast to 8.1
percent from 8.4 percent, while JPMorgan lowered its estimates
to 8 percent from 8.2 percent. Their new forecasts came after
government reports showed industrial production grew at the
slowest pace since 2009 in April, retail sales rose less than
estimated and export growth slowed.  Jiangxi Copper, the biggest producer of the metal, slid 2.3
percent to 25.54 yuan. Aluminium Corp. of China dropped 1.8
percent to 6.97 yuan.  Copper declined to a four-week low on concerns  China ’s bank
reserve cut signaled a slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy may be steeper than expected and amid speculation  Greece 
may exit from the euro area. Alumnium, zinc, lead and nickel
also slid.  European Concerns  Greece’s political deadlock looked set to continue for a
second week as President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure
agreement on a unity government and avert new elections. Syriza,
the left-wing group opposed to austerity measures, defied
overtures to join the government yesterday.  A measure of  consumer staples  producers in the CSI 300
declined 1.8 percent, the most among 10 groups. Kweichow Moutai
lost 2.4 percent to 222.18 yuan. The stock trades at 19.5 times
estimated earnings, compared with 11 for the broader CSI 300.  China’s April retail sales rose 14.1 percent from a year
earlier, lower than the 15.1 percent estimated by economists and
the 15.2 percent increase in March.  China needs to cut  interest rates  to bolster the economy as
cuts in reserve ratios are insufficient to support loan demand,
according to Francis Cheung, head of China and Hong Kong
strategy for CLSA.  Rate Cuts  “The RRR cut is a small positive for Chinese stocks, but
the step is not aggressive enough considering the slowing
economy and weak loan demand,” he said in an interview during a
forum in Beijing. “China needs to take a bigger step to
stimulate the economy, such as interest-rate cuts.”  China Eastern declined 3.1 percent to 4.05 yuan. Air China
Ltd. slid 2.1 percent to 6.15 yuan.  Cathay Pacific,  Asia ’s
biggest international carrier, said economy fares have dropped
between 8 percent and 10 percent this year on the uncertain
economic outlook.  Chinese regulators will no longer require qualified foreign
institutional investors to invest at least 50 percent of funds
in stocks, the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing
an unidentified custodian bank. Regulators may raise a $1
billion investment quota for a single institutional investor,
according to the newspaper.  Citic Securities Co., the largest Chinese brokerage, gained
0.8 percent to 12.87 yuan.  Haitong Securities Co. (600837)  increased 0.6
percent to 9.76 yuan.  The IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 5.5 percent last week to
$35.33, the lowest level since January.  Poll Results  “China’s growth is slowing perhaps more than markets were
believing,” said Daniel Arbess, a partner at Weinberg Partners
LP who manages the Xerion hedge fund, in an e-mailed reply.
“Markets are responding badly.” Arbess said he sold his
holdings of Chinese equities at the beginning of the year.  A 51 percent majority are confident in the policies of
President  Hu Jintao , according to the quarterly Bloomberg Global
Poll of investors, analysts and traders who are subscribers.  China’s economy  will either improve or remain stable this
year, according to 68 percent of respondents, with the share
anticipating a deterioration falling to 30 percent, the lowest
level since the question was first included in the poll in
September.  “For investors, China is a difficult decision: do you play
the slowdown, sell or go short, or do you wait for the policy
reaction to kick,”  John Lomax , an emerging-markets strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone from  London . “Policy makers
have little appetite for sustained weak growth, so it can be
dangerous to play the slowdown too aggressively here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  