-- China Growth Seen at 13-Year Low by Pimco
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-15T04:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/china-growth-seen-at-13-year-low-by-pimco.html
China ’s slowdown may deepen as policy
makers unwind the excesses of a record credit boom while only
gradually increasing stimulus, leaving 2012  growth  at the
weakest in 13 years, Pacific Investment Management Co. says.  “The economy is unlikely to bottom until the third
quarter,” Ramin Toloui, Pimco’s global co-head of  emerging
markets  portfolio management in  Singapore , said in e-mailed
comments May 13. “Policy makers will progressively turn the
dial toward more stimulus, but not in the aggressive manner of
2009,” restrained by the goal of tempering the credit-fueled
 property market , he said.  Pimco, which oversees the world’s largest bond fund, sees
Chinese growth this year in the “mid-7 percent range,” a pace
unseen since 1999. Its call is still lower than that of banks
from Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Bank of America
Corp. and UBS AG, which all pared their forecasts after April
economic data were released last week.  A more measured pace of stimulus now than the record fiscal
package and lending boom of 2009 may help reduce the risk of an
eventual credit bust. China’s central bank has so far held off
on lowering  interest rates , opting May 12 to execute the third
reduction in banks’ reserve  requirements  since November.  Controlling Risk  The reserve-ratio cuts are “meant to control the risk of a
hard landing, not to avoid a soft landing,” said Stephen Jen,
managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in  London  and former
head of currency research at Morgan Stanley. “These monetary
policies are reactive, very different from what some analysts
had been expecting -- something much more aggressive and pre-
emptive.”  Citigroup projects second-quarter expansion of 7.5 percent,
down from a prior forecast of 7.9 percent, and full-year growth
of 8.1 percent, compared with 8.4 percent, according to a
research note yesterday. Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. predicts
growth of 8.3 percent this year, down from a prior forecast of
8.6 percent.  China’s growth rate slowed to 8.1 percent in the first
quarter from 11.9 percent two years ago. During the global
financial crisis, the weakest quarterly expansion was 6.2
percent in the first quarter of 2009, compared with a full-year
rate of 9.2 percent. Justin Lin, chief economist at the  World
Bank , sees the nation’s growth averaging 8 percent over the next
20 years, Xinhua news agency reported.  Debt Strategy  Pimco’s  Bill Gross , who runs the Total Return Fund, cut his
holdings of emerging-market debt to a two-year low last month.
The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks fell for a third day
after reports on May 11 showed China’s industrial production and
retail sales grew less than forecast. The gauge was down 0.8
percent as of 12:04 p.m. local time.  The data “highlight unequivocally the weakening growth
momentum” in China, Citigroup said.  Chances of an interest-rate reduction are still “small at
the moment,” Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America, said in a May 12 research note. The government has left
benchmark rates unchanged since an increase in July.  The People’s Bank of China said it will cut banks’ reserve
requirement ratio by 50 basis points effective May 18. The
reduction will inject about 400 billion  yuan  ($63 billion) of
liquidity into the banking system, Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. estimates.  Bubble Risk  The pause of almost three months between the two reserve-
ratio cuts this year, longer than investors expected, “shows
the central government’s deep concern on bubble risks,” Yao Wei,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe Generale SA, said in a
research note yesterday. “Any easing measures will still be
implemented in a much more cautious manner” than in 2008-2009,
she said.  JPMorgan reduced its second-quarter expansion forecast to
7.8 percent from 8 percent and full-year projection to 8 percent
from 8.2 percent. Monetary and fiscal policy have “so far been
behind the curve,” economists led by Zhu Haibin said in a May
11 research note.  Standard Chartered Plc is forecasting another three cuts in
the reserve ratio this year for a total of 150 basis points,
from the current level of 20 percent for the biggest banks. The
government will probably also relax loan-to-deposit ratio
regulations to boost credit growth,  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based
economist with the bank, said in a May 12 note.  ‘Plenty of Scope’  Stephen Roach , former non-executive chairman for Morgan
Stanley in  Asia , said China has “plenty of scope for easing”
to boost growth, with an interest-rate cut likely to happen
“sooner rather than later.”  “Chinese authorities have plenty of counter-cyclical
ammunition to deploy,” said Roach, who now teaches at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .  51job Inc., a Shanghai-based recruiting service provider,
and 7 Days Group Holdings Ltd., a hotel operator based in
 Guangzhou , last week pared sales forecasts. Shares of 51job fell
the most since September on May 10, while 7 Days Group sank to
the lowest since July 2010.  China’s policy makers are attempting to guide the economy
and financial sector to a “dual soft landing” by moderating
credit growth and unwinding the excesses of an investment boom
during the global financial crisis without triggering a collapse,
Toloui said.  Policy makers also probably want to keep some stimulus
firepower in reserve for next year, the new leadership’s first
full year in office, Toloui said. The Communist Party is
scheduled to hold a once-in-a-decade power handover to a new
generation of officials later this year in the aftermath of the
ouster of Chongqing party boss  Bo Xilai , which triggered the
deepest political tensions since 1989.  “The policy response this time around is likely to be
deliberate, incremental and reactive to incoming data on the
economy and financial conditions,” Toloui said.  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  