-- Clemens Accuser Says Ex-Pitcher Sought Steroid-Shot Help
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/clemens-accuser-mcnamee-takes-witness-stand-in-perjury-trial.html
The trainer for  Roger Clemens  who
told Congress he injected the former New York Yankees pitcher
with performance enhancing drugs said the treatments began when
Clemens sought help administering a shot of anabolic steroids.  “We were talking and he asked me in passing if I could
help him out with a booty shot,”  Brian McNamee  said while
testifying for the prosecution yesterday during Clemens’s
perjury trial in Washington.  McNamee, 45, the government’s only eyewitness to Clemens’s
alleged drug use, said he assisted with the shot, which he said
occurred in the SkyDome hotel where Clemens was living during
the 1998 season while both worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays .  After the first shot, Clemens doubled the dosage for each
additional steroid injections that summer, which totaled from
eight to 10, McNamee said. He told the jury that the injections
ceased that year after Clemens began treatment by team doctors
for an abscess on his buttocks.  “At the time I didn’t feel good about what I was doing,”
said McNamee, who was then the  Blue Jays  strength and
conditioning coordinator. “On the flipside, I wanted to help. I
knew what I was doing was illegal. I did what I was asked and I
made a mistake. I wish I could take it back. I was young.”  Clemens’s Drugs  Clemens provided all the drugs, McNamee said. He described
two instances in 1998 in which Clemens arrived at his locker in
Toronto with a bag containing bottles of steroids that he asked
him to dispose of.  Clemens, 49, who pitched for the Yankees, Blue Jays,  Boston
Red Sox  and  Houston Astros  during a 24-year career, used the
anabolic steroids and human growth hormone, or HGH, to remain
competitive as he aged, Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham
said in his opening statement as the trial began on April 23.  Earlier yesterday, McNamee testified that he quickly
developed a friendship with Clemens after joining the Blue Jays
in 1998. During spring training that year Clemens gave him a
$1,000 tip and later let him live in one of his rooms at the
stadium’s hotel.  “I think we had the same intensity levels,” McNamee said.  McNamee was hired by the Blue Jays after a stint with the
Yankees where he warmed up pitchers as a so-called bullpen
catcher. Before that, he was a New York City police officer.  Strength Coach  When Clemens joined the Yankees in 1999, he convinced then-
team owner  George Steinbrenner  to hire McNamee as the team’s
assistant strength coach the following year, according to
testimony from  Brian Cashman , the Yankees general manager. In
the offseason, McNamee trained Clemens and other  Major League
Baseball  players, such as Yankees teammate  Andy Pettitte , at
Clemens home in Houston.  McNamee said the Yankees paid him $30,000 a year and
Clemens paid him about $50,000.  McNamee is due back on the stand today.  The government’s case against Clemens includes a needle and
cotton balls exhibiting Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for
anabolic steroids, Durham said. McNamee kept the items in a
Miller Lite beer can for about seven years before turning them
over to federal investigators, he said.  Money and Fame  Clemens’s lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , argued in opening
statements that McNamee sought money and fame by making
accusations against the seven-time Cy Young Award winner. He
told jurors that McNamee manipulated the government’s physical
evidence and an expert will testify it’s easy to add DNA to a
needle that has never been used in an injection.  Clemens is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury stemming from his testimony
to a House panel investigating use of steroids in Major League
Baseball. He faces as long as 21 months in prison if convicted.  McNamee told jurors that he was a catcher for the baseball
team at St. John’s University in Queens,  New York . After
college, he tried out to play for the  Chicago White Sox .  “I didn’t play well so they sent me home,” he said.  Earlier yesterday, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  ruled
that the defense may question McNamee about an incident he
described in an unpublished manuscript: McNamee wrote that he
once placed a beer can in the hand of a woman found dead in a
New York City apartment.  Lie to Supervisor  McNamee falsely told a supervisor at the scene that he
didn’t touch anything in the apartment, according to a court
filing by the government that seeks to keep that information
from the jury.  Walton also ruled yesterday that the jury can consider
testimony from Pettitte regarding a conversation he and Clemens
had about HGH more than 10 years ago. The defense sought to have
the testimony thrown out after Pettitte, under questioning by
Clemens’s lawyer, said there was a 50 percent chance he
misunderstood Clemens’s alleged admission to using HGH.  Clemens has denied drug use since former Senator  George Mitchell , acting as a special investigator for Major League
Baseball, released a report on steroid use among professional
ballplayers on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens in the
report as having used drugs on at least 16 occasions between
1998 and 2001.  Clemens, who says he was injected by McNamee, said he
thought he was receiving vitamins and permissible drugs.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  