-- Co-Operative Bank to Lend $482 Million for U.K. Renewables
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-05-14T14:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/co-operative-bank-to-lend-482-million-for-u-k-renewables.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc will provide
about 300 million pounds ($482 million) in loans for U.K.
renewable energy projects this year and may increase its overall
lending target, its head of renewables said.  The British mutual bank plans to commit the same amount of
loans as last year for about 30 projects in 2012, James Sutcliffe, senior manager for renewable energy, said in an
interview. In addition, it will “probably” extend its 1
billion-pound lending target to the end of 2013 by 250 million
pounds, driven by demand from wind developers, he said.  The bank, which usually limits loans to 25 million pounds
per project, has committed about 750 million pounds to more than
100 U.K. renewable energy plants since 2007. It has financed
nine wind projects this year and may fund about 20 more compared
with 33 wind deals last year, Sutcliffe said.  “We are absolutely bombarded with projects now, never been
busier,” he said by phone. “Everyone is trying to get projects
done before the ROC -- renewables obligation certificates --
banding changes in April next year.”  The U.K. is reviewing its green certificates program for
renewable energy projects and plans to reduce the subsidies from
next April. Wind developers need to complete their projects
before then to secure the current support of one obligation
certificate per megawatt-hour generated.  “Projects need to be generating by then so everyone is
trying to close projects right now,” Sutcliffe said. The usual
pricing for U.K. onshore wind loans is about 350 basis points,
the executive said.  Last week, the Co-Operative Bank agreed to provide a 21.9
million-pound loan to Banks Renewables Ltd. for the 20.4-
megawatt Penny Hill wind farm, its fourth  project financing  for
the developer.  The bank, which focuses on the U.K., has  financed  wind
farms, energy-from-waste projects, biomass plants and small
hydropower facilities around the country. It may also finance
its first solar power projects this year, using ROCs instead of
feed-in tariffs, the manager said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  