-- College or Funeral Is Mother’s Wish Denied on DNA Results
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/college-or-funeral-is-mother-s-wish-denied-on-dna-results.html
Camilla Grondahl asked genetics
researcher Gholson Lyon a simple, heartbreaking question: Was
she carrying a lethal gene that might kill her unborn baby?  Grondahl, 29, didn’t want to terminate her pregnancy, which
began in 2010. She just wanted to know what the scientist knew.  “It was just more stress and worry while I was waiting for
my baby to be born,” Grondahl recalled. “What do you plan for?
Do you plan for him going to college or for a funeral?”  Lyon said he couldn’t tell her. A few months earlier,
Grondahl had given blood for a DNA study Lyon was conducting on
her family. She signed a form that said she would be notified of
findings that had “direct medical significance,” without
defining what that meant.  Grondahl is one of thousands of people in the U.S. who have
undergone DNA testing for research purposes and aren’t receiving
the results, even when the information has life-or-death
consequences. That’s prompting a burgeoning ethical debate that
has led to soul-searching among scientists and doctors.  While DNA sequencing is becoming more widely available,
most of the testing is done for research purposes at
universities and large medical centers. Even when an individual
wants to map his or her DNA, the cost can exceed $10,000 and is
rarely covered by insurance. Physicians and researchers are
using the technology to better understand and, in some cases,
diagnose and treat cancer and other diseases.  As of last year, about 30,000 people have had their full
genomes sequenced -- a complete analysis of their DNA -- up from
just one in 2003. The vast majority of them were analyzed in
research studies in which individuals, under standard research
guidelines, signed consent forms waiving their rights to the
information, said  Alexander Wait Zaranek , a geneticist at
 Harvard Medical School .  ‘Fork in the Road’  The possibility that scientists might have clinically
important information about individual study participants that
they aren’t sharing with them is the biggest ethical issue
facing genetic research, said  Susan M. Wolf , a professor of law
and medicine at the  University of Minnesota  in  Minneapolis .  “It’s very hard to defend a researcher knowing about an
urgent, high-stakes finding that could be addressed medically,
and not sharing it with a participant,” she said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a fundamental fork in the road here.”  The consequences can be serious. At least 5,378 people have
had genes sequenced through one  National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute  study, Zaranek said. A computer analysis of the data
predicts that as many as 100 of them may have harmful mutations
in genes that raise the risk of  breast cancer , Zaranek said.  ‘Incidental Findings’  Researchers haven’t confirmed that the mutations are there,
or informed participants that they may have elevated risk, said
Christopher O’Donnell, a researcher at the institute who’s
involved in the study. Deciding what to do with the information
is one of the most important parts of the study, he said.  Researchers are struggling to understand what to do with
genetic results that are discovered unexpectedly, called
“ incidental findings .”  Scientists are concerned that participants in their
research projects risk finding out unwanted, unnecessary or
incorrect information about themselves -- information that may
induce fear and alter lives.  In a 1999 study in the American Journal of Human Genetics,
about 1 percent of people who were diagnosed with  Huntington’s
disease , a fatal, genetic nerve disorder that usually occurs in
mid to late life, attempted suicide or were hospitalized for
psychiatric reasons.  Even when researchers are sure genetic data is correct,
expertise in delivering the news is scant. There are about 1,300
clinical geneticists and 785 genetic counselors in the U.S.,
according to  professional groups , or about one licensed and
qualified person to explain genetic tests for every 150,000
Americans.  ‘Pregnant and Sobbing’  “We have to take care with how we give people certain
kinds of bad news,” said Harvard University genetics researcher
 Robert Green . “If you were going to tell someone they have
inoperable cancer, you wouldn’t leave a message with their six-
year-old child over the phone.”  When Angela Chiesa learned that her mother, who was
diagnosed with dementia at the age of 57, carried the  Apoe4 gene
variant  that boosts the risk for  Alzheimer’s disease , she
immediately felt a sinking feeling in her gut. The doctor told
Chiesa that there was a 50 percent chance she, too, had
inherited the gene variant, and might be vulnerable to
Alzheimer’s disease as well.  “I was just sitting there, pregnant and sobbing,” Chiesa
recalled. “It was such a devastating moment. It was just like
someone punched me in the chest. I immediately started thinking
about what this meant for my own children.”  Want to Know  Chiesa still hasn’t undergone a test for the gene, afraid
of what she might find. She said she still might want to have it
done in the future, if there was a chance if it might help her
prepare for, or even avoid, Alzheimer’s.  Many research subjects want to know what their genetic
testing shows, even when they’ve agreed to remain ignorant. A
survey of 279 people published last year in the Journal of
Empirical Research on Human Research Ethics found that 71
percent of those in the U.S. wanted all the results of genetic
studies of their donated tissue. Even though there’s no therapy
or prevention for Alzheimer’s disease, some patients say they
would pay more than $1,000 to find out whether they’re at
increased genetic risk, Harvard’s Green said.  “Ultimately most genetic information should be freely
available for anyone who wants to find out information about
themselves,” said Green, who’s conducting a number of studies
of how to give such data back to people. “We still need
evidence demonstrating that doing so isn’t harmful.”  ‘Odd Little Things’  Debra Leonard , a pathology professor at Weill Cornell
Medical College in  New York , wants to know. She enrolled a few
years ago in a government study that involves an analysis of all
her protein-making genes. She signed a consent form in which she
gave up her rights to the data from the sequencing.  Leonard, who oversees all the clinical laboratories at
Weill Cornell Medical Center and New York-Presbyterian Hospital,
has asked the researcher running the study whether her
sequencing is finished so many times that he has joked about
avoiding her at scientific meetings, she said. The committee
overseeing human research at the  National Institutes of Health 
forbids releasing all her data to her. She said she has
considered demanding the results under the Freedom of
Information Act.  “I’d like to look at my genome and see if I can figure out
odd little things like why I have such a strong reaction to
caffeine,” she said. “Sometimes I get severe cramps in my feet
and legs, and I’d like to see if there are underlying variants
that might explain that. My children are also entering their
childbearing years, and I’m wondering if I’m carrying any rare
diseases that might affect my grandchildren.”  Consistent Treatment  Leslie Biesecker , chief of the genetics disease research
branch at the National Human Genome Research Institute, who
leads the study, declined to discuss Leonard’s case. One of the
goals of the study is to examine how to share genetic data with
participants, and it’s important for the study to treat people
consistently, regardless of their qualifications, he said.  “We all want to get to the answer of what is the right way
to give large-scale genetic information to individual
patients,” Biesecker said in a phone interview. “I don’t think
it’s practical to imagine taking an average patient and dumping
on them their genome and all the variants in the genome.”  New Rules  Decades-old regulations that govern studies of people
haven’t kept pace with the “evolving human research
enterprise,” according to the  Office for Human Research
Protections , the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
division that oversees ethics panels. As part of an effort to
modernize these rules, HHS has asked for public comment on the
issue of returning results to study participants, said Jerry
Menikoff, office director.  A committee formed by the  American College of Medical
Genetics and Genomics  is developing a list of disease-linked
mutations that laboratories should report when a patient’s DNA
is found to sharply increase the risk of breast cancer,  colon
cancer , or sudden heart failure, for example. The report would
go to the doctor who ordered the test for the patient.  “A mutation on the list would have to be the kind of thing
that a person would want to know, or absolutely has to know, to
prevent an adverse event,” said Robert Nussbaum, a geneticist
at the  University of California ,  San Francisco , who’s on the
organization’s committee.  Camilla Grondahl and her husband live in a small, one-story
brick home in Ogden,  Utah ’s second largest city. One end of
their street is crammed with stores and fast-food restaurants;
at the other end lie the foothills of the Wasatch Mountains.  Boys Kept Dying  Enclosed by a chain-link fence, their front yard is filled
with the toys of their 2 1/2-year-old daughter, Chloe, and signs
advertising the costume jewelry that Grondahl sells from her
house. Eric Grondahl works nearby, installing windshields and
glass in cars.  The Grondahls dreamed of having several children. Yet they
knew that for 30 years, the baby boys in the family kept dying.  Camilla Grondahl’s mother, Halena Black, suspected
something was wrong soon after Camilla’s oldest brother, Kenny
Rae, was born just under five pounds on Thanksgiving Day in
1979. His skin was wrinkled, he had eczema, and his pediatrician
noted that he grew slowly.  “By the time he was five months old, the doctor said
‘There’s something not quite right with your son,’” Black said.
“’I don’t know what it is, I can’t put my finger on it.’”  While tests showed nothing wrong, Kenny Rae was clearly
sick. He stopped breathing once and had to be resuscitated. In
1980, on the night before Halloween, he went into cardiac arrest
and died.  Gurgling Cough  The Blacks went on to have three healthy daughters, along
with one girl who was stillborn, before Hyrum was born in 1987.
At more than 6.5 pounds, Hyrum was bigger than Kenny Rae, yet
the wrinkled skin and sunken eyes were unmistakable. He looked
just like his brother.  The family was at Sunday church services when Hyrum had his
second cardiac arrest. Black had been through it often enough
that she thought she could hear the baby make a distinct sound,
like a gurgling cough, as it began. She put Hyrum on the floor
of church and began trying to resuscitate him as hundreds of
parishioners looked on. Just 9 1/2-months-old, Hyrum was rushed
to the hospital. He died the same day.  When the Blacks had a healthy baby boy in 1990, they
thought their troubles were behind them. Then their second
daughter, Sesha, gave birth to Corbin, and he looked just like
his two uncles who died so young.  Corbin lived five months.  Blood Samples  Gholson Lyon , the geneticist and a psychiatrist with an
interest in the genetic underpinnings of mental illness, moved
to Utah from New York in 2009. He heard about the family’s
unusual deaths and decided to investigate.  Just before Thanksgiving in 2010, Lyon drove 45 minutes
north from his office in  Salt Lake City . He met the family in
the Blacks’ living room, where eight or nine relatives crowded
in to give blood samples. Like Camilla, the others signed
consent forms.  Lyon, a young scientist and doctor who studied at the
University of Cambridge in the U.K. and earned his M.D. and
Ph.D. degrees in New York, worked feverishly.  50 Percent Chance  Focusing on the X-chromosome -- of which men have just one
copy, while women have two -- Lyon led a team of scientists and
in just a few months identified a previously unknown gene
mutation that was responsible for the continued cases of heart
failure in the family’s boys.  All the women who had given birth to the ill boys carried
the potentially deadly gene. Every baby boy had a 50 percent
chance of inheriting the gene mutation and dying.  In the meantime, Grondahl had become pregnant with her
second child, a boy. Lyon had already sequenced her blood sample
and knew what the results showed.  “She called me about four months into her pregnancy and
said, ‘You took my blood, and I heard you may have found
something in my sisters,’” Lyon recalled. “’Is there anything
you can tell me?’”  No Question  Lyon agonized over what to tell Grondahl. While the results
of his research were clear, he says he didn’t have a government-
approved test that would confirm the finding. Congress passed a
law in  1988  requiring government approval for all clinical lab
tests after some women got incorrect results from Pap smears,
and suffered cases of cervical cancer that might have been
prevented. His procedure didn’t satisfy the requirements of that
law, he told the Grondahls.  Alan Rope , a medical geneticist who has followed the Black
family since 2009 and helped with Lyon’s research effort, said
he e-mailed a member of the research  ethics committee  at the
University of Utah. One member told him that the panel probably
would have permitted the results to be given to the Grondahls,
he said.  “We knew what we were dealing with,” Rope said. “There
was no question we were on the right track.”  Lyon said he doesn’t recall hearing from Rope about what
the ethics panel member said at the time. Human research ethics
panels, called institutional review boards, are still struggling
to understand the issues in genetic research, he said.  Sutter and Max  “I don’t want to be somebody who sells or gives stuff back
to people without the proper approvals,” Lyon said in an
interview. “That would make me no different than someone who’s
in a ‘60 Minutes’ expose for giving  stem cells  without FDA
approval to somebody.”  Grondahl awaited the birth of her son. A year earlier her
sister Kimberly gave birth to a son, Sutter, born with the gene
defect. He lived about 15 months, dying on Oct. 16, 2010.  A few months later, on Feb. 2, 2011, Grondahl’s son was
born. They named him Max.  His father, Eric, saw signs of hope. Max’s body was
swollen, so he didn’t seem to have the characteristic wrinkles
and sunken eyes that marked the boys who had died.  Five days into Max’s life, the swelling went down.  The
Grondahls sat with Max and watched a video of baby Corbin, who
had died before Max was born.  “Max looked just like him,” Eric Grondahl said. “I lost
my boy on that day.”  On Father’s Day, June 19, 2011, at the age of 4 1/2 months,
Max died.  Test Approved  That same week, Lyon and Rope published a  paper  in the
American Journal of Human Genetics describing the fatal
condition, which they named Ogden syndrome, and the gene that
caused it.  Three months later -- too late for Camilla Grondahl and her
family -- the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
approved the test for the gene Lyon had found, meaning it could
be used to tell people whether they carried the fatal mutation.
The test is available through ARUP Laboratories in Salt Lake
City.  Since then, Lyon has become an outspoken  advocate  for
changing practices that don’t allow study participants to learn
what scientific studies have said about their own genes. He’s
published several articles and spoken at conferences on how
important it is for scientists to prepare themselves to return
important sequencing results to subjects.  He still believes he did the right thing under the current
guidelines. Yet, he says it’s unethical to conduct genetic tests
under conditions that don’t allow medically important results to
be returned, he said.  ‘Morally Unacceptable’  “It is ethically and morally unacceptable to sequence
living humans only in a research setting, without providing
means for participants to get access to the results,” he said.  Grondahl says she isn’t upset that Lyon didn’t inform her
of the test results. Even if she had known that the baby would
be afflicted with Ogden syndrome, she wouldn’t have ended her
pregnancy. Now that the test is approved, it may be used to test
future pregnancies in the family.  “After all these years of not knowing why your brothers
died and your son died, it gives you some closure,” she said.
“You can move on with your life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  