-- Colorado Civil Unions Legislation Assigned to ’Kill’ Committee
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-05-14T23:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/colorado-civil-unions-legislation-assigned-to-kill-committee.html
A measure allowing same-sex civil
unions that prompted  Colorado  Governor John Hickenlooper to call
a special session after Republicans killed it last week may be
defeated again later today.  On the first day of the new session, Colorado Republican
House Speaker Frank McNulty assigned the bill to the  State,
Veterans and Military Affairs Committee , a panel dominated by
conservative members.  McNulty “sent it to state affairs, unfortunately known as
his ‘kill’ committee,” said Democrat House Minority Leader Mark Ferrandino, the bill’s sponsor. “I’m going in knowing we don’t
have a committed ‘yes’ vote.”  After being approved by the Democratic-controlled state
Senate in April, the civil union’s bill unexpectedly passed out
of three Republican-controlled House committees, yet
subsequently died in the House on May 8. Hickenlooper called a
special session the next day, even as President  Barack Obama 
said for the first time that gay marriage should be legal.  McNulty said this morning that he assigned the bill to the
state affairs committee to “dispense with divisive issues as
quickly as possible so we can get back to the business of
creating jobs.”  Hickenlooper, a Democrat, said in a brief press conference
today that he wouldn’t “jump to the conclusion” that the civil
unions bill will die in the committee. He added that he didn’t
call the special session solely to debate civil unions.  ‘Special Session’  “We needed a special session anyway, we needed to make
sure that we got business bills done and at the same time we
needed a debate on civil unions,” Hickenlooper said.  In an executive order calling for a special session on May
11, the governor asked the  legislature  to consider seven
subjects including unemployment, limits on driving while under
the influence of drugs, water projects and civil unions.  It’s the closest a civil unions measure, which would have
permitted gay and lesbian couples to inherit one another’s
property and take family leave and make medical end-of-life
decisions for a partner, has come to passing in Colorado.  The state’s voters in 2006 rejected a domestic partnerships
ballot initiative and amended the state constitution to declare
marriage is between a man and a woman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  