-- Common Cause Seeks End to Republicans’ Use of Filibuster
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-15T16:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/common-cause-seeks-end-to-republicans-use-of-filibuster.html
Common Cause, a Washington-based
watchdog organization, is asking a federal court to overturn the
Senate filibuster, which Republicans have used more since
Democrats captured the chamber in 2007.  The group, in a lawsuit filed yesterday in U.S. District
Court in  Washington , cited the Senate’s inability to muster 60
votes to clear legislation allowing children of undocumented
immigrants to become legal U.S. residents if they go to college
or join the U.S. armed forces, and to pass legislation requiring
nonprofit groups that run political ads to disclose their
donors. Both bills passed the House and received a majority of
votes in the Senate.  “While the Senate can set its own rules, they can’t be
unconstitutional,” said Common Cause President Bob Edgar, a
former Democratic U.S. representative from  Pennsylvania . “This
is an unconstitutional provision. A minority of senators
representing a minority of the population of the nation can in
fact rule with the current system.”  Requiring a supermajority of 60 votes on legislation rather
than 51 votes has become more common.  “With Republicans willing to use every obstructionist
tactic in the book, even on bills they support, it’s a wonder
the Senate gets anything done at all,” the chamber’s majority
leader, Nevada Democrat Harry Reid, said on the floor yesterday.  Seeking Agreement  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democratic
leader, said today that both parties should come to a broader,
informal agreement about how to proceed in order to stop the
constant threats of obstruction.  “The filibuster is virtually shutting down the Senate,”
Durbin said on the Senate floor.  He suggested giving Republicans more chances to offer
amendments, as long as they relate to the bills under debate.
Senators debating legislation to renew federal funding for
transportation defeated a Republican proposal to allow employers
to exclude  birth control  and other  health services  from health
plans provided to their workers if they said they conflicted
with their moral or religious beliefs.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said
the filibuster isn’t being overused by the minority. He said the
problem is Democrats aren’t seeking Republican ideas before
moving legislation to the floor and are blocking the minority’s
ability to offer amendments.  Blaming Other Side  “Rather than work with us on bipartisan solutions that
reflect the concerns and input of our constituents and that
therefore have a good chance of passing, Democrats blame the
other side for obstruction, not only avoiding their own
responsibilities as the majority party but handing the president
a useful election-year theme,” McConnell said on the Senate
floor.  Since the Democrats gained control of the Senate in 2007,
the number of motions to end debate, known as cloture, has more
than doubled to 276 in 2007-10 from 130 in 2003-06, when
Republicans were in the majority, according to the  Senate
Historical Office . In the current Congress, 84 motions have been
filed to date.  “It reflects the breakdown of any sense of collaboration
between the Democrats and Republicans,” said  Tobe Berkovitz , a
professor of communication at  Boston University . “Whichever
party is out of power wields the filibuster like a mace.
Whichever party is in power bemoans the degradation of Senate
decorum due to the filibuster. This has made the world’s
foremost deliberative body increasingly more dysfunctional.”  Started With Clinton  The increase in the use of the filibuster can be traced to
the 103rd Congress in 1993-94, when Democrat  Bill Clinton  was
president and the Senate Republican minority was led by  Bob Dole 
of  Kansas .  During that period, 80 motions for cloture were filed, more
than ever before and a one-third increase from the previous two
years. The mark was toppled with 82 cloture motions in the next
two-year period after Republicans took control of both houses.
That remained the record until the 110th Congress in 2007-08.  “Though it was never the debate-enhancing instrument that
its defenders claim -- the most memorable filibusters appear in
‘Mr. Smith Goes to Washington’ screenplays and West Wing
scripts, not on the Senate floor -- it was rightly considered a
principled last resort,” said  Rogan Kersh , associate dean at
New York University’s Wagner School. “Now it is a routine
first-strike option, effectively requiring a 60-vote
supermajority for virtually any meaningful Senate action.”  Common Cause ’s Edgar said the Constitution requires a two-
thirds vote for specific actions such as overriding a
presidential veto and ratifying treaties, not for passing bills.  Majority Vote  “The Founding Fathers intended the House would vote by
majority, the Senate would vote by majority and they’d go to a
conference committee,” Edgar said. “If we want supermajority
votes on other issues, have the Senate and House add them to the
Constitution.”  Talk of changing the rules to limit filibusters so far
hasn’t prompted either party to do so when controlling the
Senate.  “All Senate rules exist because a majority believes that
they are better off with the rules than without them,” said
 David Primo , a professor of political science at the University
of Rochester in  New York . “The majority party always complains
about filibuster abuses, but they never get rid of it because
they want the same protections when they are in the minority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 