-- Cool Nights May Damp Northeast Electric Use Into Mid-May
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-14T12:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/cool-nights-may-damp-northeast-electric-use-into-mid-may.html
The U.S. Northeast and Midwest
probably won’t stay hot enough night after night to boost
electricity demand for air conditioning through mid-May.  High temperatures in  New York  City until May 23 may be in
the 70s Fahrenheit (low 20s Celsius) during the day, dropping
into the high 50s to low 60s overnight, according to  MDA
EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  While the weather may be warmer than normal for this time
of year, it won’t be enough to spark a rise in electricity use
to cool homes and businesses in New York or the Northeast, said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland.  “Even the warmth in the Midwest is just 80s, rather than
any early season stronger heat events that can sometimes play
out,” Rogers said in a note to clients today.  The low cost of natural gas brought about by a glut created
by high production and a warmer-than-normal winter has prompted
more  power plants  to use the fuel to create electricity. Gas
consumption is expected to peak at 31.2 billion cubic feet a day
in the third quarter, when air conditioning use is the highest,
up from 27.7 billion a year earlier, according to the Energy
Department.  Natural gas futures gained last week, settling above $2.50
for the first time since February, on speculation that demand
will rise as power plants switch to gas from higher-priced coal.  Benign Pattern  “We see occasional hotter chances over the next two weeks
in the West, Plains and sometimes the Midwest, but otherwise,
the pattern is fairly benign with below-normal demand,” Rogers
said.  The U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  forecasts the cooling
degree days value for this week to be 24, or 3 above normal and
10 above last year. In the mid-Atlantic region and New York
State, the value is expected to be zero, or 5 below normal,
matching last year.  Cooling-degree days, which are watched by traders as an
indication of energy demand, are calculated by subtracting a
base of 65 degrees from the daily average temperature to show.
Higher values mean warmer weather and more energy being used to
cool homes and businesses.  Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,  Vermont , Maine and  New
Hampshire  are also expected to have a value of zero, according
to the climate center in  Camp Springs , Maryland. Massachusetts,
Ohio, Michigan may have 1 and Connecticut and New Jersey 2.  Average temperatures may be 3 to 4 degrees above normal in
the Northeast from May 24 to May 28, according to MDA’s 11- to
15-day outlook. In  Chicago  and the Great Lakes, average
temperatures may be 5 to 7 degrees above normal for the period.  The normal average temperature for May 16 in New York is
63, according to MDA. It’s 58 in Boston, 59 in Chicago, 67 in
 St. Louis , 70 in Atlanta, 74 in Dallas, 77 in Houston, 60 in
Seattle and 72 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  