-- Default Swaps in U.S. Rise on Talk Greece May Exit Euro
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-05-14T21:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-on-talk-greece-may-exit-euro.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk in
the U.S. increased for an eighth day, the longest streak in more
than two years, as concern mounts that Greece will exit the
European currency.  Debt issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co., which last week
revealed a $2 billion trading loss, fell by the most since March
as the cost to protect the obligations of the biggest  U.S. bank 
increased to the highest level since December. Bonds of
Chesapeake Energy Corp. fell to a record low while credit-
default swaps linked to the second-largest U.S. natural-gas
producer jumped by the most since 2008.  Credit markets were roiled as concern grew that a crisis of
 Europe ’s common currency could infect the global financial
system. The cost of swaps rose after European Central Bank
Governing Council member  Patrick Honohan  said May 12 that a
Greek exit from the euro “is not necessarily fatal, but it is
not attractive” as the country’s leaders struggled to form a
government following inconclusive elections May 6.  “The markets are a little bit more concerned about these
headline macro issues than long-term fundamentals,” Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, said in a telephone interview. “The
biggest issue is that the country’s internal political forces
have gotten vocal once again,” he said of  Greece .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 6.2 basis points, its biggest jump since
Dec. 8, to a mid-price of 114.7 basis points at 5:43 p.m. in New
York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Four-Month High  The eighth consecutive daily rise was the longest stretch
of advances since January 2010, while the index was at the
highest level in four months.  The measure, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, closed at 116 basis
points on Jan. 16. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Chesapeake’s $1 billion of 6.125 percent notes maturing in
February 2021 traded at 90 cents on the dollar to yield 7.7
percent, down from 94 cents on May 11, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Chesapeake, JPMorgan  Credit-default swaps tied to the oil and natural gas
producer, criticized for allowing its top executive to invest in
the company’s wells, rose 116 basis points to 787 basis points,
the highest level since 2009 and the biggest jump since Dec. 5,
2008, Bloomberg data show.  JPMorgan’s $2 billion of 4.625 percent notes due in May
2021 dropped by the most since March 1 and traded at 105.4 cents
on the dollar to yield about 3.90 percent, compared with 107.3
cents on May 11, Trace data show. Swaps on the bank increased
for a fourth day to 144.5 basis points, the highest level since
Dec. 30, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  