-- Crescent Won’t Provide Cash to Dana Gas for Sukuk Payment
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-05-14T07:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/crescent-says-won-t-provide-cash-to-dana-gas-for-sukuk-repayment.html
Crescent Petroleum Co.,  Dana Gas
PJSC (DANA) ’s biggest shareholder, has no plan to provide cash to the
United Arab Emirates-based natural gas producer to help pay a $1
billion Islamic bond due in October.  Any “speculation around Crescent injecting further capital
to support the Dana Gas sukuk is incorrect,” Majid Jafar,
Sharjah-based chief executive officer of Crescent, said in a
phone interview yesterday. Dana Gas “is facing external macro-
economic and political events outside its control” in  Iraq ’s
Kurdistan region and in  Egypt , which have led to unpaid bills,
and “these are the economic realities that all the stakeholders
need to take into account,” he said.  Concern that Dana Gas will default drove up yields on the
7.5 percent notes by 24 percentage points this month to 91.8
percent at 11:23 a.m. in Dubai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company will be unable to  repay  the sukuk and
there is high probability the liability will be reorganized,
investment bank Exotix Ltd. said in a research note May 10.  Dana Gas, in which Crescent Petroleum holds a 20.1 percent
stake, said in March customers owed $501 million to the company
at the end of December, up from $255 million in 2010. Still, its
profit advanced to $138 million in 2011 from $43 million the
previous year, helped by higher gas production and prices. The
company produces most of its gas in Egypt and Kurdistan and
political upheaval in these regions have held up payments.  Dana Gas has “an excellent track record” and has boosted
gas reserves, production, revenue and profit, Jafar said.  Reorganizing Debt  Investors in Dana’s sukuk hired Linklaters LLP to help
negotiate a debt reorganization, three people familiar with the
matter said May 8. The gas producer, whose chief executive
officer plans to retire this year, hired Blackstone Group LP to
advise on restructuring the Islamic bonds, three people familiar
with the matter said in April.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is also advising
the Sharjah-based company, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in January.  Dana Gas could default on the sukuk if creditors, which
include some foreign investors and Dana’s management cannot
agree on revised terms, Exotix said. It estimated a recovery
value of 52 cents to the dollar in liquidation, while a
restructuring may involve full principal payment in 5 years, or
a partial upfront repayment in shares or cash with the remaining
obligation extended, according to the investment bank.  “The large shareholders of Dana Gas, particularly the
founders, have always been committed to the company,” Jafar
said. “We haven’t reduced our holding, we have never received a
cash dividend and Dana has always met its coupon payments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  