-- Cushman Plans Takeovers to Raise Revenue From Australia Fivefold
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-05-14T00:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/cushman-plans-takeovers-to-raise-revenue-from-australia-fivefold.html
Cushman & Wakefield  Inc., the largest
closely-held commercial real-estate broker, plans to acquire
rival businesses in  Australia  as it seeks to boost revenue from
the nation fivefold by 2016.  The group expects to finalize the purchase of a property
valuation company on Australia’s east coast by June 30, said
David Woolford, Australian managing director at the company,
declining to provide further details. Cushman plans to boost
revenue from  Australia  to at least A$50 million ($50.1 million)
a year, from about A$10 million now, and to raise its staff to
300 people from 55 people now, he said in an e-mailed response
to questions on May 11.  “We must make substantial acquisitions to take that leap,
to be competitive,” Woolford said in a telephone interview from
Sydney. “Without having a strong business in Australia, we
can’t capture the global clients.”  The company is pushing into  Asia  with plans to increase the
region’s proportion of revenue to 20 percent of total sales in
five years from the current 10 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Rufrano said in December. The world’s third-biggest real
estate services group behind  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  and  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  has kept its Australian growth on hold since it
began operating as a full-service real estate broker in 2008,
and has only recently moved into expansion mode, Woolford said.  Cushman, whose services in Australia include real estate
valuation, sales, management, leasing and tenant representation,
is expanding in Australia as a shortage of properties and demand
from overseas investors and pension funds is expected to boost
values of office towers, prime shopping centers and warehouses.
Office values will rise 3.5 percent this year, retail 2.7
percent and industrial properties 4.4 percent, Jones Lang
LaSalle said in a report in March.  Hiring Plans  Cushman this month said it had hired John Barras, real
estate valuer at BarrasValuations Pty and a former director at
CBRE, to head its valuation and advisory division in Sydney. It
will seek to acquire teams of real-estate professionals and
plans more takeovers of valuation rivals to compete with listed
competitors CBRE and  Jones Lang , Woolford said.  The company, whose Australian business now accounts for
about a 10th of its Asia-Pacific operations, will expand from
offices in Sydney and Brisbane now to Melbourne, Perth and
Adelaide, he said. Cushman & Wakefield, controlled by Italy’s
Agnelli family that also controls Fiat SpA, reported net income
of $19 million for 2011, on revenues of $236.3 million,
according to a  statement  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  