-- Cypriot President Christofias Says He Won’t Seek Re-election
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-05-14T15:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/cypriot-president-christofias-says-he-won-t-seek-re-election-1-.html
Cypriot president Demetris Christofias said he won’t seek reelection when Cypriots hold
presidential elections in February, saying his main task of
uniting the divided island hadn’t been accomplished.  “The Cyprus issue hasn’t been resolved and I don’t see any
definitive progress in coming months,” Christofias told
reporters in Nicosia today. “I won’t seek to be re-elected as
president. The government will continue according to the
constitution with its tasks until it handovers to the new
government.”  Cyprus has remained divided since 1974 when  Turkey  invaded
its northern part in response to a Greek inspired coup. The two
communities failed to make any progress toward reunification in
talks which resumed in 2008, four years after Greek Cypriots
rejected a  United Nations  sponsored settlement plan which
Turkish Cypriots accepted.  Christofias saw his popularity slump after an explosion of
confiscated Iranian munitions on July 11 at a naval base which
killed 13, injured 61 and knocked out half of the east
Mediterranean island’s power production capacity that led to
outages that hurt the economy. He rejected calls for his
resignation over his role in the blast and dismissed the
findings of an inquiry blaming him.  The government, which is unable to borrow from
international markets for a year, may also have to support
Cyprus Popular Bank PCL, the second largest Cypriot lender which
was hurt by writedowns in Greek government debt, with as much as
2 billion euros to strengthen its capital.  “We had to face the largest systemic, capitalist crisis
ever,” Christofias said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  