-- Derivatives Signal Rising Money Market Stress as Greece Worsens
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-14T13:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/derivatives-signal-rising-money-market-stress-as-greece-worsens.html
Forward markets signaled increased
stress in the money markets as traders lifted bets for the gap
between the London interbank offered rate and Federal funds for
the months ahead amid concern a Greek failure to form a
government may force the nation to exit the euro area.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, a gauge of
banks reluctance to lend, rise to a four-month high, according
to the so-called FRA/OIS spreads. Predictions for the spread for
the three month period beginning in September, the so-called
second rolling contract, was 43.9 basis points, compared with 41
basis points on May 11 and as narrow this year as 28.8 basis
points on March 2.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 2.2 basis points to 36.88 basis points, the most
since January. The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of
U.S. banking sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from
expectations for the dollar three-month London interbank offered
rate, or Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  Three-month dollar, which represents the rate at which
banks say it would cost to borrow from another,  was  0.46585
percent, down from 0.46685 percent on May 11, according to the
British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread was little changed at 31.3 basis
points. Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions
on where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the
term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 46.9 basis points below Euribor, compared with 45
below on May 11.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
surged $26.4 billion to $966.4 billion outstanding in the week
ended May 9, according to Federal Reserve data. During the two
week period ended May 9, the market has expanded $40.5 billion,
the biggest increase since $40.8 billion for the comparable
period ended May 25, 2011, according to Fed data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, narrowed.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 37
basis points from 38 basis points on May 11. The measure has
fallen from 95 basis points at the start of the year.  Basis Swaps  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 31.2 basis points, compared to
minus 30.3 at the end of last week. A negative swap price
indicates investors are willing to receive reduced interest
payments on the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed
financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  