-- Detroit 54.5 MPG Mandate Gets Help From U.S. Army’s Tanks
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/detroit-54-5-mpg-mandate-gets-help-from-u-s-army-s-tanks.html
The temperature hovers around 120
degrees at the Arsenal of Democracy. Michael Reid keeps up the
heat in the laboratory as he tests a Bradley fighting vehicle
commonly used under extreme conditions.  Reid, director of vehicle-testing labs at the  Tank
Automotive Research Development  and Engineering Center in Warren,
 Michigan , leads a staff that also is testing a system to turn
exhaust heat into electricity to power a tank’s computer. In
time, consumers might see similar fuel-saving technology --
currently consumers’ No. 1 concern -- in a  Chevy Malibu  or  Jeep
Grand Cherokee .  The auto industry has a long tradition of adapting military
technology to improve passenger cars for civilians, said  John Wolkonowicz , an independent auto analyst in  Boston  who
specializes in automotive history.  “Just about any material used in a passenger car was
probably improved with military research,” he said.  Boosting fuel economy has become a high priority for
automakers that face a doubling of efficiency standards to 54.5
mpg by 2025 or face fines. Among U.S. car-shoppers’ priorities
this year, mileage soared to the top of the list, surpassing
reliability, a good deal and exterior styling, according to a
survey by researcher J.D. Power & Associates.  All of the major automakers devote billions of dollars to
research fuel efficiency and alternative technology. The
military is focusing on many of the same ideas at the $60
million lab, such as batteries that use different chemical
combinations for longer range and perfecting fuel cells that
convert hydrogen into electricity without pollution.  Arsenal of Democracy  The military research at Tardec, 17 miles (27 km) north of
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Detroit headquarters, offers the
possibility of breakthroughs that may also someday benefit Ford
and Chevy cars and trucks. The site has long been an engine of
progress.  The U.S. Army contracted with then-Chrysler Corp. in August
1940 to create the country’s first government-owned, contractor-
operated factory at the Detroit Arsenal Tank Plant in Warren --
later heralded as the “Arsenal of Democracy.”  The first
prototype tank was finished in April 1941, according to the
official history of the facility.  GM improved Cadillac’s automatic transmissions as part of a
program making M-5 light tanks during World War II, said
Wolkonowicz, the auto historian. Each tank was powered by two
Cadillac engines and a pair of automatic transmissions, and the
wartime work meant postwar Cadillacs had far fewer defects, he
said.  Battlefields to Driveways  Four-wheel drive systems in go-anywhere  Jeeps  made their
way from military use to American driveways, and improved fuel
quality on the battlefields led to cleaner-burning passenger
cars after the war, he said.  The Arsenal also built M47 tanks for the Korean War and
M113 armored personnel carriers for  Vietnam  as well as Cold War-
era M-60 Patton tanks. In 1976, it started making the M1 Abrams,
the main battle tank that was used in the Gulf wars. Research
and development continued after vehicle production at the site
ended in 1996.  Last month, the  U.S. Army  opened eight new laboratories at
the 30,000-square-foot (2,800 square meters) Tardec Ground
Systems Power and Energy Laboratory complex. There, the
military’s engineers can evaluate individual components and then
assemble them into full vehicles to see how they work together,
Reid said. The military will work with industry and academic
experts to design tests, he said.  Energy Management  In one of those labs, a researcher demonstrates a sensor
that can take body warmth and convert it to electricity. The
idea is to use that technology to take all the heat from a
vehicle’s exhaust system and turn it into energy to recharge
batteries or run onboard computers.  Putting such a converter with the muffler would help
recapture some of the 30 percent of energy that is typically
wasted, researchers said.  “We’re trying to do anything we can to reduce the thermal
loading on a vehicle,” because heat damages equipment and
wastes precious fuel, said Reid.  More-efficient cooling means better durability for the
60,000-pound (27,000 kg) war machine, just as it does for a
5,000-pound  Ford F-150  pickup. For the Army, getting more
efficient means sending soldiers on fewer dangerous fuel convoys.  Fuel-Cell Opportunities  GM is already studying whether it may be able to work on
hydrogen fuel cell tests at the facility, said Mary Beth Stanek,
GM’s director of federal environmental and energy regulatory
affairs, who has toured the facility.  “It’s a state-of-the-art facility,” she said. “And with
the proximity, we should be able to leverage these assets for
the whole  auto industry .”  GM already works with the military on projects such as the
fleet of fuel-cell-powered vehicles that the U.S. Department of
Defense is testing in  Hawaii , Stanek said.  The primary goal of all the research at the new Tardec labs
is to find ways to make vehicles more efficient, less complex
and more durable, so that military personnel have less need to
repair them when they are in combat or far from support
operations, Reid said.  The Tardec facility includes special testing sites to
experiment on fuel cells, which use hydrogen or another fuel to
create electricity, as well as electric-vehicle batteries such
as the advanced lithium-ion technology being introduced in
passenger cars such as the  Chevrolet Volt , Reid said.  Extreme Conditions  Another laboratory can test air filtration for engines
under extreme conditions and extend a powertrain’s life, Reid
said.  At the center of the other research operations is the Power
and Energy Vehicle Environmental Lab, which can simulate full-
speed operation of a vehicle with as many as 10 wheels from 60
degrees below zero to 160 degrees above -- or “from Yuma to
Antarctica in a day,” Reid said.  “The military operates in very extreme environments, doing
very difficult missions,” said Al Schumacher, assistant
associate director of ground vehicle power and mobility at
Tardec. “If we can makes these vehicles function in that
environment, we should be able to implement them in commercial
applications that are cheaper and very reliable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  