-- Deutsche Bank Investors Shouldn’t Support Board, Ivox Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-14T16:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/deutsche-bank-investors-shouldn-t-back-board-actions-ivox-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  investors shouldn’t
sign off on the supervisory board’s actions for 2011 at the
bank’s annual general meeting this month, said Ivox GmbH and
 Glass Lewis  & Co., which advise shareholders on how to vote.  Overseers at  Germany ’s largest bank’s didn’t necessarily
act in the interest of all investors or sufficiently follow
corporate governance guidelines during the protracted succession
of Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , Financial Times
Deutschland reported yesterday, citing Ivox and Glass Lewis.
Ivox, based in Karlsruhe, Germany, and Glass Lewis spokesman
Jaron Schneider confirmed the comments to Bloomberg News today.  Deutsche Bank said in July that investment-banking chief
Anshu Jain and Germany head  Juergen Fitschen  would take over as
co-CEOs at the end of May, ending more than two years of
speculation over the bank’s future leadership. In November,
Ackermann scrapped a plan to become chairman of the supervisory
board, a move that have would skirted German corporate
governance practice, after failing to generate enough
shareholder support while counseling  Europe ’s leaders on
combating the region’s debt crisis.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment on the recommendations to
investors made by Ivox and Glass Lewis.  Succession ‘Flawed’  “The succession planning process for the CEO and the
chairman of the supervisory board was flawed and may have been
damaging to the company’s reputation,” Glass Lewis said in a
report. “It is important to send a strong signal to the
supervisory board that shareholders’ interests must be
considered in important matters.”  The plan to name Ackermann as supervisory board chairman
faced “potentially insurmountable” legal and regulatory
hurdles and “it appears that the board did not adequately test
shareholders’ or regulators’ tolerance of the move prior to
making a public announcement,” Glass Lewis said.  Deutsche Bank said in November that it will nominate  Paul Achleitner , the finance chief of Munich-based insurer  Allianz
SE (ALV) , as supervisory board chairman to replace Clemens Boersig.  The planned appointment of William Broeksmit as chief risk
officer, whose candidacy was opposed by German financial market
regulator BaFin in March, didn’t reflect a “careful” selection
process, Ivox said. Broeksmit didn’t receive unanimous support
from BaFin because of concern that he lacked experience managing
a large number of employees, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in March.  Deutsche Bank said March 16 that Stuart Lewis will replace
Hugo Banziger as chief risk officer at the end of May.  Ivox is an independent proxy adviser with more than 30
clients in Europe. Glass Lewis and its competitor, ISS Proxy
Advisory Services, faulted  Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO Vikram Pandit’s
payouts and recommended that investors reject the bank’s
executive compensation plan for 2011.  There are no direct legal consequences should shareholders
opt not to discharge Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  