-- Dimon Fortress Breached as Push From Hedges to Bets Blows Up
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-05-14T14:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/dimon-fortress-breached-as-push-from-hedging-to-betting-blows-up.html
David Olson, a former head of credit
trading in  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief investment office,
learned about risk as a U.S. Navy nuclear submarine pilot.  When he joined the bank in 2006, his new commander, Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , was transforming the once-
conservative unit from a risk manager to a profit center.  “We want to ramp up the ability to generate profit for the
firm,” Olson, 43, recalled being told by two executives. “This
is Jamie’s new vision for the company.”  That drive has now shattered JPMorgan’s cultivated
reputation for policing risk and undermined Dimon’s authority as
a critic of regulatory efforts to curb speculation by too-big-
to-fail banks. It also cost Chief Investment Officer Ina R. Drew, one of the most powerful women on  Wall Street , her job. As
U.S. and U.K. investigators descend on the firm following
Dimon’s announcement last week of a $2 billion trading loss,
lawmakers are pointing to the breakdown at the largest U.S. bank
as evidence that tougher rules are needed.  Dimon pushed Drew’s unit, which invests deposits the bank
hasn’t loaned, to seek profit by speculating on higher-yielding
assets such as credit derivatives, according to five former
executives. The CEO suggested positions, a current executive
said. Profits surged over the next five years as assets
quadrupled to $356 billion and employees were given proprietary-
trading accounts, current and former executives said.  ‘Wall Street Hubris’  Dimon said on May 10 that the unit made “egregious
mistakes” by taking flawed positions on synthetic credit
securities and that New York-based JPMorgan could lose an
additional $1 billion or more as it winds down the position. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the  Federal Reserve  and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are investigating,
according to people familiar with the probes.  The loss was particularly surprising for JPMorgan, the bank
whose $2.32 trillion  balance sheet  makes it the largest in the
U.S. and whose traders were the first in the mid-1990s to create
 credit derivatives , which let firms and investors insure
themselves against losses on debt. It was also a blow to Dimon,
56, who has been the most outspoken critic of the Volcker rule,
meant to restrict banks from betting their own money.  “It’s classic Wall Street hubris, which we’ve seen so many
times before,” said  Simon Johnson , a former chief economist at
the  International Monetary Fund  who teaches at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology . “What’s particularly ironic here is
that Jamie presents himself, and is believed by others to be,
the king of risk management.”  Fannie Mae Loss  It wasn’t the first 10-digit hit for JPMorgan’s chief
investment office. In 2008, it lost  $1 billion  on  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac preferred securities when the government-backed
mortgage agencies were put into conservatorship. Olson, who ran
the unit’s U.S. credit trading until December, said the only
reason he wasn’t fired at the time was because Dimon had been
“intimately familiar with those positions.”  Drew, 55, earned about $1.2 million a month over the past
two years. She spent three decades at the firm and its
predecessors, surviving mergers and changes at the top. She
played a critical role steering the company through rocky
markets, such as the Russian debt crisis and the collapse of
hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in 1998, disruptions
from the World Trade Center attacks and the more recent
financial crisis, said Lesley Daniels Webster, JPMorgan’s head
of market risk. She worked with Drew for more than a decade.  Drew’s Ascension  In 2005, the year Dimon became CEO, Drew was named the
bank’s chief investment officer, reporting directly to him. He
gave her traders the green light to make investments in riskier
products, including asset-backed securities, credit derivatives,
sovereign debt and equities -- securities Drew and her staff had
less experience with, according to a former senior executive who
asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
discuss the matter.  “Her position over the years has always been around
hedging, but hedging for profit as opposed to hedging just to
counter losses,” said Dina Dublon, a former JPMorgan chief
financial officer who worked with Drew for 22 years before
leaving in 2004 and now teaches at Harvard Business School.
“She’s always been in a for-profit operation, even when she was
managing a smaller domain.”  Until recently, Drew did well with her investments, with
the corporate division under which she reports earning a peak of
$3.7 billion in 2009, up from $1.5 billion a year earlier. The
bank doesn’t break out results for the chief investment office.  ‘High Performer’  “She did an excellent job and was considered a very high
performer in the bank,” said Don Layton, incoming CEO of
 Freddie Mac  and Drew’s boss from 1992 until 2002.  The bank rewarded her with a $15 million pay package for
2010 and $14 million for her performance last year, according to
regulatory filings. Drew’s resignation was announced today, and
Matt Zames, head of global fixed income in the investment bank,
was appointed to succeed her. JPMorgan, like other banks, has
adopted so-called clawback provisions for top executives,
including Drew, to retrieve bonus pay for poor performance or
“conduct that causes material financial or reputational harm,”
according to its most recent proxy statement.  “Ina was one of the first senior executives at JPMorgan
who quickly earned Jamie’s respect and ear,” said Austin Adams,
a former chief information officer who sat on the bank’s 14-
member operating committee with the two. “I found her to be
very straightforward, someone I could trust. She didn’t suffer
fools lightly.”  Shifting Role  Dimon nurtured the office’s shift from its role mitigating
lending risks, such as interest-rate and currency movements, to
becoming a profit center, former executives said. Drew, who
declined to be interviewed, hired Achilles Macris, 50, in 2006
to oversee trading in  London . Macris, with Dimon and Drew’s
blessings, led an expansion into corporate and mortgage-debt
investments with a mandate to generate profits, three former
employees said.  When the 2008 financial crisis highlighted the bank’s need
to hedge its exposure to corporate loans and bonds it held on
its books, Drew’s office expanded into credit derivatives and
other risky instruments, according to a former senior officer.
Those trades were tightly controlled and monitored at first, the
former executive said.  Macris’s mandate drove the bank into riskier products and a
less disciplined approach to investing, according to two former
CIO executives. The shift provoked an exodus in 2008 of traders
who specialized in more-liquid markets where risk was easier to
measure, such as interest-rate products and foreign exchange,
these people said. Macris didn’t respond to an e-mail or a call.  London Whale  While Drew liked  generating profit , she did so in a
controlled way, placing strict limits on how much an investment
could lose or gain, former colleagues and employees said.
Traders were required to exit positions if losses exceeded $20
million, according to one former CIO manager in London. Those
limits were scrapped under Macris.  The London team amassed a portfolio of as much as $200
billion, booking a profit of $5 billion in 2010 alone -- more
than a quarter of JPMorgan’s  net income  that year, one senior
executive said.  The CIO’s increased size and market power have made it an
important customer to Wall Street’s trading desks and a market
influence watched by  hedge funds  and other investors, the former
employees said. Bloomberg News was the first to report, on April
5, that Bruno Iksil, a trader in the CIO’s London office, had
amassed positions in securities linked to the financial health
of corporations that were so large he was driving price moves in
the $10 trillion market. Some market participants dubbed him the
“London whale.” Others referred to him as “Voldemort,” after
the villain of the Harry Potter series who’s so powerful he
can’t be called by name.  Hard to Unwind  A Bloomberg News story on April 13 reported that Dimon was
responsible for transforming the CIO and increasing the size of
its speculative bets. Some in London were so big they probably
couldn’t be unwound without causing losses, the article cited
former executives as saying. That day, on a conference call to
announce quarterly reports, Dimon called news about the London
trades a “complete tempest in a teapot.”  Dimon said when he announced the losses last week that he
didn’t know how bad things were until after the company reported
its first-quarter earnings on April 13. Dimon reviews the
profit-and-loss reports every day on large positions in the CIO,
according to a senior JPMorgan executive. Before the quarter
ended, he and Drew were both led to believe that the losses were
erratic, and the reports showed that the position swung daily
between losses and gains, the executive said.  Mounting Losses  Less than a week after earnings were released, the losses
in the daily reports started piling up more frequently and in
larger sums -- $80 million, $100 million, $120 million -- this
person said. Even Drew was caught unaware, he said.  JPMorgan is now investigating whether the London office
intentionally hid the magnitude of its errors, the executive
said. While there isn’t evidence that’s the case, the office
doesn’t appear to have fully understood the trade itself, this
person said. Every time  New York  executives asked the London
team questions, it responded with more questions, infuriating
Dimon, the person said.  Shares of the company have lost more than 11 percent since
the May 10 announcement of the loss. They dropped 2.3 percent in
New York at 10:33 a.m., to $36.13.  Offer to Resign  Drew offered to resign several times last week, and her
entire team in London is at risk of dismissal, according to the
person. Macris also may leave this week, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday, citing unidentified people.  While JPMorgan has refused to describe the trades by Iksil
and the London-based CIO team, market participants from hedge-
fund managers to credit brokers have tried to piece together the
bets from market movements and volumes. The traders say Iksil
started amassing positions last year in an older, less active
version of a credit-default-swaps benchmark known as the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
speculate on the creditworthiness of companies from retailer
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to aluminum producer  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   As European leaders struggled earlier this year to navigate
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis and mounting concerns that
 Spain  may be too big to save, market participants focused on the
burgeoning impact of Iksil’s trading. Some calculated that he
may have built a position totaling as much as $100 billion in
contracts in one index. By the bank’s own math, the positions
amounted to tens of billions of dollars, a person familiar with
its view said early last month.  Series 9  JPMorgan sold protection on Series 9 of the index in the
form of credit-default swaps and through more leveraged wagers
using contracts called tranches, the traders said. The firm
collected premiums, and in exchange promised to cover losses if
companies in the index defaulted. Market participants surmise
that Iksil’s trades weren’t one-way bets.  He may have offset the risk of index contracts expiring in
December 2017 by buying similar protection using contracts that
mature this December, traders said. In such a strategy, the firm
effectively would be paid the difference between those two
trades, an amount that for the full index was about $41,000 for
every $10 million of protection at the end of March, according
to prices from data provider CMA. As the gap narrows, the market
value of the trade gains. As it widens, the value declines.  The gap on the full index widened to $51,800 per $10
million on May 10 and jumped even more to $65,800 the day after
JPMorgan’s disclosure, prices from CMA show. Iksil didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Mounting Losses  The losses have mounted since they were revealed last week,
according to one person with knowledge of the bank’s internal
deliberations. The firm’s investment bank is now managing the
money-losing trades to  minimize risk , and the leadership is
still confident the maximum downside is about $1 billion more
than the $2 billion loss disclosed last week, this person said,
speaking on the condition of anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to speak for the company.  Inside JPMorgan, leadership is stunned by the situation,
according to two senior executives. The firm’s top managers are
less concerned about the financial impact of the trades, because
the bank has surplus capital, than they are about the damage the
losses inflict on the bank’s reputation, the executives said.  While the firm has layers of safeguards in place in its
investment bank to protect against concentrated trading errors,
Drew’s chief investment office wasn’t constrained by such
controls, according to current and former executives.  Mark to Market  JPMorgan can stick with the positions that produced the
losses if it needs to and isn’t compelled to sell, insiders
said. The bank may have to book more mark-to-market losses as
prices move against it, in part because JPMorgan’s predicament
is now publicly known and traders at hedge funds and others
firms are seeking to exploit that by betting against the bank’s
positions, one of these people said.  Weeks before the announcement, the bank asked Daniel Pinto,
co-head of fixed-income trading based in London, to manage
Iksil’s positions in an effort to minimize losses, according to
a former member of JPMorgan’s executive and operating committees
who was briefed on the developments. Guy America, a Dutchman
based in London who is head of European credit trading, and
Ashley Bacon, a senior executive in market risk, are also
helping to sort through the trade.  Dimon has led the banking industry in pushing back against
measures in the Dodd-Frank Act that would restrict proprietary
trading by institutions that take depositors’ money. On Feb. 2,
Drew and five JPMorgan colleagues met with Federal Reserve staff
to discuss the rule, a copy of the central bank’s meeting
 summary  shows. The JPMorgan bankers recommended that the final
rule be modified so that the chief investment office’s positions
“not be included as prohibited proprietary trading,” according
to the summary.  ‘Little Halo’  The bank’s loss will make it harder for Dimon to maintain
that role said  Paul Miller , an analyst with FBR Capital Markets
in Arlington,  Virginia , and a former examiner with the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.  “JPMorgan had a little halo around them, and that thing
just got knocked off,” Miller said.  In an interview two days before the disclosure of the loss,
Olson, the former head of U.S. credit trading, said the failure
of  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac taught him a lesson.  “That’s a perfect demonstration there’s always risk out
there that you just can’t control,” he said. “And you just
can’t see coming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 