-- George Says Fed Directors Should Meet Standards or Resign
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-24T19:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/dimon-on-new-york-fed-board-renews-concern-on-potential-conflict.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George said that directors at the Fed’s
regional banks who don’t meet the central bank’s standards for
impartiality should step down.  “Bankers should serve,” George said in a statement
released today by the Kansas City Fed. “There are high
standards that apply to Reserve Bank directors, and when an
individual no longer meets these standards, the director resigns
voluntarily to allow someone who does meet the criteria to
serve.”  The directors at the 12 regional Fed banks are under
renewed scrutiny following a $2 billion trading loss at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  that revived concern that its regulator, the  New
York  Fed, is too cozy with  Wall Street . JPMorgan Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon is one of three bankers sitting on the board
of the New York Fed.  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat and U.S. Senate candidate from
Massachusetts, has called for Dimon’s resignation, while
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last week that
having bankers on the board of the New York Fed creates a
“perception” problem. Senators  Bernie Sanders ,  Barbara Boxer 
and Mark Begich on May 22 introduced legislation that would
remove banking industry executives from the regional Fed banks’
boards of directors.  “The Federal Reserve Banks -- to a bank -- love having
bank directors on their boards,” said William K. Black, a
professor of economics and law at the University of Missouri at
 Kansas City  and a former bank regulator. “They’re desperate to
retain that system and the leading threat is Jamie Dimon who has
become a poster child for the conflict.”  Defense of Role  George defended the role of bankers on the Fed regional
bank boards because they “provide critical, in-depth
information about economic conditions in their communities.”
Also, the bankers “play no part in the Fed’s role in
supervising and regulating financial institutions.”  Still, George said directors should step down if they don’t
meet the standards of the Fed’s Guide to Conduct for Directors
of Federal Reserve Banks. Directors should avoid any action that
might “result in or create the appearance” of harming “the
confidence of the public in the integrity” of the Fed, the
guide says, according to George’s statement.  “No individual is more important than the institution and
the public’s trust,” George said. She didn’t refer to any
director by name and declined further comment through Bill Medley, a Kansas City Fed spokesman.  ‘There’s an Issue’  “If you’re going to put out a statement it’s implicitly
stating that there’s an issue here,” said  Sarah Binder , a
senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  “But  Jamie Dimon  stepping down doesn’t actually solve the
problem if there’s a broader problem of having bankers on the
board,” said Binder, who researches the relationship between
the Fed and Congress.  Dimon said on May 15 in Tampa, Florida, that the New York
Fed’s board of directors is “not like a board, it’s more of an
advisory group” and “I am not involved at all in the
supervisory side of that.”  JPMorgan stock has fallen 17 percent since Dimon announced
the $2 billion loss on May 10, compared with a 3 percent loss
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Bankers serve on Fed boards under terms established by
Congress in the 1913 Federal Reserve Act. The regional banks
each have nine directors, with three of them bankers. Three
others are appointed by banks to represent the public and the
remaining three are selected by the Fed’s Board of Governors in
Washington.  ‘Creature of Congress’  “The Federal Reserve is a creature of Congress and they’re
free to shape it any way they want,” Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  said in response to audience questions
yesterday in Rapid City,  South Dakota .  “As a president, I get a lot of incredibly useful
information from the bank directors that serve on our boards and
I think it would be a loss to me in my policy role to lose that
valuable source of information,” he said.  Congress most recently amended the role of directors with
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act which ended the practice of banker
directors having a vote in electing regional presidents, a move
the New York Fed’s William C. Dudley said in a September
interview that he supported.  Yet some Senators now want to further separate the Fed’s
boards of directors from banking industry executives.  “Allowing currently employed banking industry executives
to serve as directors on the boards of directors of Federal
Reserve banks is a clear conflict of interest that must be
eliminated,” according to the text of legislation released by
Sanders, a Vermont Independent who caucuses with Democrats. His
cosponsors, both Democrats, are Alaska’s Begich and  California ’s
Boxer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  