-- Diva-Loving Copley Revives Hit ‘La Boheme’ at Royal Opera
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/diva-loving-copley-revives-hit-la-boheme-at-royal-opera.html
When John Copley was asked to direct
“La Boheme” at  London ’s  Royal Opera , he was told the
production had to be good enough to last at least five or six
years.  That was 38 years ago. The current revival, starring gold-
throated tenor Joseph Calleja, also marks 50 years since Copley
first worked as a director at  Covent Garden . We meet at his home
in west London to talk about the secrets of the show’s success
and about working with some of opera’s most adored and difficult
divas.  Copley, who looks at least a decade younger than his 78
years, is a genial, hospitable host. He has a limitless fund of
anecdotes that pepper his conversation.  He tells me about a mezzo who found herself working with
such a terrible conductor that she wore tap shoes to beat the
tempo for the orchestra. The rest of the cast followed suit.  “It was Handel, and it ended up sounding like a Broadway
musical,” he says.  There’s another about a singer who phoned him in high
dudgeon because no one had told her where she could park her
helicopter.  The best ones, unfortunately, are unrepeatable. I steer
Copley to safer waters. Why does he think his marvelous
“Boheme” has stayed the course?  Practical Tradition  “It’s traditional, and people like it,” he says. “It’s
also a very practical production. You can rehearse it in the
morning, and do another opera in the evening. And it’s
acoustically excellent. Acts One and Four are enclosed, so the
set projects the voices outwards into the audience. I’ve never
had a singer who didn’t enjoy being in it.”  It also has the late Julia Trevelyan Oman’s colorful multi-
level sets, which faithfully recreate details of Parisian life
in the 1840s.  “Julia was an expert in period scenery and costume,” says
Copley. “Everything had to be fully referenced. We spent hours
together in the  Victoria & Albert Museum , checking details.”  The oysters in her Cafe Momus are created by slicing
bananas into oyster shells. Coins are made from cork, so they
can be thrown around. There’s real dough in the pastry shop in
the Act Two street scene.  Tiny Frozen Hand  Nothing is left to chance, and everything in the show
works. Rodolfo sings “Che gelida manina” (“Your Tiny Hand is
Frozen”) while sitting behind Mimi on a flight of steps in the
middle of the set. Their hands slide along the banister to meet,
and the most famous caress in opera is thus placed fully center-
stage.  “That’s exactly how I wanted it to be,” says Copley.
“I’m immensely proud of it.”  Has the production changed much over 25 revivals? “It’s
always different with different singers,” he says. “It’s not
very smart to go in with fixed ideas, if they’re not going to
work with the performers that you have.”  The production has hosted many of opera’s superstars,
including Placido Domingo, Mirella Freni,  Luciano Pavarotti  and
Kiri Te Kanawa. Does Copley have a favorite couple?  “It was very powerful with Jose Carreras and Katia
Ricciarelli, because they’d just become lovers.” He pauses.
“They brought something extraordinary to it.”  Callas Substitute  He tells me that one of the reasons for his success in the
opera house is that he’s good with divas.  “It’s because I’m a diva myself,” he confesses, with a
look which dares me to disagree.  Another secret of his longevity is his dedication to
preparation. He learns by heart the vocal lines of any opera he
directs, for example. His work ethic paid off when he was
assisting on Franco Zeffirelli’s famous production of “Tosca”
for  Maria Callas  in 1964.  “I adored Callas, and I’d watched all her rehearsals,”
Copley says. “Then she was ill for three days just before
opening. There was no understudy, so I offered to sing the role
myself.” He shows me how, in a lively countertenor.  “Fortunately Tito Gobbi, the baritone, knew me and liked
me. And I really understood what Callas was trying to achieve.
The management were thrilled. I’d saved their bacon.”  His reward was to be given his own production to direct. It
was Puccini’s “Suor Angelica.”  Dinosaur Joke  Since then, he’s worked in most of the world’s greatest
opera houses. His last new production at  Covent Garden , however,
was “Norma” in 1987. Is he bitter that the phone hasn’t rung
more often?  “Oh, I’m a dinosaur,” he says in a tone of voice which
implies otherwise. “When I was young, we wanted to move the old
fogies out of the way, and do our own thing. The young have to
be given their chance now too.  “Am I bitter?” He laughs again. “Of course I am!”  “ La Boheme ” is in repertoire at Covent Garden until May
17. On May 17 it is relayed to 22 BP Summer Screens around the
country. The production returns in June with  Angela Gheorghiu 
and  Roberto Alagna  as Mimi and Rodolfo. For more information, go
to  http://www.roh.org.uk  or call +44-20-7304-4000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today's Muse highlights include Scott Reyburn on  art , 
 Amanda Gordon 's  Scene Last Night .  To contact the writer of this review:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 