-- Dubai’s Shares Drop a Fifth Day on Greece Deadlock; Oil Declines
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-14T12:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/dubai-s-shares-drop-a-fifth-day-on-greece-deadlock-oil-declines.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
retreated for a fifth day to a three-month low as Persian Gulf
shares slumped after  Greece  moved closer to a possible exit from
 Europe ’s currency union. Oil tumbled to the lowest this year.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
tower, dropped 1.7 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the United
Arab Emirates biggest bank complying with Islamic banking rules,
fell to the lowest since January. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  declined
0.4 percent to 1,481.95 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate,
bringing the five-day slump to 5.3 percent and trimming this
year’s rally to 9.5 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  lost
1.1 percent, led by Saudi Arabian shares.  “The global negative lead is still affecting  Dubai
Financial Market (DFM) ’s performance,” said Samer Darwiche, a Dubai-
based analyst at Gulfmena Investments Ltd. “Investors are
exiting the market to capitalize on their year-to-date gains.”  Global stocks declined today as German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party lost a state election and Greece’s political
deadlock looked set to continue as President Karolos Papoulias
failed to secure an agreement on a unity government, risking the
collapse of proposed austerity measure. The  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.5 percent at 4:33 p.m. in Dubai.  Crude for June delivery retreated as much as 2.6 percent to
$93.65 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, a 2012 low,
after  Saudi Arabia ’s energy minister said prices should decline
further. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including Saudi Arabia and the
U.A.E., supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  About  141 million shares  traded in Dubai today, compared
with this year’s peak of 835 million. Emaar fell to 2.89
dirhams, the lowest since March 8. Dubai Islamic retreated 1.5
percent to 1.92 dirhams, the weakest since Jan. 22.  Elsewhere in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slid 1.6 percent. Qatar’s  QE
Index (DSM)  decreased 0.6 percent and Oman’s  benchmark stock index 
dropped 1.4 percent. Bahrain’s  measure  fell 0.3 percent.
Kuwait’s  gauge  lost 0.2 percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  