-- The Economic Case for Same-Sex Marriage
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/the-economic-case-for-same-sex-marriage.html
The national discussion about same-
sex marriage is heating up. Just last week,  North Carolina  voted
to prohibit the practice, and, for the first time, President
 Barack Obama  clearly came out in favor of it.  The debate, which has focused on our evolving views on
sexuality, also mirrors a deeper generational shift in how we
view and experience marriage.  For our grandparents’ generation, marriage was about
separate roles, separate spheres and specialization. Gary Becker, an economist at the  University of Chicago ,  won the Nobel
Prize  partly for  describing  the family as an economic
institution -- a bit like a small firm that employs people with
different skills to produce both income and a well-run
household.  In Becker’s view, the joining of husband and wife yields a
more productive firm, because it allows one spouse to specialize
in earning income from working in the market, while the other
specializes in the domestic sphere. The division of labor allows
for greater productivity, just as it does in the workplace. The
different skills required for these separate roles provide an
economic rationale for the advice your grandmother may have
offered, that “opposites attract.”  Traditional Notion  Naturally, couples who have bought into the traditional
notion of marriage -- with women taking care of the home and men
financially supporting them -- find the concept of same-sex
marriage foreign. Same-sex relationships are less likely to
involve traditional roles and separate spheres, as evidenced by
the fact that the partners are more likely to both work outside
the home.  But heterosexual couples in more recent generations are
also less likely to aspire to separate-sphere marriages.
Economists describe a “second Industrial Revolution” in which
washing machines, dishwashers and microwave ovens have reduced
the value to the family “firm” of employing a domestic
specialist. Cheap clothes can be imported from  China , rather
than sewn at home. Healthy meals can be purchased from the
freezer at Trader Joe’s.  What’s more, legal and social changes have broken down many
of the barriers keeping women out of the labor market. Explicit
discrimination has declined. Women have gained more control over
their fertility.  All these  developments  have increased the opportunity cost
of having a spouse stay home, because that spouse now has
greater value in the marketplace. As a result, our grandparents’
marriages, in which husband and wife have separate roles and
spheres, are no longer so popular. Two-earner couples have
become the norm, and families spend less time on housework.  One might have expected marriage to disappear as its
traditional benefits faded. Instead, it has evolved.  Modern marriage offers different benefits. Today, we search
for a soul mate rather than a good homemaker or provider. We are
more likely to regard marriage as a forum for shared experiences
and passions.  Viewed through an economic frame, modern partnerships are
based upon “consumption complementarities” -- the joy of sharing
things and experiences -- rather than the production-based gains
that motivated traditional marriage. Consistent with this, co-
parenting has replaced the separate roles of nurturer and
disciplinarian.  We have called this new model of sharing lives “hedonic
marriage.” These are marriages of equality in which the rule
“opposites attract” no longer applies in the same way, because
couples with more similar interests and values can derive
greater benefits. So likes are now more likely to marry each
other.  Changing Nature  The changing nature of heterosexual marriage has made the
rite more attractive to same-sex couples. In turn, the gay and
lesbian community has chosen to spend political capital
advocating for greater access to marriage.  For heterosexuals who have embraced the modern notion of
marriage, the idea of same-sex marriage seems natural. These
couples aren’t any different from them. They love and support
each other, raise kids together and are committed to each other.
They share values, desires and interests. Not allowing them to
marry is as arbitrary as not allowing couples of different
races, ethnicities or religions to marry.  It is no coincidence that many of the opponents of same-sex
marriage are also opponents of the ongoing shift to marriages of
equality. Theirs is a futile battle. The reach of markets will
keep expanding, allowing individuals and families to reap
greater returns by selling their specialized skills and services
outside the home. Technological change will further undermine
the benefits of specialization within the family.  Improvements
in women’s education  will continue to raise the opportunity cost
of staying at home.  The implication is that ultimately, traditional marriages
are doomed. And indeed, countries in which gender and social
norms have been the slowest to evolve have seen the biggest
declines in fertility and marriage.  The best way to let marriage thrive in the 21st century is
to embrace the new model of equality and to welcome all couples,
regardless of sexual orientation.  (Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers , both professors at
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are Bloomberg
View columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  French-Turkish relations 
and the  lessons of JPMorgan ; William Pesek on  online banking  in
 Asia ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama and Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 driving while distracted ; Tim Judah on  Serbia’s elections ;
Edward Conard on what drives the  U.S. economy ; and Rachelle
Bergstein on  women’s shoes  and war.  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  