-- South Korea’s Lee Offers Aid to Myanmar Ahead of Suu Kyi Meeting
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-05-15T03:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/lee-visits-myanmar-in-first-trip-by-s-korea-leader-in-29-years.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
met with Myanmar President  Thein Sein  and pledged greater
economic support while discussing ways to curtail the former
Southeast Asian dictatorship’s military ties with  North Korea .  Lee offered expanded loans and aid during yesterday’s
meeting in the capital of Naypyidaw and the two leaders agreed
to increase cooperation on energy and resource development
according to a statement from Lee’s office. Thein Sein asked Lee
to set up a redevelopment program in the former capital of
Yangon, according to a South Korean presidential official
speaking on condition of anonymity.  The visit highlights South Korea’s effort to seek a stake
in the energy-rich nation as it moves away from five decades of
military rule and opens its markets. Lee will meet democracy
advocate  Aung San Suu Kyi  today in the first trip by a South
Korean leader to Myanmar since North Korea attempted to
assassinate one of his predecessors almost 30 years ago.  “Myanmar is welcoming South Korean investment and aid
because it needs to have a balanced and diversified sources of
aid to reduce economic risk,” said Choi Myeong Hae, senior
research fellow at Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul.
“Lee’s visit reinforces how much South Korea values Myanmar as
a strategic center and definitely boosts opportunities for South
Korean businesses.”  Beans, Jade  Myanmar lawmakers are revamping the financial system after
holding the most inclusive elections in two decades on April 1.
Thein Sein, who took over from Than Shwe in March 2011, signed a
preliminary cease-fire with the country’s largest armed rebel
force in a move to end the world’s longest civil war.  Lee will meet Suu Kyi in Yangon today and hold a joint
press conference. Suu Kyi took her seat in parliament this month
after spending 15 years under house arrest, affirming a
political opening in a nation where only one person in 30 has a
mobile phone. The U.S. is lifting certain economic and financial
sanctions on Myanmar and  Japan  last month forgave about $3.7
billion in debt.  South Korea  is the fourth-largest investor in Myanmar after
 China ,  Thailand  and  Hong Kong . South Korea invested $110 million
in Myanmar last year, according to Korea Export-Import Bank and
an aggregate of $2.94 billion, Myanmar Investment Commission’s
figures say.  Manufacturing Hub  Trade between the two countries amounted to $966 million in
2011, according to South Korean government statistics. Myanmar
exported $299 million worth of clothing, beans, marine products,
jade and timber to South Korea and imported $667 million of
South Korean motor vehicles, engines, spare parts, tin and steel
products, and raw plastic materials.  “About 170 South Korean companies are already in Myanmar
and that number will only grow, especially those in the garment
industry and raw material manufacturing,” said Choi of SERI.
“Myanmar’s strategic location and labor costs cheaper than
Vietnam and China has great significance as manufacturing hub.”  Daewoo International Corp. (047050) ’s natural gas project is
expected to cost $1.7 billion and may begin production in May
2013. The trading company, which is controlled by steelmaker
 Posco (005490) , is also South Korea’s biggest rice trader. Daewoo rose
2.4 percent yesterday to close at 29,700 won. The benchmark
Kospi fell 3.4 percent.  Weapons Trading  Thein Sein denied to Lee that his country is aiding North
Korea’s nuclear development program and the two discussed ways
to suspend Myanmar’s military ties with the North, the South
Korean presidential official said. The Myanmar president agreed
to follow  United Nations  resolutions sanctioning new leader Kim Jong Un’s regime for its long-range rocket and nuclear tests.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in her visit in
December expressed concern that Myanmar might be engaged in
weapons trading with the North. The U.S. has blocked North
Korean ships thought to be carrying arms to Myanmar.  Myanmar resumed diplomatic relations with the North in
April 2007, having cut ties after the 1983 assassination attempt
on South Korean Chun Doo Hwan that killed about 20 people,
including the South Korean deputy prime minister and foreign
minister. The incident took place as Chun was paying his
respects at a mausoleum commemorating Suu Kyi’s father, Aung
San.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula are high after Kim’s
government last month defied international pressure and fired a
rocket that disintegrated, prompting speculation it will
detonate a nuclear device to reassert itself. The U.S. in
response to the launch canceled a food aid deal and the United
Nations tightened existing sanctions.  The Obama administration has repeatedly cited Myanmar’s
opening as a possible model for North Korea to follow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  