-- Heebner Buys Whirlpool, Cummins, Sells Priceline.com, Ford
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-05-14T17:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/heebner-buys-whirlpool-cummins-sells-priceline-com-ford.html
Kenneth Heebner, who ran one of the
top-performing U.S. mutual funds during the past decade, bought
stakes in Whirlpool Corp. and  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  during the first
quarter while selling Priceline.com Inc. and Ford Motor Co.  Capital Growth Management LP purchased 1.82 million shares
of Whirlpool, the largest appliance maker, during the three-
month period that ended March 31, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission today. The money manager
bought 1.01 million shares of Cummins, a maker of  diesel
engines , after closing out its position in the fourth quarter.  Heebner also bought 191,000 shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  after
closing out a 406,000-share position in the world’s biggest
company by market value during the fourth quarter.  His  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  has beaten 6 percent of peers in 2012.
The fund returned 16 percent annually in the decade ended in
January 2011 for the best record among more than 3,500
diversified U.S. stock funds, according to data compiled by
Morningstar Inc. It then lost 16 percent in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. He has trailed 99 percent of peers
in the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Whirlpool (WHR)  of Benton Harbor, Michigan, surged 32 percent
this year through May 11 and Cummins of Columbus, Indiana,
rallied 21 percent, compared with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index’s 7.6 percent advance. Heebner also bought American
depositary receipts of  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India’s biggest
automaker . The Mumbai-based company jumped 63 percent this year
through May 11.  Concentrated Bets  Heebner is known for concentrating in industries from
homebuilding to commodities and a willingness to shift
directions quickly. Capital Growth’s stakes in material,  energy 
and industrial companies increased since the last quarter.
Heebner added shares of National Oilwell Varco Inc., the largest
U.S. maker of oil equipment and the firm’s fifth-biggest holding
by market value, according to the filing. Citigroup Inc., Delta
Air Lines Inc., Morgan Stanley and Simon Property Group Inc. are
Capital Growth’s biggest stakes.  Positions in consumer and technology companies declined as
Heebner exited  Priceline (PCLN) ,  Ford (F) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and Google Inc.
Priceline.com, the biggest U.S. online travel agency, climbed 53
percent in the first quarter before peaking at $764.75 on April
9. The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company has since fallen 13
percent after  forecasting second-quarter  earnings below
analysts’ estimates.  Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker Ford rallied 16 percent
last quarter. The shares have slipped 17 percent since the end
of March. Mountain View, California-based Google has slid 6.3
percent this year through May 11, while Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard climbed 13 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  