-- Egypt Draft Budget Foresees Reducing Deficit to 7.9% of GDP
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-14T15:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/egypt-draft-budget-foresees-reducing-deficit-to-7-9-of-gdp-1-.html
Egypt ’s draft budget for the fiscal
year that starts in July forecasts reducing the budget deficit
to 7.9 percent of gross domestic product, Finance Minister
Momtaz el-Saieed said, as the country seeks an International
Monetary Fund loan.  The draft foresees spending of 537.7 billion Egyptian
pounds ($89 billion) and revenue of 392.4 billion pounds, el-
Saieed told reporters in Cairo today. Planning and International
Cooperation Minister Fayza Aboulnaga told reporters today that
the country targets a growth rate of 4 to 4.5 percent for the
2012/2013 fiscal year. She said the Cabinet will review the
draft budget on May 16.  The economy expanded 0.4 percent in the three months
through Dec. 31, compared with growth of 0.2 percent in the
previous quarter and 5.6 percent a year earlier, according to
official figures. Talks with the  IMF  for a $3.2 billion loan
have yet to conclude amid wrangling between the interim
government and Islamist-dominated parliament. Egypt requested
the loan in January, as part of efforts to boost a struggling
economy after last year’s uprising.  El-Saieed said the budget deficit target for next fiscal
year was less than the 8.6 percent of GDP targeted in this
fiscal year’s budget.  The draft budget cuts fuel subsidies by 25.5 billion pounds
compared with the 2011/2012 budget to 70 billion pounds, el-
Saieed said. It boosts food subsidies by 7.7 billion pounds to
26.6 billion pounds, he said.  After the draft budget is reviewed by Cabinet, it will be
submitted to the head of the ruling military council to be
referred to parliament, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported today.  The IMF has requested broad political support for a loan-
related economic plan to ensure it is implemented beyond the
transitional period. The military council says it will transfer
power to civilians by the end of June.  The government’s proposed loan-tied measures include
reducing the  budget deficit  through speeding up the
implementation of a value-added tax and “rationing” fuel
subsidies without harming low-income people, according to a
statement by parliament’s economic committee last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  