-- Melco Leads ADRs Record Losing Streak on Growth: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-14T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/melco-leads-adrs-record-losing-streak-on-growth-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell for an eighth
day in New York, sending the benchmark index to the longest run
of declines on record, after a cut in local banks’ reserve
ratios failed to alleviate concerns of economic slowdown.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a Macau Casino operator,
sank 9.6 percent, leading the retreat on the  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S.
The gauge tumbled 2.4 percent to 95.40.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) ,
 China ’s fourth-largest coal producer, dropped 5.1 percent to
trade at the widest discount to its shares in Hong Kong in more
than a week, after prices of the fuel retreated for the first
time in three years.  Chinese policy makers  lowered reserve requirement ratios  on
May 12 for a third time since November after reports last week
showed industrial production, retail sales and trade grew in
April less than analysts forecast. Stocks tumbled in  Europe  and
the U.S. on concern a potential exit of Greece from the single
European currency may disrupt financial markets and derail
global growth.  The reserve ratio cut is “not enough to get people
enthusiastic,” Nicholas Field, who helps oversee $23 billion of
emerging market assets at Schroders Plc, said in a phone
interview from London. “The growth trajectory has been
disappointing. A lot of bad news has been priced in. It won’t
take much to get a rally, but we are not there yet.”  The Bloomberg China-U.S. Index’s eight-day decline was the
longest losing streak since at least 2005 when Bloomberg started
tracking the data.  China ETF Sinks  The IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 1.7 percent to
$34.74. The  Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks  slid 0.6
percent to a three-week low. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of
U.S. shares declined 1.1 percent as Greece’s impasse in forming
a new government fuels speculation the nation may leave the euro
region.  China’s reserve-ratio cut, effective May 18, reduces the
required level against deposits by 50 basis points to 20 percent
for major banks and 18 percent for smaller institutions. The
move will probably release 450 billion  yuan  ($71 billion) into
the financial system, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH) , the nation’s biggest carrier
by passenger numbers, declined 3.9 percent to $22.01, the most
in a month. China warned its tourists last week to avoid
“unnecessary” travel to the Philippines amid a dispute between
the two countries over an island in the  South China Sea .  Gaming Revenue  Melco Crown fell to $13, the lowest level in a month. Macau
gaming revenue over the first 13 days of this month may be about
28 billion patacas ($3.5 billion),  Harry Curtis , an analyst at
Nomura Securities International Inc., said in a note today. It
compared with Nomura’s estimate of 29 billion patacas.  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou Coal dropped to
$17.78, trading 2.3 percent lower than its equivalent shares in
 Hong Kong . The price of Chinese coal for power stations
retreated for the first time in three years for May, according
to the China Coal Transport and Distribution Association.  Focus Media Holding Ltd., (FMCN)  a Shanghai-based outdoor
advertising company, tumbled 7.6 percent to $21.51, the lowest
level since Jan. 31.  ‘Disaster’  A government report last week showed China’s  industrial
production  increased at the slowest pace since 2009, while
retail sales grew the least in more than a year. China’s gross
domestic product growth slowed to 8.1 percent in the first
quarter, the lowest pace in almost three years.  Banks including Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
pared their growth forecasts for China following the April
economic data releases. Citigroup has cut its estimate for GDP
growth this year to 8.1 percent, from an earlier forecast of 8.4
percent.  “Anything less than 7.5 percent GDP growth would border on
a disaster,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion as
chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust in Boston, wrote by
e-mailed response. “Material stocks as a whole will continue to
suffer with any incremental weakness.”  Of the 25 companies in the China-US index that have
reported earnings since April 1, 11  have fallen short  of
analysts’ forecasts, including Yanzhou Coal and  China Telecom
Corp. (CHA) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Still Unclear’  Sixteen companies in the China-US index are scheduled to
release first-quarter results this week, including  Sina Corp. (SINA) 
and  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China started cutting its  reserve ratio  in December after
boosting it nine times since November 2010, while holding off on
lowering  interest rates . The Bloomberg China stock index has
dropped 0.7 percent since the first reserve cut was announced on
Nov. 30, while  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , which owns the nation’s
largest real estate website, has added 21 percent.  “The question for investors is what will the government do
next,” Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in emerging market
assets, including Chinese stocks, at Bank am Bellevue AG in
Zurich, said by phone. “Longer term, money will flow and
sectors such as real estate and industrials stand to benefit.
But for the moment, it’s still unclear what the authorities plan
to do with this new pool of money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  