-- Emerging Stocks Fall as Commodities Push Russia to Bear Market
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-05-14T21:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/emerging-stocks-fall-to-4-month-low-on-greece-china-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell as a
plunge in commodities sent Russian and Brazilian equities
tumbling and investors speculated  China ’s cut in banks’ reserve
ratios won’t be enough to stem the economic slowdown.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 2 percent to 952 by
4:31 p.m. in New York, the lowest since Jan. 16.  Russia ’s
dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  declined, pushing the gauge into a
bear market, while the Micex index fell to a seven-month low.
Brazil’s Bovespa retreated 3.2 percent, the most since Sept. 22.
 Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3) , the nation’s fourth-largest
homebuilder by revenue, was the leading decliner in Brazil and
on the emerging nations’ gauge.  Commodities dropped for a ninth day, extending their
longest losing streak since 2008, as oil slumped to $94.78, the
lowest level in almost five months. The announcement by the
People’s Bank of China on May 12 that it’s cutting the amount of
cash banks must set aside as reserves was deemed insufficient to
support lending and stop an economic slowdown by  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank A/S.  “It’s a pretty bad day and the main problem is China,”
Christensen said by phone from Copenhagen today. “China’s
slowing down impacts commodity prices so commodities are now
taking a beating. That’s certainly not good news for some of the
major emerging markets like Russia and Brazil.”  ‘Challenging’ Outlook  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined for an eighth
straight week on May 11, its longest stretch of weekly losses
since 2008. The index trades at 9.5 times estimated earnings and
has added 3.9 percent this year, compared with the 11.9 multiple
for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has added
3.5 percent in 2012.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
slid 1.1 percent to 635.77, the lowest close since Dec. 20.  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index (EEM)  exchange-traded
fund, the most-traded ETF tracking developing-nation shares,
fell 2.3 percent to $39.06. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, rose 7.8
percent to 31.37.  Indexes dropped in Poland,  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic 
as concerns mounted that Greece will exit the single European
currency. Greece’s political deadlock looked set to continue for
a second week as President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure an
agreement on a unity government.  “The outlook for global emerging markets continues to be
quite challenging, with the deterioration of the backdrop in
 Europe ,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-markets strategy at
Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-mail to clients.  Leading Decliners  The RTS Index declined 3.6 percent, reaching the lowest
since Jan. 2. The slide took the gauge down more than 20 percent
from its 2012 closing high reached on March 15.  The Micex Index tumbled 3.5 percent in Russia, declining
for a third day and reaching the lowest since Oct. 6. Federal
Grid Co. dropped 7.2 percent to lead losses after Goldman Sachs
cut the stock to sell from buy on concern it will acquire OAO
MRSK Holding.  OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer, fell
5.3 percent to the lowest since Oct. 5, while OAO Lukoil, the
country’s biggest non-state oil producer, tumbled 2.6 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  fell to the lowest level in 2012 as
Brookefield dropped 15 percent, the most since December 2008.
The company reported that net income fell 94 percent on higher
building costs and contract cancellations.  PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  slipped 10 percent and was the
second-biggest decliner.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the Brazilian state oil company,
lost 2.4 percent, falling to its lowest level since Oct. 20.  Poland, Hungary  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  slipped 1.9 percent in Poland, which sends
most of its exports to the euro region, while Hungary’s BUX
Index lost 1.8 percent.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, slid 2.4 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks
listed in Hong Kong fell 1.5 percent, its eighth consecutive
decline and its longest losing streak since March 26. Brokerages
from Citigroup Inc. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut economic growth
forecasts for China.  NCsoft Corp. (036570) , which develops and markets online games and
computer software, fell 12 percent in Seoul, the most since
November 2008, after Blizzard Entertainment announced it would
release video game Diablo III tomorrow.  Lira, Rand  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  fell 1.5 percent in
Johannesburg. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  retreated 1.7 percent
in Turkey. The lira weakened 1.4 percent against the dollar
after the Turkish central bank eased policy, offering funding at
its lowest rate. The rand fell 1.4 percent for its fifth
consecutive decline. The ruble weakened 0.9 percent.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  dropped 0.5 percent after
inflation unexpectedly quickened in April, reducing the central
bank’s scope to extend interest-rate cuts. The gauge’s five days
of declines is its longest run of losses since December.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 380, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  