-- End France’s Block on Turkey’s EU Bid, President Hollande
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/end-france-s-block-on-turkey-s-eu-bid-president-hollande.html
As Francois Hollande drives through
Paris to his inauguration today, he should add an item to his
daunting list of priorities as president of  France : End his
country’s block on  Turkey ’s talks to join the European Union,
and do it soon.  That may seem eccentric in light of everything Hollande
already faces, what with the euro area’s economic meltdown. But
it isn’t. The European project as a whole is faltering under the
political strain of the crisis. EU leaders need to show
direction and create momentum for the bloc, in areas where they
can reaffirm its purpose and values, even as the economy
sputters.  Turkey’s a good place to start. Unblocking its membership
process would end the widespread impression that the EU
discriminates against Muslims, at a time when xenophobia, anti-
immigrant feelings and isolationism are rising within the mainly
Christian nations of  Europe . Allowing talks to continue is a
very different issue from Turkey, population 73 million,
actually joining the EU. That remains a distant prospect.  In 2004, the EU  agreed  to give Turkey the chance to join
the bloc, if it could show it had adopted the required 100,000-
plus pages of EU legislation and other conditions of membership.
Since then, 19 of the 35 negotiating chapters that are involved
in this process have been  blocked . Turkey is the only country in
the EU’s history to have its membership bid frozen in this way.  Unilateral Stop  There are several causes for this, including a dispute over
Cyprus, an EU member that Turkey doesn’t recognize. In 2007,
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  unilaterally blocked five
chapters that relate to Turkey’s ultimate membership, and so
long as that decision remains, Turkey has little cause to
compromise on Cyprus. Sarkozy made his reasoning clear: namely,
that Turkey wasn’t part of Europe geographically and doesn’t
belong in it.  Removing the French veto would inject new life not only
into the European project, but also into its economic fortunes.
Turkey  grew  by 8.5 percent last year, and has a population with
a median age of about 28, compared with 45 in Germany. Slow
growing and demographically challenged as it is, the EU needs
the fresh blood and energy that Turkey has to offer. The two
economies are already closely tied. They have a customs union
and trade heavily. More than $11 billion of the $16 billion of
foreign direct  investment  made in Turkey last year came from the
EU.  It could have been more. From nuclear plants to
infrastructure, French companies have been told they needn’t bid
for some government contracts in Turkey, so long as Sarkozy and
his policy are in place. So French jobs are at stake, too.  Another reason that the EU shouldn’t slam shut its door to
the east is geopolitical. Turkey today is very different from
20, or even two, years ago. It has the kind of reach and soft
power in the  Middle East  that the ex-colonial powers of Europe,
including France, now lack. It has more  troops  than France and
the U.K. combined. And it has learned, after a few years of
hubris, that its anchorage in Western alliances is critical to
its influence and security elsewhere.  This is why Turkey last year agreed to host the radar
shield for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s planned
missile defense system, despite incurring the anger of  Iran .
It’s also why at NATO’s summit in  Chicago  this weekend, Turkey
plans to  push  the membership bids of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro in the Balkans, and to go on supporting
that of  Georgia , in the Caucasus. Hollande will attend the
summit as part of a baptism by fire, after visiting  Germany .  Lure of Membership  Finally, Turkey itself needs the EU membership process.
It’s highly uncertain that Turks would vote to join Europe if
they were eventually to fulfill all the conditions. But the past
few years have shown that without the active pull of the EU
negotiations, Turkey’s development as a free democracy has
stalled or even reversed in some areas, including free speech
and the  rule of law . A stable, democratic Turkey is very much in
the interests of the EU.  Turkey would be an awkward EU member. It is a former
empire, has feet planted in the Middle East as well as Europe,
remains one of the worst performers at the  European Court of
Human Rights , and historically was seen in the Christian
capitals of Europe as the enemy. Yet the EU was created after
World War II to resolve this kind of enmity, a purpose
increasingly overshadowed by the effort to create and sustain
the euro. Besides, which of the EU’s larger nations are not
awkward, not to mention Turkey’s neighbor and rival  Greece ?  Hollande’s victory was celebrated as much in Turkey as
anywhere in Europe. Sarkozy’s policy panders to segments of
French popular opinion, but it reversed one set by President
 Jacques Chirac , and it can be reversed again. As soon as
Hollande has next month’s French parliamentary elections in his
rearview mirror, he should do so. Then it will be up to Turkey -
- not France -- to decide just how badly it wants to make the
kinds of transformations and sacrifices that are needed to join
the EU.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the  lessons of JPMorgan ;
William Pesek on  online banking  in  Asia ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
 Obama and Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  driving while distracted ;
 Betsey Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on the economics of  gay
marriage ; Tim Judah on  Serbia’s elections ; Edward Conard on what
drives the  U.S. economy ; and Rachelle Bergstein on  women’s shoes 
and war.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 