-- Tepco Expects Narrower Net Loss as Government Takes Control
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-14T05:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/tepco-expects-narrower-net-loss-as-government-takes-control-1-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  expects a
narrower annual loss after a government-approved business plan
proposed measures including an increase in electricity rates to
return the company to profitability in two years.  The utility known as Tepco forecast a 100 billion yen ($1.2
billion) net loss for the year ending March 2013, according to a
statement from the company. Tepco, which posted a loss of 781.6
billion yen in the previous fiscal year, last week provided
earnings on an unconsolidated level.  The Japan government on May 9 agreed to provide 1 trillion
yen to Tepco in return for more than 50 percent of voting stock,
effectively nationalizing the owner of the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear station. Tepco may return to a profit in two
years if the government approves an increase in electricity
rates and the restart of the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear station,
according to the business plan.  “The government will have no choice but approve” the two
measures, Hirofumi Kawachi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., said by phone before the release of
the earnings.  Tepco shares fell 0.5 percent to 184 yen as of 2:14 p.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, after rising as much as 4.3 percent
after the earnings announcement. The stock has plunged about 90
percent since the day before the Fukushima disaster.  The company said today it will apply to delist from the
Osaka and Nagoya stock exchanges.  Power Rates  Tepco submitted a request to the Trade and Industry
Ministry, which oversees the nation’s power industry, on May 11
to raise electricity rates for households and small users by an
average 10.28 percent from July. Tepco has increased power
tariffs for companies by an average of 17 percent from April
when their contracts are renewed.  The utility has been on government support since the March
11, 2011, quake and tsunami wrecked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station, causing reactor meltdowns and forcing about 160,000
people to evacuate from towns around the plant. The government
has set aside 9 trillion yen as part of the bailout of Tepco and
to pay compensation and cleanup costs related to radiation leaks
from the Fukushima nuclear plant.  New Outside Directors  To create a “new” Tepco, the company will adopt a
committee system and increase the number of outside directors,
according to the plan. Six new outside directors will be
appointed, including Fumio Sudo, adviser to  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) 
and Yoshimitsu Kobayashi, president of  Mitsubishi Chemical
Holdings Corp. (4188) , according to today’s statement.  The number of board members will decrease to 11 from 16,
pending shareholder approval, according to the statement.  Corporate turnaround lawyer Kazuhiko Shimokobe, who leads
the government-backed Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund,
was named to replace Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata , 72. Naomi Hirose, 59, will take President Toshio Nishizawa’s job,
according to a Tepco statement on May 8.  The business plan, drawn up by Tepco and the compensation
fund, assumes the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant, the world’s
biggest, would be gradually restarted after April 2013. The
restart of one Kashiwazaki Kariwa reactor is expected to cut
Tepco’s annual costs by about 78 billion yen, according to the
business plan.  Operating Loss  Tepco forecast its operating loss this fiscal year will
narrow to 235 billion yen, from 272.5 billion yen a year earlier.
Sales will rise to 6.03 trillion yen from 5.35 trillion yen, the
statement said.  Japan  shut its last operating reactor on May 5, leaving the
country without atomic power for the first time in more than
four decades. Japan’s nuclear reactors provided 30 percent of
its electricity prior to meltdowns and radiation leaks at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station.  The business plan may need to be revised if the Kashiwazaki
plant is not restarted as assumed, incoming chairman Shimokobe
said on May 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  