-- Merkel Says Crisis Policy Unaffected by State Election Defeat
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-14T12:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/merkel-says-crisis-policy-unaffected-by-state-election-defeat.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  stood firm
on her debt-crisis policy after her party’s election defeat in
 Germany ’s most populous state, saying voters didn’t reject
budget austerity for the euro area.  While offering to hold talks with opposition parties in a
bid to ensure passage of the fiscal pact through the German
parliament, Merkel told reporters in Berlin that that her policy
on “the issues in  Europe  that await us” will be unaffected.  The debt crisis “undoubtedly is an extremely virulent
issue,” Merkel said. “So it’s precisely on this front that our
work in Europe isn’t affected. There is no conflict between
solid budget policies and growth. This will continue to guide us
in our discussions in the weeks ahead.”  Merkel was responding to questions on a possible change of
policy direction after her  Christian Democratic Union  suffered
its worst post-World War II result in North Rhine-Westphalia in
a regional election won by the main opposition  Social Democratic
Party . Merkel made at least nine campaign appearances in which
she stressed the need to clamp down on spending.  The result may embolden the Social Democrats as they align
with French President-elect Francois Hollande in an anti-
austerity front pressing for steps to spur economic growth to
counter the crisis, according to Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  Hollande is due in Berlin tomorrow immediately after his
inauguration in Paris for what Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said would be an “exchange of views” rather than a
policy-setting meeting.  ‘More Assertive’  Also tomorrow, SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  will join  Peer Steinbrueck  and Frank-Walter Steinmeier, respectively the former
finance and foreign ministers in Merkel’s first-term government,
to brief press on their ideas to stimulate growth and employment
to help escape the debt crisis.  The SPD have “the wind in their back to ask for more
concessions and more measures to stimulate growth,” Costerg
said in an e-mailed comment, adding that Merkel needs SPD
support to pass the fiscal pact in parliament. As a result,
after backing Merkel’s crisis-fighting policy to date, the SPD
“will probably become more assertive.”  Merkel said she will “reach out” to the opposition on how
to promote growth in Europe after a European Union summit set
for May 23.  Even so, while she acknowledged that the election result
was a “bitter, painful defeat” for her party, the chancellor
said the Social Democratic victory was down to Hannelore Kraft,
the state prime minister. And there’s a “large discrepancy”
between the SPD’s performance in the state and nationally, she
said.  ‘Clear Distinctions’  “I think people make clear distinctions about what they’re
voting on,” Merkel said. “That means that ultimately people
did realize that this is a state election, and that I wasn’t on
the ballot.”  Merkel can rely on “three pillars of strength,” including
her personal popularity and a divided opposition, said  Jan Techau , director of the European Center of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Brussels.  Her party’s “weakness at the state level isn’t translating
into any rise in SPD popularity on a national basis,” Techau
said by telephone. What’s more, Kraft’s “strong showing might
also lead to new turmoil in the SPD,” with the question of who
faces Merkel in 2013 set to “get even more complicated.”  Merkel, asked about the next federal election, said that
she is “relaxed” about her party’s prospects.  Electoral Test  North Rhine-Westphalia, with almost a quarter of Germany’s
82 million people and an economy bigger than  Switzerland ’s, was
Merkel’s biggest electoral test before the national vote. It was
also the first state her CDU lost in 2010 as the debt crisis
erupted and voters rebelled against bailing out  Greece .  The chancellor began her campaign in April by attacking the
state government based in the capital Dusseldorf for running up
debt, contrasting that with her push to curb deficits in Germany
and across Europe. Yet she resisted turning the vote into a
referendum on her austerity drive, which polls indicate a
majority of Germans support.  During the campaign, the CDU’s candidate Norbert Roettgen,
the federal environment minister mentioned in German media as a
possible successor to Merkel, declined to say whether he would
serve as opposition leader in the state if he lost. Polls of
voter intention showed that cost him support and Bild, Germany’s
most-read daily newspaper, blamed Roettgen for the defeat.  Parlaying Victory  It’s too early to say whether the  Social Democrats  and
Greens can parlay yesterday’s triumph into victory in next
year’s federal election, the FG Wahlen polling group said in a
poll that found 67 percent of respondents saying the result
isn’t a bellwether for national voting. The Mannheim, Germany-
based group polled 1,507 people in the state before the poll and
20,363 who voted yesterday. No margin of error was given.  Merkel’s Christian Democrats are the most popular party
nationally in all six regular opinion polls, with a lead over
the SPD of 6-10 percentage points.  The defeat in North Rhine-Westphalia “is a massive loss in
local prestige for the party,”  Gerd Langguth , a Merkel
biographer and professor of politics at the University of Bonn,
said by phone. Even so, Merkel “will do her best to ignore the
result. As long as her party is ahead in federal voting patterns
she can feel insulated from regional elections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  