-- Hollande’s First Day in Office Is Marked by Merkel Summit
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-15T10:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/merkel-crisis-summit-marks-hollande-s-first-day-in-office.html
President  Francois Hollande  will
spend his first hours as French president huddled in meetings
today with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , underscoring rising
concern that Greece is headed out of the euro.  Franco-German summits have become such a feature of the
European financial crisis that Hollande’s predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy , and Merkel became known by the single name “Merkozy.”  “The euro break-up story is gathering steam again,”
Marchel Alexandrovich, senior European economist at Jefferies
International in  London , said in a note yesterday. “The
political uncertainty in Greece is higher than six months ago,
with the Spanish and Italian macro backdrops clearly worse. But
not to worry, it will all be all right because Germany and
 France  are getting ready for another summit.”  Hollande was sworn in today at the Elysee Palace in Paris
as the seventh president of the Fifth Republic and the 24th in
French history. Before the ceremony, he held a brief private
talk with predecessor Sarkozy during which France’s nuclear
weapon codes were passed on.  “Among the constraints we face are massive debt, slow
growth, high unemployment and diminished competitiveness,”
Hollande said in his first speech as president. “But nothing is
inevitable. I want to revive France and open a new way in
Europe. A clear direction has been fixed and we’re mobilizing
the strengths of France.”  Soaked  Hollande said he will make proposals to counter  Europe ’s
financial crisis that would cut government debt while providing
economic stimulus.  Following his speech, Hollande drove down the Avenue des
Champs-Elysee en route to the Arc de Triomphe, soaked by a
downpour while waving to supporters from the open roof of his
car. He deposited a bouquet to French soldiers lost in battle at
the Arc de Triomphe.  The new president will name his prime minister later today
and hand out other cabinet posts tomorrow. He is leaning toward
Nantes mayor and Socialist parliamentary leader Jean-Marc Ayrault,  Jean-Pierre Jouyet , head of France’s AMF financial-
markets regulator and a confidant of Hollande, said today on RTL
radio. Jouyet cited both press reports and “other” sources.  Ayrault “is also a German teacher, and has been described
by Hollande as a ‘ Social Democrat  of German type,”’ Dominique Barbet, an economist at BNP Paribas, said in a note to clients.
“He should thus be well regarded in Berlin.”  ECB Role  Before flying to Berlin, he’ll attend tributes to Jules Ferry, the creator of the French public-school system, and to
Marie Curie, the Polish-born French scientist who became the
first woman to win a  Nobel Prize .  Upon arrival in the capital of France’s neighbor and
biggest trading partner, Hollande will begin his effort to carry
out a campaign promise to renegotiate the euro-area’s fiscal
treaty. He says it puts too much emphasis on  austerity  and not
enough on growth.  He has also called on the  European Central Bank  and the
 European Investment Bank  to play more active roles in
stimulating demand. Merkel has said the treaty can’t be touched,
and has said she’s opposed to using government money to boost
the economy.  While Merkel is head of Europe’s most powerful and
healthiest economy, she’s also coming off a weekend defeat for
her political party in elections for the regional legislature of
North Rhine-Westphalia.  ‘Save Face’  Hollande’s hand is weakened by France’s economic
performance. Europe’s second-largest economy has stalled even as
Germany powers ahead, driven by demand for its exports in
 emerging markets .  French gross domestic product recorded no growth in the
first quarter, while German GDP grew 0.5 percent, the country’s
respective statistics offices reported today.  “Everyone needs to save face,” Philippe d’Arvisenet,
global economist at BNP Paribas, said in an interview. “It
means there will be a statement that mentions the word ‘growth’
that also makes it clear that growth won’t happen through
national stimulus plans. It may be about giving countries more
time to cut their deficits, which may make the plans more
credible.”  Pierre Moscovici , the head of Hollande’s transition team,
wouldn’t say in a May 7 press conference if Hollande would
insist on re-writing the treaty, or if he’d be satisfied with
separate statements about growth measures.  ‘Step by Step’  Hollande last week met with EU President Herman Van Rompuy
and euro group head Jean-Claude Juncker, and made no statements
after the meetings.  Merkel’s spokesman Steffen Seibert said May 11 that Merkel
and Hollande won’t take any decisions today. The two leaders
will hold a joint press conference after their dinner.  “I believe it’s better for the Greeks to stay in the euro
area, but that also requires that we set out a path on which
 Greece  gets back on its feet step by step,” Merkel said during
a panel discussion with high-school students in Berlin
yesterday. “Of course Greece can make it.”  Greece’s elections the same day Hollande was elected
produced a political vacuum that puts in doubt the country’s
ability to stick to the cuts required to receive bailout aid.  Bonds of at-risk countries have suffered since the Greek
vote.  Spain ’s extra 10-year yield over German levels widened to
a euro-era record close yesterday. Italian 10-year yields jumped
by the most since January.  Spurring Growth  In two days, Hollande, 57, meets President  Barack Obama  at
the White House, before heading to a global leaders’ summit at
Camp David, outside  Washington , and a meeting of NATO chiefs in
 Chicago .  In the U.S., Hollande will have to justify his plans to
withdraw French troops from  Afghanistan  a year earlier than
Sarkozy agreed upon with North Atlantic Treaty Organization
partners.  Hollande could find himself closer to the U.S. on economic
matters. Obama and his advisers have often criticized the 17-
country currency union for not doing enough to spur growth.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said April 25 the
U.S. faces risks from the slow growth in Europe, even as he said
the euro region had taken steps to calm the debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  