-- Merkel Says Greece Will Always Be EU Member, Better Off in Euro
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-05-14T14:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/merkel-says-greece-will-always-be-eu-member-better-off-in-euro.html
Greece  will “always” stay a member
of the European Union and would be better off remaining in the
euro, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said.  “I believe it’s better for the Greeks to stay in the euro
area, but that also requires that we set out a path on which
Greece gets back on its feet step by step,” Merkel said during
a panel discussion with high-school students in Berlin today.
“Of course Greece can make it.”  Greece “will always be a member of the European Union,
that’s not the issue at all,” Merkel said. “Rather, the
solidarity for the euro will end only if Greece just says,
‘We’re not keeping to the agreement.’ But I don’t expect that to
happen. I do think they are making an effort. There are many,
many people in Greece who actually want it.”  Stocks and European  government bonds  fell and the euro
weakened to a three-month low today on concern that Greece will
exit the 17-nation currency union as the political impasse in
 Athens  following inconclusive elections entered a second week.  “We have a very nervous situation in the  euro zone ,”
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told a separate school event
in Berlin.  Schaeuble said the advantages of Greece staying in the euro
outweighed any perceived gain from exiting the single currency.
“But it will be strenuous,” he said. “The price if they decide
to leave the euro is very high” and “would cause a huge amount
of turbulence for all of us.”  ‘Not at Fault’  Merkel said that she was “of course” concerned about the
situation in Greece. “Because I believe that people who are
absolutely not at fault now have to pay for the mistakes of the
past,” she said. “That’s the sad thing.”  Merkel rejected the notion that her push for austerity has
spurred a political backlash in  Europe  that has benefited
parties such as  France ’s National Front. Still, policy makers
must find answers to “this feeling of injustice” among
citizens in countries such as Greece, she said.  The situation in Greece “won’t lead to civil war,” the
chancellor said in response to a question from a student who
said she was concerned about Greece deteriorating into conflict.  Greece has no alternative to pursuing budget savings
whoever is in power, Merkel said.  “What’s completely normal to you -- that you can’t
permanently spend more than you take in -- that applies to
states as well,” she said. “You can vote for whomever you
like, but at the end there’s no way around it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  