-- EU Confident on Closing CO2 ‘Ambition Gap’ as Islands Protest
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-14T15:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/eu-confident-on-closing-co2-ambition-gap-as-islands-protest.html
The European Union said it’s
confident it can iron out differences with small island states
and least developed nations over pledges to cut greenhouse gas
emissions before climate talks in Qatar in December.  The EU, which has pledged to reduce emissions 20 percent
from 1990 levels by 2020, seeks an eight-year second commitment
period of the  Kyoto Protocol  to last through 2020, three years
longer than island states want. A shorter period would “create
a gap” in climate pledges, Artur Runge-Metzger, the head of
climate strategy at the European Commission, said today in Bonn.  “We want to move in the same direction, even if in terms
of instruments we might have some different views,” Runge-
Metzger told reporters on the first day of two-week-long talks
in Bonn ahead of the annual round of talks in Doha, Qatar,
starting Nov. 26. “By Doha, I’m sure, we will have sorted them
out. And hopefully we can show to the world that we have been
able to close that ambition gap.”  The second set of Kyoto targets is one of several key
decisions to be made by year-end, when the treaty’s first
commitment period ends. The EU in Durban agreed to accept new
emissions targets after 2012, while working to increase the
global ambition of greenhouse gas cuts after warnings from the
 United Nations  that they’re not ambitious enough to contain
global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).  Low-lying islands including  Tuvalu  and poorer nations such
as Chad and Nepal are seeking a five-year commitment period
because they say a longer one would lock in an inadequate pace
of emissions reductions for longer, delaying the steeper cuts
they say are necessary to stem rising temperatures that threaten
to swamp their coasts with higher sea levels.  Eight-Year Commitment  If  Europe  insists on an eight-year Kyoto commitment period,
“they will be sticking their heads in the sand instead of
opening the global discussion about the need for urgent and
stronger action on  climate change ,” Tove Ryding of Greenpeace
International told reporters in Bonn today. “This will make it
much easier for everyone else to do the same.”  The EU is proposing to introduce a review of reduction
targets and seeks to make it easier for states to increase the
ambition of pledges over time to assure other parties “that we
don’t want to talk about lock-in,” Runge-Metzger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 