-- European Banks Fall on Concern Greek Fiscal Woes May Spread
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-14T14:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/european-banks-fall-as-greece-fails-to-form-coalition-government.html
European banking stocks  fell to the
lowest since January as  Greece ’s political parties failed to
form a coalition government, stoking concern other states won’t
implement austerity pledges to combat the region’s debt crisis.  “Stocks are falling because of the political uncertainty
in Greece,” said  Georg Kanders , an analyst at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf,  Germany . “The concern is that if Greece can’t meet
its obligations, then governments in other countries may
follow.”  Greece’s political deadlock entered a second week as
President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure agreement on a
unity government and avert new elections with the country
heading toward a possible exit from the euro area. Spain’s
borrowing costs rose at a bill auction today while an Italian
debt sale failed to assuage concern that the escalation of the
Greek crisis risks overwhelming its Mediterranean neighbors.  The 43-company Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial
Services Index fell as much 3.5 percent to the lowest since Jan.
9. The index was down 3.2 percent at 3:58 p.m. in Frankfurt.
Bank of Ireland led the decline, falling 9.4 percent while
 Bankia SA (BKIA) , a nationalized Spanish lender, tumbled 8.9 percent
and KBC Groep NV,  Belgium ’s biggest bank and insurer by market
value, slumped 7 percent.  Greece’s biggest anti-bailout party, Syriza, defied
overtures to join the government yesterday, deepening the
impasse. Leader Alexis Tsipras won’t attend a meeting called by
Papoulias today at 7:30 p.m. Athens time, the party said in an
e-mailed statement.  Sovereign Crisis  “The sovereign debt crisis just doesn’t want to go away,”
 Dirk Becker , a banking analyst with Kepler Capital Markets in
Frankfurt, said. “Austerity measures have to be implemented to
reduce debt over several years if not decades. Europe has the
historic chance to do so with pressure from the markets.”  The Spanish government said May 11 it would require banks
to take about 30 billion euros ($38.5 billion) of additional
provisions to cover potential losses on 123 billion euros of
real estate-linked lending that is still performing. The
government’s fourth attempt in three years to clean up the
industry comes on top of 53.8 billion euros of charges and
capital ordered in February.  Spain said May 10 it would take over Bankia and may inject
public funds into the banking group with the most Spanish real
estate.  Situation Better  Spain  sold 2.9 billion euros of bills, just below its
maximum target, and offered the most since December to lure
investors as demand eased. Italy auctioned 5.25 billion euros of
debt, including its first bond of more than 10 years in seven
months, as the Treasury reached the maximum set for the sale
amid stronger demand.  “The situation we’re in now is still a lot better than
where we were a year ago,” said Becker. “The capital and
funding situation of banks is much improved with the ECB’s
three-year loans, there is fiscal consolidation going on and an
understanding between European governments that this is
necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  