-- Greece Gets Hint of Leeway From Euro Officials
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-05-14T22:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/euro-chiefs-may-offer-leniency-to-greece.html
European governments hinted at giving
 Greece  extra time to meet budget-cut targets, as long as the
financially stricken country’s feuding politicians put together
a ruling coalition committed to austerity.  Calling talk of a Greek pullout from the euro “nonsense”
and “propaganda,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said only a “fully functioning” Greek government would
be entitled to tinker with the conditions attached to 240
billion euros ($308 billion) of rescue aid.  “The government would have to stand by the program,”
Juncker told reporters after chairing a meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in Brussels late yesterday. “If there are
dramatic changes in circumstances, we wouldn’t close ourselves
off to a debate over extending the deadlines.”  Greece’s post-election impasse multiplied the signs of
stress in European markets yesterday. The euro fell for the 10th
time in 11 days and stocks surrendered a two-day gain. Bond
yields in recession-wracked Spain, the next potential candidate
for financial support, touched a five-month high.  “The euro breakup story is gathering steam again,”
Marchel Alexandrovich, a senior European economist at Jefferies
International in  London , said in a research note. “If Greece
were to ever exit the euro, no amount of reassuring comments
will convince investors that other countries won’t soon
follow.”  ‘Two-Way Street’  Greek President Karolos Papoulias will call party leaders
together today, the ninth day of post-election maneuvering, to
make the case for a government of prominent non-politicians. The
head of the biggest anti-bailout party, Alexis Tsipras, will
attend after boycotting yesterday’s bargaining sessions, state-
run NET TV reported.  “Solidarity is a two-way street,” European Union Economic
and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. “ We expect that the
commitments are respected and the fiscal targets are a core part
of the commitments.”  Greece’s caretaker government will also announce whether it
will repay 436 million euros due today on a note held by
investors who shunned its bond-loss accord. Paying the holdouts
in full would anger investors who took losses in this year’s
debt restructuring, while withholding payment could be construed
as default.  ‘Big Problems’  Investors pummeled Greek stocks, pushing the  ASE Index (ASE)  down
4.6 percent to 584.04 yesterday, the lowest since November 1992.
The drop extended last week’s 11 percent plunge.  “Greece needs to elect a pro-reform and pro-austerity
parliament or I foresee big problems,” Dutch Finance Minister
Jan Kees de Jager said. “There is no room to weaken the
agreements by reforming less or reducing spending cuts.”  Questions for European policymakers include whether to ease
the conditions linked to Greece’s financial infusions in order
to keep it in the euro or, if that fails, how to contain the
damage of what would be an unprecedented exit.  No answers emerged last night. As in early 2010 when the
first Greek bailout and broader rescue fund were improvised, the
way forward will be charted by top political leaders. Their next
summit is May 23 in Brussels, the 18th since the debt crisis
exploded.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the dominant figure in two
years of crisis containment, said Greece will “always” be part
of the European Union, a 27-nation bloc with a common market,
business regulations and trade policy. Speaking to a school
group in Berlin yesterday, she didn’t offer the same assurance
about Greece holding on to the euro, saying only that “it’s
better for the Greeks to stay in the euro area.”  Spanish Recession  The once-taboo issue of a Greek departure or expulsion from
the 17-nation currency union burst into the public debate last
week, when European Central Bank officials including  Patrick Honohan  of Ireland aired the pros and cons.  Greece’s predicament magnified doubts about the health of
 Spain , the only euro country to remain mired in recession
through 2013, according to European Commission forecasts
published last week.  Ten-year Spanish yields rose as high as 6.36 percent before
settling at 6.23 percent yesterday, compared with 6.01 percent
at the end of last week. The  extra yield  over benchmark German
levels widened to 477 basis points. Spain’s woes helped drag up
Italian 10-year yields to 5.71 percent from 5.51 percent.  President Hollande  The euro ministers saluted Spain’s newfound resolve to
clean up its banking system and agreed that “speed is of the
essence” in completing that process, Juncker said.  Another political turning point comes today, when  Francois Hollande  is sworn in as French president in the first power
shift to the Socialists in the second-biggest euro economy since
1981.  Hollande’s bid to inject a pro-growth element into the
austerity-dominated approach to the crisis got a boost on May 13
when Merkel’s party was drubbed in elections in  Germany ’s
largest, most industrial state, North Rhine-Westphalia.  The regional vote maintained the rival Social Democrats’
hold on the upper house of the German parliament and gave them
leverage to prod Merkel into concessions before ratifying a euro
deficit-limitation treaty, one of her hallmark crisis-fighting
initiatives.  Hollande campaigned against that treaty as well, pledging
to flank it with pro-growth measures at a time of 10.9 percent
unemployment across the  euro zone , the highest since the
currency’s debut in 1999.  ‘Painful Defeat’  Merkel, set to host Hollande in Berlin today hours after
his inauguration, said she won’t alter her approach to the
crisis in the wake of her party’s “bitter, painful defeat.”  Also held up until  France ’s new government takes office are
appointments to a vacancy on the ECB’s Executive Board, of a
successor to Juncker as chairman of euro finance meetings and of
the manager of the European Stability Mechanism, the future
permanent rescue fund.  Juncker opened the nomination process for the ESM post
yesterday. He doubted a new euro finance chairman would be named
before the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  