-- Euro-Area Industrial Output Unexpectedly Fell in March: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-14T10:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/euro-region-industrial-production-unexpectedly-fell-in-march-1-.html
European  industrial production 
unexpectedly declined in March, capping a quarter that probably
saw the economy slip into its second recession in as many years.  Production in the 17-nation euro area slipped 0.3 percent
from February, when it advanced 0.8 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast a gain of 0.4 percent, the median of 34 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the first quarter,
industrial output fell 0.5 percent.  Government spending cuts and rising unemployment are
undermining demand in the euro area and data tomorrow will
probably show the economy shrank in the first quarter. The
region’s ability to haul itself out of recession is being
hampered by renewed concern Greece will exit the bloc, and
 Aditya Mittal , chief financial officer of ArcelorMittal, the
world’s largest steelmaker, said May 10 that Europe “remains a
live concern.”  “Industry will likely remain a drag on the economy,” said
Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“With the fiscal squeeze in the  euro zone  unlikely to ease soon
and the debt crisis flaring up again, any upturn in euro-zone
industrial activity later this year will likely be modest. The
sector faces a long hard slog back to ‘normal.’”  The euro-region economy probably shrank 0.2 percent in the
first quarter after a 0.3 percent contraction in the previous
three months, according to the median estimate of 38 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The EU’s statistics office will publish
the data tomorrow.  Greek Deadlock  The euro weakened to the lowest in more than three months
against the dollar today and traded at $1.2874 as of 11:29 a.m.,
in  London . Spanish 10-year bond yields rose above 6.2 percent
for the first time in more than five months, while the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index fell 1.8 percent.  Greece’s political deadlock entered a second week as
President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure an agreement on a
unity government and avert new elections.  The country’s biggest anti-bailout party, Syriza, defied
overtures to join the government yesterday, deepening the
impasse. Leader Alexis Tsipras won’t attend a new meeting called
by Papoulias today for 7:30 p.m., state-run NET TV reported,
without saying how it got the information.  Crisis Escalation  The European Commission on May 11 called “an escalation of
the sovereign-debt crisis” the largest risk to the area’s
outlook. The region’s gross domestic product will probably drop
0.3 percent this year before increasing 1 percent in 2013, it
said.  Greece ,  Italy , Portugal and the Netherlands are all
projected to shrink in 2012, with  Spain  the only euro-member
nation seen remaining in contraction in the following year.  Today’s report helped highlight the euro region’s deepening
economic slump. While  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
reported a third monthly gain in industrial output, nations from
 France  to Spain and the Netherlands struggled with decreasing
production. Greek output fell 1 percent, Irish production
dropped 2.7 percent, with Portugal the only one of the three
countries that received external help reporting a gain.  “Germany and France will help support the development in
industrial output over the coming months,” said Stefan Muetze,
an economist at Helaba in  Frankfurt . “We only see a very
moderate euro-region expansion in the second half.”  Germany’s economy  probably expanded 0.1 percent in the
first quarter, economists forecast before data from the
country’s statistics office tomorrow. France’s economy may have
stagnated, a separate survey showed.  Asian Demand  Elsewhere in  Europe , producer and import prices in
 Switzerland  fell 2.3 percent in April from a year earlier. The
decline is partly due to the strength of the franc, which has
been boosted as investors seek a haven from the euro crisis.  Separately, Australian home-loan approvals unexpectedly
rose in March for the first time in three months. The number of
loans granted to build or buy houses and apartments gained 0.3
percent from February, when they fell 2.5 percent.  European companies may rely on demand from faster-growing
markets to help bolster earnings.  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Deputy Philip Lowe said today the country’s currency may stay
elevated for several years as Chinese and Indian commodity
demand propels the economy into a third decade of expansion.  Linde AG (LIN) , the world’s second-largest maker of industrial
gases, on May 4 reported first-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates, partly on Chinese demand, and called business in
 North America  “robust.”  Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-biggest
power-equipment maker, the same day forecast sales to rise in
the next three years.  “Europe clearly remains a live concern but we’re not
seeing a crisis-like environment occurring,” Mittal said on May
10, when the company posted first-quarter profit that beat
analyst estimates. “The risks are reduced from where we were in
November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  