-- European Stocks Drop on Greek Deadlock, Merkel’s Setback
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-14T16:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/european-stock-index-futures-drop-on-greek-deadlock.html
European stocks retreated, snapping
two days of gains, as Greece moved closer to a possible exit
from the euro currency union and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party lost a state election.  Banks paced losses, with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  dropping 1.5
percent.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker, retreated after Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Bauer  decided to step down.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  tumbled 6 percent
as European Union regulators will reexamine its rescue by the
Dutch government.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 1.8 percent to 247.43 at
the close of trading. All 19 industry groups on the gauge fell.
The Stoxx 600 has pared  this year’s gains  to 1.2 percent as an
inconclusive election in Greece left political parties
struggling to form a government, risking the collapse of
proposed austerity measures.  “With no new Greek government in sight, I think that we
will see continued insecurity and volatility in financial
markets this week,” said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market
analyst at LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland.
The impasse “will lead us to new elections in June, which will
prolong investors’ insecurity as they worry about possible
contagion risks, especially regarding Spain.”  A  European (SXXP)  measure of implied volatility increased the most
in three weeks. The VStoxx Index, a measure of Euro Stoxx 50
Index options prices, surged 12 percent to 31.69, its biggest
jump since April 23.  Lack of Consensus  Greece’s President, Karolos Papoulias, failed to secure
agreement on a unity government and avert new elections. Syriza,
the left-wing group opposed to spending cuts, defied overtures
to join the government yesterday.  Euro-area finance ministers meet today and may discuss the
international bailout for Greece, as well as the situation in
Spain, where the government last week began a fourth attempt to
clean up the country’s banks. The ministers will convene at 5
p.m. in Brussels.  Meanwhile, the debate between growth and austerity will
form the centerpiece of talks tomorrow between the newly
installed French President Francois Hollande and Merkel, who has
championed an agenda of spending cuts.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western-
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 declined 2 percent.
France’s CAC 40 lost 2.3 percent. Germany’s DAX  dropped 1.9
percent.  Greece ’s ASE Index plunged 4.6 percent to the lowest
level since November 1992.  German Elections  Merkel’s party lost an election in Germany’s most populous
state, helping the  Social Democrats  tighten their grip on the
country’s regional governments.  The SPD, the main opposition party nationally, increased
its share of the vote in yesterday’s ballot in North Rhine-
Westphalia. Support for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union fell
to its lowest level since World War II.  Euro-area  industrial production  unexpectedly declined in
March, as lower output in countries from Spain to France offset
increased activity in Germany. Production slipped 0.3 percent
from February.  Economists had forecast  a gain of 0.4 percent.
From a year earlier, production declined 2.2 percent.  Spain’s borrowing costs rose at a bill auction. The nation
sold 2.9 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of bills, just below its
maximum target, and offered the most since December to lure
investors as demand eased.  Italy auctioned 5.25 billion euros of debt as the Treasury
reached the maximum set for the sale amid stronger demand.  Banks Decline  A gauge of European banking shares was among the second-
worst performer of the  19 industry groups  in the Stoxx 600. HSBC
tumbled 1.5 percent to 545.8 pence.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  dropped 4.1 percent to 29.88 euros and 3.7 percent to
27.62 euros, respectively.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  plunged 8.9 percent to 1.89 euros after the
Spanish lender said provisions for soured property loans will be
115 times last year’s earnings.  Natixis (KN)  SA retreated 5.5 percent to 2.03 euros after
Sebastien Lemaire, an analyst at  Societe Generale  SA, reduced
his recommendation on the stock to hold from buy.  Infineon dropped 3.4 percent to 6.67 euros after it said
Bauer will step down because of “severely worsening”
osteoporosis and named management-board member Reinhard Ploss as
his successor from Oct. 1.  ING Groep, Nokia  ING Groep, the biggest Dutch financial service company,
fell 6 percent to 4.91 euros after a weekend report said its
rescue by the country’s government will be re-examined by EU
competition regulators after a court overturned earlier approval
of the aid.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  declined 7.3 percent to 2.33 euros after  Andy
Perkins , an analyst at Societe Generale, downgraded the stock to
sell from hold. This is the lowest price for stock since
November 1996.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-largest  platinum producer ,
slumped 5.2 percent to 854 pence after posting an unexpected
first-half loss. The loss excluding one-time items was 6.9 cents
a share in the six months through March. That compares with the
median estimate for profit of 9 cents.  Chariot Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR)  plunged 50 percent to 75 pence, its
biggest decline since it sold shares to the public in May 2008,
after failing to find hydrocarbons at the Tapir South
exploration well offshore Namibia and abandoning the block.  Opap SA (OPAP) , the Greek gambling company, tumbled 12 percent to
5.15 euros, the lowest price since 2001, after Imerisia reported
that the company’s agents have asked for a 30 percent commission
on gross winnings from planned video lottery terminal games.  Invensys, Rank Group  Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the British maker of controls for washing
machines and factory equipment, advanced 3.2 percent to 209
pence after the Sunday Times said the company is the target for
potential bids from industrial groups including Siemens AG, ABB
Ltd., Emerson Electric Co. and General Electric Co. The
newspaper didn’t say where it obtained the information.  Rank Group Plc (RNK) , the U.K. casino and bingo company, rose 5.8
percent to 123.5 pence after it conditionally agreed to buy the
casino unit of Gala Coral Group Ltd. for 205 million pounds
($329 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  