-- Ex-BP Engineer Mix Says Evidence May Clear Him in Spill Case
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-14T23:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ex-bp-engineer-mix-says-evidence-may-clear-him-in-spill-case-1-.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged with
destroying evidence sought for a U.S probe of the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill  said a “third party” is withholding
information that could clear him, according to court filings.  Lawyers for  Kurt Mix , who worked on internal BP efforts to
estimate the amount of oil leaking from the Deepwater Horizon
well, said an unidentified third party has refused to allow them
to hand over evidence to prosecutors that “eviscerates” the
charges against the engineer, according to the filing today in
federal court in New Orleans.  The evidence is key to Mix’s defense “and capable of fully
exonerating him,” the engineer’s lawyers said in the filing.
The lawyers are asking a judge to allow them to disclose the
information and to use it at trial if the government proceeds
with the case.  The U.S.  Justice Department , which began investigating the
incident in June 2010 after a fatal explosion ripped through the
well and caused the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history,
said in April it was continuing to consider whether to file more
criminal charges over the spill. The charges against Mix are
likely to be followed by others, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said last month.  Spill Estimates  A federal grand jury had been investigating the spill
estimates,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent Barbara
O’Donnell said in a sworn statement filed in the Mix case last
month.  Mix’s lawyers contend that because the third party hasn’t
waived attorney/client privilege over the evidence, they haven’t
been able to make it available to prosecutors.  “The government was unaware of this exculpatory
information when it chose to indict defendant Mix and it remains
unaware of it today,” according to the filing.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, both declined to comment on the filing by
Mix’s lawyers.  BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The
settlement establishes two separate classes, one for economic
loss and the other for physical injuries related to the spill or
the cleanup.  2013 Trial  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  is set to decide in
November whether to give final approval to the accord. Barbier
has set a Jan. 14, 2013 trial to decide liability for the spill.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of
lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  Mix is accused of obstructing justice by deleting a string
of more than 200 text messages he exchanged with a man
identified in court filings as a “contractor” that may show
the company knew a procedure to kill the leak was likely to
fail, at least in part, because of the volume of oil pouring out
of the well.  Court filings in the criminal case indicate that BP’s
internal leak estimates showed the Macondo well was spewing out
15,000 barrels a day, which was a higher rate than the company
publicly acknowledged at the time.  Set of Texts  Mix’s lawyers said they obtained a set of the texts from
the unnamed third party that show Mix didn’t intend to hide
information by deleting the messages.  “The evidence establishes that, at the very same time that
the government alleges Mix was corruptly deleting  text messages ,
he was being entirely forthcoming in answering questions and
providing detailed information about the incident,” the
engineer’s lawyers said in the filing.  Mix’s defense attorneys are arguing prosecutors didn’t
gather all the necessary evidence before deciding to charge the
former BP employee, David Uhlmann, a former chief of the Justice
Department’s environmental crimes section, said in a telephone
interview today.  “I don’t put too much stock in it,” said Uhlmann, who now
teaches law at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . “I
don’t think it’s a fair criticism to say the government didn’t
look before it jumped in this case.”  In court filings today, Mix’s lawyers asked U.S. District
Judge  Jane Triche Milazzo  in  New Orleans  to hold a June 7
hearing on whether the privileged information about the deleted
texts can be disclosed to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at +1-
   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 