-- Ex-N.Y. Senator Espada Found Guilty in Clinic-Theft Case
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-14T22:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ex-n-y-senator-espada-found-guilty-in-clinic-theft-case.html
Pedro Espada Jr., the former  New York 
state senate Democratic majority leader, was found guilty of
stealing from nonprofit health-care clinics he runs in the
Bronx.  A jury in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, convicted
Espada today of four counts of theft, while failing to reach a
decision on other counts of theft and conspiracy. The jury
failed to reach a verdict on any of the charges against his son,
Pedro Gautier Espada.  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block declared a mistrial on
the remaining counts after the jury told him they couldn’t reach
a unanimous verdict. The judge gave prosecutors until June 5 to
decide whether they will retry the Espadas on those counts.  U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch accused the Espadas of stealing
more than $500,000 from Soundview Healthcare Center, which the
elder Espada started in 1978 and which gets more than $1 million
a year in federal funding.  “The people of the Bronx trusted Pedro Espada to have
their best interests at heart,” Lynch said in a statement.
“Instead, he abused that trust to the tune of more than half a
million dollars.”  Both Espadas declined to comment on the verdict. Jurors
declined to speak to the press.  “It’s a sad day for Mr. Espada and a sadder day still for
Soundview and its community,” Susan R. Necheles, a lawyer for
the elder Espada, said outside the court.  ‘Very Resilient’  Necheles, who called her client a “very resilient
person,” declined to say whether the verdict would be appealed.  The Espadas were charged in December 2010 when the elder
Espada was still in the state senate. He had been defeated that
September in the Democratic primary for his Bronx seat. The
Espadas engaged in several illegal schemes from January 2005 to
February 2010, prosecutors said.  The Espadas were tried on eight counts. Five charged them
with stealing from Soundview, one count for each year from 2005
through 2009. They were also charged with conspiring to steal
from Soundview, to defraud the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and
to commit  wire fraud . The theft counts carry maximum prison
sentences of 10 years.  In April 2010,  Andrew Cuomo , when he was New York’s
attorney general, sued Pedro Espada and 19 others in state court
in  Manhattan . Cuomo accused them of looting Soundview, taking
more than $14 million during five years.  Cuomo, who is now governor, sued Espada again a week later
over labor violations. The state cases are on hold until the
criminal matter is resolved.  ‘Public Trust’  “Those who would abuse the public trust have a pointed
lesson in the downfall of former Senator Espada,” Cuomo said in
an e-mail statement. “My comments at the time I filed the
original charges bear repeating: in New York, we will have no
tolerance for government corruption.”  At the time, Espada called the civil charges “political
payback” for his temporary defection to the Republicans in June
2009, which resulted in a monthlong Senate deadlock.  Then-Governor  David Paterson , a Democrat, appointed  Richard Ravitch  as lieutenant governor, giving him the tie-breaking vote
in the Senate. That brought Espada back to the Democratic
caucus, which then made him majority leader.  The case is U.S. v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Thomas in Brooklyn federal court at  ianthomas33@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 