-- F&C’s Charles Leaves as Operations Boss of Hedge Fund Unit
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-14T14:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/f-c-s-charles-leaves-as-operations-boss-of-hedge-fund-unit-1-.html
F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) ’s Jeremy Charles will step down as operations director of Thames River,
its hedge fund division, as part of Executive Chairman  Edward Bramson ’s cost-cutting drive.  Charles, who joined Thames River in 2006 before it was
bought by F&C, will be replaced by Hugh Moir, who becomes group
head of operations and  information technology , London-based F&C
said in a statement today. Moir was previously head of client
solutions and strategy at F&C.  Bramson, founder of activist shareholder Sherborne
Investors LLC, became chairman of F&C in February last year,
less than a year after the firm agreed to buy Thames River for
about 50 million pounds ($80 million). Bramson has cut costs by
reducing staff across the company and plans to refocus the firm
on managing fixed-income assets for insurance companies rather
than higher margin hedge funds.  “Last year, F&C initiated a group-wide re-engineering of
our operations, administration and IT functions,” Tracy
Fennell, a spokeswoman, said in the statement. “The
implementation is progressing well.”  “At this juncture, Jeremy Charles has decided to leave F&C
to pursue opportunities outside of the group,” she said.
Charles declined to comment.  Bramson ousted Nick MacAndrew as chairman at an emergency
general meeting last year with the support of major  investors 
including  Aviva Plc. (AV/)  Before the meeting Bramson criticized the
acquisition of Thames River, saying it was “highly dilutive”
to shareholders due to its cost and the higher volatility of its
earnings.  F&C is scheduled to update investors and analysts on its
strategy with an announcement to the stock exchange tomorrow.
The firm had 102 billion pounds ($164 billion) of assets under
management on March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  