-- Facebook CEO Focuses on Mobile Strategy as IPO Nears
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   M a r k   M i l i a n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-14T11:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/facebook-ceo-focuses-investors-on-mobile-strategy-as-ipo-nears.html
Mark Zuckerberg  will celebrate
turning 28 today on the final leg of a roadshow aimed at
building demand for  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering and
convincing investors that he can make money from mobile users.  Chief Executive Officer Zuckerberg, along with Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  and Chief Financial Officer
David Ebersman, will meet potential shareholders in a cross-
country tour that includes stops in  Chicago  and Denver. Facebook
engineers, meantime, are putting final touches on products
designed to help profit from the  488 million people  who access
the world’s biggest social network on the go.  Facebook said last week that growth in advertising sales
isn’t keeping pace with gains in users, many of them logging on
from handheld devices, while some institutional investors have
balked at buying Facebook stock, people with knowledge of the
matter said. That adds to pressure on company executives to
articulate their mobile strategy ahead of the IPO, due this
week, said  Jay Ritter , a  professor  at the University of  Florida .  “In terms of Facebook’s valuation, the big issue is
whether they’re going to be able to grow to have sustainable
profits,” said Ritter, who teaches finance in Gainesville.
“The biggest issue in that regard is the mix of desktop users
versus people using their mobile device.”  Mobile Strategy  Facebook plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion through
the IPO, the biggest ever for an  Internet company . Its shares
are set to price May 17 and begin trading under the symbol FB on
the Nasdaq Stock Market the following day. Facebook is offering
337.4 million shares at $28 to $35 apiece, and it’s seeking a
valuation of as high as $96 billion, filings show.  The company plans to stop taking orders for the IPO after
U.S. markets close tomorrow, two days ahead of schedule,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Zuckerberg, at a May 11 meeting in  Palo Alto ,  California ,
fielded questions about the company’s mobile strategy, according
to attendees who requested anonymity. Executives will probably
get more inquiries on the matter at meetings in the coming days.  Ads shown on mobile devices are smaller, harder to decipher
and can be less likely to prompt users to make a purchase. That
means they may be less appealing to advertisers and less
lucrative than marketing messages on bigger computers.  Online Store  “Growth in use of Facebook through our mobile products,
where our ability to monetize is unproven, as a substitute for
use on personal computers may negatively affect our revenue and
financial results,” Facebook says in its IPO  filings .  As part of its effort to wring sales from mobile users,
Facebook unveiled a new online store last week to help it play
catch-up with Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the area of
applications that can be downloaded onto handheld devices.  Facebook has began taking developer submissions for its App
Center, a curated online store for programs that run on the
social network. Facebook would keep a cut of the revenue
generated by developers who sell software in the store, helping
it diversify away from traditional advertising.  “ Wall Street  cares about one thing: growth in profit,”
said Paul Deninger, a senior managing director at New York-based
investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   In the early days of the road show, Facebook’s IPO
generated lower-than-expected demand from institutional
investors who expressed concern about the company’s growth
prospects, people with knowledge of the matter said last week.
The company also told analysts last week that sales may not meet
their most optimistic projections, people said.  Paid Status Updates  In another move aimed at stepping up growth, Facebook said
last week that it’s testing a new type of ad, which lets users
pay to have a status update linger on their friends’ news feeds.  “This particular test is simply to gauge people’s interest
in this method of sharing with their friends,” Meredith Chin, a
spokeswoman for Facebook, said in an e-mail. Currently, the test
isn’t running on mobile devices, she said.  The paid status updates were initially  reported  by
TechCrunch, a technology blog.  Zuckerberg, whose birthday is today, co-founded Facebook in
2004 with Harvard University classmates. While he has amassed
more than 900 million users with easy-to-use tools that help
people communicate online, his challenge is stemming slowing
sales growth amid increasing competition from Google and Twitter
Inc.  Sales  climbed  88 percent to $3.71 billion last year.
According to researcher EMarketer Inc., revenue may increase 64
percent to $6.1 billion this year. That would be the third
straight year of slowing growth.  By contrast, Google’s sales more than  tripled  the year
before its August 2004 IPO, filings show. Facebook’s IPO dwarfs
that of Google, which raised $1.9 billion and valued the company
at $23 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  