-- Facebook Said Set to Finish Taking IPO Orders Tomorrow
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-14T20:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/facebook-said-set-to-finish-taking-ipo-orders-tomorrow.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  plans to stop taking
orders tomorrow for its initial public offering, two days ahead
of schedule, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  Facebook will likely finish taking orders for the IPO after
U.S. markets close May 15, said the person, who declined to be
identified as the plans are private. The offer of 337.4 million
shares at $28 to $35 each has been oversubscribed, according to 
people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to say by how 
much orders exceeded the amount of stock on offer. Jonathan Thaw,
a spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment.  “They’re swamped with the orders that are in,” said Jon Merriman, chief executive officer at investment firm  Merriman
Holdings Inc. (MERR)  in  San Francisco . “They just need time to
determine the price. They can send the message -- the books are
closing, send in your orders now.”  The world’s most popular social-networking site, led by CEO
 Mark Zuckerberg , is seeking a market value of as much as $96
billion. At that level, Facebook would surpass  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  as the most valuable company in history to go
public in the U.S., based on market capitalization, data
compiled by Bloomberg and Dealogic show.  Some institutional investors had balked at buying into
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook over concern about the
site’s growth prospects, people with knowledge of the matter
said last week. In a Bloomberg Global Poll of more than 1,250
investors, analysts and traders, 79 percent said Facebook
doesn’t deserve such a high valuation.  Pricey Offering?  “Facebook’s pricing seems to be quite expensive,” said
Yves Maillot, head of investments at Robeco Gestions SA in
Paris, who helps oversee $6.8 billion. The IPO is also pressing
ahead in a “very difficult environment for the U.S. equity
market.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.1 percent to
1,338.35, the lowest level since February, as Greece struggled
to form a new government amid mounting concern the nation may
leave the euro. The index fell for a second day as financial
companies and energy producers led losses among all 10 of its
main industry groups.  Facebook initially planned to finish taking orders on May
17, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its shares will list on the
Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol FB.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are the lead
managers for the sale.  Zuckerberg is celebrating his 28th birthday today, during
the final leg of a roadshow aimed at building demand for the IPO
and convincing investors that Facebook can make money from
mobile users.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  