-- Fashion Label Paul Smith Plans Shanghai Megastore in China Entry
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-14T03:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/fashion-label-paul-smith-plans-shanghai-megastore-in-china-entry.html
Paul Smith  Ltd., the British fashion
label worn by celebrities David Beckham, George Clooney and Jude Law, is planning a flagship store in Shanghai to enter mainland
China as the clothing market surges.  The brand will set up a 5,000 square-foot (465 square-
meter) location in Shanghai in December, and add 24 shops in
China over the next five years, said Balbina Wong, chief
executive officer for ImagineX Group, the designer label’s
Greater China distributor, in an interview on May 11.  Known for slim-fitting suits and bold colors, Paul Smith
will take on earlier entrants such as  Michael Kors Holdings
Ltd. (KORS) ,  Burberry Group PLC (BRBY)  and high-end menswear retailer  Trinity
Ltd. (891)  which  acquired Gieves & Hawkes  in April. China’s clothing
market will more than triple to 1.3 trillion  yuan  ($206 billion)
by 2020 from 400 billion yuan in 2010 as rising incomes fuel
demand, Boston Consulting Group Inc. said in a July report.  “This is the right time to join the race,” said Wong.
“Chinese consumers are becoming more sophisticated and brand-
conscious. China’s overall GDP may slow, but the middle-class is
growing.”  ImagineX is a brand management and distribution company
that represents about 20 international brands in Asia, according
to its  website . Closely held Paul Smith has locations that
include London, Paris, Hong Kong and New York.  Chinese urban disposable income rose 14 percent to about
21,810 yuan in 2011.  That is pulling global fashion brands into the world’s
second-largest economy.  Prada SpA raised about HK$19.2 billion ($2.5 billion),
including an overallotment, in a  Hong Kong  share sale in June to
fuel expansion in China. Florence, Italy-based Salvatore
Ferragamo SpA plans to enter as many as eight new cities over
the next three to five years in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  