-- Faux Coke Porn Site Symbolizes Cybersquatting Concerns
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-05-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/faux-coke-porn-site-symbolizes-cybersquatting-concerns.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  had to win a complaint
at a United Nations agency last year to get control of an adult
website called pornforacoke.com.  Online name theft is called cybersquatting -- and companies
with recognizable brand names say it is about to get much worse.
The organization that manages the Internet’s addresses is moving
ahead with plans to add as many as thousands of new Web suffixes.
Right now, there are a limited number, such as .com and .net.The
group wants to open it up to new endings like .shop or .music.  That, in turn, would add the potential for millions more
websites, providing fresh channels for cybersquatters to hijack
brand names for their own sites and siphon consumer traffic and
revenue.  “It’s quite literally a new gold rush,” Fabricio Vayra,
assistant general counsel for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , said in an
interview.  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, a
nonprofit that operates under a U.S. Commerce Department 
contract, is allowing companies, cities and interest groups to 
apply for their own extensions to the right of the dot in a Web 
address.  For $185,000,  New York  City, for instance, could apply for
.nyc, which would allow for new websites with the .nyc ending,
such as concerts.nyc. The risk is that cybersquatters could be
among the buyers of such .nyc sites.  Lucrative Misspellings  The Association of National Advertisers, a Washington-based
trade group, assembled an industry group last year including
Coca-Cola,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  to oppose
Icann’s expansion of suffixes, known as top-level domains,
saying they will increase costs for companies, confuse consumers
and spark new Internet crime.  Petro Kacur, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Coca-Cola,
declined to comment on cybersquatting or the company’s
arbitration case over the pornography site.  Cybersquatters go to companies that sell names on existing
top-level domains like .com to buy unused or misspelled
derivatives of brands, creating sites such as
verizoniphone4s.com or verison.com.  Squatters fill their websites with pay-per-click
advertising links to generate revenue, Claudio Di Gangi,
Internet policy manager for the International Trademark
Association, a New York-based trade group, said in an interview.  Such sites can also be used to distribute viruses and
malicious software, or sell  counterfeit goods  such as fake
pharmaceuticals, Di Gangi said.  ‘Vast New Spaces’  “All these new domains will possibly open up vast new
spaces for cybersquatters,” Francis Gurry, director general of
the UN’s  World Intellectual Property Organization , said in an
interview. “The cost of surveillance and enforcement will go
up. That’s a big risk for businesses.”  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  amassed as many as
12,000 site names through legal action against cybersquatters
before paring down its portfolio to about 6,000 by last year,
Sarah Deutsch, associate general counsel, said in an interview.  “We’re very concerned the top-level domain expansion is
going to turn something that’s a bad problem into something
that’s out of control for most brand owners,” Deutsch said.  Phishing Fears  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, in a December letter to
Icann, said the domain-name expansion could magnify the problem
of Internet scams such as phishing, in which e-mails coming from
legitimate-sounding Web addresses seek people’s passwords or
other information.  The FTC, which has authority to protect consumers against
unfair and deceptive trade practices, recommended that Icann
turn the domain-name expansion into pilot program and limit the
number of new suffixes.  Icann, based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , said its
expansion is designed to promote online innovation and
competition.  The group began accepting applications for new suffixes in
January. It received more than 2,000 submissions before shutting
its application system April 12, citing a software malfunction
that allowed some users to view information about other
applicants. The group said it plans to  reopen  the system May 22
and officially close it May 30.  Icann said it has received $350 million in application
fees, five times its budget for the fiscal year ended June 30.  Mike Tyson  Trademark holders filed a record 2,764 cybersquatting cases
with the World Intellectual Property Organization in 2011, up
2.5 percent from the previous highest level in 2010, the UN
agency said in a March 6 news  release .  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Yale University  and retired boxer  Mike Tyson ,
in addition to Coca-Cola, have used the UN agency’s arbitration
process.  There are too many infringing websites to go after all of
them, Verizon’s Deutsch said. Her company focuses on sites that
are attracting a large volume of Web traffic or have strategic
importance, such as targeting consumers before the introduction
of a new product or service.  Taking domain disputes to arbitration costs between $5,000
and $10,000 and litigation in U.S. courts can run into the
millions of dollars, Deutsch said.  Icann is creating trademark protections within its program,
Kurt Pritz, the group’s senior vice president for stakeholder
relations, said in an interview. They include a clearinghouse
for trademark data, a rapid-suspension process for infringing
websites, and a procedure to terminate Internet registries that
facilitate abuse, he said.  “The new top-level domains will have those added
protections,” Pritz said. “Will it eliminate cybersquatting?
No. Will it make it more difficult? Yes.”  Do Not Sell  The new suffixes will be less attractive to cybersquatters
because they’ll have less traffic than established extensions
like .com, he said.  ANA, the advertisers’ group,  urged  Icann in February to set
up a do-not-sell list of trademarks that would stop applicants
from acquiring other companies’ brands as a Web suffix. The group
will seek similar defenses for trademark owners once new suffixes
are created and start selling names, Dan Jaffe, ANA’s executive
vice president for government relations, said in an interview.  Vayra of Time Warner served on an Icann working group that
recommended trademark safeguards that he said were watered down.  “We’re going to have increased expense, increased policing
and, bottom line, all the ills that come with an increased
cybersquatting landscape,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  