-- Edwards Judge Bars Evidence Clearing Him on Mistress Money
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-05-14T23:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/fec-ruled-earlier-on-edward-s-mistress-money-witness-says-1-.html
Former presidential candidate John Edwards can’t present evidence at his trial on the  Federal
Election Commission ’s ruling that money for his mistress didn’t
constitute campaign donations, a judge said.  Edwards’s former campaign treasurer, Lora Haggard, told the
federal judge presiding over the trial today outside the
presence of the jury that the commission concluded in July that
the funds from two wealthy donors “were not reportable
contributions.”  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles in Greensboro, North
Carolina, ruled that the issue of the FEC’s audit of Edwards’s
2008 campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination was too
confusing for the jury and that it wasn’t clear what evidence
had been put before the commission. Prosecutors objected to the
scope of Haggard’s testimony.  “I’m not sure what they knew, did or heard,” Eagles said.  Edwards, 58, a former U.S. senator representing  North
Carolina , is accused of illegally using almost $1 million in
campaign contributions to conceal his affair with  Rielle Hunter ,
an unemployed filmmaker with whom he fathered a child. He has
maintained his innocence, asserting that the funds in question
came from his friendships with Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, a 101-
year-old multimillionaire heiress, and  Fred Baron , a now-
deceased trial attorney.  Defense Team  Edwards’s defense team started putting on its case today
after about three weeks of testimony by prosecution witnesses.  Eagles also excluded testimony from former Federal Election
Commissioner Scott E. Thomas on the definition of a
contribution. Thomas, a 20-year veteran of the commission and
past chairman, was expected to testify that the payment of
medical and other expenses of a candidate’s mistress isn’t a
campaign-related expense, according to court documents.  “The jury makes decisions every day without expert opinion
about purpose, intent or motive,” Eagles said. “His testimony
seems like a substitute for a closing argument.”  Haggard told jurors she didn’t believe the money from
Mellon and Baron were contributions or expenditures that needed
to be detailed on financial reports to the FEC.  “They were not used to urge the public to vote for  John
Edwards  to become president,” she said.  Abbe Lowell, an attorney for Edwards, told Eagles at the
end of trial today that Edwards may testify in the case.
Edwards’s oldest daughter Cate is scheduled to take the witness
stand later this week. Lowell said the defense plans to wrap its
case on Wednesday or Thursday.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  