-- Fed Maiden Lane Demand May Slow Start of QE3, BofA Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-14T15:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/fed-maiden-lane-demand-may-slow-start-of-qe3-bofa-says.html
Demand for the Federal Reserve’s
sales of mortgage debt assumed in the 2008 government bailout of
American International Group Inc. may add to reasons the central
bank won’t soon expand its balance sheet again, according to
Bank of America Corp.  The auctions of collateralized debt obligations held in the
 New York  Fed’s Maiden Lane III portfolio are showing credit
markets are relatively healthy, according to Bank of America
analysts  Chris Flanagan  and Justin Borst. Securitized debt is
better weathering the “risk-off” sentiment as Europe’s
deepening debt crisis damages some assets, because of its
shrinking supply and high yields, they said.  “The Fed’s recent direct, extremely positive experience in
the credit market with its  Maiden Lane III sales  give it
firsthand information that credit markets are in very good
shape,” the New York-based analysts wrote in a May 11 report.  Seeing that strength, the Fed probably won’t rush to start
a third round of debt purchases that increase its balance sheet,
known as quantitative easing, or QE, the analysts said. Bank of
America’s view is that the central bank’s policy makers will
announce QE3 at their Sept. 12 meeting, even while “the recent
 weakening  of the economic data and the heightened noise out of
 Europe  are pushing up the likelihood of a July 31
announcement.”  About 52 percent of investors in government-backed mortgage
bonds, which may be the focus of additional Fed debt buying,
expect QE3 within the next six months, according to a survey in
the first week of this month by JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Profit for Taxpayers  The New York Fed announced on May 11 it would sell $1.7
billion of CDOs tied to residential debt from Maiden Lane III in
an auction ending May 17 and $691 million in a May 22 sale.  The central bank sold $2.5 billion of CDOs tied to home
loans to Bank of America last week, following a successful
auction last month of $7.5 billion of commercial-mortgage CDOs.
It had disposed of $19.2 billion of home-loan securities in
January and February, helping unwind its separate Maiden Lane II
vehicle at a profit of $2.8 billion for taxpayers.  “For securitized products, the QE3 horizon is probably so
far out that near term trading and investment decisions are best
made assuming QE3 is not happening anytime soon, or not at
all,” Flanagan and Borst wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 