-- Ferrari Plans to Replace Iconic Enzo With Super Hybrid
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-05-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ferrari-plans-to-replace-iconic-enzo-with-super-hybrid.html
Ferrari SpA will turn to fuel-saving
hybrid technology to create its most powerful and expensive
model, showing that even elite performance cars are under
pressure to get greener.  The Italian automaker’s first hybrid, dubbed the F70 in
trade press and blogs, will probably surpass the 660,000-euro
($850,000) price of the limited-edition Enzo, said a person
familiar with the plan.  Using technology developed for Formula One racing, the
model will combine two electric motors with a 12-cylinder
gasoline engine to produce more horsepower than any previous
Ferrari, while cutting fuel consumption 40 percent.  “Dedicated Ferrari drivers look first at power and
technology,” said Fabio Barone, chairman of the Passione Rossa
owners’ club, who has two Ferraris. “The new Enzo will satisfy
their appetite.”  The model is part of a wave of green supercars as high-end
automakers step up efforts to make their models environmentally
palatable, while still maintaining or boosting performance. As
more models become available and emission rules tighten, sales
of hybrid supercars may surge from less than 100 this year to
more than 2,100 in 2015, according to IHS Automotive.  Porsche AG, which currently sells hybrid versions of the
Cayenne sport-utility vehicle and Panamera four-door coupe,
plans to start deliveries next year of the 768,000-euro 918
Spyder. The top-of-the-line Porsche sports car will combine a
500-horsepower engine with 218-horsepower electric motors to hit
a top speed of more than 320 kilometers (199 miles) per hour.  BMW Hybrid  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  will roll out the i8 plug-in
hybrid in 2014. The BMW supercar will be able to drive up to 35
kilometers on electric power and accelerate to 100 kilometers
per hour in less than 5 seconds.  “If you want to sell a vehicle in the U.S. and  Europe , you
must show you want to make the difference in terms of lower
emissions, even if you sell a 100,000-euro car,” said  Ian Fletcher , an analyst at IHS Automotive in  London . “Even a
supercar becomes more usable for city driving if it carries a
hybrid engine.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus , which has led the way among
luxury-car makers in introducing the technology, offers five
hybrid models, ranging from the $29,120 CT to the $112,750 LS.
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz sells the $91,850 S-Class hybrid and
introduced a diesel-electric version of the E-Class in  Germany 
this year.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s ultra-luxury Bentley brand is
considering a plug-in hybrid version of a planned SUV.  Limited Supply  The Ferrari hybrid will go on sale starting next year, with
the U.S. likely to be the model’s biggest market, the person
said, declining to be identified because the plans have not yet
been made public. Ferrari will produce a limited number of the
model, with the final price yet to be decided, the person said.  Ferrari, based in Maranello in northern  Italy , will show
the heir to the Enzo later this year, Chairman Luca Cordero Di Montezemolo said in a May 10 statement. Ferrari declined to
comment on the vehicle beyond the statement.  The original model, which sports wing doors, a carbon-fiber
body and 660-horsepower engine, was named after Ferrari’s
founder. It is limited to a run of 400 vehicles between 2002 and
2004. Because of its rarity, it now sells for about $1 million,
according to website infomotori.com.  Enzo owners include singer Eric Clapton and Pink Floyd
drummer Nick Mason. Some have been destroyed in spectacular
crashes around the world. A red Enzo was found abandoned in the
desert near Dubai last month.  Tailor Made  Ferrari, the most profitable unit of  Fiat SpA (F) , is rolling
out the new flagship as part of a strategy to boost
profitability with high-end versions while restraining
deliveries to about 7,000 cars a year to guard its exclusivity.  The supercar brand is also seeking to boost revenue with
its “tailor made” personalization program, adding touches like
cashmere-covered seats to increase prices by 20 percent to 60
percent. Ferrari’s first-quarter operating profit rose 13
percent to 60 million euros helped by “good” results from the
program, Fiat said last month.  The Enzo successor will be powered by the Hy-Kers hybrid
technology, which was developed for the brand’s Formula One
team. In the system, an electric motor delivers an extra 100-
horsepower to the wheels by operating through one of the
gearbox’s two clutches. The setup transfers power
“instantaneously” between the 12-cylinder engine and the
electric motor, Ferrari said on its  website .  “Boosted by the electric motors, the new supercar may have
more than 900 horsepower,” Ferrari club chairman Barone said.
“It’s going to be a sensational car, and it also lowers
emissions.”  -- Editors: Chris Reiter, Rick Schine  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  