-- Hungarian Default Swaps Jump Most in 4 Months as Forint Falls
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-05-14T15:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/forint-heads-for-biggest-decline-in-month-on-europe-debt-crisis.html
Hungary ’s cost of insuring against
default on government debt rose the most in more than four
months as the forint and stocks retreated on concern Europe’s
debt crisis will escalate.  The country’s five-year credit-default swaps rose 27 basis
points to 551 basis point, the biggest jump on a closing basis
since Jan. 4 by 5:06 p.m. in Budapest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency of the European Union’s most
indebted eastern member, depreciated 1.2 percent to 292.98
against the euro.  Demand for riskier assets dropped as an inconclusive
election in  Greece  left political parties struggling to form a
government and speculation increased that the nation might fail
to implement austerity measures tied to its bailout package.
Hungary hasn’t started talks on an aid deal of its own almost
six months after requesting the assistance from the
 International Monetary Fund .  “The Greek political situation and the resulting wave of
 risk aversion  dominates the  exchange rate ” of the forint,
Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, analysts at  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , wrote in a research report today. The forint
probably won’t strengthen beyond 290 per euro until Greece’s
“acute” problems are solved, the Raiffeisen analysts added.  The benchmark BUX stock  index  slid 1.8 percent to 17,009.32
as OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, slumped 2.5
percent. Hungary’s benchmark 10-year government bonds weakened,
lifting yields seven basis points to 8.339 percent.  Hungarian monetary policy must be “extremely cautious”
during bailout talks with the IMF, Ferenc Karvalits, vice
president of the central bank, said in e-mailed answers to
questions from Bloomberg News.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank last month left the EU’s highest
benchmark interest rate at 7 percent for a fourth month, citing
delays in the bailout talks and planned tax increases that may
boost inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  