-- Former Mongolian President Granted Bail After Hunger Strike
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-05-14T18:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/former-mongolian-president-granted-bail-after-hunger-strike-1-.html
Former Mongolian President Nambaryn Enkhbayar, who was granted bail yesterday, will remain
hospitalized to get medical treatment after refusing water for
10 days to protest his detention on corruption charges.  Enkhbayar ended the hunger strike now that bail has been
granted and will be moved to an intensive care unit, his son
Batshugar said in an e-mail. The Sukhbaatar District Court’s
decision was confirmed by Mongolia prisons service spokesman T.
Amarsaikhan.  Enkhbayar’s arrest last month, ahead of parliamentary
elections scheduled for June in which he planned to participate,
raised investor concerns over an economy that is  China ’s biggest
coking coal supplier. He and his family said the detention -- on
charges dating as far back as 2000 -- was an attempt by the
government to sideline him from power.  “Doctors are very worried about his health recover and all
hope the process will go smoothly,” Batshugar Enkhbayar wrote
in an e-mail yesterday. “My father is still facing politically
motivated false allegations that he needs to fight.”  Lawyers for Enkhbayar, who served as president of one of
the world’s fastest-growing economies until 2009, had lodged
another bail application with the office of the State Prosecutor
General yesterday, Batshugar Enkhbayar said.  Television Equipment  Peter Goldsmith, a partner at New York-based Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP who was employed by the family to help with
Enkhbayar’s case, said the charges against Enkhbayar included
stealing a donation of television equipment valued at $113,000
that was meant to go to a Buddhist monastery in 2000 and not
paying duties to ship eight volumes of a book he authored from
 South Korea  to Mongolia.  The detention “appears to be arbitrary” and breaches
human rights standards, London-based human rights group  Amnesty
International  said, according to  a statement  released May 12.  Sed-Ayushjav Batzaya, a spokeswoman for President Tsakhia Elbegdorj’s office, referred all questions to the prisons
service.  Enkhbayar had been summoned for questioning 10 times over
two years and never showed up, Vice Finance Minister Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said in e-mailed comments May 12.  “There’s no way to prove or disprove if he has committed
corruption if he doesn’t show up,” Hutagt said in the e-mail.  Hutagt acknowledged that the arrest “probably” was not
handled well. “But we’re learning from this,” he said. “We
don’t have experience of arresting ex-presidents.”  Organ Failure  Enkhbayar was hospitalized May 9 after beginning to suffer
organ failure and refused treatment by Mongolian doctors because
he said they were under the sway of the government, his son
Batshugar said. With the help of his lawyers, he blocked a
police move to force-feed him on May 11, according to his son.  Prime minister from 2000 to 2004 and president from 2005 to
2009, Enkhbayar had sought to boost trade with western nations
and distance the country from neighbors Russia and China. The
country, which emerged from Communist rule in 1990, saw economic
growth of 17.3 percent in 2011, with similar gains forecast for
2012, as foreign investors tapped its reserves of coal, copper
and gold.  Enkhbayar was named head of the Mongolian People’s
Revolutionary Party after it split from the ruling Mongolian
People’s Party last year. He had strong support in the
countryside and would probably have attracted enough votes to
form a coalition government with either the MPP or the
 Democratic Party , according to Oliver Belfitt-Nash, head of
research at Ulan Bator-based brokerage Monet Capital LLC.  “All arrows point toward heightened Mongolia risk in a
time of economic and political uncertainty,” Belfitt-Nash wrote
in a note to investors last week. “For the Mongolia bulls, the
buy opportunities are flashing red.”  Enkhbayar’s son said his father, whose party is planning to
contest every seat in Mongolia’s parliament in the June
elections, denied all the charges against him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  