-- Fox Adds Five Comedies, Dramas to Win Back ’Idol’ Viewers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-14T21:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/fox-adds-five-comedies-dramas-to-win-back-idol-viewers.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox will add the comedy
“The Mindy Project” and four other shows to its schedule next
season, looking to bolster ratings after “ American Idol ” lost
30 percent of the younger viewers targeted by advertisers.  The comedy “Ben and Kate” and the drama “The Mob
Doctor” will also join the line-up starting in September, Los
Angeles-based Fox said today in an e-mailed statement. Peter Rice, Fox entertainment chairman, will unveil the schedule to
advertisers later today at the Beacon Theatre in New York.  Fox will pair the music-oriented “The X-Factor” and
“Glee” on Thursdays, leaving Tuesday nights for a back-to-back
line-up of comedy. “Idol,” which has propelled Fox to ratings
victories in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic for eight
seasons, is losing viewers faster than the 10 percent Fox
Entertainment President  Kevin Reilly  forecast in January.  “Glee is positioned for a very strong year,” Reilly said
today on a conference after announcing special guests including
Kate Hudson and Sarah Jessica Parker.  Pop singer  Britney Spears  and Demi Lovato, the singer,
songwriter and actress, will join L.A. Reid and  Simon Cowell  as
judges on “The X-Factor,” Fox said today in a statement.  ‘Raising Hope,’ ‘New Girl’  The network said the sitcoms “ Raising Hope ” and “New
Girl” will move to Tuesdays, joining “Ben and Kate,” about a
brother and sister, and “The Mindy Project,” about a OB/GYN
looking for romance. Mid-season, the network plans to add “The
Goodwin Games,” a comedy about estranged siblings who stand to
inherit $20 million if they meet their late father’s wishes.  “The Mob Doctor” on Mondays follows a surgeon caught
between a promising medical career and her family’s debt to a
Chicago criminal organization. Mid-season, Fox plans to add
“The Following,” a drama with  Kevin Bacon  playing an FBI agent
called out of retirement to hunt down a serial killer.  Animated shows “American Dad,” “Bob’s Burgers,” “The
Cleveland Show,” “Family Guy,” and “The Simpsons” will
return next season, Fox said. The network ordered a second
season of “Touch,” starring  Kiefer Sutherland , and fifth
season of “Fringe,” and an eighth season of “Bones.”  Network Presentations  Broadcast and cable networks are releasing their 2012-2013
schedules in so-called upfront meetings with advertisers to book
advance commitments for the season.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC unveiled
its schedule yesterday,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC unveils its plans
tomorrow, and  CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched TV network,
will reveal its prime-time changes on May 16.  NBC added seven comedies to its schedule next year,
including “Guys with Kids” from  Jimmy Fallon , as the network
seeks to air sitcoms four nights a week.  With an hour less of prime time each night compared to
competitors, Fox will garner $2.03 billion in advertising
commitments ahead of next season, 2 percent more than a year
ago,  Spencer Wang , an analyst at Credit Suisse in New York,
wrote in a May 11 report.  CBS is expected to gain $2.78 billion in commitments, the
most of the major networks, while ABC will collect $2.35 billion
and NBC will receive $1.66 billion, Wang wrote.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , fell 0.4
percent to $20.14 at the close in New York. The shares have
climbed 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  