-- GCC Union Needs `Common Understanding' to Confront Iran
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-05-14T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/gcc-union-needs-common-understanding-to-confront-iran.html
Saudi Arabia ’s call for greater unity
among the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council will be achieved
with a “common understanding” as the oil-bloc confronts
regional turmoil and rising tensions with Iran.  “All members need to agree to unity, not just Bahrain and
Saudi Arabia,” the kingdom’s foreign minister, Saud al-Faisal,
said after a summit meeting yesterday in Riyadh. The GCC is in
“full cooperation” to form a union, he said, adding that
greater unity among GCC members will be achieved only following
a “common understanding.”  The world’s largest petroleum-exporting bloc has accused
Shiite Muslim-led Iran of seeking to foment unrest among the
Shiite communities in the region, including Bahrain, where Saudi
Arabia and other members sent troops to help put down an
uprising last year.  Iran  denies interference.  The group met in the Saudi capital yesterday to discuss
December proposals by Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah to strengthen
the alliance into a unified entity, as well as on policies
needed to contain unrest in  Syria  and the group’s growing
tensions with Iran. Bahrain’s Prime Minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa said two days ago that regional circumstances
make unity “an imperative.”  The push for unity is driven by Saudi Arabia’s desire to
“organize Gulf foreign, defense and financial policies,”
Khalid al-Dakhil, a professor of political science at King Saud
University in Riyadh, said in a phone interview. “The region is
entering a new phase, and the GCC has to adjust.”  Prince Saud’s comments had been preceded by a statement
from 190 Iranian lawmakers criticizing the alliance plans. They
described any plans by Saudi Arabia to form a union with Bahrain
as “unwise,” the state-run Mehr news agency said yesterday.  Helicopter Patrols  Helicopters patrolled over the conference hall in  Riyadh  as
GCC leaders and officials arrived for the summit. On the streets
of Riyadh, GCC flags fluttered and a banner read “the strength
of our Gulf is in our unity.”  The  United Arab Emirates  this month recalled its ambassador
from Tehran after Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  visited
the Persian Gulf island of Abu Musa which is claimed by both
countries. Iran, controlled by a Shiite clerical leadership
since 1979, has accused Bahrain’s Sunni leaders of
discriminating against the Shiite majority in the island nation.  The popular movements that swept away leaders in  Tunisia ,
Yemen,  Egypt  and  Libya  in the past 17 months have been a
catalyst for the GCC to close ranks and hasten change.  “No doubt, you all know we are targeted in our security
and stability,”  King Abdullah  said during the December summit.
Saudi’s Economy and Planning Minister Mohammed al-Jasser
yesterday urged GCC leaders to seek “a path” to go from
cooperation to union.  Customs Delay  The alliance, established in 1981, has been slow to
integrate its economies, delaying plans on customs union until
at least 2015. The decision to locate a proposed regional
central bank in Saudi Arabia prompted the U.A.E., the second-
biggest Arab economy, to pull out of a planned currency union.
Other obstacles to regional integration include a ban on banks
opening more than one branch in another member country.  “The economic benefits of GCC integration haven’t
materialized,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at Jeddah-based
 National Commercial Bank , said in a phone interview yesterday.
“To get those benefits they don’t need official statements,
they need to focus on implementation. Greater unity would bring
greater trade and greater investments.”  Union Talks  Only the people of Bahrain can talk about independence and
no one has the right “to speak on behalf of the Bahraini people
about any kind of confederation with any country,” Bahrain’s
largest Shiite political group, Al-Wefaq, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “When the European countries decided to move to a union,
they went through discussions and everybody voted for or against
the union,” Ali Salman, the group’s secretary-general, said in
the statement. “While here, the union is forcefully imposed.”  The GCC said in May 2011 that it may admit the Arab
monarchies of Jordan and  Morocco  to the group, which has held
out against pro-democracy movements sweeping across the region.
In March last year, the GCC agreed to provide Oman and Bahrain
with $10 billion each over a 10-year period to help offset the
costs of unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  