-- Georgia State Cleared of Most Publisher Infringement Claims
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-14T21:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/georgia-state-cleared-of-most-publisher-infringement-claims-1-.html
A judge cleared  Georgia State
University  of most copyright violation claims brought by
academic publishers including  Oxford University Press  over using
unlicensed book excerpts in course materials.  U.S. District Judge Orinda Evans held the university liable
for five copyright-infringement claims, after conducting a non-
 jury trial  last year, according to a filing dated May 11 in
Atlanta federal court.  The publishers, which also included Cambridge University
Press and Sage Publications Inc., sued in April 2008. They
listed 99 alleged infringements, in which professors made
portions of works available electronically to students. The
university claimed fair use, which under copyright law means
that small excerpts can be used for purposes such as teaching or
journalism without violation. Georgia State changed its policy
in 2009 to insure that professors adhered to fair use
guidelines.  “The court does believe that defendants, in adopting the
2009 policy, tried to comply with the Copyright Act,” Evans
said in the ruling.  The Association of American Publishers  said in a statement
today that the judge’s “analysis of fair use principles was
legally incorrect in some places and its application of those
principles mistaken.” The AAP praised some aspects of the
ruling.  No ‘Sufficient Guidance’  “The court held GSU’s new policy accountable for specific
infringements,” the AAP said. “The court also criticized the
GSU policy for failing to limit unauthorized copying to
‘decidedly small excerpts,’ failing to proscribe unauthorized
use of multiple chapters from a single work and failing to
provide sufficient guidance to faculty concerning the
potentially adverse effect of such mass copying.”  Also sued were the university’s board of regents and its
president, Mark Becker.  “The court’s ruling is significant not only for  Georgia 
State University, but for all educational fair use in general,”
Becker said in a statement. “Georgia State is pleased to have
been a trailblazer in this increasingly complex digital
copyright environment.”  The judge told the publishers to file papers within 20 days
for the relief they seek on the material found to be infringing.
The university will then be able to file any opposition to the
proposed relief.  ‘Reduce the Chances’  “We are pleased that the District Court ruling recognized
that Georgia State University’s flawed 2009 copyright policy
resulted in infringement of our works,” Christian Purdy, a
spokesman for Oxford University Press, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will work on an injunction that will reduce the
chances that GSU will infringe works posted to its eReserve
system in the future.”  The works that the judge found were infringed include three
editions of “The Sage Handbook of Qualitative Research,” “The
Power Elite,” and “Utilization-Focused Evaluation.”  Other works listed in the lawsuit included Oxford’s “The
Slave Community,” Cambridge’s “Liszt: Sonata in B minor,” and
Sage’s “Crabgrass Frontier.”  “In contrast to GSU, we have seen other academic
institutions employ a more reasonable approach to fair use and
exhibit a greater respect for the intellectual property they
use,” Linda Phillips of the  Copyright Clearance Center  said in
an e-mailed statement. The CCC collects royalties from colleges
and other organizations for the use of copyrighted materials.  The case is Cambridge University Press v. Becker, 08-01425,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  