-- German Stocks Decline on Greek Deadlock, Merkel Vote Loss
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-14T16:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/german-stocks-decline-on-greek-deadlock-merkel-vote-loss.html
German stocks  fell, snapping three
days of gains, as Greece moved closer to a possible exit from
the euro currency union and German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
party lost a state election.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  slid after the semiconductor maker
said its chief executive officer was stepping down for health
reasons.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell the most among lenders.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  tumbled 1.9 percent to 6,451.97 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The gauge added 0.3 percent last week
even as Greek politicians struggled to form a government after
inconclusive elections. The broader HDAX Index also dropped 1.9
percent today.  “Hopes are dwindling fast that parties in Greece will be
able to agree on a coalition government in order to avoid having
to call new elections in June,” said Markus Huber, head of
German sales trading at ETX Capital in  London . “New elections
will not only be about accepting austerity measures in return
for bailout money, but also indirectly will be a referendum on
 Greece  staying in the euro.”  Greece’s political deadlock looked set to continue for a
second week as President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure
agreement on a unity government and avert new elections. Syriza,
the left-wing group opposed to austerity measures, defied
overtures to join the government yesterday.  Bailout Talks  Euro-area finance ministers met at 5 p.m. today in Brussels
and may discuss the international bailout for Greece, as well as
the situation in Spain, where the government last week made a
fourth attempt to clean up the country’s banks.  The debate between growth and austerity will form the
centerpiece of talks tomorrow between newly installed French
President  Francois Hollande  and Merkel, who has championed an
agenda of spending cuts.  Merkel’s party was defeated in Germany’s most populous
state in an election that helped the  Social Democrats  tighten
their grip on the country’s regional governments.  The SPD, the main opposition party nationally, increased
its vote share in yesterday’s ballot in North Rhine-Westphalia.
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union fell to its worst score
since World War II.  Euro-area industrial production unexpectedly declined in
March, as lower output in countries from  Spain  to France offset
gains in Germany. Production slipped 0.3 percent from February.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.4 percent. From a year
earlier, production declined 2.2 percent.  Elsewhere, the People’s Bank of China said the amount of
cash banks must set aside as reserves will fall 50 basis points
effective May 18. This is the third time in six months that the
central bank has cut reserve ratios to increase  money supply  for
lending.  Infineon Declines  Infineon Technologies fell 3.4 percent to 6.67 euros.
Europe’s second-largest semiconductor maker said Chief Executive
Officer Peter Bauer will step down because of “severely
worsening” osteoporosis and appointed a board member as
successor.  The supervisory board accepted the 51-year-old executive’s
resignation and named Reinhard Ploss, the management board
member responsible for production, development, technology and
personnel, as CEO from Oct. 1, Infineon said yesterday.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest bank, fell 4.1 percent to
29.89 euros.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  dropped 2.7 percent to 1.52 euros.  A gauge of bank shares was among the worst performers of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer, dropped 3.8 percent
to 77.15 euros.  Carmakers Gain  Preferred shares of Volkswagen, the world’s second-biggest
carmaker, dropped 1.9 percent to 134.85 euros. Daimler AG, the
third-biggest, slid 1.8 percent to 38.52 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG fell 1.7 percent to 66.44
euros.  MAN SE, the German truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen,
slid 3.9 percent to 82.88 euros.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, fell 5.1 percent to 36.58 euros. Siemens AG dropped 1.7
percent to 67.10 euros.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, fell 3.8
percent to 15.77 euros. The stock was cut to neutral from buy at
Citigroup Inc.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  slid 2.9 percent to 51.51 euros. The German
drugmaker said Morgan Stanley reduced its stake in the company
to 3.74 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG dropped 2.5 percent to 9.02 euros
while  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s largest retailer, lost 3.1 percent to
22.96 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  