-- Germany Increases Grants of Free Carbon to 15% of Emitters
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-14T14:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/germany-increases-grants-of-free-carbon-to-15-of-emitters-1-.html
Germany , which will sell more
European Union carbon allowances starting next year, intends to
increase grants of free permits to 15 percent of its emitters in
the bloc’s greenhouse-gas market.  About 311 of 2,012 installations will get more free
allowances next year than in 2012, according to data from the
federal environment agency Umweltbundesamt compiled by Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. A total of 527 emitters lost more than 90
percent of their free allowances. Seven hundred and forty-five
emitters lost more than half their free allowances, while 426
lost from 50 percent to 90 percent.  Germany will hand out about 1.4 billion metric tons of the
permits to plants, including some operated by  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
 BASF SE (BAS) , in the eight years through 2020, according to the data
published May 11. That’s 175 million tons a year on average and
compares with 390 million tons of free allowances granted this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Of the manufacturing sectors, the pulp and paper
installations will lose out the most,” relative to their free
allowances in the five years through this year, Konrad
Hanschmidt, an analyst in London for New Energy Finance, said by
e-mail. “Cement installations have the smallest reduction in
the amount of free allowances,” with a 5 percent drop, he said.  Cement makers may continue to receive surplus carbon
allowances, which they will be able to sell over the next few
years, boosting cash flow and profits, Hanschmidt said.  Carbon Permits Decline  Carbon permits for December dropped as much as 4.2 percent
to 6.55 euros ($8.41) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London , the lowest since May 7. They were at 6.60
euros a ton as of 2:57 p.m.  Installations to be handed additional free-of-charge
permits include the Thermooelerhitzer fuer Glaettwerk facility
in Schongau, in the pulp and paper category, and the Kraftwerk
Hallendorf unit in Salzgitter in the steel-making list, the data
show.  The decision on allowances to the  individual plants  is
“preliminary,” as they have to be verified by the European
Commission in Brussels, regulator of the carbon market, the
agency said last week.  EU nations have granted about 97 percent of carbon
allowances for free in the five years through this year, easing
emitters into the program, according to data from the U.K.
Department of Energy and Climate Change. Western European power
stations must buy all allowances starting in 2013.  Factories in industries that have successfully argued they
may be hurt by carbon trading because of price competition in
international markets for products will continue to get at least
a portion of allowances at no charge after this year, according
to the system’s rules.  The bloc’s carbon market is the world’s biggest greenhouse
gas cap-and-trade program by traded volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  