-- Goldman Sachs Names Carlotti to Securities Division Role
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-14T14:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/goldman-sachs-names-carlotti-to-securities-division-role.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  named
Valentino D. Carlotti, the former president of its bank in
Brazil, to run a newly created client-focused group within the
sales and trading division, according to an internal memo.  Carlotti, 46, will be based in New York and report to
Enrico Gaglioti, who runs equity sales globally, and to Tom Cornacchia, the head of sales for fixed-income, currency and
commodities in the Americas, according to the memo.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, confirmed
the memo’s contents.  Goldman Sachs, which generated 57 percent of its first-
quarter revenue from sales and trading, is forming the so-called
Institutional Client Group to “provide a central point of
contact and relationship management for clients of the
securities division,” according to the memo. ICG will be
composed of salespeople with experience in multiple product
areas and will coordinate with the executive office to ensure
clients are getting appropriate service, according to the memo.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
reported last month that first-quarter profit fell 23 percent.
Revenue from trading bonds, currencies and commodities lagged
behind rivals JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. in the
quarter.  Sao Paulo Office  Carlotti, who joined the firm in 1994 in  investment
banking , was later a salesman in equities who covered  hedge
funds  and mutual funds, according to the memo. He has managed
the Sao Paulo office for the last five years. Carlotti has been
a managing director since 2001 and was promoted to partner in
2006, according to the memo.  In May 2011, Goldman Sachs named Alejandro Vollbrechthausen
to replace Carlotti as president of the Brazilian unit and said
Carlotti would remain in the region to oversee the transition
before relocating to  New York .  The memo was signed by Isabelle Ealet, Pablo J. Salame and
Harvey M. Schwartz, the three co-heads of Goldman Sachs’s
securities division, which oversees sales and trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 