-- Google EU Probe Delayed by ‘New Elements,’ Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-14T13:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/google-eu-investigation-delayed-by-new-elements-almunia-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s antitrust probe by
European Union regulators has been delayed by “new elements,”
EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said today.  Almunia hasn’t received a preliminary report from officials
working on the probe because they had to examine the extra
information, he told Bloomberg Television in an interview,
without elaborating. The EU antitrust chief said he plans to
make a decision on the future of the case soon.  Online travel companies  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) 
were among companies in four sets of allegations over Google’s
anti-competitive behavior sent to EU regulators in March and
April, Google said in a regulatory filing last month. The
complaints add to earlier ones from companies including
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest software maker, that Google
hampers rivals by promoting its own services in search results
above rival offerings.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  While Microsoft Corp. and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  Google’s “size and success rightly generate scrutiny,
which is why we’ve worked hard to explain how our business
works, cooperating with the European Commission since this
investigation began,” said Al Verney, a Brussels-based
spokesman for the company. “Because there’s always room for
improvement, we’re happy to discuss any concerns the commission
might have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in  London  at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 