-- The Greatest Generation Was Robbed of Sexy Footwear
-- B y   R a c h e l l e   B e r g s t e i n
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/greatest-generation-robbed-of-sexy-footwear.html
The archetypal American femme fatale
exhibited a funny kind of freedom. Where most of the women
around her were subservient and submissive, she slipped across
class and gender lines by homing in on a man’s fundamental
weakness: his desire for sex.  Disguised in finery -- high heels, jewelry, hats and gloves
-- the vamp used her appearance to distract from her
ruthlessness. Her motivation was always money, which bought her
independence, the true ambition of any wild creature.  The 1940s femme fatale was the ultimate wolf in sheep’s
clothing. Her shoes, peeking out, were her freshly polished
fangs, even in wartime when shortages of manpower and leather
led to the strict rationing of shoe manufacturing and purchases.  An early scene in the 1944 film version of “Double
Indemnity,” presents the icy, ultimately murderous, housewife
Phyllis Dietrichson racing down a flight of stairs, shod in
medium-high white satin pumps with a flirtatious pom-pom on the
vamp. Shining bright in the film’s grainy lighting, the shoes
instantly let the audience know that here was a sexy, but
potentially dangerous, heroine.  When the war ended, and the men returned, gender roles,
once well-defined, were confused. Women had grown strong and
self-sufficient, while men, overseas, had experienced real
vulnerability. The classic femme fatale, in her exquisite pumps,
crystallized the change: Women were now potentially scary.  Open-Toed Pumps  In 1945, just as the war was ending, Lana Turner played the
frosty vixen Cora Smith in “The Postman Always Rings Twice.”
Turner’s entrance begins with the camera focused on her legs and
feet, shod in a pair of white, open-toed pumps. It then pulls
back to reveal her poised at the threshold of her husband’s
roadside restaurant, in a white two-piece bathing suit and
matching turban. Cora’s shoes were an invitation, luring an
unsuspecting stranger inside.  But the fearsomeness would not last.  The end of the war helped bring the re-feminization of
American women. And the next great Hollywood blonde would be
 Marilyn Monroe  -- a sweet and agreeable, softer variation of the
vamp type. Meanwhile, real women returned to their more soothing
postwar ways and became, once again, less threatening to men.  Not surprisingly, the women who had worn pants, tied their
pin curls under bandannas and skittered through vast factories
in flats now faced entirely different sartorial needs. Fashion
deprivation gave way to an age of prosperity that revolutionized
the way European and American women dressed.  It was called the New Look. On the winter morning of Feb.
12, 1947, just a year and a half after the war’s official end,
the upstart French designer  Christian Dior  debuted his first in-
house collection in Paris. Among crowds of women in tailored
skirts, strong-shouldered jackets, hats and gloves, young models
swished onto the runway wearing what the designer called
“corolle,” meaning “flower petal.”  Onlookers held their breath; the clothes were achingly,
almost controversially, beautiful. Skirts, which in the past few
years had crept up toward the knee because of fabric rationing,
now swung in abundance. Shoulder pads were noticeably absent,
replaced by soft, rounded shoulders that no one would mistake
for those of a soldier’s jacket.  Clearly, the vamp had been subdued. And, not only had she
lost her edge, she had lost her talons. On her feet were dainty
heels -- higher and more feminine than the wedges that women
were used to. By 1953, Dior would join forces with the French
shoemaker Roger Vivier, and stilettos, with their needle-thin
heels, would come to illustrate postwar style.  (Rachelle Bergstein is a writer and editor in  New York .
This is the second of five excerpts from her new book, “ Women
From the Ankle Down: The Story of Shoes and How They Define Us ,”
which will be published on May 29 by HarperCollins. The opinions
expressed are her own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 4 ,  Part 5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  French-Turkish relations 
and the  lessons of JPMorgan ; William Pesek on  online banking  in
 Asia ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama and Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 driving while distracted ;  Betsey Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on
the economics of  gay marriage ; Tim Judah on  Serbia’s elections ;
and Edward Conard on what drives the  U.S. economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Rachelle Bergstein at  rachellebergstein@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  