-- Greek President Proposes Government of Non-Politicians
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-15T16:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/greek-president-proposes-government-of-non-politicians.html
Greece  will hold new elections after
President Karolos Papoulias failed to broker a governing
coalition following an inconclusive May 6 vote, raising concern
it may exit the euro. The currency and euro-area stocks fell.  “The country is once again headed to elections in a few
days under adverse conditions,”  Evangelos Venizelos , the leader
of the socialist Pasok party said. “The Greek people told us
they didn’t want elections but a coalition government, that they
want Greece in the euro.”  Venizelos spoke after he and other party leaders met
Papoulias today in  Athens . A second election in less than two
months threatens to extend the political gridlock that has left
the country without a government since the last vote.  Greece’s political impasse means elections will probably be
held next month, with polls showing that could boost the anti-
bailout Syriza party to the top spot. The country may run out of
money by early July.  The standoff has reignited concern the country will renege
on pledges to cut spending as required by the terms of its two
bailouts worth 240 billion euros ($306 billion) negotiated since
May 2010, and, ultimately, leave the euro area.  ‘Exit the Euro’  “A second vote means Greece is edging closer to the point
where it’s inevitable they have to exit the euro,” Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for International Political
Economy in Brussels, said in a phone interview. “No other
course of events is now likely.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece must
elect a government that sticks to the terms of its international
bailout in order to stay in the euro.  The announcement of new elections “doesn’t change the
situation,” Schaeuble told reporters at a meeting of European
Union finance ministers in Brussels today. “The program is
agreed. We need a government that’s capable of making
decisions.”  European stocks fell for a second day. Greece’s benchmark
ASE Index dropped 3.6 percent to 562.88 at the close of trading
in Athens, its lowest level since November 1992. The ASE has
fallen 18 percent since the May 6 vote. The Stoxx  Europe  600
Index lost 0.7 percent. The euro weakened 0.4 percent to
$1.2769.  Greece is to repay 435 million euros of bonds falling due
today, the  Finance Ministry  in Athens said in an e-mailed
statement. Greece will pay the principal and interest on foreign
law notes which weren’t tendered into the country’s debt
restructuring.  President Calls Meeting  The Greek presidency called a meeting of political party
leaders for 1 p.m. in Athens tomorrow to form a caretaker
government to steer the country to elections. Under the Greek
constitution, if the meeting tomorrow can’t agree on a caretaker
government, a mandate to form a temporary government of the
widest possible consensus will be given to the Council of State
or  Supreme Court  with the sole remit of dissolving Parliament
and holding elections.  Elections must be held within four weeks at the latest
meaning the vote would probably be on June 10 or June 17.  Greece must be part of the euro area and it would be a
“catastrophe” for the nation to revert to its own currency, a
move that threatens a run on banks, former Greek Prime Minister
Costas Simitis said.  “There’s no question we must belong to the  euro zone ,”
Simitis, who led Greece when it joined the euro in 2001, said at
a forum in Beijing today. “The idea of coming back to the
drachma is an idea that cannot function.”  Austerity has ‘Failed’  Europe must reexamine its policy of austerity and
acknowledge it has failed, Alexis Tsipras, who heads the anti-
bailout Syriza party, said yesterday in an interview broadcast
on state-run Athens News Agency’s website.  “We ask that our country remain in the euro without the
catastrophic policy of austerity and we have the solidarity of
Europe,” Tsipras said. “I can’t guarantee that the euro area
itself and the euro will be united and exist.”  Opinion polls conducted since the elections suggest that
Syriza would come in first in a rerun, though short of an
outright majority. Syriza would have 20.5 percent of the vote if
elections were held now, according to a survey of 1,002 people
by Rass SA for the newspaper  Eleftheros Typos  yesterday, the
fourth poll to show the party with such a lead.  That survey showed support for New Democracy, which placed
first in the May 6 election, at 19.4 percent and Pasok dropping
to 11.8 percent from 13.2 percent. More than eight in 10 said
they wanted Greece to remain in the euro area. The poll was
conducted on May 10 and May 11. No margin of error was given.  Change Bailout Terms  Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece’s New Democracy party,
which came in first in the last vote, said today after the
failed bid to form a government that the terms of Greece’s
bailout must be changed.  The election left  New Democracy  and Pasok, the two parties
that supported the international rescue in an interim government
this year, two deputies short of the 151 seats needed for a
majority in Parliament. Syriza came in second, its best showing
ever and a fourfold increase in support from the 2009 elections.
Five anti-bailout parties are now represented in parliament.  “It looks to me that not only are EU leaders
underestimating the risk of early elections, but they are not
focusing enough on the risk of an unfriendly second election
outcome,” Martin Blum, co-head of asset management at Ithuba
Capital in Vienna, said in an e-mail. “The flip side of this is
that EU leaders are not focusing enough on measures to contain
contagion.”  Treasury Bill Sale  Greece sold 1.3 billion euros of 13-week Treasury bills
today with a uniform yield of 4.34 percent, according to the
Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency. Investors bid for
2.32 times the securities offered, the agency said. The yield at
the previous 13-week Treasury bill auction on April 17 was 4.2
percent.  The country will run out of cash by early July if partners
decide to withhold their next aid payment. The European
Financial Stability Facility on May 9 confirmed that a 5.2
billion-euro tranche will be released by the end of June, with
4.2 billion euros already disbursed May 10. The remaining 1
billion euros will be released depending on Greece’s financing
needs.  Under the terms of the bailout, a new government will need
to spell out next month how it will save 11 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  