-- Greek President Pitches New Government Plan
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-14T18:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/greek-president-pitches-new-government-plan.html
Greek President Karolos Papoulias
proposed a government of prominent non-politicians to steer the
country and avert new elections as doubts mount that Greece can
avoid an exit from the euro area.  Papoulias will call a meeting of all leaders of parties
represented in parliament except for an ultra-nationalist party
for 2 p.m. in Athens tomorrow to discuss the proposal, said
 Evangelos Venizelos , the leader of Pasok, the third-biggest
party. Venizelos spoke after meeting with Papoulias and the
leaders of two other parties.  “Pasok is taking a responsible stance,” Venizelos said in
comments televised live on state-run NET TV. “We support a
government of prominent figures as a necessary solution.”  The new plan threatens to extend the political gridlock
that has left the country without a government for more than a
week since the inconclusive May 6 elections. Democratic Left
leader Fotis Kouvelis, who attended today’s meeting, said he was
opposed to the plan and will attend tomorrow to press for his
unity government proposal, which has already been rejected by
the second-biggest party, Syriza.  Papoulias spent yesterday trying to coax the country’s
three biggest parties into a coalition. If his efforts fail, new
elections will need to be called.  Greece ’s political impasse has raised the possibility
another vote will have to be held as early as next month, with
polls showing that could boost the anti-bailout Syriza to the
top spot. The standoff has reignited concern the country will
renege on pledges to cut spending as required by the terms of
its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010, and, ultimately,
leave the euro area.  Syriza, now Greece’s biggest anti-bailout party, defied
overtures to join the government yesterday, with leader Alexis Tsipras boycotting today’s meeting. Tsipras will attend the
meeting tomorrow, NET reported, without saying how it got the
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  