-- Greece Turns Balkan, Serbia Joins Europe in Key Votes
-- B y   T i m   J u d a h
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/greece-turns-balkan-serbia-joins-europe-in-key-votes.html
Two elections took place in the
Balkans on May 6, and when historians look back, I think they’ll
see a tipping point: The day  Serbia  ceded to Greece its place as
the region’s most troublesome country.  In the late 1800s, Otto von Bismarck, famously  said  that
the next war in Europe would begin because of some “damned
foolish thing in the Balkans.” Of course, he was right. This
year marks the centenary of the start of the Balkan Wars in
1912, pitting Serbia, Greece, Bulgaria and Montenegro against
the  Ottoman Empire . The conflict served as a prelude to World
War I, triggered two years later when a Serb assassinated
Archduke Franz Ferdinand, in Sarajevo.  In a few years’ time, it may be conventional wisdom to say
that the demise of the euro, or whatever else now lies ahead of
 Europe , was again sparked by some damned foolish thing in the
Balkans. Only this time, war is unlikely and Serbia won’t be the
culprit. That honor would go to mendacious Greek leaders, their
statisticians and an election in which Greek voters put their
country’s position in Europe at risk.  Serbia’s May 6 elections were also a milestone. In
parliamentary and presidential votes, Serbs chose parties and
candidates that, whatever their differences, overwhelmingly
shared a vision of where the country should be heading: to
European Union membership and continued economic reform.  Ultra-Nationalists Out  The ultra-nationalist Serbian Radical Party, a fixture on
the Serbian political scene for more than 20 years, failed to
get enough votes to make it back into the legislature. And
within three days, some of the main parties had struck a deal on
the broad outlines of a new coalition government. Meanwhile, a
compromise allowed Serbs in Kosovo to vote peacefully, even
though Serbia utterly rejects its secession.  The Serbian Progressive Party, led by  Tomislav Nikolic ,
became the largest in parliament, although the party alleges
that electoral fraud has taken place. Nikolic was once a leader
of the Serbian Radical Party, whose founder is on trial for  war
crimes  in The Hague. But Nikolic split away in 2008, and now
says he stands for European values and joining the EU.  Ivica Dacic, the leader of the Socialist Party and possible
next prime minister, was former President  Slobodan Milosevic ’s
wartime spokesman. Dacic came back from the political dead by
jettisoning a lot of past ideology. He too signed up to a pro-EU
path, and his Socialists won 15 percent of the vote on May 6,
placing third after Nikolic’s Progressives and the  Democratic
Party  that played a major role in toppling Milosevic and sending
him to The Hague.  Serbia still has deep unresolved problems that can’t be
wished away, including the stalemate over Kosovo and an
 unemployment rate  slightly higher than in  Greece . As interior
minister in the last government, Dacic controversially had
several ethnic Albanians arrested shortly before the elections,
a move that may have brought him some extra votes from
nationalists. Still, the country’s trajectory is increasingly
clear.  Neo-Nazis In  Contrast that with Greece. As extremists were leaving the
Serbian parliament, neo-Nazis were entering the one in  Athens .
The winners are still struggling to form a government, making a
repeat election likely. Anti-Europe parties did well. Greece has
also been plagued by violent unrest on the streets, something
that has become rare in the Western Balkans. Today, Greece is
probably the main generator of instability in the region.  That’s not just about the euro. Ian Lesser of the  German
Marshall Fund  recently  pointed to  Greece’s relations with its
historic rival  Turkey , and their competition for energy
resources in the eastern Mediterranean, worrying that the
political turmoil in Athens could reignite tensions. “Greece’s
domestic political woes may grab the headlines, but over time,
the geopolitical implications of a more isolated and
nationalistic Greece may be even more profound,” Lesser wrote.  Think back exactly 13 years. Belgrade was under  attack  from
planes and missiles from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The stated reason was a humanitarian crisis in  Kosovo . The
intervention came four years after the end of the Bosnian and
Croatian wars. But, in the case of Kosovo there was a deadly
serious unstated reason for intervening. This was the doomsday
scenario that saw Albania and Macedonia being sucked into the
conflict, as hundreds of thousands of civilians poured over
their borders. Greece and Turkey -- two NATO members -- would
then pile in behind on opposite sides, a scenario with echoes of
the Balkan Wars of 1912 and 1913.  The modern Balkan Wars largely ended in 1999, with Serbia’s
capitulation. In 2003, in the Greek city of Thessaloniki, the EU
gave a firm  commitment  that the whole region would, when ready,
join the organization. Ever since, slowly but surely, the
Western Balkans have been moving toward the European mainstream.  Slovenia joined in 2004;  Croatia  will join in 2013; Serbia
was given candidate status in March; and Montenegro should get
the  green light  to begin accession talks in June. Kosovo has
just begun the process of EU integration. Things are slower in
Bosnia, Albania and Macedonia but they are all committed to
integration with Europe.  Greece Rejoins Balkans  A counter-trend since the collapse of communism two decades
ago has been Greece’s reintegration into the Balkans. Greek
companies, and especially banks, have invested heavily in the
region and Greece has played a significant role in prodding its
Balkan neighbors in the right -- European -- direction. At the
same time, Greeks were swept away in the 1990s by nationalistic
anxiety over Macedonia, whose name they believe implies a
territorial claim over the part of historical Macedonia that
Greece conquered in 1912. Since 2008, Greece has blocked its
neighbor’s NATO and EU accession over the issue.  During the years of the Yugoslav wars, Orthodox Christian
Greeks supported their co-religionists in Serbia because they
viewed the Muslim Bosniaks and mostly Muslim Kosovars through
“Turkish” lenses, along the lines of “my enemy’s friend is my
enemy.” Greek volunteers fought in Bosnia on the Serbian side
and some participated in the capture of Srebrenica, after which
some 8,000 Bosniak men and boys were murdered. (No one has
alleged that any Greeks participated in the killing.)  Greece’s gradual return to the Balkan mainstream should not
come as a big surprise. On the eve of World War II, Greece was
just another Balkan country, little different from its then
neighbors Bulgaria and  Yugoslavia . It was fate that left Greece
a Western country, and the other two communist, after the war.  In 1981, against the recommendation of the European
Commission and for reasons of largely Cold War politics, Greece
was accepted into the EU, and 20 years later it joined the euro.
It wasn’t ready for either club. Had Greece been forced to meet
the stringent rules for EU membership that are now being applied
to the ex-communist countries of the Balkans, it would have had
to undergo many more years of preparation.  We’re living with the consequences of those decisions now.  (Tim Judah is the Balkans correspondent for the Economist
and the author of books on Serbia and Kosovo. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  French-Turkish relations 
and the  lessons of JPMorgan ; William Pesek on  online banking  in
 Asia ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama and Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 driving while distracted ;  Betsey Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on
the economics of  gay marriage ; and Rachelle Bergstein on  women’s
shoes and war .  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Judah at  timjudah@btinternet.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 