-- Greece Needs Government, Pro-European Front, Manos Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-14T15:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/greece-needs-government-pro-european-front-manos-says.html
Greek political leaders should create
a pro-European front to keep the country in the euro region if a
new election is called, said Drasi party leader Stefanos Manos.  “The priority is for the country to be governed
immediately and effectively,” Manos, whose party didn’t make it
into parliament in the May 6 vote, said in an e-mailed statement
from  Athens  today. “But if elections aren’t avoided, we will
help” create a pro-European front that includes the New
Democracy, Pasok and Democratic Alliance parties.  The four parties received a combined 36.5 percent of the
vote, which indicates they may be able to secure a majority in
parliament if they unite in a new election. They all agree
Greece must stay in the euro, work with the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  to improve commitments made to
secure bailout funds and adopt growth measures.  Greek President Karolos Papoulias is holding talks with
parliamentary party leaders in a last effort to form a unity
government after the election didn’t produce a clear winner and
the three biggest parties failed to form a coalition when given
a mandate. If he also fails, a new election will have to be
called as early as next month, which has raised concerns about a
Greek euro exit.  New Democracy and Pasok came first and third, with 18.9
percent and 13.2 percent  of the vote  respectively.  Democratic
Alliance  and Drasi got 2.6 percent and 1.8 percent, below the 3
percent threshold to secure entry into the 300-seat chamber.  An opinion poll today showed 54 percent of 1,002 Greeks
surveyed want the country to stick to its current economic
financial aid plan and 81.4 percent said they want it to remain
in the euro area. The survey, by Rass SA for  Eleftheros Typos 
newspaper, indicated Syriza, Greece’s biggest anti-bailout
party, which has refused to join a unity government, would
emerge as the winner in fresh elections, though short of an
outright majority.  Manos, 72, who founded Drasi in 2009, said the pro-European
reformist front will “stand against the powers, which in
refusing to accept reality are leading  Greece  out of  Europe .”
Drasi wants less government, a base monthly pension of 700 euros
($899) and a maximum personal income-tax rate of 30 percent as
well as deregulation of all professions. Manos, a former New
Democracy finance minister, supports state-asset sales and real-
estate development to pay down Greece’s debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  