-- Greece Euro-Exit Debate Goes Public
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-14T18:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/greece-euro-exit-debate-goes-public.html
European finance ministers grappled
with the costs of keeping  Greece  in the euro area or letting it
go, as Greece’s post-election political feud dragged on with
little progress toward forming a government.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said  Europe  has
done the “utmost” to prop up the financially stricken country,
limiting any further room for leniency after about 240 billion
euros ($308 billion) of aid pledges.  “There’s no easy way for Greece, whatever the outcome will
be,” Schaeuble told reporters before a meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in Brussels today. “It’s not about the
question of being more or less generous toward Greece. It’s
simply about what is still economically justifiable, what can be
done that’s still convincing in economic terms, that still has
credibility.”  Signs of stress abounded in European markets today. The
euro fell for the 10th time in 11 days and bond yields in
recession-wracked  Spain , the next potential candidate for
financial aid, touched a five-month high.  On the eighth day of Greece’s post-election maneuvering,
the head of the biggest anti-bailout party, Alexis Tsipras,
boycotted meetings in  Athens  to form a unity government. Party
leaders will try again tomorrow afternoon to find common ground.
Tsipras will attend, NET TV reported.  ‘Big Problems’  A poll showed 39 percent of Greeks blaming Tsipras, more
than any other politician, for the deadlock. Some 66.1 percent
want a new government without a fresh vote, according to the
Rass SA poll for the newspaper Eleftheros Typos.  “Greece needs to elect a pro-reform and pro-austerity
parliament or I foresee big problems,” Dutch Finance Minister
Jan Kees de Jager said. “There is no room to weaken the
agreements by reforming less or reduce spending cuts.”  Greece’s caretaker government also has yet to decide
whether to repay 436 million euros due tomorrow on a note held
by investors who shunned its bond-loss accord. Paying the
holdouts in full would anger investors who took losses in this
year’s debt restructuring, while withholding payment could be
construed as default.  Investors pummeled Greek stocks, pushing the  ASE Index (ASE)  down
4.6 percent to 584.04, the lowest since November 1992. The drop
extended last week’s 11 percent plunge.  ‘Political Small Change’  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the dominant figure in two
years of crisis containment, said Greece will “always” be part
of the European Union, a 27-nation bloc with a common market,
business regulations and trade policy. Speaking to a school
group in Berlin, she didn’t offer the same assurance about
Greece holding on to the euro, saying only that “it’s better
for the Greeks to stay in the euro area.”  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter disputed that logic,
saying Greece would need to quit the EU in order to pull out of
the currency, then reapply to come back into the EU. She called
on Greek politicians to stop playing for “political small
change.”  Questions for European policymakers include whether to ease
the conditions attached to Greece’s financial infusions in order
to keep it in the euro or, if that fails, how to contain the
damage of an exit.  No answers are likely tonight. As in early 2010 when the
first Greek bailout and broader rescue fund were improvised, the
way forward will be charted by top political leaders. Their next
summit is May 23 in Brussels, the 18th since the debt crisis
exploded.  ‘Close to Zero’  The once-taboo issue of a Greek departure or expulsion from
the 17-nation currency union burst into the public debate last
week, when European Central Bank officials including  Patrick Honohan  of Ireland aired the pros and cons.  EU treaties declare the euro “irrevocable” and provide no
exit procedure. A December 2009 study by the ECB’s legal
department deemed an ouster or departure “so challenging,
conceptually, legally and practically, that its likelihood is
close to zero.”  Greece’s predicament multiplied doubts about the health of
Spain, the only euro country to remain mired in recession
through 2013, according to European Commission forecasts
published last week.  Ten-year Spanish yields rose as high as 6.36 percent before
settling at 6.23 percent, compared with 6.01 percent at the end
of last week. The  extra yield  over benchmark German levels
widened to 477 basis points. Spain’s woes helped drag up Italian
10-year yields to 5.71 percent from 5.51 percent.  ‘Healthier State Finances’  “Spain won’t be a second Greece,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden said. “Over the next three years the
Spanish government, the Spanish budget will continue on the path
toward better and healthier state finances. The road will be
difficult and we will accompany Spain on the way.”  Another political turning point comes tomorrow, when
 Francois Hollande  is sworn in as French president in the first
power shift to the Socialists in the second-biggest euro economy
since 1981.  Hollande’s bid to inject a pro-growth element into the
austerity-dominated approach to the crisis got a boost yesterday
when Merkel’s party was drubbed in elections in  Germany ’s
largest, most industrial state, North Rhine-Westphalia.  The regional vote maintained the rival Social Democrats’
hold on the upper house of the German parliament and gave them
leverage to prod Merkel into concessions before ratifying a euro
deficit-limitation treaty, one of her hallmark crisis-fighting
initiatives.  ‘Bitter, Painful Defeat’  Hollande campaigned against that treaty as well, pledging
to flank it with pro-growth measures at a time of 10.9 percent
unemployment across the  euro zone , the highest since the
currency’s debut in 1999.  Merkel, set to host Hollande in Berlin tomorrow hours after
his inauguration, said she won’t alter her approach to the
crisis in the wake of her party’s “bitter, painful defeat.”  France  will be represented by a senior civil servant from
the old government at tonight’s Brussels meeting, so the growth-
versus-austerity balance isn’t likely to be dealt with until
Hollande attends his first EU summit next week.  Also held up until France’s new government takes office are
appointments to a vacancy on the ECB’s Executive Board, of a new
chairman of euro finance meetings and of the manager of the
European Stability Mechanism, the future permanent rescue fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  