-- Groupon Aims to Rebuild Confidence After Post-IPO Slump
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c m i l l a n
-- 2012-05-14T14:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/groupon-seeks-to-reverse-historic-post-ipo-slump.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest daily
coupon website, has work to do if it’s to rebuild investor
confidence after one of the worst public market debuts for a Web
company since the dot-com crash.  The Chicago-based company has  dropped  51 percent since its
initial public offering in November and is now valued at just
above the $6 billion offer it rejected from Google Inc. 17
months ago.  Investors will look for signs of optimism later today from
a first-quarter earnings report that analysts predict will show
an 80 percent jump in sales to $530.8 million and improving
profitability. Groupon, which created the daily-deal market less
than four years ago, has been troubled by mounting losses,
accounting errors and regulatory missteps, leading investors to
look past international sales growth and new products.  “There is a lot of negativity priced in and not much
hope,” said  Clayton Moran , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida , who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “Over
time I think investors will become more convinced that Groupon
does have a sustainable competitive advantage via its distinct
global scale.”  Groupon lost 48 percent of its value in its first six
months as a public company, a period that ended on May 3. Since
2001, only Odimo Inc., ValueRich Inc., Orbitz Worldwide Inc. and
 FriendFinder Networks Inc. (FFN)  performed worse among newly public
U.S. Internet companies. Groupon’s shares rose 11 percent to
$11.04 at 10:05 a.m. in  New York .  Results Report  After regular trading today, Groupon will report results
for the second time since its IPO. Operating profit, or earnings
left after operating costs, is  expected  to be $32.7 million,
compared with a $117.1 million loss a year earlier. The net loss
is projected to narrow to $28.9 million, or 4 cents a share,
from $102.7 million, or 48 cents, a year ago.  Groupon originally reported operating income in the fourth-
quarter of $15 million, only to have that reversed into an
operating loss of the same amount after restating results
because of higher refunds to merchants. At the time of the
restatement in March, Groupon said it discovered a “material
weakness” in its financial controls.  The company had already run into problems with the U.S.
Securities Exchange Commission. Prior to the IPO, Groupon asked
investors to disregard statements made by Chairman Eric Lefkofsky during the pre-IPO quiet period and was forced to
abandon a controversial accounting method.  ‘Through the Mud’  “The SEC ran them through the mud on their accounting
practices, revenue recognition and the model,” said  Lou
Pizzileo , a partner in the technology practice at accounting and
consulting firm J.H. Cohn LLP in New York. “All that happened
in public purview. That certainly doesn’t help post-IPO stock
performance.”  Among the 10 U.S. consumer Internet companies to go public
in the past year, Groupon has fared the worst, followed by
 Pandora Media Inc. (P) ’s 42 percent slump. Half of the companies
have gained, with LinkedIn Corp. and Zillow Inc. more than
doubling in value.  Most of Groupon’s stock loss has come since its March 30
restatement. While it’s been punished for those hiccups, Groupon
can point to some improvements. Free  cash flow  almost tripled in
the fourth quarter from the previous year to $155 million.
Meanwhile, marketing costs as a percentage of revenue fell to 32
percent in the fourth quarter from 40 percent the prior period,
so Groupon is spending less to attract users.  More Profit  “The company’s profitability is going to increase pretty
dramatically,” said Jeffrey Houston, an analyst at Barrington
Research Associates in  Chicago , who recommends buying the
shares.  Houston’s $30 price target on Groupon shares makes him the
most bullish among 15  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg. The average
is $20.37, which is more than twice the current price. Of the 22
analysts with recommendations, seven say “buy,” 10 rate the
stock “hold” while five say “sell.”  Groupon has also diversified its business. The company
generated 63 percent of its revenue outside the U.S. in the
fourth quarter. Almost 30 percent of transactions in  North
America  were completed on mobile phones in April, up from 25
percent four months ago, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason 
said in a letter to shareholders last week. Its technology to
personalize deals is also improving, he wrote.  Core Lesson  The venture capitalists that backed Groupon are among those
with the most  riding  on Mason and his team.  New Enterprise
Associates  has seen the value of its 14 percent stake plunge to
$863.1 million from $1.7 billion at the time of the IPO.  Accel
Partners ’ 5.2 percent ownership has fallen to $328.7 million
from $664 million.  Groupon’s story is resonating across Silicon Valley. Even
with rapid growth and a popular brand, the business model and
management team have to be ready for public market scrutiny,
said Mike Volpi, a partner at Index Ventures in  San Francisco .  “The core lesson, which a lot of companies have already
taken to heart, is make sure your business is well-baked before
you take the company public,” Volpi said. “This is a good
lesson for us venture capitalists as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  