-- Groupon Shares Rise After Profit Tops Analyst Estimates
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-15T20:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/groupon-reports-profit-as-overseas-growth-boosts-coupon-business.html
Groupon Inc.  shares rose after the
largest daily-deal website reported first-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates, helped by lower marketing costs and
expanded international sales.  Profit excluding certain costs was $16.3 million, or 2
cents a share, the Chicago-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Revenue jumped 89 percent to $559.3 million from
$295.5 million a year earlier. Analysts on average had  projected 
profit of 1 cent on sales of $530.6 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares surged as much as 18 percent.  The coupon site is attempting to rebuild investor
confidence after shares dropped more than 40 percent since its
November initial public offering, one of the worst public market
debuts for a Web company since the dot-com crash. International
sales more than doubled to $320.7 million, suggesting Groupon
hasn’t been hindered by economic turmoil in markets outside the
U.S., said Clayton Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co.  “Groupon is not showing any signs of impact from the
European recession,” said Moran, who is based in  Delray Beach ,
 Florida , and recommends buying the stock. “All in all, it
appears like the business continues to have solid growth.”  Groupon  shares  increased 3.7 percent to $12.17 at the close
in  New York . The stock has dropped 41 percent this year.  Second-quarter revenue will be $550 million to $590
million, Groupon said in the statement. Analysts on average had
estimated $558.7 million in sales.  Marketing Expenses  The company generates sales by selling discounts -- known
as  Groupons  -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail
salons. It then splits the revenue with the businesses.  Marketing costs dropped to 21 percent of total revenue in
the first quarter, from 32 percent in the preceding period and
78 percent a year earlier, Groupon said in a slide presentation
accompanying the results. The company is getting better at
adding subscribers to its e-mail list for less money, Chief
Financial Officer Jason Child said.  “We got a lot of leverage from reduction in marketing
expenses,” Child said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“We’re getting much more efficient with our paid marketing, and
our organic customer growth continues to stay strong.”  Groupon had an operating profit of $39.6 million in the
first quarter, compared with an operating loss of $117.1 million
a year earlier.  The stock lost 48 percent of its value in its first six
months on the public market, a period that ended on May 3. Since
2001, only four companies have performed worse among newly
public U.S. Internet stocks.  International, Mobile  Groupon generated 57 percent of its revenue outside the
U.S. in the first quarter. Almost 30 percent of Groupon’s
transactions in  North America  were completed on mobile phones in
April, up from 25 percent four months ago, Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mason  said in a  letter  to shareholders last week.  In February, Groupon reported fourth-quarter operating
income of $15 million, yet later reversed that into an operating
loss of the same amount after restating results because of
higher refunds to merchants. At the time of the restatement in
March, Groupon said it discovered a “material weakness” in its
financial controls.  The company has worked to address the weakness in its
financial controls and will be prepared for auditors to test
them again at the end of the year, Child said.  “Over the next quarter or two we will have implemented all
the steps necessary in terms of hiring people, upgrading our
systems and improving our processes,” Child said.  The company’s first-quarter net loss narrowed to $11.7
million, or 2 cents a share, from $146.5 million, or 48 cents, a
year earlier.  Last month, Groupon said  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  CEO  Howard Schultz 
left its board, and the company added Daniel Henry, the finance
chief of  American Express Co. (AXP) , and Robert Bass, a vice chairman
of Deloitte LLP, as directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  