-- ICE Adds Grains to Lure Funds Chasing USDA Price Swings
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-14T19:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ice-adds-grains-to-lure-hedge-funds-chasing-usda-price-swing-1-.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , the
second-largest U.S. futures market, is adding agricultural
contracts to draw trading from speculators betting on price
swings linked to changes in U.S. government crop estimates.  Corn, wheat, soybeans, soymeal and soyoil contracts start
today on ICE, founded 12 years ago as an energy market. The
Atlanta-based company is competing with  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s 164-
year-old Chicago Board of Trade, where holdings in the five
biggest grain contracts were valued at  $131 billion  in March.  ICE contracts trade 22 hours a day, and the market will be
open when the U.S. Department of Agriculture issues supply and
demand reports normally published during a two-hour trading halt
on the CBOT. Chicago-based CME, the largest U.S. futures
exchange, plans to extend its hours to match ICE from May 21,
seeking to protect its share of corn, soybean and wheat trading
volumes that jumped more than 13 percent last year.  “The ICE exchange is going after speculators and  hedge
funds  that want to trade increased volatility,” said Greg Grow,
the director of agribusiness for Archer Financial Services Inc.
in Chicago, who has been in the grain industry since 1979.
“It’s a political move to beat the CME to expanded trading
hours and trade during sensitive USDA reports.”  The price of corn, the biggest U.S. crop and the most-
actively traded agricultural product, rose or fell by the
maximum allowed on the Chicago Board of Trade 12 times in the
past year, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg show. Eight of
those occurred after government reports that were issued while
trading on the exchange was halted, between 7:15 a.m. and 9:30
a.m. in Chicago, or from 1:15 p.m. to 6 p.m. Corn rose 0.3
percent to close at $5.83 today in Chicago.  Price Surge  In the most recent instance, the USDA issued its quarterly
grain-stockpile estimate on March 30 at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .
When trading resumed on the CBOT two hours later, prices surged
by the exchange’s 40-cent limit, or 6.6 percent, to $6.44 a
bushel, capping the biggest gain since June 30, 2010.  “Keeping the markets open during the release of critical
USDA data will increase market volatility,” said  Richard Feltes , the vice president of research for R.J. O’Brien &
Associates in Chicago. “Now the advantage will swing to the
market participants with the fastest computers to first get the
data from the USDA and then place orders. People will be making
snap judgments on data that we used to have time to analyze.”  The USDA’s monthly report on supply, demand and inventories
ran to  40 pages  on May 10, with hundreds of figures and dozens
of tables on everything from corn and meat to cotton and dairy
products. Because CBOT trading doesn’t open until two hours
after the report and an over-the-counter swaps market offered
limited access, grain traders often spend the time parsing the
data to determine its potential impact on prices.  Fast Traders  “It’s clear that the ICE exchange is looking to attract
traders who want to get in and out of the markets quickly and
not the commercial hedger,” said Tom Fritz, a vice president at
the EFG Group LLC in  Chicago  and a third-generation trader who
started in the CBOT open-outcry pits in 1969.  “So far I don’t
see it threatening the CBOT, but further monitoring is
required.”  Electronic trading began at 5 p.m. yesterday on ICE Futures
U.S. As of 1:15 p.m. today, 405 of the ICE’s July corn futures
traded, compared with 94,852 contracts traded electronically on
the CBOT, exchange data show. Starsupply Renewables said it was
the broker for the first block trade in the ICE grain futures. A
block trade is a noncompetitive, privately negotiated
transaction that is executed away from the electronic markets.
ICE offers them in all grain futures.  Soybeans, Wheat  There were 264 of ICE’s July soybean contracts traded,
compared with 141,133 of the July futures in Chicago. An
estimated 33 wheat contracts traded on ICE, compared with 35,573
CBOT July futures. There were 23 July soybean-meal futures and
24 July soybean-oil futures, exchange data show.  The two largest U.S. grain-handling organizations said in a
May 10 statement that expanded trading hours “raise serious
issues that could lead to competitive inequalities and impose
significant additional costs” related to personnel and changes
in computer technology and accounting systems.  While the National Grain and Feed Association and the North
American Export Grain Association said they don’t oppose “some
reasonable and properly structured expansion” of trading hours,
the groups urged the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  to
delay the moves to allow for further review.  Customer Requests  IntercontinentalExchange founder and Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey C. Sprecher told analysts during an earnings
conference call on May 2 that the company was “inundated by
customers” that asked ICE to add grains to its markets. The
company already has energy and agricultural commodities, which
include sugar, cotton, coffee, cocoa and orange juice.  “We just see more and more large agribusiness firms that
are dissatisfied with the current offerings,” he said. “Even
given the difficulty of competing with incumbents in this space,
particularly good incumbents, we really feel that there is an
opportunity here.”  Sprecher noted the growth of ICE’s contracts for U.S.
gasoline and heating oil, which mirror the CME’s  New York 
Mercantile Exchange contracts and now have about 10 percent of
the market. “Because of the low cost of introducing contracts,
that’s all highly, marginally efficient revenue,” he said.  CME Responds  The CME has responded with a  plan  to expand trading hours
to 22 from 17. The exchange will shut only from 4 p.m. to 6
p.m., which means it will be open when most USDA reports are
issued.  “We take all competition seriously and remain focused on
providing the deepest, most-liquid and efficient markets for our
grains customers,” Tim Andriesen, the CME’s managing director,
agricultural commodities and alternative investments, said in a
written response to questions from Bloomberg. “We’ve been
working with the grain industry to provide risk-management
products for 135 years and continue to be an innovator today.
CME Group is the best marketplace for customers to execute and
manage their grain price risk.”  The five new ICE contracts will be cash settled rather than
provide the option of delivering the commodity, the exchange
said on its  website . Settlements will be determined by the
closing prices of the CME contracts the day before the start of
physical delivery in the Chicago futures. Contract sizes will be
identical to those on the CBOT, with lower margin deposits
required for speculators, ICE said.  The initial performance bond for opening a long or short
speculative position in corn on the ICE exchange was set at
$1,980 below the current $2,363 margin for the most-active
futures in Chicago. Hedger margins were set at $1,800 compared
with $1,750 on the CBOT. Similar speculative margin advantages
were set for soybeans, wheat and soybean oil.  Merchants Cautious  “The day-trading community may be their biggest
constituency, but grain merchants will take a cautious approach
to the new products, especially since they’re cash settled,”
Peter Meyer, senior director agricultural commodities at PIRA
Energy Group in New York. “The reduced margin costs are only
applicable once liquidity is established at ICE, which will take
quite some time.”  Traders may be reluctant to switch from the CBOT, where
trading in corn, soybeans and wheat rose to 148.4 million
contracts last year from 129.9 million in 2010, exchange data
show. The top five grain and oilseed futures had combined open
interest, or contracts that have yet to be delivered, of almost
3.2 million in March, according to a  CME report .  “I have the capability to trade on the ICE, but a lot of
my grain elevators and other commercial clients will stay with
the Chicago futures,” EFG Group’s Fritz said. “I don’t think
the new contracts will gain much market share.”  Previous Challenges  In 2006, CME attempted to grab market share in trading of
sugar, coffee, cocoa, cotton and orange-juice futures by
introducing contracts to compete with the established ones on
the New York Board of Trade, which ICE acquired in 2007.  Open interest in CME’s raw-sugar futures was 26 contracts
as of May 9, compared with 723,240 for the ICE sugar contract,
data from the exchanges show.  ICE began offering futures for Canadian milling wheat,
durum and barley on Jan. 23. Combined open interest in the two
ICE Futures Canada wheat markets was 140 contracts on May 9
compared with 37,852 futures open in the spring-wheat futures
traded at the  Minneapolis Grain Exchange .  “History would suggest that the success of new futures
contracts is limited when they must compete against existing
franchise contracts,” said R.J. O’Brien’s Feltes, a grain
analyst since 1973. “The new grain contracts will face an
uphill battle to get established.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  