-- Ignore Myths and Half-Truths of JPMorgan’s Trading Losses
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ignore-myths-and-half-truths-of-jpmorgan-s-trading-losses.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion
trading loss has unleashed a whirlwind of commentary on how (and
how not) to regulate the financial system. A few observations on
some of the central questions that have been raised:  Does this mean the Dodd-Frank financial reform law hasn’t
worked? Not at all. It doesn’t really tell us much of anything
about the effectiveness of the law overall or of the Volcker
rule in particular. The anti-Volcker set argues that, because
the bank was hedging, and hedging is allowed under an exception
to the Volcker rule’s proprietary trading ban, then the rule is
unworkable and should be repealed.  Sorry, but this can’t be true. The rule hasn’t been put
into force yet, and won’t be until 2014. Regulators, moreover,
haven’t decided to what extent banks will be able to call their
trading activities “hedging.”  This is doubly true for so-called portfolio hedging --
buying and selling instruments to protect a bank’s aggregated
level of risk, instead of matching an individual exposure with a
countervailing one. Only the latter are considered true hedges,
and regulators haven’t decided whether and how much portfolio
hedging they will allow.  Aren’t new derivatives rules ineffective? These, too, are
part of the Dodd-Frank law and haven’t been put into force. But
it’s not as if JPMorgan’s derivatives trades were inaccessible
to Federal Reserve supervisors. Bank regulators had every right
to look at the books of the London branch of the chief
investment office, where the trades -- in a credit-derivative
index known as the CDX, which tracks the default risk of a
basket of companies -- were conducted.  Ill-Advised  Shouldn’t the traders and their bosses be thrown in jail?
Of all the commentary these last few days, this seems the
strangest. Nor does it seem relevant to remark, as some pundits
have, on the fact that no top financial executives have been
thrown into jail for their roles in the 2008 financial meltdown.
What Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  or his former chief
investment officer, Ina Drew, did may have been ill-advised, but
it was hardly criminal. More important, the 2008 crisis occurred
not because of a criminal conspiracy among top bankers but
because of errors of policy and regulatory oversight and
institutional greed.  Aren’t banks taking too many risks? Wait -- isn’t that what
banks do? Every time a bank lends money, it’s taking on risk.
And sometimes the same people complaining that banks are too
risky are simultaneously lamenting that banks aren’t lending
enough. They can’t have it both ways.  Here’s what JPMorgan’s trading losses do tell us: Extending
credit is a risky business, and banks must have the ability to
hedge those risks. But because  bank deposits  are guaranteed by
taxpayers, regulators must make sure banks are hedging properly
-- and not letting hedges become new risks.  Regulators haven’t finalized plans, also authorized by the
Dodd-Frank law, for winding down very large banks on the verge
of failure. But even after regulators have off-the-shelf
instructions on how to liquidate the big banks in an orderly
way, the market will probably continue to view too-big-to-fail
banks, including JPMorgan, as operating with an implicit federal
guarantee.  To account for both implicit and explicit federal
guarantees, the Volcker rule must be explicit: It shouldn’t
allow the kind of portfolio hedging that caused JPMorgan to lose
$2 billion. It shouldn’t let banks disguise proprietary trading
as hedging. And it shouldn’t let banks continue prop trading
under the guise of market making, in which they trade on behalf
of customers. For their part, regulators, who may have been
(once again) blind to the risks taken on by a major bank, must
be more vigilant.  Tougher Rules  Dimon was the rare Wall Street leader with credibility,
having brought JPMorgan through the 2008 crisis with only minor
scratches. In the end, though, the bank may have proven that
it’s too big to manage, all of which means that regulators may
need to consider something far tougher than last year’s Volcker
rule proposal.  One solution would be to require financial institutions to
separate commercial banking using depositors’ money from other
activities, similar to the ring-fencing the U.K. government is
demanding of its banks. Banks say they want the certainty of
clear rules, yet they don’t want regulators second-guessing
their trading desks or reinstating the Glass-Steagall law that
broke off investment from commercial banking. Ring-fencing would
accomplish it all.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  French-Turkish
relations ; William Pesek on  online banking  in  Asia ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Obama and Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  driving while
distracted ;  Betsey Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on the economics
of  gay marriage ; Tim Judah on  Serbia’s elections ; Edward Conard
on what drives the  U.S. economy ; and Rachelle Bergstein on
 women’s shoes  and war.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 