-- India Inflation Quickens, Curbing Room for Cutting Rates
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-05-14T11:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/india-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-curbing-rate-cut-scope.html
Indian inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in April, crimping the central bank’s scope to
bolster economic growth by extending interest-rate cuts. Stocks
fell, reversing earlier gains.  The benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 7.23 percent from
a year earlier, after climbing 6.89 percent in March, the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry said in a statement in New
Delhi today. The  median  of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 6.67 percent gain.  Reserve Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled
last month that inflation might limit the room for further cuts
after he slashed the benchmark rate by half a percentage point,
flagging price risks from the fiscal deficit, energy costs and a
weaker rupee.  Greece ’s political turmoil and a deepening debt
crisis in  Europe  are increasing pressure on Asian nations to
support growth as exports falter from  Taiwan  to  Malaysia . China
cut banks’ reserve requirements on May 12 to revive demand.  “The Reserve Bank of  India  faces somewhat of a dilemma,”
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based director of Asian
economics at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note after the
report. “Our guess is that the chance of a June rate move has
diminished.”  Sensex Falls  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.5 percent in Mumbai,
after rising as much as 0.6 percent earlier in the day. The
five-day decline is the longest losing streak this year.  The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 rose
two basis points immediately after the inflation data, It ended
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, lower at 8.52
percent on speculation the central bank will step up debt
purchases through open-market operations and add cash to the
banking system.  The  Reserve Bank  lowered the  repurchase rate  on April 17
for the first time since 2009, by 50 basis points to 8 percent.
A report last week showed Indian  industrial production 
unexpectedly contracted in March as weaker domestic demand and
tumbling exports hurt the economy.  “The inflation numbers are a very uncomfortable
statistic,” Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in New Delhi today.
“Many people have been calling for an easing in monetary policy
but it makes it difficult for RBI to moderate policy. It is not
a good sign.”  Worst Performer  Concern India’s outlook has worsened because of trade and
fiscal deficits, political gridlock, elevated inflation and
faltering global growth has pushed the nation’s currency toward
a record low. That prompted the central bank to say last week
exporters must convert half their foreign-currency earnings into
rupees as it stepped up efforts to check the decline.  The currency weakened 0.6 percent to 53.9575 per dollar in
 Mumbai . It is down about 17 percent in the past year, the worst
performer in a basket of 11 most-traded Asian currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Governor Subbarao’s 13 interest-rate increases in the last
two years helped tame price pressures in a nation where 75
percent of the people live on less than $2 a day. The wholesale-
price inflation gauge has fallen below 9 percent in 2012, after
breaching that level most of last year.  Aside from cutting the benchmark rate, the central bank has
also reduced the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as
reserves twice this year by a combined 125 basis points, to 4.75
percent, to ease cash shortages in the banking system.  Fastest Inflation  Credit Suisse predicts India will cut its repurchase rate
by another 125 basis points by March 2013, Prior-Wandesforde
said today.  Still, the central bank’s scope to cut  interest rates 
further to boost growth is constrained by the threat of price
increases, Ashima Goyal, a member of the bank’s technical
advisory committee, said in an interview in Mumbai last week.  While the wholesale price gauge has cooled after the
Reserve Bank raised rates by a record 3.75 percentage points
from mid-March 2010 to October last year, India still has the
highest inflation in the so-called BRIC group of biggest
 emerging markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  “The inflation number underscores that the room to ease
monetary policy is quite limited because there are still upside
risks to inflation,” said Leif Eskesen, Singapore-based chief
economist for India and Southeast  Asia  at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“There isn’t a lot of spare capacity in the economy because
growth has slowed on the back of policy paralysis, lack of
structural reforms and therefore it makes inflation a structural
problem rather than a cyclical one.”  Maruti Profits  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., the nation’s biggest carmaker,
posted a 3 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit because of
high raw material costs and discounts on some models.  The country imports 80 percent of its annual crude
requirements and the government compensates state oil firms for
selling products below market prices.  Asia’s third-largest economy probably expanded 6.9 percent
in the 12 months through March 2012, the least in three years,
government estimates show. Standard & Poor’s cut India’s credit
outlook to negative from stable last month, putting at risk its
investment grade status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  