-- Indonesia’s Bonds Drop to Five-Month Low, Rupiah Falls on Greece
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-14T09:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/indonesia-s-bonds-drop-to-five-month-low-rupiah-falls-on-greece.html
Indonesian bonds dropped, pushing the
10-year yield to the highest level since December, as concern
that  Greece  will default and leave the euro area damped appetite
for emerging-market assets. The rupiah weakened.  Global funds pared 3.77 trillion rupiah ($407 million) from
their holdings of local sovereign securities last week through
May 10, government data show. Greece’s largest anti-bailout
party, Syriza, declined to join a unity government yesterday as
the country heads toward a possible exit from the euro area. The
 finance ministry  was scheduled to raise 6 trillion rupiah from a
debt auction today, according to a  statement  on its website.  “Investors are still looking for safer investments, mainly
due to global concerns,” said Artanavaro Gasali, the Jakarta-
based head of global markets at PT Bank ICBC  Indonesia . “We’ve
seen heavy selling from foreign investors.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.31
percent, according to final prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association. That’s the highest close since Dec. 15. The yield
has increased 36 basis points this month.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. predicts the yield on the nation’s
local-currency 10-year bonds will remain above 6 percent “in
the near-term on weak global risk appetite,” analysts led by
Singapore-based Philip Wee wrote in a report today.  The rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 9,251 per dollar as of
4:24 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency lost 0.7 percent this month.
One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 50 basis points to 8 percent,
the highest level since March 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 