-- ING Shares Fall as EU Starts Re-Examination of Bailout Terms
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-14T16:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ing-shares-fall-as-eu-starts-re-examination-of-bailout-terms.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  fell in Dutch trading as
European regulators started a new probe into its restructuring
plan and appealed a court ruling that overturned some of the
conditions imposed on the bank and insurer’s rescue.  ING  shares  lost 6 percent, the biggest decline among the 32
stocks in the  Stoxx Insurance 600 Index. (SXIP)  The European Commission
opened an “in-depth investigation” into changes proposed by
ING and the Dutch state to the 2009 deal that set out conditions
allowing  government aid , according to a statement the regulator
released on May 11 after trading closed for the week. The probe
also includes an assessment of the Netherlands’ return on
securities issued as part of the bailout, which ING didn’t pay
interest on while making a profit in 2010 and 2011.  “The EC is playing hardball by starting these new
investigations, and in the short term I don’t see clarity on a
relaxation of the restructuring terms,” said Cor Kluis, an
Utrecht-based analyst at Rabobank International.  The Amsterdam-based company was ordered to sell its
insurance operations, its U.S. online bank and Dutch mortgage
lender WestlandUtrecht Bank before the end of 2013 in the wake
of its 2008-09 rescue. Some of those sale plans have been
derailed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and higher  capital
requirements , which have scared off potential buyers.  Return on Investment  ING slid 31 cents to 4.91 euros in Amsterdam trading. The
stock outpaced declines by other  financial shares , which slumped
in Europe today on concern that  Greece  may be moving closer to
exiting the euro.  ING received 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of aid in 2008
and agreed on an average return on investment of at least 10
percent for the Dutch state over the duration of the bailout
support. That return includes coupon payments ING would have to
make if it paid a dividend to shareholders, and a 50 percent
penalty premium if it bought back the so-called Tier 1
securities. ING hasn’t paid dividends over the last two years,
and will not do so while state aid is outstanding.  The Netherlands made an average return of 17.2 percent on
the 7 billion euros ING repaid by May 2011, plus 2 billion euros
of income from interest and premiums, said Raymond Vermeulen, a
spokesman for ING.  Implementation Problems  ING Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen told shareholders in
Amsterdam today that he didn’t rule out returning part of the
remaining amount this year.  “Since the original decision, the plan has revealed some
implementation problems that must be assessed in an additional
thorough analysis,” said  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s
antitrust chief. “I am confident that they can be settled
together with the Dutch authorities.”  The EC said it will look into alternatives proposed by ING
for the divestment of WestlandUtrecht, which the company
considers unfeasible given current market conditions.  “There seem to be hints at some more flexibility if ING
agrees to extra payments on the aid,” Kluis said.  The new investigation will also cover ING’s pricing in
 Italy  to check if the company was able to undercut rivals as a
result the Dutch government’s help, the commission said.  The European Commission challenged a March ruling by the
EU’s General Court forcing it to reconsider the conditions the
agency imposed on ING. The court said the commission wrongly
considered a revision of repayment terms as 2 billion euros of
additional aid to ING, on top of the 10 billion euros it
received in 2008.  Amended Restructuring Plan  The lender has informed the EC that it will submit an
amended and updated restructuring plan, it said on May 11.
Hommen told shareholders today he spoke with Almunia over the
weekend, and that they agreed that remaining issues should be
resolved quickly.  Selling the European insurance business in an initial
public offering would be “very difficult,” Hommen told
reporters today. He said he’s “optimistic” that an IPO for the
U.S. activities is possible, as markets there have shown some
recovery.  “This is the start of tough negotiations,” Rabobank’s
Kluis said. The main concession that would help ING is more time
to offload its insurance units, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  