-- Insurers Face $1 Trillion Revenue at Stake in Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-14T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/insurers-face-1-trillion-revenue-at-stake-in-health-law.html
Health insurers will gain $1 trillion
in new revenue over the next eight years under the 2010 health-
care law, assuming it’s upheld by the Supreme Court, according
to a Bloomberg Government study.  The amount is equal to about one-half percent of the
nation’s estimated gross domestic product from 2013 to 2020, and
insurers led by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  would keep about $174
billion -- $22 billion a year -- for profit and administrative
costs. The money comes from U.S. subsidies to people purchasing
insurance beginning in 2014 and an expansion of Medicaid, the
government’s health program for the poor.  The Supreme Court is weighing whether the law’s requirement
that most Americans carry health insurance is constitutional. If
it isn’t, the court will decide how much of the law to strike
down. Should the law survive the court’s review and Republican
efforts at repeal, it is projected to expand insurance to  32
million  Americans who lack it by 2016.  “It’s a confirmation of, one, how much money we’re
spending as a nation on health care; and two, how much is riding
on this court case and the  Supreme Court ’s decision,” Matt Barry, a Bloomberg Government health analyst and the study’s
author, said in a phone interview. “You’re talking an amount of
money here that can affect the economy, not just an industry.”  About 9 percent of the  insurance industry ’s total revenue
from 2013 to 2020 hinges on whether the health law stands,
according to the study.  State Exchanges  Starting in 2014, states are required to open new insurance
marketplaces called “exchanges” that will sell subsidized
policies to people who don’t get coverage through their jobs.
People who earn wages close to the poverty level, about $23,000
for a family of four in 2012, will be made eligible for
Medicaid.  Barry’s study calculates that subsidizing private insurance
premiums will cost taxpayers $557 billion through 2020, while
the Medicaid expansion will cost the federal government $669
billion. The two provisions account for 98 percent of new
spending in the law, the report said.  About 58 percent of that spending would pass through
insurers. They would get another $322 million from consumers’
share of premiums.  Under the health law, insurers must spend at least 80
percent of their premium revenue on medical care, so most of the
$1 trillion will flow to hospitals, doctors and other health
providers.  ‘Good for Consumers’  “This is a law that’s good for consumers and good for
business, and there are a trillion reasons why it’s good for the
insurance industry,” said Ethan Rome, executive director of
 Health Care for America Now! , an advocacy group that supports
the health law and is critical of insurers.  The insurance industry, through its Washington trade group,
America’s Health Insurance Plans, provided about $86 million to
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in 2009 to help fund a lobby and
advertising campaign against the law. A spokesman for AHIP,
 Robert Zirkelbach , declined to comment on the Bloomberg
Government study.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee for
president, has said he will seek to repeal the health law if
he’s elected in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  