-- Lira Falls Most in Six Months on Central Bank’s Surprise Easing
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-14T15:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/lira-weakens-most-this-year-on-central-bank-s-surprise-easing.html
The lira headed for the biggest loss
in six months after the Turkish central bank’s surprise decision
to ease policy, offering funding at its lowest rate.  The lira depreciated 1.5 percent to 1.8114 per dollar at
5:29 p.m., on course for the biggest decline since Nov. 21,
curbing this year’s gains to 4.4 percent.  The central bank offered and sold in the one-week repo
auction 4 billion liras ($2.2 billion) at its lowest annual
lending rate for the first time since May 3, the longest streak
of tightening since the period between Dec. 29 and Jan. 9. It
varies the funding rate on a daily basis, maintaining borrowing
costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5 percent interest-rate
corridor introduced last year.  “The rationality behind this decision does not become
accessible to me,”  Felix Herrmann , an analyst at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments. “Especially in an
environment like this where EM currencies get under pressure
massively and against the backdrop of high inflation in  Turkey 
this decision is kind of dangerous.”  The lira pierced its 200-day moving-day average of 1.8059,
a key level for technical analysts. Crossing the moving average
threshold and remaining above it is an indication the currency’s
move may be sustained.  Global stocks fell, commodities declined to their cheapest
level this year and the euro weakened to a four-month low on
concern  Greece  would exit the single European currency and after
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party lost a state election.  ’Normal Days’  “The reason why the central bank resumed normal days is
that the lira gained against other emerging-market currencies
last week,” Ali Ihsan Gelberi, head of research at  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments,
referring to how days where central bank does not lend at the
5.75 percent rate are termed “exceptional days.”  The lira strengthened 2.1 percent against the South African
rand, 1.9 percent versus the Polish zloty, 1 percent against
 Mexican peso  and the Hungarian forint over the past five days,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “The bank cares about the gap with other  emerging
markets ” more than the depreciation against the dollar, Gelberi
said.  The  yield  on two-year benchmark debt increased for a second
day, up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.56
percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 2.3 percent to 246.22 at
3:13 p.m. in  London . All 19 industry groups on the gauge fell.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.2 percent to 958.75 as
of 12:34 p.m. in London, the lowest since Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  