-- Iran’s Parchin Site May Top UN Inspectors’ Meeting Agenda
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-05-14T12:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/iran-s-parchin-site-may-top-un-inspectors-meeting-agenda.html
A United Nations visit to  Iran ’s
Parchin military complex may top the agenda of a two-day meeting
between Iranian diplomats and UN nuclear inspectors.  International Atomic Energy Agency officials will meet
Iranian envoys at the nation’s embassy in Vienna, according to
the IAEA’s public information office. Today’s meeting is the
first between the two sides since Iran snubbed inspectors’
request to visit Parchin during a Feb. 21 visit to Tehran.  “We are here to continue our dialogue with Iran in a
positive spirit,” the IAEA’s top inspector, Herman Nackaerts,
told reporters before the meeting began. “The aim of our two
days is to reach an agreement on an approach to resolve all
outstanding issues with Iran. In particular, clarification of
the possible military dimensions remains our priority.”  Iran and the IAEA began a high-level dialogue in an attempt
to address suspicions that the country is pursuing nuclear-
weapons capabilities. In a Nov. 8 report, the IAEA cited
information provided by a member state and satellite-imagery
analysis indicating Iran may have conducted high-explosive tests
of components for an atomic weapon at Parchin, 18 miles (30
kilometers) southwest of Tehran.  Removing Evidence?  Iran may be erasing evidence of nuclear-weapons work at the
facility, according to the analysis by the Institute for Science
and International Security. Commercial satellite imagery of the
Parchin site taken on April 9, compared with a previous image
obtained on March 4, shows unidentified items lined up outside a
rectangular building and what appears to be water flowing out of
the structure.  The country may be cleaning the inside the building and
scrubbing items outside the structure because IAEA inspectors
expressed an interest in visiting the site, Paul Brannan and
 David Albright , the Washington-based institute’s president,
wrote in a study on its website that shows the satellite images.  The IAEA has pursued questions about Iran’s activities at
Parchin for much of the past decade. Because it isn’t a declared
nuclear facility, inspectors need special authorization to visit
the base, which the IAEA report said may house a test-blast
chamber built in 2000. Inspectors found nothing at the site
during previous visits in 2004.  “It’s important now that we can engage on the substance on
these issues and that Iran let us access people, information,
documents and sites,” Nackaerts said.  Baghdad Talks  This week’s meeting in Vienna will be followed by a round
of talks between Iranian diplomats and their counterparts from
 China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. on May 23
in  Baghdad .  “Any miscalculation by the West will prevent the
negotiations from being successful,” the state-run Mehr news
agency cited Iran’s chief negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , as saying
yesterday in Tehran. “In Baghdad we will wait for a measure
that will win the confidence of the Iranian nation.”  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  criticized what he
called the “minimalist” demands being made of Iran by the six
nations, saying the Persian Gulf nation must stop all uranium
enrichment.  “The current requirements for entering into the talks with
the West are so minimalist, that even if Iran accepts them it
will still be able to advance its nuclear program,” Barak said
today in an interview with  Israel ’s  Army Radio . “There is a
need to completely halt all  uranium enrichment  in Iran.”  IAEA inspectors verified in February that Iran continued to
produce low-enriched uranium in contravention to UN Security
Council demands that the country suspend its nuclear work.
Uranium enriched to low levels can power atomic-energy plants
and create medical isotopes. When highly enriched to weapons
grade, uranium can be used to make the core of a nuclear bomb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  