-- Iran Ship Insurer Says Asian Operators Asking to Cover Tankers
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-05-14T10:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/iran-ship-insurer-says-asian-operators-asking-to-cover-tankers.html
An Iranian organization that insures
ships against risks such as spills and collisions has been
approached by Asian tanker operators about covering their
vessels, the group’s managing director said.  Chinese and Taiwanese companies that manage tankers have
inquired about obtaining insurance for tankers hauling crude
oil, refined fuels or chemicals from the  Kish Protection &
Indemnity Club , Mohammad Reza Mohammadi Banayi, managing
director, said today. The club, which covers 43 Iranian ships,
isn’t authorized to insure foreign vessels, he said.  “We are in a position to step in but we are not authorized
to do so,” Banayi said by phone from Tehran. “We have been
contacted by lots of people in different parts of the world.”  Asian shippers are seeking new sources of insurance for
Iranian cargoes because the European Union’s embargo extends to
95 percent of the world’s tankers that are covered by the 13
members of the London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs.
Ship owners in Japan and  India  have asked for sovereign
guarantees. The government in  China , Iran’s largest customer,
has underwritten some Iranian shipments, the  International
Energy Agency  said in March.  Sanctions by Western nations against Iran over its nuclear
program have cut the Persian Gulf country’s shipments to 1.8
million barrels a day in April, according to the IEA. That
compares with an average of 2.2 million in 2010, according to
the U.S. Department of Energy. Crude oil traded in London rose
as much as 19 percent this year to $128.40 a barrel and was at
$110.36 a barrel by 11:32 a.m.  The Kish P&I Club covers tankers as well as ships carrying
dry-bulk commodities, according to its website. It can cover
liabilities for as much as $500,000 and reinsure losses for as
much as $1 billion within the Iranian insurance market headed by
the Central Insurance of  Iran , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  