-- Asia Stocks Fall for Fifth Day on Greece, Italy Concerns
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-05-15T10:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/japanese-australian-stock-futures-fall-on-greece-italy.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a fifth day as
the political impasse in Greece added to speculation the nation
will leave the euro union and Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Italian banks.  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202) , a glassmaker that counts Europe as
its No. 1 market, slumped 3.1 percent in Tokyo after saying it
may continue to suspend some production in Europe this year on
slumping demand.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, declined 1.7 percent in Sydney after metal prices fell.
China Southern Airlines Co., a mainland carrier, dropped 4.6
percent after paring Philippine flights on Chinese travel alert
to the region.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.6 percent to 117.35 as
of 7:45 p.m. in Tokyo. Almost twice as many stocks declined as
rose on the measure, which is headed for its lowest close since
Jan. 16. The gauge is about 1 percent away from closing 10
percent below this year’s high on Feb. 29, a level some
investors call a correction.  A Greece exit “won’t have much direct impact on Asian
companies, but it will impact the market,” said  Tomomi
Yamashita , a senior fund manager in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset
Management Co., which oversees $6 billion. “That will affect
companies in ways such as hurting their ability to raise
capital. When U.S. stocks fall, that affects  consumer spending ,
which will impact Asian companies.”  Nikkei, Kospi  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  rose 0.6 percent
today. The gauge fell 1.1 percent in  New York  yesterday and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed at its lowest level since
January.  Asian shares pared their losses today after data showed
Germany’s economy grew five times more than analysts predicted,
easing concern that Europe’s debt crisis is weighing on growth.
The nation’s growth helped the 17-nation euro region avoid a
second recession in three years. Gross domestic product in the
region stagnated in the first quarter compared with the prior
three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.8 percent and
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.7 percent. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  retreated 0.8 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index added 0.8 percent, reversing an
earlier decline, and China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.3
percent.  The Asia-Pacific gauge gained 3.7 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 6.4 percent increase by the  S&P 500 
and a 1.2 percent advance by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark were valued at 12.1 times estimated
earnings on average yesterday, compared with 12.7 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  Italian Banks  Seven of the 10 industries on the Asia-Pacific gauge
retreated today. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
Europe has done its “utmost” to rescue  Greece , limiting any
further room for leniency after about 240 billion euros ($308
billion) of aid pledges.  UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA were among 26 Italian
banks whose credit ratings were cut by Moody’s, citing weakened
earnings and the country’s economic outlook. The downgrade
followed Moody’s decision on Feb. 13 to cut the credit rating of
Italy and five other nations, including Spain, on concern over
the euro region’s ability to deal with the debt crisis.  Nippon Sheet Glass dropped 3.1 percent to 93 yen in Tokyo.
The company said one of two furnaces at a German float plant
will remain out of operation until at least the end of this
year. Further cuts in float-glass capacity in Europe is under
review, the company said.  BHP fell 1.7 percent to A$33.86 in Sydney, while Rio Tinto
Group, the world’s the world’s third-biggest mining company,
slid 1.1 percent to A$60.31 after the London Metal Exchange
Index of prices for six industrial metals including copper and
aluminum fell 1.9 percent yesterday.  China Southern Airlines slid 4.6 percent to HK$3.30 in  Hong
Kong . The company cut its flights to the Philippines as many
tour groups canceled trips to the region. China last week told
citizens to avoid “unnecessary” travel to the Philippines amid
a dispute over island in the South China Sea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  