-- JPMorgan Losses Spark Frenzy in Swaps Indexes: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-05-14T16:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/jpmorgan-losses-spark-frenzy-in-swaps-indexes-credit-markets.html
Signs are emerging that traders are
already attempting to squeeze  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  after the
biggest  U.S. bank  said it faced $2 billion in trading losses
related to  credit derivatives  in the past six weeks.  The 10-year Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
Series 9, an older, less-active benchmark for credit-default
swaps created in 2007 in which JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil in
London was said to have amassed as much as a $100 billion
position, jumped the most in almost eight months on May 11.
Another index contract that takes more concentrated risks on the
same companies recorded the biggest two-week surge in two years.  Hedge-fund managers and other investors are circling as
speculation mounts over how and whether New York-based JPMorgan
will unwind the trades. JPMorgan said May 10 in a regulatory
filing that it may hold certain of its synthetic credit
positions for the “longer term,” a scenario that may backfire
on traders who have taken the opposite positions.  “We’re all trying to figure out what trade he had on,”
Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based hedge fund TF Market
Advisors, said in reference to Iksil. “It’s been nonstop.
Everyone’s trying to get their hands around it.”  Trading volumes rose at the end of last week on contracts
that Iksil, known as the  London  Whale for the size of his
positions, is believed to have taken, according to market
participants who asked not to be identified because their
trading strategies aren’t public.  Narrowing Gap  Credit swaps on Series 9 of the Markit CDX index that
expire in December 2017 jumped 12.3 basis points to 139.3 basis
points on May 11, the biggest increase since Sept. 22, before
reaching 145.9 today, according to data provider CMA. The
difference between the index and the weighted average of its
members, a gap that was said to have swelled from Iksil’s
trades, shrank to 1.5 basis points today from 14 on May 10 and
18 on May 1, according to prices from two market participants.  A so-called tranche of the same index that covers the first
3 percent of losses, concentrating its risks in companies from
distressed bond insurer MBIA Inc. to mortgage insurer Radian
Group Inc., jumped to the highest since Jan. 5, climbing 2.6
percentage points to 71.9 percent upfront, CMA prices show.  The tranche, in which market participants familiar with
trading flows said Iksil also took positions, has climbed 8.9
percentage points this month.  ‘Egregious Mistakes’  JPMorgan is seeking to stem losses after its chief
investment office took flawed positions on “synthetic credit”
trades, which may cost the lender an additional $1 billion this
quarter or next, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said May 10
on a conference call with analysts. The loss originated from the
firm’s London CIO unit, an executive at the bank said.  “There were many errors, sloppiness and bad judgment,”
Dimon said. “These were egregious mistakes, they were self-
inflicted.”  JPMorgan said today Matt Zames will succeed Ina Drew as
chief investment officer. The entire staff of the London CIO
unit is at risk of dismissal as the trading loss prompts the
first executive departures as soon as this week, a person
familiar with the situation said. The firm is examining whether
anyone in the unit, which employs a few dozen people in London,
sought to hide risks, said the person, who requested anonymity
because the deliberations are private.  ‘Poorly Executed’  The losses stem from trades that were designed to hedge the
bank’s overall credit risks, Dimon said on the conference call.
The bank was reducing the hedge, he said, “but in hindsight,
the new strategy was flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly
executed, and poorly monitored.”  “The portfolio has proven to be riskier, more volatile,
and less effective as an economic hedge than we thought,” he
said.  Dimon, 56, has been a  critic  of regulations including the
so-called Volcker rule meant to bar proprietary trading by banks
with federally insured deposits. He told analysts that the
timing of the announcement “plays right into all the hands” of
those pushing for a strict version of the restrictions.  “The chips at the poker table are in fewer and fewer hands
because there are fewer firms with size balance sheets,” said
Lawrence McDonald, senior director for credit, sales and trading
at Newedge USA LLC and author of the book “A Colossal Failure
of Common Sense” about the 2008 demise of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. “This is the product of the government’s
regulation. It’s crazy. It puts some firms at greater risk.”  Multiple Traders  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that Iksil had
amassed positions that were so large he was driving price moves
in the $10 trillion market for credit swaps indexes tied to
corporate creditworthiness. The loss occurred in London under
multiple traders, according to an executive at the bank, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity.  A group of  hedge funds  and other money managers began
looking to profit by betting distortions created by JPMorgan’s
moves would normalize. The dislocations were so  large  that they
were creating situations in which traders were able to
effectively buy $1 of default protection for about 80 cents, the
market participants said.  Series 9 of the Markit CDX index is tied to  121 companies ,
all of which were investment grade more than four years ago,
including Armonk, New York-based MBIA’S now junk-rated MBIA
Insurance Corp. unit and Philadelphia-based Radian.  Index Rolls  New versions of Markit Group Ltd.’s indexes are created
every six months. Companies are replaced if they no longer have
appropriate credit grades, aren’t among the most actively traded
borrowers, or fail to meet other criteria. Four other companies
initially included in Series 9, CIT Group Inc., Washington
Mutual Inc.,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , triggered credit events
during or after the financial crisis.  The Series 9 contract expiring in 2017 climbed 27 basis
points from the end of March through last week. JPMorgan’s
trades probably aren’t one-way bets, market participants said in
April. The bank may be offsetting the trades by buying
protection on the same index with contracts that expire about
seven months from now, the people said.  That strategy would pay JPMorgan the difference between the
long-dated contracts and the short-dated ones, about 41 basis
points at the end of March for Series 9, and the trade would
gain when the gap narrows or lose when it widens. The hedge
would end in December unless another trade is made to replace
it.  The gap on the index soared 14 basis points on May 11 and
has climbed 25 basis points since the end of March, a 61 percent
increase, according to data from CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  ‘Blood In The Water’  The difference between the same maturities of the riskiest
tranche contracts ballooned to 54.2 percentage points from 45.5
percentage points at the end of March, CMA prices show. It
widened 3 percentage points on May 11.  “I know how Wall Street works. When there’s blood in the
water, the sharks are going to attack that animal,” Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners LLC in  New York  who
downgraded his recommendation on JPMorgan’s stock in March to
“sector perform,” said in a telephone interview last week.
“It could make it very difficult for them to unwind a trade.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the current version of the
Markit CDX Investment Grade Index, Series 18, climbed by 5.3
basis points to a mid-price of 113.9 basis points as of 12:07
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the highest level since Jan. 18 on an intra-day
basis for the index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, also reached the highest level since
January, climbing 3.1 basis points to 37.78 basis points as of
11:51 a.m. in New York. The gauge, at the highest level since
Jan. 12 on an intra-day basis, widens when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Chesapeake Energy Corp. are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 218 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:52 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  