-- JPMorgan’s New Investment Head Zames Shakes Up Office
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-05-14T21:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/jpmorgan-says-ina-drew-to-retire-replaced-by-zames-as-cio.html
JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.’s Matt Zames,
newly appointed to lead the bank’s chief investment office after
the unit suffered a $2 billion loss, shook up leadership and
announced a “renewed focus” on hedging risks.  Zames named new finance and risk chiefs and wrote in a
staff memo that top London-based trading executive Achilles Macris would hand off duties. JPMorgan named Zames head of the
office earlier today to succeed Ina Drew, whose retirement after
the surprise loss marked the downfall of one of the highest-
ranking women on Wall Street.  “We will have a sharp, renewed focus on our hedging
strategies, risk management and execution,” Zames, 41, wrote in
the memo. “JPMorgan Chase will come out of this experience as a
stronger firm.”  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, announced the loss
May 10, assailing his firm’s handling of trading in synthetic
credit positions as “flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly
executed and poorly monitored.” New York-based JPMorgan is
examining whether anyone in the unit, which employs a few dozen
people in  London , sought to hide risks, though there isn’t yet
evidence that’s the case, the person said.  New London Chief  “It’s good to see there’s accountability as well as
responsibility here,” said  David Hendler , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc., a New York-based research firm. “This person
was in charge of this strategy and it appears was not aware, or
giving the right signals to top management, of the risks that
were building.”  Zames named Rob O’Rahilly to lead the office in  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa , as Christopher Chan continues overseeing
 Asia , according to the memo. Marie Nourie will become the global
group’s finance chief, and Chetan Bhargiri will join the unit as
chief risk officer, the memo shows.  Drew, 55, was one of two women on the operating committee
at JPMorgan, the biggest and most profitable U.S. bank. Her
office oversees about $360 billion, the difference between money
from deposits and what the bank lends. Drew was named chief
investment officer in 2005, reporting directly to Dimon.  Taking Risks  Dimon encouraged her unit to boost earnings by buying
higher-yielding assets, including structured credit, equities
and derivatives, in an expansion of risk-taking led by Macris,
ex-employees said in April. That shifted the office from a role
mitigating lending risks to becoming a profit center, former
executives said.  Dimon said on May 10 that the unit made “egregious
mistakes” by taking flawed positions on synthetic credit
holdings and that JPMorgan could lose an additional $1 billion
or more as it winds down the position. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the  Federal Reserve  and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission are investigating, according to
people familiar with the probes.  Drew’s departure leaves Mary Erdoes as the only woman on
the bank’s operating committee with one dozen men. The bank said
in July that Heidi Miller, president of its international
business, would retire this year. Sallie L. Krawcheck, one of
the few women in a senior  Wall Street  position, was dismissed in
September as Bank of America Corp.’s wealth-management division
head. Former Morgan Stanley co-president Zoe Cruz, ousted in
2007, is returning money to investors after losing 8 percent
last year at her $200 million hedge fund, Voras Capital
Management LP.  ‘Not Be Overshadowed’  Until recently, Drew did well with her investments, with
the corporate division under which she reports earning a peak of
$3.7 billion in 2009. The bank doesn’t break out results for the
chief investment office. JPMorgan rewarded her with a $15
million pay package for 2010 and $14 million for her performance
last year, according to regulatory filings.  “Ina Drew has been a great partner over her many years
with our firm,” Dimon said in the statement. “Despite our
recent losses in the CIO,  Ina ’s vast contributions to our
company should not be overshadowed by these events.”  Drew was credited with guiding the company through the
Russian debt crisis and collapse of hedge fund Long-Term Capital
Management in 1998; market dislocation after the World Trade
Center attacks and Enron Corp. bankruptcy in 2001; and the more
recent financial crisis in 2008.  Avoids Limelight  Drew had a “tremendous ability through many crises to
steer the firm through what would have otherwise been very
painful liquidity periods,” said Lesley Daniels Webster, who
was the bank’s head of market and fiduciary risk and worked with
Drew for more than a decade. “JPMorgan Chase became a safe
haven during the financial crisis” due to her management.  Drew, who declined to be interviewed for this article, is a
private person who avoids the limelight, according to more than
a dozen people who have worked with or know her personally. She
graduated in 1978 from  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore and
later got a master’s degree from the School of International
Affairs at  Columbia University . She began her career as a
foreign-exchange and fixed-income trader at the Bank of Tokyo in
1979 and was hired in 1982 by Chemical Bank, which eventually
became JPMorgan through a series of mergers.  Health Leave  She rose through the ranks at Chemical and was given
oversight of U.S. interest-rate risk for the broader bank as
well as a some discretionary trading positions in 1991 when it
merged with Manufacturers Hanover Corp., according to a press
release at the time. She was eventually given oversight of
interest-rate and foreign-exchange risk globally, said incoming
Freddie Mac CEO Don Layton, who was Drew’s boss from 1992, when
Chemical Bank and Manufacturer’s Hanover merged, until 2002 at
JPMorgan.  “She had a smart group of people who managed the
investment portfolio well, developed good advanced techniques
for measuring and managing the risk, sought the liquidity needs
of the bank so we were well positioned at all times,” Layton
said in an interview.  Drew went on leave for health reasons in 2010, said two
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. While she was out, Macris
and Althea Duersten, who ran  North America  at the time and has
since left the bank, assumed her duties for about six months,
reporting directly to Dimon, a senior JPMorgan executive said.  Credit Trader  Macris, 50, and another trader on his team, Javier Martin- Artajo, are leaving the New York-based firm, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday, citing the unidentified people.
Martin-Artajo was not mentioned in Zames’s memo, and he didn’t
respond to messages seeking comment. Kristin Lemkau, a JPMorgan
spokeswoman, didn’t have an immediate response.  JPMorgan hired Zames from Credit Suisse First Boston in
2004 to run trading in Treasuries, agencies and  interest-rate
swaps  and options. His responsibilities increased to include
currencies, securitized products and municipal bonds. In 2009,
Zames and Daniel Pinto were picked to run fixed income after Jes Staley took over the firm’s investment bank from William Winters
and Steven Black. Pinto will become sole head of the business,
according to the statement.  Under Zames and Pinto, JPMorgan has become the top bank
globally in fixed-income trading. The firm’s 17 percent market
share in 2011 was a record for Wall Street, Staley told
shareholders earlier this year.  Bear Stearns  Zames previously worked at Long-Term Capital Management,
which collapsed in 1998. Zames, then a 27-year-old trader, was
one of two people at LTCM that Bill Krasker, described as the
partner who had constructed many of the firm’s models, sought
out in late August 1998 when he saw that U.S. swap spreads were
trading in a wider range than the fund’s models had predicted,
according to “When Genius Failed,” Roger Lowenstein’s book
about the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management.  A decade later, in March 2008, Zames led a JPMorgan credit
team dispatched to the offices of Bear Stearns Cos. to determine
the investment bank’s financial position, according to “Last
Man Standing,” Duff McDonald’s book on Dimon. JPMorgan
ultimately provided Bear Stearns a secured loan facility with
the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  before agreeing to buy the
firm two days later.  Zames, as chairman of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory
Committee, wrote a letter to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
last year that said a failure to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit could be “catastrophic.”  Madoff Scheme  He told JPMorgan Chief Risk Officer John Hogan in June 2007
that there was speculation that Bernard L. Madoff’s investment
returns were part of a  Ponzi scheme , according to a complaint
filed against the bank by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s firm. That was a year and a half before Madoff was
arrested. Madoff, 74, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history.  Picard sued the bank for $19 billion, saying the lender
turned a blind eye to the fraud and should have alerted
regulators. JPMorgan, which was Madoff’s primary banker, denied
the allegations and U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in
November dismissed the lawsuit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  