-- JPMorgan Spokesman Evangelisti Sells Home for $6.7 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-05-14T19:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/jpmorgan-spokesman-evangelisti-sells-nyc-home-for-6-7-million.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s top spokesman,
 Joseph Evangelisti , sold his four-story townhouse in Manhattan’s
West Village for $6.7 million, more than three years after first
putting it on the market.  The sale of the 3,765-square-foot (350-square-meter) home
at Grove and Bedford streets was completed on April 12,
according to New York City property records filed May 3. The
buyer was listed as East Hamptons Village LLC. Evangelisti
bought the property in 2005 for $4.7 million, city records show.  Evangelisti listed the five-bedroom home for $7.9 million
in November 2008, when the global economy slid into recession
and the Manhattan sales market stalled after the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to property website
 StreetEasy.com . He withdrew the listing in March 2009, then
offered the home that November for $7.5 million. The asking
price was whittled to $7 million in January, StreetEasy shows.  “Fantastic views from the roof where you can see the
Empire State Building,” according to the listing by  Robin
Bowden , a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate.
“There is a separate garden apartment that can be used for
income, or great for a nanny.”  Evangelisti declined to comment on the sale. Bowden didn’t
return a telephone message.  Luxury Sales  The median price of  Manhattan  luxury apartments, defined as
the top 10 percent of all sales, climbed 4.4 percent in the
first quarter to to $4.13 million, according to appraiser Miller
Samuel Inc. and Prudential Douglas Elliman.  Evangelisti has worked for JPMorgan for more than 20 years.
As head of the company’s global media relations division, he is
also Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s spokesman.  JPMorgan suffered a $2 billion trading loss after an
“egregious” failure in a unit managing risks, Dimon said on
May 10. The firm’s chief investment office took flawed positions
on synthetic credit securities that remain volatile and may cost
an additional $1 billion this quarter or next, Dimon told
analysts last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  