-- Senate’s Johnson Says JPMorgan Loss to Be Aired at Hearings
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-14T20:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/jpmorgan-loss-will-be-addressed-at-senate-hearings-johnson-says.html
Senate Banking Committee members will
have chances to question regulators about events leading to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion trading loss at hearings on
Dodd-Frank Act rulemaking, the panel’s chairman said.  “Over the next few weeks, the Senate Banking Committee
will continue its oversight of the implementation of Wall Street
reform by holding additional hearings with key financial
regulators,” Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, said
today in an e-mailed statement. The JPMorgan losses are
“expected to be discussed at these hearings,” Johnson said.  The panel doesn’t have a hearing scheduled specifically
about the bank’s losses or its chief investment office, which
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said made
“egregious mistakes” in overseeing the trades. There are no
plans at this point to invite executives of the New York-based
bank to testify, said Sean Oblack, Johnson’s spokesman.  “We need to hear from regulators, and also review relevant
facts as they become available, before making a decision,”
Oblack said in an e-mail.  Johnson announced that JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank,
would be discussed at Senate hearings as lawmakers and
regulators sift through reports stemming from Dimon’s May 10
disclosure of losses tied to flawed positions on “synthetic
credit” trades. Johnson’s statement was a response to a request
from Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, to hold
hearings on the bank’s losses “as expeditiously as possible.”  Dodd-Frank Hearings  The Banking Committee will hear from representatives of the
 Federal Reserve , the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
and other agencies at hearings on implementation of Dodd-Frank,
the regulatory law enacted in response to the 2008 credit
crisis, and the stability of financial markets, Johnson said.  Congressional Democrats have seized on JPMorgan’s loss as
an example of why new  bank regulations , including the so-called
Volcker rule, are needed. Regulators are in the final stages of
rulemaking on the proprietary trading ban named for former Fed
Chairman  Paul Volcker .  The only reason the Senate Banking Committee wouldn’t hold
a hearing on the JPMorgan trade is “that maybe it points to
some flaw in the Volcker rule itself or flaw in Dodd-Frank,”
Corker, a member of the panel, said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  “I think any responsible chairman of any banking committee
right now would want members of that committee to understand how
something like this happens,” Corker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  