-- JSW Steel Net Falls on Losses at Unit, Higher Plant Costs
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-05-14T12:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/jsw-steel-net-falls-on-losses-at-unit-higher-plant-costs-1-.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,  India ’s third-biggest
producer of the alloy, reported a 3 percent drop in fourth-
quarter profit due to higher costs at its biggest factory in
Karnataka state and a loss at unit  JSW Ispat Ltd. (JSWI)   Group net  income  fell to 7.7 billion rupees ($143 million)
in the three months ended March 31 from 7.94 billion rupees a
year earlier, the Mumbai-based company said today. The median
profit estimate of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.17
billion rupees. Sales climbed 41 percent to 102 billion rupees.  JSW Ispat posted a net loss of 1.41 billion rupees in the
last quarter, compared with a profit of 704 million rupees a
year ago, according to an exchange filing. The cost of
production rose as iron ore quality and output fell in the state
after the nation’s top court banned mining in August.  “JSW Ispat is a good buy from the long-term strategic
point of view,” Chairman Sajjan Jindal said at a media
conference in Mumbai after the earnings, referring to JSW
Steel’s acquisition of the company in December 2010 for 21.6
billion rupees. “The turnaround of the company has been
impacted due to a shortage of iron ore and gas. It should happen
by the end of next year.”  JSW Steel  shares  fell 1.2 percent to close at 619.75 rupees
in Mumbai. The stock gained 22 percent this year, compared with
a 4.9 percent increase in the key Sensitive Index.  Costs, Debt  Total costs in the quarter jumped 49 percent to 90 billion
rupees, including a 14 percent gain in raw material costs,
according to the statement. The group, which has a net debt of
157 billion rupees, incurred a one-time foreign-exchange gain of
2 billion rupees.  The drop in income was partially countered by a 26 percent
surge in output on higher capacity and an 18 percent decline in
coking coal costs. The company expects to produce 8.5 million
tons of crude steel and sell as much as 9 million tons of
finished steel this fiscal year, Jindal said.  The 10 million-metric-ton a year factory in Karnataka
operated at less than 70 percent of capacity in March, compared
with 90 percent in January. The  Supreme Court  on April 20 asked
45 iron ore mines in Karnataka to seek government approval to
resume operations before lifting a ban imposed in the state
following environmental violations. The court had halted mining
in the Bellary region in July and extended the ban to two other
districts the next month, cutting ore supplies.  Ore Auctions  In August the court allowed  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s largest iron
ore miner, to produce as much as 1 million tons of ore a month.
The court in September also ruled that fresh output and
inventory of the commodity will be sold through only online
auctions.  In a separate case, the court on May 11 ordered an illegal-
mining probe against JSW Steel and a former chief minister of
Karnataka state. The  Central Bureau of Investigation  must probe
violations by B.S. Yeddyurappa and allegations of payments made
by JSW Steel to him and his family, according to the order.  The court case follows a 25,000-page report in July by
Santosh Hegde, Karnataka’s then anti-corruption ombudsman,
citing breaches in mining norms that may have cost the southern
state 160 billion rupees in revenue losses.  “JSW Steel is a victim of illegal mining,” Jindal said.
“The group will cooperate with the agencies in whatever way
required.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  