-- Karvalits Urges Caution With Hungary Rates on ‘Bumpy’ IMF Talks
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-05-14T06:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/karvalits-urges-caution-with-hungary-rates-on-bumpy-imf-talks.html
Ferenc Karvalits, a Hungarian central
bank vice president, comments on monetary policy during aid
talks with the  International Monetary Fund .  Karvalits commented in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg News.  On the impact of the IMF talks on  interest rates :  “Risk spreads are not the only factor in monetary-policy
making, the inflation outlook and the real economy situation are
also very important. At the same time, risk spreads on Hungarian
assets are influenced by several other factors, than
negotiations, including the situation of the  European debt
crisis . So IMF talks are an important, but not the only factor
in current monetary policy making.  ‘‘During negotiations, policy has to be extremely cautious.
Being in the process of negotiations is not the same as a signed
deal. I expect the road to the contract to be bumpy, and as
markets can overreact to the situation in both directions,
monetary policy has to remain an anchor for markets.  ‘‘I would not link the interest-rate path directly to IMF
talks. Once risk spreads on forint assets are at a securely
lower level than now, and the inflation outlook is well in line
with the medium-term target, a cut in the  base rate  is a
possibility.’’  On the Monetary Policy Council having considered a rate increase
last month:  ‘‘According to the baseline forecast of the latest
Inflation Report, the inflation target can be achieved on the
policy horizon with keeping the base rate constant for an
extended period.  ‘‘The Report also contained risk scenarios with a more
optimistic and pessimistic outlook than the baseline. These
scenarios in the short term did not indicate substantial
deviation from the current interest-rate level.  ‘‘However, MPC members set the base rate in an unusually
volatile economic environment. The situation of the European
debt crisis,  oil prices  and investors’ perceptions of Hungarian
economic policy change substantially from one day to another.
This means that MPC members may have diverging views regarding
the possible development of the economy, and it does not
necessary coincides with the staff’s view in the Report.  ‘‘The suggestion for an interest-rate hike reflects the MPC
member’s more pessimistic view of the inflation outlook and
financial market conditions. If the risk perception of Hungarian
assets deteriorates persistently or inflation processes prove to
be unfavourable compared to expectations, a rate hike remains a
possibility.’’  On the timing of the IMF talks:  ‘‘The IMF and EU have made their position clear that the
independence of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank must be fully ensured.
Amending the relevant legislation is a precondition for setting
a date for the loan negotiations.  ‘‘Expert level consultations involving the Hungarian
Government, the MNB, the ECB, the Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  are underway to resolve open
questions. The MNB has on several occasions commented on the
amendment to the Central Bank Act. Our position has not changed
since submission of the amendments to the Act.  ‘‘We hope that, as a result of the pentalateral
negotiations, a legislation will be adopted which provides
adequate guarantees for ensuring full central bank
independence.’’  On whether Hungary is prepared for a deepening euro crisis:  ‘‘Hungarian fundamentals improved visibly compared to the
pre-crisis situation: we have a clear current-account surplus
and the structural  budget deficit  is also declining
substantially. It is clear however that debt stocks are still
high, so we are vulnerable.  ‘‘In addition, as in the past unorthodox measures were not
welcomed by markets, high risk spreads on Hungarian assets also
reflect weakening trust in Hungarian economic policy.  ‘‘In this respect,  Hungary  pays an extra confidence premium
on its debt, which would be nice to avoid. This requires more
predictable and market-oriented economic policies, which would
also contribute to a smooth negotiation process with
international organizations.’’  On the debate over austerity versus growth in the Hungarian
context:  ‘‘According to my view, fiscal loosening is not an option
for Hungary, as our country is highly indebted compared to its
level of economic development. A loosening could undermine
confidence, increase risk premiums and could lead to
unsustainable public debt path. Furthermore, as currently high
risk spreads and consequently scarce external financing is the
most obvious obstacle against economic activity in the private
sector, decreasing risk premium is also a must from the point of
view of economic growth.’’  On the impact of Hungary’s new taxes on growth and inflation:  ‘‘We continuously follow new developments. As always, the
new forecast to be published in June will contain new incoming
information from every field of the economy.  ‘‘Government plans are still evolving, so even if I would
like to, I could not give a reasonable forecast now. It seems a
safe bet, however, to say that as a primary effect, government
measures raise inflation and decrease GDP growth on the forecast
horizon. Hopefully, they will also contribute to a declining
 risk premium , which would help the economic situation.’’  On the new financial transactions tax:  ‘‘Theoretical considerations and international experience
suggest that, by increasing the costs of payment transactions, a
financial transaction tax could contribute to the deterioration
in a country’s ability to attract capital, which in turn may
reduce the efficiency of financial intermediation.  ‘‘As a result, it may worsen the sustainability of the
improvement in fiscal balances and may be associated with an
erosion of the country’s growth potential and an increase in its
financing costs.  ‘‘The imposition of the tax may encourage economic agents
to increase the use of cash, which in turn may lead to an
expansion of the informal economy and, ultimately, to a decline
in revenue from transaction and other taxes. The 0.1 percent
financial transaction tax, to be introduced in Hungary, is not
high by international standards; however, because the
authorities seemingly plan to impose the tax without setting a
ceiling on individual transactions, companies with significant
payment values and firms active in financial markets will see
their costs rise sharply.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  