-- Korea Export-Import Bank Plans Record Samurai Debt, CFO Says
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-05-14T11:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/kexim-plans-to-sell-samurai-bonds-as-soon-as-this-week-cfo-says.html
Export-Import Bank of  Korea , the
nation’s biggest international debt issuer, plans to sell the
country’s largest-ever Samurai bond as early as this week,
according to Chief Financial Officer Kim Yoon Yung.  The state-owned lender, known as Kexim, may offer more than
80 billion yen ($1 billion) of the notes denominated in the
Japanese currency, Kim said in an interview in  Seoul  today,
topping its record sale in June.  The notes will be sold in two-, three- and five-year
tranches on May 17 and will be priced to yield “slightly higher
than we priced last June,” Kim said.  Kexim sold a total of 80 billion yen in June, the largest
Samurai bond by a South Korean issuer. That sale was also split
into the same tenors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The export credit agency started marketing the two-year
bonds to yield 60 to 80 basis points more than the benchmark yen
swap rate, according to a person familiar with the matter on May
10. It offered the three-year notes at a spread of 70 to 90
basis points more than the yen swap rate, and five-year debt
yielding 80 to 100 basis points more than the benchmark, the
person said, asking not to be identified because the information
was private.  Kexim’s two-year bonds were priced to yield 50 basis points
more than the yen swap rate in June, while the three-year notes
were priced at a spread of 60 basis points and the yield premium
for the five-year  debt  was 73 basis points, the data showed.  BNP Paribas SA, Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Deutsche Bank
AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  are
managing the sale, according to Kim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  