-- King Seen Balancing Shift on Inflation With Eye on Pound
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-15T07:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/king-seen-balancing-shift-on-inflation-with-one-eye-on-pound.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
will tomorrow try to justify why officials stopped expanding
stimulus even as the outlook for  Europe ’s economy darkens.  King will present economic forecasts at a press conference
in London six days after the bank halted bond purchases. With
the pound up 4 percent this year, he must be careful not to fuel
a further increase in the currency that would pile pressure on
an economy in a double-dip recession, said  Alan Clarke , an
economist at Scotiabank in London.  “I don’t think there’s any upside for them to provoke a
further rally in the pound and a selloff in gilts,” Clarke
said. Doing that would “undermine all the easing the bank has
done over the last few months.”  The  Bank of England ’s decision to stop expanding so-called
 quantitative easing  came after some officials stepped up their
rhetoric on inflation, which remains above the central bank’s 2
percent target. Still, the intensification of Europe’s debt
crisis amid political stalemate in Greece gives King reason to
leave open the option for more stimulus if needed.  The pound has strengthened against all 16 major
counterparts this year, including a 4.5 percent surge against
the euro. On a  trade-weighted basis , sterling is up about 4
percent in 2012. Further gains against the euro would threaten
Britain’s competitiveness in a region that buys almost half of
its exports. The pound rose to 79.63 pence per euro yesterday,
the strongest in 3 1/2 years. It erased some of its gains today,
declining 0.2 percent to 79.88 pence per euro at 8:13 a.m. in
 London .  ‘Dovish Affair’  The Bank of England held its target for bond purchases at
325 billion pounds ($524 billion) on May 10, ending a second
round of quantitative easing that started in October. King is
due to publish the bank’s Inflation Report, including new growth
and consumer-price forecasts, at 10:30 a.m. in London tomorrow.  “Relative to their stance of stopping stimulus, this will
be a dovish affair,” said  Jens Larsen , an economist at Royal
Bank of Canada in London and a former Bank of England official.
“The background is a disappointing growth outlook and the
intensification of the European crisis; the other factor is the
strengthening of sterling.”  Policy makers had flagged a shift in their thinking over
the previous month, with minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee’s April meeting saying there was a risk that inflation
may “fall less rapidly” than projected.  Above Estimate  Inflation accelerated to 3.5 percent in March from 3.4
percent in February. In the first quarter, it averaged 3.5
percent, above the 3.35 percent estimate by the Bank of England
at its last quarterly forecasting round in February.  Scotiabank’s Clarke said while that means the near-term
inflation outlook is higher, other factors may lower the
projection at the end of the central bank’s two-year policy
horizon. In February, the Bank of England forecast a 1.8 percent
inflation rate in the first quarter of 2014. The pound’s
appreciation and the weaker growth outlook cut that by as much
as 0.3 percentage points, Clarke said.  “The markets are getting ahead of themselves in thinking
that we’re witnessing a massive change in the bank’s stance,”
he said. “It’s more of a realignment from a dovish bias to a
more neutral one. Talk of a rate hike is a bit premature.”  Diamond Jubilee  Britain’s  economy  is still struggling to recover, with
output about 4 percent below its peak in early 2008. It shrank
0.2 percent in the first quarter after a 0.3 percent contraction
in the previous three months, and King has said it could shrink
again in the current quarter due to an additional public holiday
for Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee in June.  While policy makers have said the underlying pace of growth
may be stronger than official data, they have expressed concern
that the reports might undermine confidence. At the same time,
mounting speculation that  Greece  will exit the euro area could
further damp sentiment, impeding spending.  “While it’s understandable that the focus has shifted
somewhat to inflation because it has been persistently higher
than they have expected, the growth situation looks shakier,”
said  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Plc in London and a
former Bank of England official. “But it doesn’t make sense to
become outright hawkish at this point because the situation is
still very precarious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  