-- Kodak Seeks Expressions of Interest for Its Patents
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/kodak-seeks-expressions-of-interest-in-its-patents-by-tomorrow.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography
pioneer that filed for bankruptcy in January, is seeking
expressions of interest in its digital-imaging patents by today,
the first step in an auction of the technology.  At this stage, Kodak is only determining who may want to
bid on the portfolios, rather than taking formal offers, the
Rochester, New York-based company said.  The ultimate price may hinge on the outcome of Kodak’s case
with the U.S. International Trade Commission, which is deciding
whether  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  violated patents
covering image previews on cameras. Judge Thomas Pender is due
to give his ruling by May 21. A decision against Apple and RIM
may lead the companies to license or buy Kodak’s technology.  Chris Veronda, a spokesman for Kodak, declined to comment,
as did Apple’s Steve Dowling and RIM’s Heidi Davidson.  Kodak is offloading the digital-imaging patents as part of
a plan to shrink the company and focus on printing rather than
photography. It has until June 30 to file the patent-bidding
procedures, which typically name the bidder preferred by the
seller, also known as the stalking horse. Once the stalking-
horse offer is made public, other potential buyers can submit
competing bids.  Kodak is selling two portfolios of patents: one related to
digital capture, known as DC, and another covering the Kodak
imaging systems and services, known as KISS.  Patent Value  Together, the technology is valued at between $2.21 billion
and $2.57 billion, based on an estimate by  284 Partners LLC , a
patent advisory firm hired by Kodak and cited in a debtor’s
motion it filed before a U.S. bankruptcy court in January.  Envision IP, another patents adviser, estimated in March
that the net present value of the two Kodak portfolios would
be between $2.08 billion and $2.21 billion, “assuming that
Kodak’s forecast of $250 million to $350 million in annual
recurring licensing revenue is accurate.”  Apple,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Microsoft Corp. have
been snapping up intellectual property to protect themselves
against infringement litigation.  Kodak hired Lazard Ltd. to sell its patents last year when
it was still trying to avoid default, and then retained the firm
to sell its portfolio out of bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  