-- N.Y. Gasoline Gains as Sunoco Philadelphia Said to Repair Unit
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-05-14T19:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/n-y-gasoline-gains-as-sunoco-philadelphia-said-to-repair-unit.html
New York gasoline strengthened as
 Sunoco Inc. (SUN) ’s Philadelphia refinery was said to be repairing a
crude unit shut after a May 9 fire.  The unit is expected to start by the end of the week after
work is finished tomorrow, according to a person familiar with
operations at the plant who declined to be identified because
he’s not authorized to speak for the refinery.  The differential for unleaded, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor rose 2.25 cents to a premium of 2.25 cents a gallon
versus futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
3:10 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt
delivery dropped 1.93 cents to $2.9365 a gallon.  Crude unit 137 at the Philadelphia plant was shut to repair
fire damage, according to a city filing. The equipment can
process 200,000 barrels of crude a day, said Genscape Inc., an
energy information provider based in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Reformulated 87-octane gasoline, or RBOB, in the  Gulf Coast 
strengthened 0.25 cent to a discount of 2 cents versus futures.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  reported emissions from equipment associated
with a fluid catalytic cracker at its Borger refinery in Texas
after a process upset, the company said in a filing with state
regulators.  The incident started at 8:30 a.m. yesterday and ended at
5:30 a.m. local time today, according to a filing with the Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality.  Exxon Mobil Corp. is returning a hydrocracker at its
Beaumont, Texas, refinery to normal operations, Kathleen Jackson, a company spokeswoman at the plant, said in an e-mail.  Motiva Enterprises LLC flared gases at its Port Arthur
refinery in Texas, the company said in a community hotline
message that cited unspecified operating conditions at the
plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 