-- N.Z. Consumers Expect House Prices Will Rise, ASB Survey Shows
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-05-14T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/n-z-consumers-expect-house-prices-will-rise-asb-survey-shows.html
More New Zealand consumers expect
higher  house prices , adding to the case for a pick-up in the
residential  property market  that may deter the central bank from
cutting  interest rates , according to ASB Bank Ltd.  The proportion of respondents expecting prices to rise over
the next 12 months increased to 57 percent in April from 45
percent in January, Auckland-based ASB said in an e-mailed
report, citing a survey. More than a third said it was a good
time to buy a house.  Rising house prices may boost  consumer confidence , 
undermining bets that the central bank will cut the official 
cash rate this year. Reserve Bank of New Zealand 
Governor Alan Bollard has kept the benchmark at a record-low 
2.5 percent since March 2011.  “The very strong level of house price expectations
demonstrates that there is a risk of more sustained house price
inflation,” ASB Chief Economist  Nick Tuffley  said in the
report. “The  Reserve Bank  will likely bear this in mind when
considering the appropriateness of cuts to the cash rate.”  Tuffley expects no change in borrowing costs until a
quarter-point rise in March.  “Price expectations are at elevated levels in most areas
of the country,” he said. “An environment of low  mortgage
rates  and greater confidence that prices will go up is one that
is ripe for an increase in speculative activity that the Reserve
Bank views dimly.”  Prices rose 2.7 percent in April from a year earlier,
according to Real Estate Institute figures. ASB forecasts house
prices will rise 4 percent in 2012 as more properties are put on
the market, Tuffley said.  In the survey, 36 percent of respondents said it was a good
time to buy a house, up from 34 percent in January. The
proportion saying it was a bad time was little changed at 15
percent. Those expecting home-loan  interest rates  to rise in the
next 12 months fell to 48 percent from 51 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  