-- Nasdaq to Offer Algorithms to Members, Competing With Brokers
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-14T13:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/nasdaq-to-offer-algorithms-to-members-competing-with-brokers.html
Nasdaq Stock Market (NDAQ)  plans to compete
with brokers by offering tactics for executing larger stock
orders as a way to boost its share of U.S. equities trading.  The exchange will provide three algorithms, or computer-
driven strategies that chop larger orders into smaller pieces
based on a stock’s volume and trading characteristics, in a bid
to increase its market share by between 3 percent and 7 percent,
said  Eric Noll , executive vice president for transaction
services at Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. The venture requires approval
from the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The provision of algorithms, a service most brokers offer
to institutional clients, is part of a plan to bring more equity
orders to the New York-based company’s three exchanges.  Nasdaq 
OMX will also try to boost business by changing the way orders
are executed on one of its smaller venues and will begin a
program to entice retail customers to its market, Noll said at a
May 10 conference. The algorithm effort will target Nasdaq’s
brokerage members, many of which may no longer need to build the
“commoditized” strategies the exchange will supply, he said.  “It’s a very interesting example of how technology brings
exchanges and brokerage firms into competition,”  Bruce Weber ,
dean of the Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics at
the University of  Delaware , said in a telephone interview.
“Before electronic trading really took off, it was clear where
the exchange function ended and the brokerage function began.
That line is getting blurred.”  Market Share  Nasdaq OMX’s share of U.S. equities was 21.2 percent in the
first quarter while  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s was 24 percent, data
compiled by Barclays Plc showed. The pursuit of new trading
business is occurring against declining average daily volume,
with this year’s level at 6.75 billion shares on all U.S.
exchanges, compared with 7.69 billion in the same period last
year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Brokers provide clients with algorithms that send smaller
pieces of a bigger buy or sell request to exchanges or
alternative venues such as dark pools, private markets that
don’t display bids and offers. Traders at securities firms and
asset managers use the automated strategies to mute price impact
and mask activity as they try to scoop up visible and hidden
orders spread across exchanges and about 40 other markets.  Nasdaq will furnish what it calls benchmark orders to
member firms seeking to achieve an average price for their stock
sales or purchases in line with one of several common measures
of trading performance. One algorithm will employ a volume-
weighted average price, or VWAP, strategy that seeks to buy or
sell stock over a certain period, weighted for the number of
shares traded at different levels, Nasdaq said in an  SEC filing .  Time Weighted  Nasdaq also plans to offer a time-weighted average price
algorithm and another that tries to trade a specified percentage
of share volume over a predetermined period. Such algorithms are
standard offerings at brokers such as  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  The company won’t market the services to mutual funds and
other asset managers, Noll said. The offering also won’t
displace the more complex strategies brokers develop for
themselves and their customers, he said.  “What this is intended to do is provide order
functionality to our broker-dealer base that allows us to
provide a cheaper, better, faster product than having them all
develop their own algo offerings and go out into the marketplace
and compete for the low-end commodity business,” Noll said at
the conference. “This is not intended to compete with the high-
end, high-touch, highly sophisticated algo providers.”  Commission Rate  U.S. asset managers used algorithms to trade 19 percent of
the dollar value of their U.S. equity orders in the year ending
mid-February 2011, according to Greenwich Associates.
Institutions paid their brokers an average commission rate for
algorithms of 1.3 cents per share, the  Stamford , Connecticut-
based research firm said in a June 2011 report.  Nasdaq hasn’t decided how much to charge, it said in its
filing to the SEC.  The benchmark orders will generate smaller buy or sell
requests to compile executions over a period of time such as an
hour or day. These so-called child orders will be traded on
Nasdaq or sent to other markets, the company told the SEC in its
 filing . The orders will be processed the same way other buy or
sell requests that enter the exchange’s systems are handled.  Analytics Scorecard  The exchange will license technology for the benchmark
orders from a company it didn’t name in the filing. While no
information about the identity of member firms or their
customers employing the algorithms will be shared with the
vendor, that company will furnish a scorecard with analytics
about the performance of the orders when the trade is completed,
Nasdaq told the SEC.  The algorithms will offer what Nasdaq called an “exchange-
based alternative” to tactics that seek transactions in public
markets as well as dark pools, the exchange told the SEC. Noll
said the automated strategies, which may augment the exchange’s
share of trading, will be introduced by the end of June, pending
SEC approval.  “The benchmark order will permit members to achieve on an
exchange via a single order type what previously has required
access to multiple venues using multiple order types,” Nasdaq
wrote in the filing. The orders will provide cost savings to
members and allow them “to manage more order flow at a single
trading platform,” the company said.  Order Matching  Nasdaq is going too far afield with its proposal, according
to Robert Almgren, former head of quantitative strategies at
Bank of America Corp. Almgren, who has written academic papers
about equity algorithms, is co-founder and head of research at
 Quantitative Brokers LLC  in  New York , which builds execution
strategies for interest rate futures.  “Exchanges should focus on efficient executions and
shouldn’t act like a broker-dealer,” Almgren said in a phone
interview. “A broker-dealer applies intelligence to getting the
order done beyond the simple order matching, which is what you
get from an exchange. There are a lot of subtle decisions and I
would hate to see it favor one exchange.”  The computer models that drive algorithms make decisions
based on so-called anticipated order fill rates, or the
percentage of trading submissions that are completed on
different exchanges or dark pools, Almgren said. They must also
select the price level at which they’re willing to supply bids
or offers to a particular venue and when to cross the bid-ask
spread to grab liquidity, he said. Almgren added that these
decisions should take into account all markets and not focus on
one to get the best overall execution.  Customer Data  Nasdaq’s initiative may appeal to customers that aren’t
comfortable entering all their trading interest into brokers’
algorithmic engines “because they’re concerned there’s some
sniffing going on,” the  University of Delaware ’s Weber said.
The worry is that securities firms could use data about customer
decisions to their own advantage, he said.  The proposal may also benefit users since the algorithms
could be run close to the exchange’s computers that match buy
and sell requests and “could probably deliver good latency
performance,” Weber said. Brokers and traders seek fast
executions to capture orders at the best available bid or offer
price before they disappear or are traded against by others.
Requests that don’t execute on one venue are usually forwarded
to other markets based on the available orders and fill rates.  Weber said algorithms should seek the best execution and be
“agnostic” about the venue to which they route orders.  “If they truly create a level playing field for non-Nasdaq
venues, then it’s a pretty compelling proposition for the
customer,” Weber said. “If they don’t, customers will ask a
lot of questions about when they do outbound routing and when
they will keep orders hoping for an internal cross.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 