-- Navy Taken to Task on Littoral Combat Ship by Lawmakers
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-14T17:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/navy-taken-to-task-on-littoral-combat-ship-by-lawmakers.html
The House committee that authorizes
military spending criticized the Navy for failing to inform it
“to the full extent possible” on failings with its new
Littoral Combat Ship.  The House Armed Services Committee in its report on the
fiscal 2013 budget called for a full briefing within 30 days of
the measure’s signing into law, adopting a proposal by
Representative Duncan Hunter, a California Republican and former
Marine. The House will debate this week the defense bill
authorizing $4 billion more than the Obama administration
proposed. The Senate hasn’t acted on its version.  “The committee is aware of the considerable issues that
have plagued” initial vessels in the planned 55-ship, $37
billion Littoral Combat Ship program, the committee said in the
report made public today. “While the Navy has briefed the
committees on problems, the committee believes the Navy has not
adequately informed Congress to the full extent possible on
program deficiencies, including mechanical and structural
failures,” it said.  The full committee nonetheless supported the Navy’s $2.2
billion request for the next four vessels, including $429.4
million in development funds. The House defense appropriations
subcommittee also has approved funding for the four ships. The
full appropriations committee considers the budget May 17.  The House Armed Services panel directed the U.S. Government
Accountability Office to review how the Navy handled quality
issues such as cracks and corrosion on the initial vessels.  The Littoral Combat Ship is intended to clear mines, hunt
for submarines, defend itself against swarming small vessels and
provide humanitarian relief in shallow coastal waters.  Cracks were found in a version being built by a team led by
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  Corrosion was found in the first vessel
made by  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   The Navy and the shipbuilders have said the flaws have been
corrected, a view endorsed by one of the Senate’s most vocal
critics of costs and delays in weapons programs,  Arizona 
Republican Senator  John McCain .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  