-- Nexon Expects ‘Robust’ Demand for Online Games in China
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   J u l i e   M a s u d a
-- 2012-05-15T10:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/nexon-expects-robust-demand-for-online-games-in-china.html
Nexon Co. (3659) , which developed China’s
second-biggest online game for  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , forecast
“robust” demand from players in the world’s biggest Internet
market, contrasting with analysts’ predictions of weaker growth.  “We like the market for games in China,” Owen Mahoney,
chief financial officer at Nexon, said in an interview in Hong
Kong yesterday. Tencent, China’s biggest Internet company,
 renewed a license  for Nexon’s “Dungeon & Fighter” game last
year, and demand for the title helped the Tokyo-based company
boost sales in China 89 percent in the first quarter, he said.  Demand in China last quarter prompted Nexon to raise its
annual profit forecast 13 percent and is a harbinger of online
game sales at Tencent, which reports first-quarter results
tomorrow. The Shenzhen, China-based company surged the most in
more than two weeks in Hong Kong trading, and was the  fourth-
best performing stock  in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   “Tencent is able to distribute its games to the large
number of people who use its messaging services,” said Marvio Lo, who rates Tencent buy at Mizuho Securities in Hong Kong.
Nexon’s performance in China offers a partial guide to Tencent’s
online games operations, Lo said.  Tencent rose 2.1 percent to HK$230 at close in Hong Kong,
the biggest gain since April 30. The stock has gained 47 percent
this year, outperforming Chinese Internet rivals including  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU)  and  NetEase.com Inc. (NTES)  Nexon fell 1.3 percent to 1,427 yen in
Tokyo today.  ‘Very Robust’  “ First quarter  surprised us, and we had to raise our
guidance,” Mahoney said. The Chinese online games market is
“very robust,” and Nexon expects to achieve growth that
outpaces the overall market, he said.  China’s online games market may expand 12 percent this year
to 46.5 billion  yuan  ($7.4 billion), slowing from 18 percent in
2011, according to a January forecast by research company
iResearch. Demand for some traditional games played on personal
computers is slowing in China, Mizuho’s Lo said.  “ Dungeon & Fighter ,” a multiplayer action game, is
China’s second-highest grossing title, Mahoney said. Tencent
also offers dozens of other games including “Cross Fire” and
“League of Legends.”  Nexon also licenses games to Chinese companies including
 Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  and Tiancity.com, Mahoney said.  There are “a lot of opportunities” for acquisitions and
investments in Asia,  North America  and Europe, he said. Nexon is
interested in investing in companies that develop games for
Facebook Inc. and mobile-phone users, the CFO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  