-- NLRB Rule Speeding Union Elections Thrown Out by Judge
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-14T21:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/nlrb-rule-speeding-union-elections-thrown-out-by-judge.html
A rule change by the  National Labor
Relations Board  that allows for faster votes on union elections
was thrown out by a federal judge who said the agency lacked a
quorum when it approved the measure.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg said only two of the
three members of the board required to constitute a quorum
actually voted on the rule. He said representation elections
will have to continue under previously established procedures
unless the board votes with a proper quorum. The rule went into
effect on April 30.  “According to  Woody Allen , eighty percent of life is just
showing up,” Boasberg wrote in an opinion issued today. “When
it comes to satisfying a quorum requirement, though, showing up
is even more important than that.”  The rule change, challenged in court by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, simplified and shortened balloting at a time when the
unionized share of the workforce is falling, according to labor
relations consultant Phillip Wilson. The compressed schedule
could have cut the time permitted for voting in half to as few
as 15 days, Wilson said.  Unions win 87 percent of elections held 15 days or less
after a request, a rate that falls to 58 percent when the vote
takes place after 36 to 40 days, according to a February report
by Bloomberg Government.  Two of the board’s three members voted in favor of adopting
the new rule, according to the opinion. A third member of the
board didn’t cast a vote. Because he had previously voted
against the rule, the board held that he had “effectively
indicated his opposition,” Judge Boasberg wrote.  “Two is simply not enough,” Boasberg wrote. “The board
lacked the authority to issue it, and therefore it cannot
stand.”  The case is Chamber of Commerce v. National Labor Relations
Board, 11-2262, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  