-- No Heidi Klum Ads for Beiersdorf as Science Trumps Sexy
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-05-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/no-heidi-klum-ads-for-beiersdorf-as-science-trumps-sexy.html
Science trumps sex appeal in selling
skincare,  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  has found.  The maker of Nivea moisturizers has exited makeup to focus
on lines including wrinkle treatments and anti-acne products
sold in pharmacies, in contrast to competitors such as  L’Oreal
SA. (OR)  Revenue at the  Eucerin dermatological brand  is rising faster
than total sales, while Beiersdorf’s premium brand La Prairie,
which makes face cream with caviar extracts that retails for
345.90 euros ($450), saw sales decline.  Germans spent 3.43 billion euros on skincare in 2011,
according to  Euromonitor  International. They’re increasingly
likely to shop for beauty and personal care products in
drugstores and pharmacies, which gained market share from 2006
to 2011, while sales in supermarkets and department stores fell.
Brands like Eucerin may appeal to health-conscious Europeans as
the population ages and consumers cut expenses amid the region’s
budget crises and rising unemployment.  “People are skeptical and if you promise them something
they want to know why they should believe it and how it can be
proven,” Karin Hannig, the global head of the Eucerin brand,
said in an interview at Beiersdorf’s Hamburg headquarters.
“Women are less willing nowadays to spend on luxury. They are
more looking for product efficacy, not anything chi-chi.”  No Celebrities  Makeup companies often rely on celebrities to promote their
wares, including Coty Inc.’s Astor, which hired model Heidi Klum
to sell its Volume Diva Curve Me Sexy mascara and Soft Sensation
Vitamin & Collagen lipstick. Eucerin’s Anti-Wrinkle Sensitive
Skin Lotion and Redness Relief Soothing Night Crème, meantime,
are advertised under the motto “medical skin science that
shows.” Dermatologists recommend the products for conditions
such as psoriasis and allergy-stressed skin.  Beiersdorf shares have risen 26 percent since Nov. 29, the
day before the company announced plans to cut as many as 1,000
jobs as part of its focus on skincare. The stock is currently
trading at 47 times reported earnings, the highest since 2001,
and more than twice as much as L’Oreal, owner of Maybelline.  L’Oreal gets almost a quarter of its revenue from its
luxury division, which groups 13 brands including Kiehl’s,
 Giorgio Armani  and YSL Beaute. The unit was L’Oreal’s best
performer in the first quarter with sales surging 18 percent,
compared to 9.4 percent overall. Revenue from so-called active
cosmetics, which includes pharmacy brands such as Vichy and
Skinceuticals, grew 5.3 percent in the period.  “Decorative cosmetics belongs to more glamorous brands,”
said  Klaus Kraenzle , an analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie., in a
phone interview. Beiersdorf has “the cash to restructure the
company but I am still cautious on the stock until they’re done
with the restructuring at the end of the year.”  Wrinkle in Time  An older European population also helps dermatological
brands. More than 30 percent of people in Germany and a quarter
in  France  will be over 65 in 2050, according to  the Boston
Consulting Group . In 2010, 21 percent of Germany’s population
was over 65.  “Anti-aging products will continue to boom because in
former times women at a certain age accepted there is not so
much that they can do and nowadays they don’t stop fighting,”
Hannig said. “We also have the baby-boomers generation aging.”  The price is right, too. Eucerin’s Hyaluron-Filler day
cream for dry skin varies from about 25 euros to 30 euros while
10 percent Urea Repair Lotion that relieves itching ranges from
14 euros to 17 euros. La Prairie, the company’s premium brand,
sells a serum containing platinum for 578.50 euros, according to
French retailer Sephora’s website.  “The over-the-counter business in  Germany  is pretty
restrictive, so it gives Eucerin some aura of exclusivity,”
said Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in
Frankfurt. “Consumers trust pharmacists.”  Skin Institute  Beiersdorf opened a Eucerin skin institute in Hamburg in
February offering skin consultations starting at 16.50 euros and
treatments such as facials.  “Ideally, I would like to have Eucerin skin institutes in
other cities around the world as well, but we do not yet have
any concrete plans,” Hannig said in the April 26 interview. “I
am certain that dermo-cosmetics in pharmacies will continue to
grow. We can see an increasing number of consumers switching
from selective brands to pharmacy brands.”  Eucerin Gain  Eucerin revenue rose 7.8 percent in the first quarter,
outpacing total sales growth, Beiersdorf said May 3. La Prairie
had a 1.2 percent sales decline in the period. Nivea,
Beiersdorf’s biggest brand, posted revenue growth of 10 percent
in the first quarter.  The top 10 beauty players, which include  Procter & Gamble
Co ., L’Oreal and Beiersdorf, had a growth rate of almost 7
percent last year, including acquisitions, Euromonitor said last
month. It was the first time since 2007 the growth rate was
above 6 percent.  Eucerin has “huge growth potential in the U.S. because we
are only present in hand and body care and in so many other
markets like face or sun we are not there yet,” Beiersdorf’s
Hannig said. She also identified  Latin America  and eastern
 Europe  as regions with “tremendous” prospects for expansion.  “ Emerging markets  are very attractive for Eucerin because
in those countries people are used to paying from their pocket
for health care,” Metzler’s Frericks said. “They don’t expect
insurers to cover the costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  