-- No Trading for Dimon Principle With CEO Clark: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/no-trading-for-dimon-principle-with-ceo-clark-corporate-canada.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Executive
Officer  Edmund Clark  is no  Jamie Dimon  and that may explain why
his Canadian bank can’t violate any Dimon principles on
speculative trades.  “If you want to speculate, don’t call yourself a bank,
call yourself a hedge fund,” Clark said, in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  a day before Dimon
announced a $2 billion loss at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “A huge
portion of Wall Street’s earnings were built around the model of
‘I’m going to bet against my clients.’”  Clark’s “old-fashioned” approach of lending money to
businesses and consumers has helped  Canada ’s second-biggest bank
post a three-year return that is 11 times higher than JPMorgan’s,
with almost half the volatility. Toronto-Dominion is among four
Canadian banks that rank among the world’s 10 strongest, based
on a survey by Bloomberg Markets magazine this month.  Dimon, chief executive officer of  JPMorgan (JPM) , said the trades
at the chief investment office unit that led to the loss may not
break the Volcker rules on proprietary trading, though they go
against his own guidelines at the New York-based bank.  “We do believe you need to have the ability to hedge in a
CIO-type position, and that Volcker allows that,” he said on a
May 10 conference call. “This trading may not violate the
Volcker rule, but it violates the Dimon principle.”  More Losses  Dimon, 56, told investors that his bank took flawed
positions on synthetic credit securities, which may cost the
lender an additional $1 billion this quarter or next. JPMorgan
plunged 9.3 percent on May 11, the biggest drop since Aug. 8.  Dimon said yesterday he was “dead wrong” in initially
dismissing news reports scrutinizing trades that led to the loss
and that the incident gives ammunition to proponents of tighter
regulations.  “This is a very unfortunate and inopportune time to have
this kind of mistake,” Dimon said in an interview broadcast on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.” After news broke on the magnitude of
the bank’s bets, “we got very defensive, and people started
justifying everything we did,” he said.  Clark, without referring specifically to JPMorgan, said
banks should stick to what he calls old-fashioned banking and
avoid speculative bets with the lenders’ own money.  “What fundamentally happened in the mid-90s is that banks
-- particularly the ones that were securities dealers -- started
to drift away from saying ‘I’m here to help my clients,’ to
saying ‘Geez, I can make money taking deposits and investing
them and speculating with them and get proprietary profits’,”
said Clark, 64. “I think it’s a very unfortunate drift.”  World’s Strongest  By recording fewer writedowns than his peers and not
needing government bailouts during the financial crisis, Clark’s
Toronto-Dominion was named the fourth-strongest bank in the
world in a ranking by Bloomberg Markets magazine. JPMorgan, the
largest and most profitable U.S. bank, was ranked 13th.  Clark cites Canada’s principle-based regulations and high
capital requirements with helping the country’s lenders avoid
the losses that have hurt banks in the U.S. and  Europe . Canada’s
financial system has been named the soundest for four straight
years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .  The Canadian banking model has “much closer attention paid
to the core banking operations, the traditional things that
banking does,” said Kurt Schacht, a managing director at the
 CFA Institute  in New York. “Everybody likes that and I hear
people kind of constantly point north and say ‘why can’t we get
it right like the Canadians got it right?”’  Irony  Clark, who has  spent  about $25 billion expanding into the
U.S. over the past six years, said Toronto-Dominion has a
consumer bank focus that puts clients’ needs before those of
bankers and short-term investors. The bank, which has more
branches in the U.S. than in Canada, exited a structured-
products business that included collateralized debt obligations
in 2005 because Clark said he didn’t understand the risks
associated with it.  “The irony is that if you actually do that, I think
 shareholders  turn out to be better served in the long run,”
said Clark.  “You should get up every morning and say ‘my job
is to figure out how my client can make more money, and I know
that I’ll be rewarded doing that.”’  Toronto-Dominion  climbed  78 percent over the last three
years, compared with a 9.2 percent gain for JPMorgan. In
addition, TD had a risk-adjusted return of 3.71 percent over the
period, compared to 0.3 percent at JPMorgan. Toronto-Dominion is
one of just four banks  rated  Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service,
three notches higher than JPMorgan.  Clark, who became CEO in 2002 and said this year he is in
his “final years” at the head of Toronto-Dominion, said he’s
in favor of the world’s largest banks paying capital surcharges
as a cushion against potential drops.  Capital Surcharge  “It makes me a little unpopular with my colleagues,” said
Clark. “I do think we have to recognize that as you get bigger
and bigger and more complex -- and I think that most people
would say it’s the complexity that’s the issue less than pure
size -- the consequences of you getting it wrong for society are
larger.”  Dimon is among executives who say that excessive capital
surcharges on the largest banks could limit lending. JPMorgan
may face a top capital surcharge of 2.5 percentage points,
according to a provisional list prepared by global regulators
and obtained by Bloomberg News last year.  The list was drawn up as part of plans by the Group of 20
nations to force banks whose failure could damage the global
economy to boost their reserves by 1 to 2.5 percentage points
above minimum levels agreed on by international regulators.  Clark Versus Dimon  Clark and Dimon also differ on proposed regulations such as
the Volcker rule that would limit banks’ proprietary trading.
Clark says there is tension between “old-fashioned” bankers
and those opposing Volcker and new  capital requirements  under
Basel III.  “There’s tremendous regulatory pressure to say ‘why don’t
you get back to old-fashioned banking?’ Clark said from a bank
branch below his Toronto office on Bay Street. “And I think
there’s some of us that cheer that and say that’s fundamentally
right.”  Dimon has said the Volcker rule places domestic banks at a
disadvantage to foreign rivals that aren’t subject to the same
restrictions in their home countries. The ban, named after
former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is part of
the Dodd-Frank financial-reform law.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment.  ‘Phenomenal Banker’  Clark called Dimon “a phenomenal banker.”  “If we had to choose, most people would choose him and not
me,” Clark said, adding that regulators are trying to get
JPMorgan and others to change the business model.  “Do I think 10 years from now JPMorgan will be out of
business because of Basel III? No,” said Clark. “They’ll
figure out another way to make money, but in a way that may be
more investing in the economy and less speculating against
competitors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  