-- Obama Hits Romney on Bain as He Raises Wall Street Money
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-14T22:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/obama-hits-romney-on-bain-record-as-he-raises-wall-street-money.html
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
took aim at Republican  Mitt Romney ’s private equity experience
on the same day the president is raising money at the New York
apartment of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  President  Tony James .  A television advertisement scheduled to run in five swing
states features interviews with former workers at a Kansas City,
Missouri, steel mill that was taken over in 1993 by Boston-based
Bain Capital LLC, the private equity firm co-founded by Romney.  “Bain Capital was the majority owner. They were
responsible,” said David Foster, who is identified in the ad as
the lead negotiator for workers at GST Steel, which filed for
bankruptcy in 2001.  With the economy the dominant issue in the election,
Obama’s campaign is seeking to turn Romney’s business background
against him as Republicans assail the president for the sluggish
recovery from the recession. The ad is being released amid
renewed scrutiny of the financial industry following  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s disclosure of a $2 billion trading loss.  Romney’s campaign spokeswoman said the former Massachusetts
governor welcomes a debate about the economy.  Romney Response  “Mitt Romney helped create more jobs in his private sector
experience and more jobs as governor of Massachusetts than
President Obama has for the entire nation,” Andrea Saul said in
an e-mail. “If the Obama administration was less concerned
about pleasing their wealthy donors and more concerned about
creating jobs, America would be much better off.”  Bain Capital, which Romney left in 1999 to serve as chief
executive of the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah, released
a statement saying GST Steel was slated to close without an
outside investor and that Bain had an “ambitious plan” to turn
it around even as the U.S. steel industry was under pressure.  “We understand that in a political campaign our exemplary
28-year record will be distorted and complex business situations
will be portrayed in a simplistic way,” Bain said in the
statement.  Obama also has ties to  Bain Capital . Jonathan Lavine, a
managing director at Bain, has raised between $100,000 and
$200,000 for Obama’s re-election effort, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics.  Swing States  The Obama advertisement will run in Iowa, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Virginia and Colorado, said campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt , who declined to say how much airtime was reserved for
the spot.  Romney has called for repeal of the Dodd-Frank law, which
was intended to strengthen financial regulations. He’s called it
one of the laws backed by Obama that has increased the burden on
businesses, costing jobs.  At the fundraiser at James’s Park Avenue apartment, Obama
said it’s critical to ensure that there are “basic rules of the
road in place so that the markets function in a transparent,
clear way.”  In an interview for ABC’s program “The View” taped
earlier in the day, Obama said JPMorgan’s trading loss shows the
necessity of keeping  Wall Street  regulation strong.  “JPMorgan is one of the best managed banks there is,”
Obama said in the interview scheduled for broadcast tomorrow. He
questioned whether a weaker bank might have required government
help in the same circumstances. “That’s why Wall Street reform
is so important,” he said.  Primary Criticism  The criticism in Obama’s campaign ad mirrors attacks
leveled at Romney during the Republican primaries. Former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who have
since endorsed Romney, previously called the Republican front-
runner a corporate raider who stripped businesses, loaded them
with debt and fired their workers for profit.  At the time, James said such attacks may slow buyouts.  “Pension funds have boards, they don’t want to be giving
money to an industry that has a taint,” James, 61, said Feb. 7
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s ‘InsideTrack’ with
 Erik Schatzker .  “Similarly, boards of directors don’t want to
sell their company to organizations they don’t view as
respectable. So it could be very damaging for the industry.”  Stephen Schwarzman , chairman and co-founder of Blackstone,
the world’s largest private equity firm, endorsed Romney last
year and held a fundraiser for the candidate at his Park Avenue
apartment on Dec. 14.  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager, told a gathering of
Democratic donors from the financial industry in February that
the president wouldn’t seek to demonize Wall Street.  Before attending the fundraiser at James’s apartment, Obama
spoke at the Rubin Museum of Art at an event hosted by pop
singer  Ricky Martin . It was his first fundraiser targeting gay
rights activists since he announced last week that he supports
same-sex marriage.  “I want everybody treated fairly in this country,” Obama
told about 200 donor who paid a minimum of $5,000 to attend.
“We have never gone wrong when we expanded rights and
responsibilities to everybody. That doesn’t weaken families,
that strengthens families.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in  New York  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  