-- Obama Pitches Equal Pay to Win Women Even as Charges Drop
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-05-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/obama-pitches-equal-pay-to-win-women-even-as-charges-drop.html
Some days, it may seem that President
 Barack Obama ’s running mate is Lilly Ledbetter.  Ledbetter is a former Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. manager
who sued the firm after discovering near the end of a 19-year
career that she was being paid more than $13,000 less than three
male colleagues. Her case was thrown out after the U.S. Supreme
Court ruled she missed a deadline for filing the lawsuit.  In eight of his last 18 campaign events, Obama reminded
voters that the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which provides
employees more time to file such lawsuits, was the first piece
of legislation he signed into law when he took office in 2009,
and its namesake is now campaigning for his re-election.  Yet there were fewer cases charging sex-based wage
discrimination last year than the year before the law was
signed, and the wage gap was wider in 2010 than it was in 2007.  “The bill did not change the fact that women make 77 cents
on the dollar that a man makes,” said Ledbetter, who is working
with the White House to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act that
would enable employees to find out what their colleagues are
earning.  At a  Washington  hotel on April 5 Obama told 250 donors:
“Change is the first legislation that I signed into law, the
Lilly Ledbetter Act that has a very simple principle -- women
should get paid an equal day’s pay for an equal day’s work, and
our daughters should be treated just like our sons when it comes
to the workplace.”  Front Row Seat  Ledbetter, 74, had a front row seat at an April 27 Obama
fundraiser hosted by the Women’s Leadership Forum and Women in
Washington for Obama, at which the president called her his
“dear friend” and a “courageous woman.”  First Lady  Michelle Obama  told donors May 1 in  Las Vegas 
that her husband “signed this bill because he knows that
closing that pay gap will mean the difference between women
losing $50, $100, $500 for each paycheck, or having that money
in their pockets to buy gas and groceries and put clothes on the
backs of their kids.”  Obama is using the Ledbetter law to shore up his lead among
women -- an advantage crucial to his re-election prospects.
Female voters made up 53 percent of the electorate in 2008 and
Obama carried their vote by 13 points. Obama led presumptive
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  49 to 39 percent among women,
according to an April 11 - 17 Quinnipiac University survey of
2,577 registered voters.  Gender Gap  Among all those polled, 52 percent said Obama would do a
better job handling women’s issues, compared with 32 percent who
picked Romney. The poll had an error margin of plus or minus 1.9
percentage points for its overall sample.  Romney’s campaign is seeking to shift the focus from
Ledbetter to economic troubles women are experiencing under
Obama. While women lost fewer jobs during the recession that
ended in June 2009, the jobless rate for  males  16 years old or
older improved by 2.3 percentage points since then and barely
budged for  women  during the same period.  In an April 16 interview with ABC News, Romney said he has
no “intention of changing” Ledbetter if elected.  The law reversed the 2007 Supreme Court decision in
Ledbetter v.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  to extend the time a
worker can sue an employer for sex-based wage discrimination to
as many as 180 days from the last discriminatory paycheck,
instead of 180 days since the first paycheck reflecting unequal
wages.  Cases Decline  In 2009, when Obama signed the legislation, there were
2,268 sex-based wage discrimination complaints filed with the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission either under the Equal
Pay Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which was
amended by the Ledbetter Act, or both. Because the law was
retroactive, the EEOC reviewed pending cases at the time of the
Supreme Court decision and reinstated claims for more than 1,100
people. In 2011, the number of complaints went down to 2,191.  Meanwhile, the pay gap in 2010 showed that women earned
77.4 percent of men’s salaries, down from 77.8 percent in 2007
before the recession hit.  “The White House is not disingenuous about their equal pay
bona fides but I think sometimes Ledbetter is overstated,” said
Lisa Maatz, the director of Public Policy and Government
Relations at Washington-based  American Association  of University
Women. Maatz said that while Obama is “right to claim this as
part of his legacy,” whenever “anyone says the Ledbetter bill
ensures that women get equal pay for equal work, that’s not
accurate.”  Narrow Interpretations  Judges who are narrowly interpreting the Ledbetter law, the
lack of transparency about pay, and a sluggish economy are
reasons why Ledbetter hasn’t had more of an impact, said lawyers
and advocates.  Women are afraid of losing their jobs if they complain,
especially as the economy recovers from the worst economic
downturn since the Great Depression, said Charles A. Sullivan, a
professor at Seton Hall Law School who has represented employees
in pay discrimination suits.  “If you’ve got a job and things are going pretty well
except you think you may be the victim of pay discrimination,
maybe this is not the best time in the world to rattle that
cage,” Sullivan said.  Despite the White House pitches, the law does little to put
money back in women’s pockets, said advocates of the measure.  Income Privacy  “Even with the Ledbetter Act, I’ve found many employees
lack information with which to compare their compensation,”
said  Joseph Sellers , who served as co-lead counsel for the
plaintiffs in Beck v.  Boeing Co. (BA) , which included more than
28,000 women employees at Boeing facilities in Washington
charging sex discrimination.  To fill that information void, the administration is
seeking passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act, created the
National Equal Pay Enforcement Task Force to coordinate the
federal government’s efforts to enforce existing protections,
and developed a Labor Department contest for a computer
application to provide workers with more information about equal
pay and negotiating their salaries.  Tina Tchen, executive director of the White House Council
on Women and Girls and the first lady’s chief of staff, said the
administration has successfully delivered a “nuanced” message
when talking about Ledbetter.  “A lot of times you hear the president and the first lady
talking about the Lilly Ledbetter Act helping women get equal
pay and people sometimes skip over the fact that he said ‘help,’
versus saying it ‘gets equal pay,’” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  