-- Obama Tells Barnard Graduates to Rekindle U.S. Can-Do Spirit
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-14T18:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/obama-tells-barnard-graduates-to-rekindle-u-s-can-do-spirit.html
President  Barack Obama , whose re-
election campaign is counting on support from women and young
voters, told Barnard College graduates that they must help
rekindle the “can-do” spirit of the U.S. and be active shapers
of the nation’s future.  Obama told the class of 2012 at the all-female college in
New York that they must resist “creeping cynicism” and stay
engaged in the nation’s political and economic life.  “After decades of slow, steady, extraordinary progress,
you are now poised to make this the century where women shape
not only your own destiny, but the destiny of” the U.S. and the
world, Obama said in the commencement address.  Today’s speech is Obama’s first commencement address of the
season. Obama is reaching out to younger voters and women, two
groups that helped solidify his 2008 victory and will be
critical this year in his contest against presumptive Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney .  In New York today, Obama will also tape an appearance on
ABC’s “The View” program and attend two campaign fundraisers
with donors from  Wall Street  and the gay community. Obama will
raise money at the home of  Tony James , president of Blackstone
Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity firm, and attend an
event hosted by pop singer  Ricky Martin , marking the first gay-
rights fundraiser since last week’s announcement.  Getting Started  “This is the campaign’s getting started phase and getting
the troops ready for the war,” said  Julian Zelizer , a professor
of history and public affairs at  Princeton University  in  New
Jersey .  While the president sought to avoid an overtly political
message, he used the address to the all-women liberal arts
college to implore younger voters, and women in particular, to
remain active participants in society.  He told the graduates they must revive “that defiant can-
do spirit is what runs through the veins of American history.
It’s the life blood of all our progress and it is that spirit
which we need your generation to embrace and to rekindle right
now.”  Unemployment Rate  Obama is trying to recapture the enthusiasm his campaign
generated four years ago at a time when college graduates are
entering a still sluggish economy. The unemployment rate has
increased among younger Americans, even though it’s declined to
8.1 percent nationally. The April jobless rate for 20-24 year
olds was 13.2 percent, an increase from 12.4 percent since Obama
took office.  In 2008, Obama won 56 percent of the women’s vote to 43
percent for Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , according
to national exit polls. While Democrats traditionally win the
women’s vote, Obama and Romney are competing for the support of
white, suburban and working class women. Polls have shown Obama
performing better among single and younger women.  Alexis Erdheim, who just finished her junior year at
Barnard College, plans to cast her first ballot in a
presidential election for Obama.  Women Voters  “It’s important for him to make a statement about women
and women’s rights,” Erdheim, a religion major from Livingston,
New Jersey, said before the ceremony.  Obama’s advantage among female voters over Romney is giving
him an edge in polls. According to a May 9 Associated Press-GfK
poll, Obama has the backing of 54 percent of women voters
compared to Romney’s 39 percent. By contrast, men were split at
46 percent for each candidate.  The gap among women poses a major electoral hurdle to the
Republican’s chances of winning the White House. To keep that
margin as wide as possible, Obama’s campaign aides are looking
to highlight the president’s record on  women’s rights  and hold
Romney to the more conservative stances he took on women’s
health and other social issues during the Republican primary.  Romney Discusses Abortion  To appeal to the Republican Party base and evangelical
voters, Romney cited his opposition to abortion rights, saying
he wanted to “get rid” of Planned Parenthood and he also
voiced support for allowing some employers to deny health
insurance coverage for contraception.  The birth-control debate reignited earlier this year when
the Obama administration sought to require some religious-
affiliated institutions to provide contraceptive health-
insurance coverage for women employees.  At Barnard, Obama received a Medal of Distinction, along
with  Evan Wolfson , a gay rights advocate, who is the founder and
president of Freedom to Marry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in  New York  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  