-- Obama Says JPMorgan Loss Shows Need for Tighter Rules
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-05-15T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/obama-says-jpmorgan-trading-loss-shows-need-for-bank-rules-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
specter of a well-run bank such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
suffering a $2 billion trading loss demonstrates the need for
closer regulation of the financial services industry.  On a day he raised cash from Wall Street donors at the New
York apartment of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  President  Tony James  and
his campaign took aim at Republican  Mitt Romney ’s private-equity
experience, Obama extolled free-market capitalism and risk
taking while also arguing that tough Wall Street rules are
needed to protect taxpayers and the banking industry.  “JPMorgan is one of the best managed banks there is.  Jamie Dimon , the head of it, is one of the smartest bankers we got and
they still lost $2 billion and counting,” Obama said yesterday
in an interview with the ABC program “The View” scheduled for
broadcast today.  Obama questioned whether a weaker bank might have required
government help in the same circumstances. “That’s why  Wall
Street  reform is so important,” he said.  With the economy the dominant issue in the 2012
presidential campaign, Obama is emphasizing his efforts to
tighten scrutiny of the financial industry, saying the rules are
needed to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis that followed
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. He also
is seeking to draw contrasts with Romney, the presumptive
Republican nominee who has called for the repeal of the Dodd-
Frank financial regulation law.  Warning on Bailouts  At the fundraiser at James’s Park Avenue apartment, Obama
warned big-dollar donors from the financial services industry
that Congress wouldn’t provide another bailout if banks faced a
liquidity crisis, according to an attendee who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss the portion of the event
closed to the media.  The president told the 60 donors, who paid $35,800 apiece,
that regulators have to correctly implement Wall Street rules to
prevent another financial catastrophe, the attendee said.  During public remarks at the fundraiser, Obama said it’s
critical to ensure that there are “basic rules of the road in
place so that the markets function in a transparent, clear
way.”  “Risk takers and innovators should be rewarded,” he said.
“I think all of us benefit from the freedom of free
enterprise.”  JPMorgan Loss  In the wake of the loss, JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank,
said Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew will retire. The bank may
lose an additional $1 billion or more as it winds down the
position.  Dimon, JPMorgan’s chief executive officer, announced the
loss May 10 and has criticized his company’s handling of trading
in synthetic credit securities as “flawed, complex, poorly
reviewed, poorly executed and poorly monitored.”  Dimon has been a critic of the Dodd-Frank law, including a
provision named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker 
that is meant to restrict proprietary trading by banks with
federally insured deposits.  Dimon has said the trade that spurred JPMorgan’s loss
wouldn’t have run afoul of the Volcker rule restrictions, which
are scheduled to take effect on July 21.  Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, has said
little about the transaction that is roiling Wall Street and
 Washington . Obama’s campaign yesterday sought to turn Romney’s
business background against him as Republicans assail the
president for the sluggish recovery from the recession  Targeting Romney  A television advertisement scheduled to run in five swing
states features interviews with former workers at a Kansas City,
Missouri, steel mill that was taken over in 1993 by Boston-based
 Bain Capital  LLC, the private-equity firm co-founded by Romney.  “Bain Capital was the majority owner. They were
responsible,” said David Foster, who is identified in the ad as
the lead negotiator for workers at GST Steel, which filed for
bankruptcy in 2001.  Romney’s campaign spokeswoman said the former Massachusetts
governor welcomes a debate about the economy.  “Mitt Romney helped create more jobs in his private sector
experience and more jobs as governor of Massachusetts than
President Obama has for the entire nation,” Andrea Saul said in
an e-mail. “If the Obama administration was less concerned
about pleasing their wealthy donors and more concerned about
creating jobs, America would be much better off.”  The Romney campaign posted  a video  to its website crediting
a Bain investment during Romney’s tenure in  Steel Dynamics Inc. (STLD) ,
a Fort Wayne, Indiana-based steelmaker, with helping to create
jobs.  Bain Response  Bain Capital, which Romney left in 1999 to serve as chief
executive of the 2002 Olympics in  Salt Lake City , Utah, released
a statement saying GST Steel was slated to close without an
outside investor and that Bain had an “ambitious plan” to turn
it around even as the U.S. steel industry was under pressure.  “We understand that in a political campaign our exemplary
28-year record will be distorted and complex business situations
will be portrayed in a simplistic way,” Bain said in the
statement.  Obama also has ties to Bain Capital. Jonathan Lavine, a
managing director at Bain, has raised between $100,000 and
$200,000 for Obama’s re-election effort, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign donations.  The Obama advertisement will run in Iowa, Ohio,
 Pennsylvania ,  Virginia  and Colorado, said campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt , who declined to say how much airtime was reserved for
the spot.  The criticism in Obama’s campaign ad mirrors attacks
leveled at Romney by his rivals during the Republican primaries.
Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who have since endorsed Romney, previously called the
Republican front-runner a corporate raider who stripped
businesses, loaded them with debt and fired their workers for
profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in  New York  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  