-- Loewe Surges on Report Apple Targets TV Maker: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2012-05-14T12:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/loewe-surges-on-report-apple-targets-tv-maker-frankfurt-mover.html
Loewe AG (LOE)  climbed the most since it
started trading in Frankfurt in 1999 after  AppleInsider  reported
that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  offered to purchase the German television maker
for 87.3 million euros ($112 million).  Loewe, based in Kronach, rose as much as 38 percent to 6.25
euros, and was up 24 percent as of 1:59 p.m., giving it a market
value of 73 million euros. A deal may be announced internally
before May 18, AppleInsider reported May 12, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the talks.  The TV company, founded by brothers Siegmund and David
Ludwig Loewe, has about 1,000 employees. It has sought to
establish itself as a premium brand in home-entertainment with
its minimalist design.  First-quarter sales rose 8 percent  to
66.6 million euros, helped by a 32 percent jump in revenue from
its audio and DVD products, including the Loewe Audiodesign
solutions, Loewe said this month.  Loewe’s premium brand may “be of interest for Apple, which
is said to prepare a launch of an Apple television set,” Thomas Maul, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt, wrote in a note.
There is a “low likelihood” of a bid because of Loewe´s small
size and “regional focus on saturated European markets,” he
said.  Loewe “does not want to take part in these rumors,”
spokesman Roland Raithel said in an e-mailed statement.
Yesterday,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  cited an unidentified Loewe
spokesman as saying “there is no truth” to the report.  Sharp Stake  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in  London , said the
Cupertino, California-based company doesn’t comment on rumors or
speculation.  Loewe increased its market share by value for liquid-
crystal display TVs in  Europe  to 4.5 percent in the first
quarter from 3 percent in 2011, it said this month.  The market for large-screen, LCD TVs priced above 1,500
euros offers “good opportunities” in the medium term, Loewe
said, adding that in 2012 it expects growth in sales and a
“significant” improvement in earnings.  Sharp Corp. (6753) , Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, has a stake of about 29 percent in Loewe, according to
the German company’s 2011 annual report. Miyuki Nakayana, a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sharp, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in  Frankfurt  at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  