-- Oil Falls to 2012 Low on Greek Debt, Saudi Call for Drop
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-14T12:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/oil-falls-to-2012-low-on-greek-debt-saudi-call-for-drop.html
Oil fell below $94 a barrel in  New
York  for the first time since December as Europe’s debt crisis
worsened and Saudi Arabia’s energy minister said prices should
decline further.  West Texas Intermediate slid as much as 2.6 percent to the
lowest level this year.  Brent crude , trading at about $110 a
barrel today, should drop to $100 as supply outweighs demand,
Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said yesterday in Adelaide,
 Australia . Futures also slipped after  Greece  failed to agree on
a unity government and European Union officials considered the
nation’s possible exit from the euro. Hedge funds cut bullish
bets on oil by the most in three years, data showed last week.  “It’s about Greece and a potential exit from the  euro
zone , which more and more people expect within months or even
weeks,” said  Hannes Loacker , analyst at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Vienna, who correctly predicted last month
that oil was set to drop. “And then it’s about fundamentals,
with U.S. crude stocks high and demand in the developed world
still weak.”  Crude for June delivery fell as much as $2.48 to $93.65 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest front-month intraday price since Dec. 19.
It was at $94.12 at 1:43 p.m.  London  time. Prices slid 95 cents
to $96.13 on May 11 and are down 4.8 percent this year.  Brent for June settlement tumbled $1.76, or 1.6 percent, to
$110.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The North Sea crude ended the May 11 session at
$112.26, the lowest for a contract closest to expiration since
Feb. 2. The European benchmark contract’s premium to WTI was at
$16.37 a barrel today.  Hammer Patterns  WTI may decline to $90 a barrel, and Brent to $105, as
central banks struggle to resolve the debt turmoil, Bank of
America Corp. said in a report e-mailed today.  Oil in New York may drop to $88.55 a barrel after breaking
so-called hammer patterns, according to technical analysis by
FuturesTechs.com Ltd.  Supply outweighs demand by 1.3 million to 1.5 million
barrels a day, according to al-Naimi. Consumption may rebound in
the second half of 2012, he said.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
biggest crude exporter, pumped 10.1 million barrels a day in
April, about 200,000 barrels more than the previous month and
the highest in more than three decades, a report by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries showed May 10.  “We want a lower price than where it is now,” al-Naimi
said. “We need to get the price to a level of around $100” a
barrel for Brent.  Recovery Threat  Saudi Arabia is optimistic that it will discover more oil
and gas in the Red Sea and increase recovery rates, al-Naimi
said at a conference. The country plans to boost the amount of
crude that it can extract from its biggest producing fields to
70 percent from 50 percent currently, he said.  Crude prices are high because of global instability, and
the European Union sanctions against  Iran  that take effect from
July 1 are already factored in, Christophe de Margerie,  Total
SA (FP) ’s chief executive officer said at the conference.  Hedge funds cut bullish oil bets by the most in three years
the week before the Seaway pipeline begins to ease a stockpile
glut, while rising output and concern over Europe’s financial
woes sent prices tumbling.  Seaway Pipeline  Enbridge Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners LP plan to
reverse shipments on the 150,000 barrel-a-day Seaway line from
Cushing to the  Gulf Coast  on about May 17, according to an April
13 filing with regulators.  Money managers reduced net-long positions on oil, or wagers
prices will rise, by 33 percent in the seven days ended May 8,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on May 11. It was the largest drop
since the week ended April 21, 2009.  In London,  hedge funds  cut bullish bets on Brent crude by
23,308 contracts in the week ended May 8, according to  data from
ICE Futures Europe .  Long positions, or speculative bets that prices will rise,
in futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
103,773 compared with 127,081 lots the previous week, the
London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report.  Oil fell for a second week through May 11 as Greece
struggled to form a government after inconclusive elections,
prompting concern that the country may backtrack on pledges to
cut spending in return for international bailouts. That may
foreshadow a withdrawal from the euro.  Meetings brokered by Greek PresidentKarolos Papoulias are
set to continue today after Syriza, the biggest anti-bailout
party, defied overtures to form a unity government. Greek
withdrawal “is not necessarily fatal, but it is not
attractive,” European Central Bank Governing Council member
 Patrick Honohan  said in Tallinn on May 12. European finance
ministers also meet today in Brussels.  “The potential for them to default on their agreements
could see them pushed out of the euro,” said  Michael McCarthy ,
a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in
Sydney. “That’s what’s really concerning the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  