-- Oil Trades Near 5-Month Low on EU Economy, U.S. Supplies
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-05-15T07:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/oil-falls-for-third-day-as-u-s-stockpiles-seen-rising-in-survey.html
Oil traded near the lowest in five
months in New York before reports forecast to show U.S. crude
stockpiles rose to the highest level in 21 years and  Europe ’s
economy shrank.  Futures fluctuated after sliding as much as 0.9 percent
earlier today. U.S. crude stockpiles probably climbed 1.5
million barrels last week to 381 million, the most since August
1990, according to a Bloomberg News survey before government
data tomorrow. Europe’s economy contracted last quarter for the
first time since the final three months of 2009, a separate
survey showed before a report today.  “There’s nothing in the oil market that is giving
support,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist at
 Societe Generale  in  Hong Kong . “Clearly people are going to
focus on rising oil stocks in the U.S. It’s expected prices
would fall as inventories build to these levels.”  Crude for June delivery was at $94.67 a barrel, down 11
cents in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 3:07 p.m. Singapore time. Prices dropped 1.4 percent to
$94.78 yesterday, the lowest close since Dec. 19, and are down
4.1 percent this year.  Brent for June settlement slid 1 cent to $111.56 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was
$16.79, unchanged from yesterday.  U.S. Crude Supplies  U.S. oil stockpiles advanced for an eighth week in the
period ended May 11, according to the median of nine analyst
estimates before the Energy Department report. Supplies at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the New York oil
contract, are projected to climb to the highest level since the
department began tracking inventories at the hub in 2004.  Cushing stockpiles probably increased before  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  reverse shipments on their
150,000-barrel-a-day Seaway pipeline this week. The line may
ease a glut of crude in the Midwest by carrying it to refineries
on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  U.S. gasoline  at the pump fell below year-earlier levels
for the fourth straight week. The national average price for
regular gasoline dropped 0.9 percent, or 3.6 cents, to $3.754 a
gallon from a week earlier, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in its weekly retail report yesterday. The
price was down 5.2 percent from a year earlier and the lowest
since Feb. 27, the agency said.  European Outlook  Gasoline for June delivery was at $2.9676, up 0.86 cents,
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today. Prices settled
yesterday at the lowest level since Feb. 7.  Oil also slid on concern Europe’s recovery has stalled amid
a debt crisis. The region’s economy shrank 0.2 percent in the
three months to the end of March, according to the median
estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before today’s
report. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 26 Italian banks
yesterday, citing weakened earnings and the country’s economic
outlook.  Greece , without a government for more than a week and with
10-year debt yields of more than 25 percent, decides today
whether to pay 436 million euros ($559 million) to bondholders
who shunned a debt swap last month. Talks between the nation’s
main parties following May 6 elections have failed to reach
agreement on forming a coalition.  ‘Crisis of Confidence’  Oil investors are “pricing in the risk of a reduction in
demand, and doing that against a backdrop now when supply and
inventory are fairly comfortable,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “In Greece, it’s a
very uncertain outcome. We certainly have to count as a
possibility that we could see another crisis of confidence for
consumers and investors.”  The European Union accounted for about 16 percent of the
world’s oil consumption in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. accounted for 21
percent.  Rising temperatures may increase  Saudi Arabia ’s consumption
of its own oil for power generation to a record, hindering
attempts by the world’s biggest exporter of crude to ease prices
with higher output. Peak power consumption may climb 5 percent
from last summer amid increased use of air conditioners,
Abdullah al-Shehri, the governor of the Electricity and Co-
Generation Regulatory Authority, said in a speech in  Riyadh  on
May 8.  Saudi Arabia Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said May 13 that
Brent, the benchmark for more than half the world’s oil, should
drop to $100 a barrel because global crude supplies exceed
demand. The country pumped 10.1 million barrels a day in April,
the highest level in more than three decades, a report by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries showed May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  