-- Oil Falls Near Five-Month Low on Greece, Saudi Price Call
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-05-14T19:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/oil-falls-near-five-month-low-on-greece-saudi-price-call.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in
almost five months amid growing speculation that Greece may
leave the euro currency union and as  Saudi Arabia ’s oil minister
said prices should decline further.  Futures dropped 1.4 percent after Greece failed to agree on
a unity government and European Union officials considered the
country’s possible exit from the euro. Saudi Arabia wants crude
prices lower than they are now, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said
yesterday in Adelaide,  Australia . The kingdom is pumping at its
highest rate in almost three decades, OPEC data show.  “Greece is unable to form a coalition government and
 Europe  is the biggest problem right now,” said  Tom Bentz , a
director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. “When the Saudis
speak, the market tends to listen. They’ve been trying to talk
down the market for a while.”  Crude for June delivery fell $1.35 to $94.78 a barrel on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
Dec. 19. Futures are down 14 percent from this year’s closing
high of $109.77 on Feb. 24.  Brent for June settlement dropped 69 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $111.57 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  The European benchmark contract’s premium to New York
futures was at $16.79 a barrel today, the widest spread based on
settlement prices since April 13.  “There is a total loss of confidence and the European
situation is really weighing on the market,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures.
“Saudi Arabia is definitely ramping up production and that
could push down prices.”  Greek Government  Greek President Karolos Papoulias proposed a government of
prominent non-politicians to steer the country and avert new
elections. He will call a meeting at 2 p.m. tomorrow in Athens
for leaders of all parties represented in parliament except for
an ultra-nationalist party, said  Evangelos Venizelos , the leader
of Pasok, the third-biggest party.  At least five European central bankers have broached the
once-taboo topic of  Greece ’s exit from the euro.  Although Greece accounts for 2 percent of the euro-area’s
economic output, its exit would fragment a system of monetary
union designed to be irreversible and might cause investors to
raise the threat of withdrawal by other states.  The euro dropped as much as 0.7 percent to $1.2825, the
lowest level since Jan. 18. A weaker euro and stronger dollar
reduce oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  each declined as much as 1.2 percent.  More Bearish  “The weak euro and the Greek crisis are making people more
bearish,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The general
sense is that the global economy is going to underperform
because of the European crisis.”  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, pumped
10.1 million barrels a day in April, about 200,000 barrels more
than the previous month, a report by the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries showed May 10, citing official
data submitted by the kingdom.  It produced 9.82 million barrels of oil a day in April, ,
according to Bloomberg estimates. That’s near the 9.85 million
it pumped in August 2011, the highest level since December 1980.  “We want a lower price than where it is now,” al-Naimi
said yesterday. “We need to get the price to a level of around
$100” a barrel for Brent, he said.  Brent last traded below $100 briefly in October.  Oil Supply  Oil supply outweighs demand by 1.3 million to 1.5 million
barrels a day, al-Naimi said yesterday.  West Texas Intermediate oil may decline to $90 a barrel and
Brent to $105 as European central banks struggle to resolve the
debt turmoil, Sabine Schels, an analyst with Bank of America
Corp. in  London , said in a May 11 report e-mailed today.  Hedge funds  cut bullish oil bets by the most in three years
the week before the Seaway pipeline begins to ease a U.S.
stockpile glut.  Money managers reduced net-long positions on oil, or wagers
prices will rise, by 33 percent in the seven days ended May 8,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on May 11. It was the largest drop
since the week ended April 21, 2009.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  plan to
reverse shipments on the 150,000-barrel-a-day Seaway line from
Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the U.S. Gulf Coast on about May 17,
according to an April 13 filing with regulators.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 443,316
contracts as of 3:50 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 530,233
contracts on May 11, 13 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.55 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  