-- Holcim Plans $1.6 Billion Earnings Boost in Savings Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-05-14T08:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/holcim-chief-targets-1-6-billion-earnings-boost-from-savings.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  Chief Executive Officer
Bernard Fontana is pushing the cement maker to a 1.5 billion-
franc ($1.6 billion) earnings boost by the end of 2014 as he
streamlines purchases and logistics and puts assets up for sale.  Fontana, who took over in February, announced the plan less
than a week after Holcim reported lower quarterly earnings. The
savings program, which affects all regions, will cost 200
million francs in one-time expenses to implement, the Jona,
Switzerland-based company said in a  statement  today.  “This appears to be an ambitious set of targets, although
it is as yet unclear what proportion of these savings will be
permanent in nature,”  Michael Morris , an analyst at JPMorgan
Cazenove, said in a note.  Holcim joins larger competitor  Lafarge SA (LG)  in seeking to
beat sluggish demand in parts of  Europe  and improve
profitability by cutting fuel costs and matching inflation with
price increases. Under Fontana, who joined from Aperam, a spin-
off from steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT) , Holcim will remain cautious
about new investments, it said earlier this month.  Shares of Holcim advanced as much as 1.95 francs, or 3.5
percent, to 57.15 francs in Zurich, and traded at 54.45 francs
as of 10:23 a.m., shrugging off wider investors concerns that
 Greece  could exit the single European currency and deepen the
region’s economic woes.  Holcim has advanced 12 percent in Zurich this year, prior
to today, valuing the business at 18 billion francs. That’s in
line with the advance of Lafarge, which under CEO Bruno Lafont
has also introduced efficiency targets.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  of
 Germany  is up 18 percent.  Leadership Program  The world’s second-largest maker of the building material
may sell assets under its “Leadership Journey” program, which
is  targeting  150 million francs in added profit this year.
Improving  customer focus  and the introduction of new materials
will help generate 500 million francs in added profit, the
company said.  Holcim also plans some “fast-return” investment projects
to boost its use of alternative fuels and upgrade kilns and
clinker grinding to generate another 300 million francs by 2014.  “After intensive discussions at the senior management
level and based on close collaboration with the group companies,
I am confident that we will achieve these targets,” Fontana
said on a call.  Additionally, Holcim said it will review the entire asset
base across all segments with low utilization levels with a view
to assessing the size of the local footprint. Any disposals will
be carried out for strategic reasons rather than a fire sale
designed to generate cash, Fontana said.  Fast Payback  “We have a very good strategic footprint and it’s more to
say we are open to selective divestments,” Fontana said. “It’s
selective, so not going to be a considerable amount. We’re open
to that.”  After splurging on acquisitions and rapid expansion into
 emerging markets , European cement makers are focusing on cost
reductions in weaker markets closer to home after a slowdown in
construction in countries such as  Spain . In the 10 years to
2010, European cement makers notched up $162 billion in deals,
including Lafarge’s $15 billion purchase of Orascom’s cement
operation and Holcim’s acquisition of Cemex SAB’s Australian
unit for $1.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Holcim reported a 1.1 percent  decline  in earnings before
interest and taxes, depreciation and amortization to 745 million
francs in the first quarter. No asset sales will take place if
the keeping the facilities would create more value, Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Aebischer said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  