-- One-Man Florida SuperPAC Finances Attack on Obama in Ohio
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-05-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/one-man-florida-superpac-finances-attack-on-obama-in-ohio.html
A Florida-based investment firm run
by a frequent Republican donor is the sole contributor to a
group that is airing television ads comparing President  Barack Obama ’s leadership unfavorably to that of former Democratic
presidents.  The commercials aired in two cities, Youngstown,  Ohio  and
Johnstown, Pennsylvania, both of which could be critical to
Obama’s re-election chances.  Four years ago, when Obama won Ohio by 5 percentage points,
he took 62 percent of the vote in Mahoning County, which
includes Youngstown. A poorer showing by the president because
of depressed Democratic turnout could help Romney take the state
in November.  “Ohio polls show it’s a jump ball, and they’re trying to
keep the enthusiasm for President Obama down in the Youngstown
market,” said Bill Binning, a Youngstown State University
political scientist who headed the Mahoning County Republican
Party in the 1980s. The Youngstown and Johnstown regions include
many older white Catholics who have long voted Democratic, and
the ads are “trying to bust up the old Democratic coalition,”
Binning added.  Easy to Influence  The activity of Real Leader PAC illustrates the ease with
which one person can organize a super-political action committee
and attempt to influence the outcome of the 2012 presidential
race in large and small ways. Creating a committee simply
requires depositing money in a new bank account and filing
paperwork with the  Federal Election Commission .  “We will see more of these types of PACs springing up
during the course of this election year,” said  Anthony Corrado ,
a political scientist at Colby College in Waterville,  Maine .  The president’s re-election committee didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Real Leader PAC, which aired three anti-Obama television
ads last month, is underwritten by a $250,000 donation from
Lexington Management Group Inc. of West  Palm Beach ,  Florida ,
according to federal campaign records current to March 31.  Lexington’s chairman, William Lee Hanley Jr., is on the
board of directors of Eagle Publishing, which publishes books
that promote limited government and open markets, according to
Eagle’s website.  Republican Donations  Hanley donated more than $228,000 to Republican federal
candidates and committees in the past three election cycles,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group that tracks campaign donations. Lexington
Management Group donated $175,000 to the  Republican Governors
Association  in 2010 and another $50,000 in 2011, according to
documents the RGA filed with the  Internal Revenue Service .  Hanley also gave $2,300 to presumptive Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s 2008 bid and $5,000 in March
2011 to U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , federal campaign
finance records show.  Real Leader PAC spent an estimated $65,810 to air three ads
192 times in the Youngstown and Johnstown television markets
between April 24 and April 30, according to New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  The ads featured criticism of Obama from unidentified
people who say the president hasn’t delivered the change he
promised. “We need a real leader,” a narrator says at the end
of the PAC’s first ad.  Another spot accused Obama of having “abandoned our manned
space program” as it shows footage of a 1962 speech by
President  John F. Kennedy  that touts the importance of the space
program.  Obama No Clinton  A third ad includes some praise for former President  Bill Clinton . “I think Bill Clinton could teach Mr. Obama a lot
about leadership,” one man says to another man.  The ads aired in areas that backed  Hillary Clinton  rather
than Obama in the 2008 presidential primaries. Clinton, the
former first lady who’s now the U.S. secretary of state, won 72
percent of the vote against Obama in the county that includes
Johnstown and 63 percent in the county that includes Youngstown.  Ohio has backed the White House winner in 12 consecutive
elections, the longest active streak among the 50 states, and no
Republican has been elected president without carrying the
state.  Pennsylvania is more Democratic-leaning than Ohio, though
it too may be competitive in the fall. Obama led Romney by 2
percentage points in Ohio and by 8 points in  Pennsylvania  in a
Quinnipiac University poll taken April 25-May 1.  Obama began a $25 million advertising campaign last week in
nine states including Ohio and Pennsylvania.  Disclosure Varies  While super-PACs are required to file periodic reports with
the FEC in  Washington , the quality of disclosure can vary by
group. Real Leader PAC attributed the $250,000 donation to
Lexington Management Group in a filing that didn’t identify any
individuals.  The Florida address the PAC listed for Lexington is for an
accounting firm, Caler, Donten, Levine, Cohen, Porter & Veil,
that didn’t return telephone or e-mail messages seeking
information about the donation. A message left at Hanley’s
residence in Palm Beach wasn’t returned.  The PAC’s New York-based treasurer, Robert J. Perkins, a
marketing executive who once raised money for the  Republican
National Committee , didn’t return telephone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  Real Leader PAC’s website says only that it’s “under
construction,” and its FEC report listed an address that is on
the 26th floor of  New York ’s Chrysler Building.  Money Spent  By the end of March, Real Leader PAC already had spent most
of the $250,000 Lexington donated in October 2011, records show.
The PAC had $40,302 in the bank at the end of March after
spending $209,698.  The PAC spent $118,000 on two firms for what the PAC’s
filing said was political strategy consulting. Of this total,
$91,900 went to an organization called Armada Publishing that
shares an address with the PAC. The PAC paid $26,154 to Sharp
Arrow Consulting Corp., a New York-based company for which
Perkins is the principal executive officer, state corporation
records show.  It’s undetermined whether Lexington donated more money or
whether Real Leader PAC has any other donors. Real Leader PAC
won’t file its next fundraising report until mid-July, covering
donations and expenses for April, May and June.  Real Leader PAC isn’t the only super-PAC funded wholly or
mostly by a single source.  American Jobs PAC, funded by a single $285,000 donation
from  Vancouver , Washington, businessman Andrew V. Martini, aired
television ads in the Portland and Seattle markets that promoted
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and criticized Romney and
former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum , CMAG data show.  “This is the type of activity we will see more of as we go
forward,” Corrado said. “It’s not a difficult thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  