-- Lonmin Posts Unexpected Loss as Prices, Sales Decline
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-05-14T16:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/lonmin-posts-unexpected-loss-as-prices-sales-decline.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-largest
platinum producer, fell to the lowest price in more than three
years in London trading after reporting an unexpected loss.  Lonmin slumped 5.2 percent to 854 pence, the lowest close
since Feb. 2, 2009. It posted a loss excluding one-time items of
6.9 U.S. cents a share in the six months through March, compared
with a 45-cent profit a year earlier and a 9-cent median profit
 estimate  from six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Platinum mining companies have seen earnings squeezed by
falling prices for the metal used in jewelry and pollution-
control devices for cars.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
biggest producer, cut its 2012 output target in February and
froze employment after annual profit slid 30 percent. Competitor
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. said last month it missed quarterly
earnings estimates amid lower prices and higher output costs.  Platinum averaged $1,572 an ounce in  London  trading in the
six months through March, 9.9 percent lower than a year earlier.
Above-inflation gains in labor and power costs in South Africa,
where most of the world’s platinum is produced, raised the rand-
denominated expense of mining an ounce of metal by 11 percent.  Hedge Sales  To mitigate exchange-rate risk, Lonmin will hedge sales in
the second half, it said. It struck agreements to sell gold at a
set price and date in the first half and may consider selling
forward base metals at fixed prices, it said. The London-based
company’s platinum-group metal sales fell 10 percent in the six-
month period to 608,579 ounces, while output dropped 12 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Farmer is “constantly
reviewing” his plan, announced a year ago, to invest about $2
billion expanding production to 950,000 platinum ounces in 2015.
The company taps the Bushveld complex in northern  South Africa .  “Lonmin is in a tight position,” Farmer told analysts in
London today. It must stay “robust” amid weak prices to be
able to benefit from an expected improvement in the market
later, he said. The company will cut  capital spending  if needed,
he said, adding that  Saffy  is currently the highest-cost shaft.  Higher-than-expected tax contributed to the loss, Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note. Mine
operations met production estimates, he said. Lonmin reported a
tax charge of $52 million, attributed mainly to currency
effects. That compares with profit before tax of $18 million.  Stronger Second Half  Lonmin kept a full-year target of 750,000 ounces of
platinum sales, implying a 36 percent increase in second-half
sales from 318,402 ounces in the first six months. The second
half is traditionally stronger than the first, Farmer said.  Lonmin forecast a “short-term period of price weakness,”
saying industrial users had taken advantage of low prices and
are well stocked at a time when the rate of global growth is
“unclear.” Platinum slipped 1.9 percent to $1,447.50 in London
today.  The platinum market will probably be in surplus this year,
“which is likely to keep the price in a range of $1,450 to
$1,750 per ounce in the next six months, averaging $1,600,”
market researcher Johnson Matthey Plc said in a statement.  Platinum producers in South Africa have also faced labor
action over the past year as workers campaign for higher wages.
Pay disputes and rivalry between unions temporarily halted
output at  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Rustenburg operation,
the world’s biggest platinum mine, in February.  Sea Change  The country’s labor market is “going through a sea
change” as the Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union challenges the dominance of the  National Union of
Mineworkers , Lonmin said today in a statement.  “The rivalry for membership between the unions could be a
feature for the foreseeable future with a corresponding increase
in the risk of escalation of costs and disruptions to
production,” Lonmin said. The AMCU has been given limited
organizational rights at the Karee mining division, where a
third of employees are now members of the union, it said.  “The difficult operating environment in southern  Africa 
looks set to continue, given rising cost inflation, structural
safety issues, falling productivity and militant labor unions,”
Ben Davis, an analyst at UBS AG, said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  