-- Montpellier Nears French Soccer Title; Juventus Goes Unbeaten
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-05-14T00:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/montpellier-nears-french-soccer-title-juventus-goes-unbeaten.html
Montpellier defeated Lille 1-0 on an
stoppage-time goal to move to within a point of winning its
first French league soccer championship. Juventus finished
unbeaten in  Italy ’s Serie A this season by beating Atalanta 3-1.  Karim Ait-Fana scored in the 94th minute to give
Montpellier the home win last night and preserve his team’s
three-point lead over Paris Saint-Germain, which beat Rennes 3-0
as Nene got all the goals.  The final round of Ligue 1 games is scheduled May 20, when
Montpellier can clinch the championship by avoiding defeat at
last-place Auxerre. PSG visits Lorient in its final match.  “Clearly it will be difficult to win the title, but it’s
not over yet,” PSG coach  Carlo Ancelotti  said on his team’s
website. “We still have a small chance and we’ll do all we can
to seize it.”  Serie A champion Juventus had the first unbeaten campaign
in Italy’s top league since AC Milan in 1992, with Alessandro Del Piero scoring on his final league appearance for the club.  Luca Marrone and Andrea Barzagli also got goals yesterday
as Juventus finished four points ahead of second-place AC Milan,
which beat Novara 2-1.  Juventus can claim the domestic league and cup double if it
beats Napoli in next weekend’s Coppa Italia final.  Udinese won 2-0 at Catania to finish third and secure a
spot in next season’s  Champions League . Lazio finished a place
back after beating Inter Milan 3-1, while Lecce was relegated
after a 1-0 defeat at Chievo.  Madrid’s Milestone  Spanish champion Real  Madrid  beat Mallorca 4-1 to become
the first La Liga team to finish a top-flight season with 100
points. Mesut Ozil scored twice after goals from  Cristiano Ronaldo  and Karim Benzema put Real 2-0 up.  Malaga secured a Champions League berth by finishing fourth
after a 1-0 home win against Sporting Gijon, which was relegated
along with Villarreal, whose 14-year stay in the elite division
ended following a 1-0 loss to  Atletico Madrid .  Bundesliga champion Borussia Dortmund defeated Bayern
Munich 5-2 in the German Cup final two days ago to claim its
first domestic double. Robert Lewandowski got a hat trick for
Dortmund.  Two days ago, Galatasaray secured its 19th Turkish title
after a 0-0 tie against local rival Fenerbahce. Yesterday,
Salzburg won the Austrian league following a 5-1 win against
Wiener Neustadt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 