-- Moody’s Said to Delay Bank Downgrades Amid Crisis, JPMorgan
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-05-14T13:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/moody-s-said-to-delay-bank-downgrades-amid-crisis-jpmorgan-loss.html
Moody’s Investors Service is delaying
ratings downgrades on more than 100 banks as it assesses the
effect of  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.’s trading losses and a greater
possibility of a euro breakup, a Moody’s official said.  The Moody’s official declined to be identified as he wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly. Moody’s  said on April 13  that it
would begin downgrading banks, including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
 France ’s biggest lender,  Germany ’s  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and New
York-based JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , by early May.  Today, Moody’s spokeswoman Kirsten Knight said the firm’s
schedule for “concluding bank rating reviews” hadn’t changed.
“Moody’s expects to conclude the reviews by the end of June,”
she said in an e-mailed statement. Moody’s declined to elaborate
beyond the statement or comment on when the first downgrade
would occur.  It’s the second time Moody’s has delayed publishing details
of the downgrades in a month. Any ratings cuts could push up
bank funding costs, heaping further misery on the industry as
the boost that followed the  European Central Bank ’s cash
injections in December and February wears off and policy makers
struggle to extinguish the sovereign-debt crisis.  Moody’s is overhauling the way it rates European banks and
firms with global securities operations to reflect the adverse
effects of the sovereign-debt crisis, dwindling economic growth
and the latest round of capital rules set by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision .  Shares Tumble  JPMorgan announced last week it was facing losses of $2
billion related to derivatives trading, while  Spain ’s government
nationalized  Bankia SA (BKIA)  and forced lenders to increase provisions
against real estate loans by 30 billion euros. The 43-member
 Bloomberg Europe 500 (BEBANKS)  Banks and Financial Services Index sank 3.3
percent today on concern  Greece ’s political quagmire makes a
euro exit for the nation more likely.  “The combination of current challenges and inherent risk
factors has introduced speculative elements into the obligations
of these firms that we believe are not fully reflected in their
current ratings,” Moody’s said in a note published Jan. 19.  After planning to start downgrading the industry in April,
the ratings company issued its statement April 13 saying it was
pushing back the timetable until early May. The review will
start with Italian lenders, before moving on to countries
including Spain, Austria,  Sweden , Norway, the U.K. and Germany.
Global capital-markets firms, including U.S. investment banks,
were unlikely to have had their ratings changed until June.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
lenders, Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Morgan
Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, are facing
three-step downgrades on their long-term debt, Moody’s said.
JPMorgan, the largest and most profitable U.S. bank,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth biggest in the U.S., and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the U.K.’s biggest, could be cut two levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  