-- Toronto-Dominion Bank’s Clark Comments on Old-Fashioned Banking
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/toronto-dominion-bank-s-clark-comments-on-old-fashioned-banking.html
The following are comments made by
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Executive Officer Edmund Clark
during an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker :  On what being an old-fashioned banker means:  “Fundamentally we say, instead of starting with something
that you sell and how do we make money, why don’t we start with
what consumers or clients want and support them, and figure we
can make money just being better at looking after their needs?  ‘‘I think at its core, what fundamentally happened in the
mid-90’s, is that banks -- particularly the ones that were
securities dealers -- started to drift away from saying ‘I’m
here to help my clients’ to saying ‘Geez, I can make money
taking deposits and investing them and speculating with them,
and get proprietary profits.’  ‘‘I think that’s shifting; you can just see the ballooning
of balance sheets for banks around the world -- not with assets
that were being reinvested in the economy, but bets between
banks on who was going to win or lose on these particular
events. And I think that’s a very unfortunate drift.”  On whether old-fashioned banking applies to Toronto-Dominion’s
non-retail banking businesses:  “You can have old fashioned banking in every one of our
businesses.”  On whether regulators want to see a return to old-fashioned
banking:  “I think, fundamentally, yes.  ‘‘I think they realize that this speculation put the whole
banking system at risk, and given, frankly, the privileged role
we play in society -- and I think it is a privileged role -- we
should not play that privileged role and be speculators.  ‘‘That doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t have hedge funds and
speculators if you want to, but what you have to do is prepare
to let them fail.  ‘‘One of the biggest mistakes we made was trying to save
Long Term Capital. If we would have let Long Term Capital fail,
we would have said ‘you want to speculate, you go down; everyone
involved is going to pay the price.’  ‘‘I think we have to drive that activity out of the bank
and say ‘if you want to speculate, don’t call yourself a bank,
call yourself a hedge fund.’’’  On whether other bank CEOs serve their shareholders ahead of
clients:  ‘‘I think in a sense we’ve taken  shareholder value  added to
the extreme, and saying ‘all we’re here to do is make as much
money for the shareholder in the shortest period of time. Oh,
and by the way, we’re going to structure our compensation so
that we also have the maximum amount of money in the shortest
period of time’.  ‘‘I don’t think that’s a very good business model. That’s
not what we tell our shareholders.  ‘‘What we say to our shareholders is ‘we’re going to build
the company around the customer and client’, and we know in the
long run that if we do that, the shareholders will do very well
and management will be fairly compensated.  ‘‘So the irony is, the drive to have short-term profit,
short-term results for the shareholders turned out to blow out
the shareholder and the clients as well.  ‘‘I just think it’s a mistake, and we ought to get back to
what banking should be doing, which is making the economy
grow.’’  On how Clark’s previous career with Canada’s federal government
prepared him for banking:  ‘‘I think the biggest thing that you learn in government is
how many stakeholders you have.’’  On why Canadian banks fared better than their U.S. counterparts
during the economic downturn:  ‘‘Canada was successful for a number of reasons, but I
think regulation was one of the reasons. But the regulation is
different than what I call American regulation.  ‘‘American regulation is prescriptive regulation, and
Canadian regulation is principle-based regulation. And I think
if you had to choose, you would choose principle over
prescriptive.  ‘‘What Canada did was have very strong capital and
liquidity rules. And then say to the CEO’s ‘You own the risk.
This isn’t you run your institution and we try to catch you. You
own the responsibility of getting your institution and running
it the way that, if a crisis happens, you will survive.’’’  On how banks and regulators can find middle ground:  ‘‘Both of them have to change their attitude here, if we’re
going to get a more productive dialog.  ‘‘I think the industry has to start with ‘We blew up the
world. We made very serious mistakes. We were greedy. We didn’t
have the right self-discipline. We chose wrong business models.
We get that.’  ‘‘Now, why don’t work we together instead of having this as
a conflict, because I don’t believe the conflict actually works
in the long run in the interests of the consumer or the
shareholder or the taxpayer.’’  On whether the world’s largest banks should pay a capital
surcharge:  ‘‘I’m in favor of the capital surcharge.  ‘‘As I said before, it makes me a little unpopular with my
colleagues, but you know, I do think we have to recognize that
as you get bigger and bigger and more complex -- and I think
that most people would say it’s the complexity that’s the issue
less than pure size -- but the consequences of you getting it
wrong for society are larger, and therefore the cushion or
insurance, which is what capital is, should be larger.’’  On whether  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon is looking at
the capital surcharge the wrong way:  ‘‘Well, Jamie, I know, is a phenomenal banker. So I
acknowledge that if we had to choose... most people would choose
him and not me.  ‘‘But, I think fundamentally what he’s saying is ‘the way
we did business before, we’re not going to be able to do under
the capital and liquidity rules we have.’  ‘‘And that’s exactly what the regulator’s trying to get you
to do, is change your business model. And no one likes to change
their business model.  ‘‘I believe in capitalism, and I believe in an economy,
what happens when you increase the cost of a good.  ‘‘So do I think 10 years from now JPMorgan will be out of
business because of Basel III? No. They’ll figure out another
way to make money, but in a way that may be more investing in
the economy and less speculating against competitors.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  