-- Osborne Says Uncertainty, Not Cuts Hurting Europe’s Economy
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-15T07:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/osborne-says-uncertainty-not-cuts-hurting-europe-s-economy.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said economies across Europe including Britain are being
damaged by uncertainty over the future of the euro region rather
than budget cutting.  Osborne is seeking to counter a growing anti-austerity
backlash in Europe, where voters in France and  Greece  revolted
against cuts in elections this month. Osborne insists he is
sticking to his deficit-reduction plans to shield Britain from
the crisis of confidence engulfing the euro region.  “This is a time of considerable uncertainty in the euro-
zone economies,” Osborne said today as he arrived for talks
with European Union finance ministers in Brussels. “And that
uncertainty is undermining the entire European recovery.”  Today’s meeting takes place amid renewed market turbulence
as wrangling between political parties in  Athens  raises the
possibility of Greece leaving the euro. The country is still
without a government more than a week after inconclusive
elections. Its crisis has multiplied concerns about recession-
afflicted  Spain , where the government is struggling to convince
investors it can clean up its banks and curtail regional
spending.  In Britain, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is
under growing pressure to spur an economy that has slipped back
into a second recession in three years. Economic woes and voter
anger over a budget perceived to have cut taxes for the rich at
the expense of the less well off saw the Conservatives and their
Liberal Democrat coalition partners lose seats to the opposition
 Labour Party  in municipal elections this month.  No Compromise  A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey in the Sunday Times newspaper May 13
gave Labour leader  Ed Miliband  a higher approval rating than
Cameron for the first time in a year. A separate YouGov poll for
the Labour-linked Fabian Society research group showed Labour
leading the Conservatives by eight percentage points.  Osborne and Cameron say there can be no compromise on their
plans to eliminate the bulk of a deficit of 8 percent of gross
domestic product by 2017. The cuts, the deepest since World War
II, will see more than 700,000 government jobs axed.  The deepening political impasse in Greece led investors to
seek the relative safety of U.K. government debt yesterday,
taking 10-year yields to 1.86 percent, the lowest since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989. Ten-year Spanish
debt climbed to 6.23 percent and Italian bonds of the same
maturity rose to 5.70 percent.  Hollande-Merkel Talks  Another political turning point comes today when  Francois Hollande  is sworn in as French president in the first power
shift to the Socialists in the second-biggest euro economy since
1981. He will then travel to Berlin for talks with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Hollande’s bid to inject a pro-growth element into  Europe ’s
German-inspired austerity strategy got a boost on May 13 when
Merkel’s party was drubbed in elections in Germany’s largest,
most industrial state, North Rhine-Westphalia.  EU finance ministers will make a renewed attempt to hammer
out an accord on boosting the amount of capital and liquid
assets that must be held by banks after the U.K. rejected a
previous compromise.  “We are reaching a point where we have got to make a
decision and see the euro zone stand behind their currency,”
Osborne said today. “A very important part of that is
strengthening the European banking system and that is what we
intend to do today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  