-- Most Buying Since 1993 Refutes Default Wave Specter: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/most-buying-since-1993-refutes-default-wave-specter-muni-credit.html
Individuals undeterred by the  lowest 
tax-free yields in a generation are pouring the most money in 19
years into municipal debt, leaving local-government  interest
rates  poised to drop further.  Buying now makes sense because coupon and principal
payments will total $113 billion from June through August,
eclipsing new issuance by about $20 billion and pushing bond
prices higher, said Chris Mauro at  RBC Capital Markets .  A slowdown in defaults and an improving state fiscal
outlook are also making munis a haven amid concern that  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis is deepening. Investors have added $11.4
billion to U.S. municipal mutual funds this year, the best start
since 1993, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  “There is this cycle where we all keep getting money and
we’re all chasing after the same things,” said Daniel Solender,
who manages $16 billion of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey .  The wave of purchases is a reversal from a year ago. During
the same period of 2011, individuals pulled $21 billion from
local-government mutual funds, the most since at least 1992. The
withdrawals followed a December 2010 interview with  Meredith Whitney  on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” in which she forecast
“hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults in 2011.  Fiscal Stability  Instead, states’ tax collections have exceeded levels from
before the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009 and more
than half project cash surpluses to end their budget years,
boosting investor confidence. Twenty-one issuers have defaulted
for the first time this year, compared with 29 in the same
stretch of 2011, according to a May 1 report from Municipal
Market Advisors in Concord,  Massachusetts .  Munis have been a safer bet this year than company bonds,
Treasuries, commodities and stocks.  After adjusting for volatility, local-government bonds have
earned 1.8 percent since Dec. 31, to 1.1 percent for corporate
debt, 0.8 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index, 0.1
percent for federal securities and 0.03 percent for commodities,
according to data compiled by S&P and Bloomberg through May 10.  “If you look at tax-equivalent yields, they look
attractive versus other fixed-income markets,” Solender said.
“The returns look good too. People see the returns and want to
participate.”  Taxable Equivalent  The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of keeping its key lending
rate near zero has helped cap Treasury yields, making the tax-
exemption of municipal bonds more attractive.  The 1.77 percent yield on top-rated munis maturing in 10
years is equivalent to a 2.72 percent taxable rate for investors
in the top income bracket.  Municipalities from  Los Angeles  to Bangor,  Maine , have
taken advantage of the dropping rates to refund debt. About 60
percent of the bonds sold this year by cities and states has
been for refinancing, the highest ratio since at least 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That limits the growth of
municipal debt outstanding.  “The greater amount of refunding activity we have, the
more reinvestment pressure it puts on the market,” said Mauro,
RBC’s head of U.S. municipal strategy in  New York . “That will
keep muni rates and ratios the way they are, or potentially
drive them lower.”  Munis aren’t as attractive as they were earlier in the
year. Ten-year yields fell to about  95 percent  of those on
Treasuries last week, the lowest ratio since April 3.  Payments Ahead  Coupon redemptions and principal payments are set to total
$38 billion in June, $42 billion in July and $33 billion in
August, Mauro said. Issuance in those months may average $30
billion, he said.  The yield on 20-year general-obligation bonds fell the past
five weeks, to 3.71 percent, according to a Bond Buyer index.
It’s the longest  rally  since June and close to the Jan. 19 rate
of 3.6 percent, the lowest since 1967.  “We’ve got these continued flows, huge coupon and
principal payments coming up, and a calendar that’s
manageable,” said Mauro. “It sets the market up for a very
strong technical environment.”  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price variation,
giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The returns aren’t
annualized. Higher volatility increases the prospect for losses.  Following are pending sales:  CHICAGO plans to sell about $597 million in general-
obligation debt as soon as this week, according to an offering
statement. About $306 million will be taxable and the remainder
tax-exempt, with proceeds going toward refunding and capital
projects. Moody’s Investors Service rates the bonds Aa3, fourth-
highest. (Added May 14)  NORTH TEXAS TOLLWAY AUTHORITY plans to issue $351 million
in revenue debt as soon as this week, according to offering
documents. The bonds will be used to refund debt. S&P rates the
debt A-, seventh-highest. Barclays Capital Inc. is the
underwriter. (Added May 14)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  