-- Total Says Australia May Produce 100 Millions Tons of LNG a Year
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-05-14T02:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/total-says-australia-may-produce-100-millions-tons-of-lng-a-year.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
producer, said Australia may eventually produce as much as 100
million tons of liquefied natural gas a year.  “That’s a tremendous increase compared with existing
production,” Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie
said today in Adelaide where he’s attending an industry
conference. Australia may be capable of producing about 80
million tons of LNG annually by 2017, surpassing Qatar as the
world’s largest exporter of the fuel, he said.  Australia exported 20 million tons of the fuel last year,
making it the world’s fourth-largest LNG supplier, Energy
Minister  Martin Ferguson  said at the conference.  Total has said it expects to increase production this year
after a decline in 2011 and has pledged to take more risks in
looking for oil and gas. The Paris-based energy company is  Inpex (1605) 
Corp.’s partner in the $34 billion Ichthys LNG project in
northern Australia and owns a stake in the $16 billion Gladstone
venture operated by Santos Ltd. in the northeastern state of
Queensland.  The Ichthys and Gladstone projects are among seven LNG
ventures under development in Australia to meet rising Asian
demand for the less-polluting alternative to coal. With $180
billion of LNG projects going ahead, Australia is set to surpass
Qatar as the largest exporter of the fuel by the end of the
decade, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Total is in talks to raise its stake in Ichthys to 30
percent from 24 percent, de Margerie said in February. Japan’s
Inpex has about 73 percent of the project, it said in January.  Carbon Tax  The company in December boosted its  stake  in OAO Novatek,
the second-largest Russian gas company, to 14.1 percent and in
January bought a $2.32 billion holding in Ohio’s Utica shale
region from Chesapeake Energy Corp. and EnerVest Ltd.  Separately, de Margerie urged Australia to adopt a careful
approach to  climate change  that doesn’t exert too much pressure
on companies.  A tax on profits from  iron ore  and coal won approval in
Australia’s Senate in March. The government also expects to
raise A$24.7 billion ($24.7 billion) in four years from a levy
on  carbon emissions  coming into effect on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  