-- Total Plugs Nigeria Gas Leak, Expects Elgin Cap Within Days
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-14T15:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/total-plugs-nigeria-gas-leak-expects-elgin-cap-within-days.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil
company, stopped a natural-gas leak in the Niger Delta region
of  Nigeria  yesterday and expects to halt another in the  North
Sea  this week.  “The snubbing intervention which started on May 9 has been
successful and has stopped the subsurface gas flow,” Total’s
Nigerian unit said in a statement yesterday following seepage 
at the Ibewa 16 well in the OML 58 license. “The cement seal of 
the well is now being finalized.”  Snubbing is a practice in which small pipes are introduced
into the well to pump heavy fluids in to stop gas flow and block
off the reservoir with cement plugs, according to the company.
Total holds a license for the OML 58 project in a joint venture
with the state oil company, Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  Total had shut gas plants and crude wells in Obite, in the
country’s oil-rich southern delta, following the leak at one of
its facilities, which probably followed an incident during
drilling on March 20, the French producer has said.  The company doesn’t have a date for restarting output at
the Nigerian facilities, spokesman Fred Ohwahwa said today.  Total is also grappling with how to stop another leak at a
well in the Elgin field in the North Sea which began March 25.  The company, based in Paris, plans to stop seepage at the
G4 well at Elgin within “a few days,” weather permitting, Chief
Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie reiterated today at a
conference in Adelaide. That leak will end up costing Total 
$300 million to $400 million in lost production, without taking 
into account money spent on plugging it, he said last week.  Output Cuts  In addition to the Nigerian and U.K. leaks and subsequent
shutdowns, Total’s output will also be cut by an explosion on
a  gas pipeline  operated by  Yemen  LNG, whose biggest shareholder 
is the French company. The pipeline has been closed since a 
bomb blast last month.  The leaks and halts have raised questions about whether
Total can achieve long-term production growth targets. The
explorer is sticking to a growth outlook of 2.5 percent a year 
on average through 2015, de Margerie said May 11.  A restart of Elgin at year-end would lead to unchanged
output in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la
Chevardiere said April 27 during a conference call on first-
quarter earnings in which he detailed the consequences of the
leaks and production halts.  The company is losing the equivalent of about 50,000
barrels of oil a day at the Elgin and Franklin fields and the
equivalent of 5,000 to 7,000 barrels in Yemen out of an overall
share of 70,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, de la
Chevardiere said. Lost production in Nigeria due to the leak is
the equivalent of about 20,000 barrels of oil a day.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  are the largest European
 oil companies .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  