-- How Roe v. Wade Empowered U.S. Investors
-- B y   E d w a r d   C o n a r d
-- 2012-05-14T23:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/how-roe-v-wade-empowered-u-s-investors.html
It’s possible, but unlikely, that
small differences in culture alone can explain the greater
economic success of the U.S. relative to  Europe  and Japan after
the introduction of the Internet.  The U.S. has poured investment into innovation since the
early 1990s. It opened trade borders to lower costs, freed
resources and relaxed capacity constraints. When besieged by
low-cost unskilled offshore labor, it transitioned quickly from
manufacturing to more productive endeavors that included
innovation and services that cannot be produced offshore.  In contrast, Europe and Japan remained wedded to
manufacturing-based economies with attendant lower levels of
innovation and slower growth rates. High costs imposed by pro-
labor governments discouraged companies from exiting
manufacturing, laying off workers, and redeploying them to more
productive endeavors. Pro-labor governments obstructed trade
borders to slow workforce dislocations. In Germany and Japan,
about 20 percent of employment remains in manufacturing,
compared with only 10 percent in the U.S.  Manufacturing Transition  Europe’s and Japan’s slower transition out of manufacturing
left their best thinkers mired in a declining sector. Meanwhile,
the most talented U.S. thinkers created communities of experts
around companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  And the
U.S.’s more valuable on-the-job training, lower labor-
redeployment costs, and lower marginal tax rates increased
payouts for successful risk taking.  Nonetheless, the questions remain: Why did these underlying
incentives emerge in the U.S. and not elsewhere? Why does the
U.S. have lower labor redeployment costs, more open trade
borders, lower marginal tax rates and, ultimately, more
tolerance for  unequal distribution of income ?  By the random dint of history, the landmark Supreme Court
case Roe v. Wade of 1973 brought pro-investment voters to power
in the U.S. The faction of pro-investment voters, representing
about 35 percent of the electorate, combined with enough of the
now-mobilized social conservatives -- principally the members of
the Christian Right, who vote Republican and represent 15
percent of the electorate -- to seize the majority and
permanently shift the political economic center to the right.  A similar shift in political power didn’t occur in Europe
and  Japan , and pro-labor, anti-investment majorities continued
to control those economies. These majorities increased labor-
redeployment costs and closed trade borders to slow the need for
redeploying labor; supported unionism by strengthening trade
barriers; failed to lower marginal tax rates as much as the
U.S.; and discouraged unequal distribution of income and wealth.  The U.S. differs from Europe and Japan in four ways. Europe
and Japan have parliamentary democracies where parties are
represented in proportion to their share of the vote. In the
U.S., it’s a winner takes all, two-party system and that makes
it easier for a large minority of voters -- in this case, pro-
investment tax cutters -- to join forces with another large
minority of voters -- the Christian Right -- to seize power.  Roe might have had a minimal effect on U.S. politics were
it not for the fact that Christian fundamentalists are a large
enough portion of the country’s population to affect the outcome
of an election. About 25 percent of U.S. voters identify
themselves as evangelical Christians. Prior to Roe v. Wade,
three-fifths of evangelical Christian voters were Democrats, and
two-fifths were Republicans.  Reagan Embrace  When  Ronald Reagan  endorsed the pro-life movement, these
proportions reversed. Reagan combined the Christian Right with
the pro-investment tax cutters to create a majority. Pro-
investment tax cutters maintained control of the party,
selecting fiscally conservative, but socially moderate,
presidential candidates such as  John McCain ,  George W. Bush , Bob Dole,  George H.W. Bush  and Gerald Ford.  The fact that conservative Southern Democrats controlled
political power throughout the southeastern U.S. amplified Roe’s
political impact. As conservative pro-life voters defected to
the  Republican Party  because of the ruling, it became
increasingly difficult for fiscally conservative Southern
Democrats to win elections as Democrats. Over time, these
conservative Southern Democrats changed sides, gradually
shifting political power to Republicans.  Most voters don’t realize that Roe does more than legalize
abortion. It legalizes controversial third-trimester abortions
in certain cases and takes away the electorate’s right to vote
on this issue by making the late procedures a judicial right
rather than a legislative decision. Third-term abortions are
illegal throughout most of the democratic world. Their
legalization by Roe, even if few women chose to have them, made
opposition to the ruling more tolerable to pro-choice moderates.  The court’s denial of the electorate’s right to vote on an
issue where both sides have legitimate points of view -- the
majority of Americans opposes third-term abortions -- further
increased the tolerance for opposition to Roe by pro-choice
moderates. The denial of the other side’s right to vote --
because one fears the possible outcome of that vote -- is
difficult for many to swallow when they acknowledge the
reasonableness of the other side’s position.  The stance of pro-investment Republicans adds to this
tolerance of pro-choice voters toward their position. Pro-
investment Republicans oppose outlawing abortions by shrewdly
arguing that the decision should be legislative, not judicial.
Studies by the  Pew Research Center  show that more than half the
voters support Roe, and only a quarter supports a ban on all
abortions. If put to a vote, support among voters for first- and
second-term abortions would assure legalization in all but a
handful of states. If Roe remains as a judicial matter, it is
far more likely that courts will outlaw abortions.  Marriage of Convenience  This marriage of convenience between pro-choice fiscal
conservatives and pro-life social conservatives brought the
larger pro-investment faction in this coalition to power.
Without the unique set of circumstances surrounding Roe,
the U.S. would probably be in the same place politically as
Europe and Japan with respect to well-intended, but misguided,
anti-business economic policies. Instead, after Roe, lawmakers
cut  marginal tax rates  to about 30 percent, from 70 percent
before the decision. They also left trade borders open and
allowed labor redeployment costs to remain low.  If a politician shouts, “Tax the rich,” two-thirds of the
U.S. electorate will answer, “Yes, and more!” But as lawmakers
threaten to keep raising the tax rate on rich investors to
distribute income to poor consumers, more and more voters will
grow apprehensive about the effects on the economy, and their
support will erode. A populist politician whose objective is to
redistribute income seeks the highest tax rate possible on rich
investors without losing 51 percent of the vote (or a few points
more, perhaps, depending on the value of the margin of safety).
A smaller tax increase that wins more of the vote unnecessarily
leaves money on the negotiating table. Similarly, a politician
aiming to lower taxes on rich investors seeks the largest  tax
cut  that still captures 51 percent of the vote.  Richard Nixon  was the last Republican president before
voters contested Roe. Without the 15 percent bloc of evangelical
Christian voters in his back pocket, he had to accept a 70
percent marginal tax rate to capture 51 percent of the vote.
Even then, he only won the election because of the unpopularity
of the  Vietnam War . Dwight Eisenhower only won by accepting a 90
percent marginal tax rate.  Bill Clinton  was the first Democratic
president to win office after voters contested Roe. With only 85
percent of the vote available to him, and with 40 percent of
that vote backing tax reduction, Clinton could only support
marginal tax rates as high as 39 percent and still capture 51
percent of the vote. With this 15 percent bloc of evangelical
Christian voters in his pocket, Reagan was able to lower
marginal rates to 29 percent and still capture the election.  Lower Tax Rates  Roe lowered the marginal tax rate from at least 39 percent
-- perhaps even 70 percent to 90 percent -- to 29 percent to
34 percent.  Most pro-investment tax cutters are pro-choice. They
endorse the pro-life agenda for no other reason than to bring
their minority bloc of voters to power. Because of this
endorsement, Republicans lose a small number of pro-investment
tax cutters to the Democrats. Opposing social conservatives is
more important to this group than defeating redistribution --
the raison d’etre of populist liberal politics. These defectors
admonish Republicans to move to the center socially. But they
fail to realize how much Republicans would have to raise  taxes 
to win enough votes from the center of the electorate to
compensate for the loss of the pro-life Christian Right.  Capturing an additional 10 percent to 15 percent of the
electorate at the center likely demands at least a 10-point
increase in the marginal tax rate -- probably significantly
more. Ironically, the defection of these pro-investment tax
cutters to the left increases the clout of social conservatives
within the pro-investment coalition -- exactly the opposite of
their objective.  This permanent shift in the center to the pro-investment
right had a significant effect on U.S. economic policy.
Americans remember the  Reagan administration  using its alliance
with the Christian Right to cut marginal tax rates, tame
inflation, and deregulate numerous industries, including
trucking, telecommunications and airlines.  Less recognized is the administration’s profound effect on
labor polices and private-sector unions. By deregulating
industries and leaving trade borders open to international
competition, Reagan put enormous pressure on heavily unionized
industries, like trucking, airlines, steel and automobile
manufacturing. He fired air-traffic controllers and replaced
them with non-unionized workers, symbolically signaling to
business leaders that he expected them to take a more aggressive
stance toward unions. His ally,  Margaret Thatcher , did the same
thing in the U.K., enduring a long strike to weaken the coal
miners’ union.  Union Tax  Reagan recognized that high-priced union wages were little
more than a tax that transferred money to union members from
consumers. He also recognized that union contracts and work
rules were a significant hindrance to  productivity improvements 
and to the creative destruction necessary for innovation. In the
decade before Reagan took office, the U.S. averaged close to 300
major strikes per year involving 1,000 or more workers per
strike -- a rate on par with the preceding decades. In the 30
years since Reagan, the U.S. has averaged fewer than 50
significant strikes per year, and only 20 per year in the last
decade.  Private-sector union membership peaked the year before
Reagan was elected and has declined steadily since. In 1979,
before he took office, there were 15 million union members in
the private sector -- more than 20 percent of the workforce. By
2007, there were only 9 million members, despite a 40 percent
increase in the workforce -- a representation of only 8 percent
of the workforce.  The defeat of private-sector unions reduced their clout
within the  Democratic Party . The success of the  U.S. economy 
prior to the financial crisis further reduced employment
concerns among voters. The Democratic Party shifted its focus to
growing public-sector unions that were less concerned about
open trade borders and government-mandated private-sector
work rules and cared more about growing government employment.  Democratic lawmakers and their public-union supporters
recognize that consumers (voters) ultimately bear the increased
cost of private-sector unions, closed trade borders, and the
restriction on trade necessary to maintain them. They result in
higher prices, slower growth, and less employment. Why would
public-sector unions bite the hand that feeds them? Unlike
private-sector unions, they have not pushed for these
inefficiencies.  (Edward Conard was a partner at Bain Capital LLC from 1993
to 2007. This is the second of two excerpts from his new book,
“Unintended Consequences: Why Everything You’ve Been Told About
the Economy Is Wrong,” available now as an e-book to be
published in hardcover on June 7 from Portfolio, a member of
Penguin Group (USA) Inc. The opinions expressed are his own.
 Read Part 1 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  French-Turkish relations 
and the  lessons of JPMorgan ; William Pesek on  online banking  in
 Asia ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama and Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 driving while distracted ; Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers on
the economics of  gay marriage ; Tim Judah on  Serbia’s elections 
and Rachelle Bergstein on  women’s shoes  and war.  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Conard at  edwardconard@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  