-- Toyota Rates Best for Suppliers as Gap to Detroit Narrows
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/toyota-rates-best-for-suppliers-as-gap-to-detroit-narrows.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  plummeted in a survey on relations with suppliers, while
gains by Chrysler Group LLC and General Motors Co. helped close
the gap between top and bottom performers.  While no company changed places on an annual list with the
six largest automakers by U.S. sales, the gulf from Chrysler at
No. 6 in supplier relations to Toyota at No. 1 was 19 percent,
the narrowest in 12 years of research by Planning Perpectives
Inc. In 2005, Toyota’s score was more than triple that of  GM (GM) ,
then No. 6. All six companies now are in the “low adequate
range,” the researcher said in a statement today.  Collaboration with suppliers can help automakers lower
costs, improve quality and spur innovation. When sales drop, as
in the recession and last year’s tsunami and earthquake in
 Japan , automakers have leaned on suppliers to cut costs, said
John Henke, Planning Perspectives’ chief executive officer.
Starting with the 2008-09 downturn, Toyota and Honda became “a
little more adversarial” with suppliers, he said.  “It has gotten worse, but they’re well above everybody
else,” Henke said in an interview.  Toyota’s rating fell 9.5 percent, the biggest decline,
while No. 2 Honda’s dropped 5.2 percent, according to
Birmingham, Michigan-based Planning Perspectives. Toyota, based
in Toyota City, Japan, and Honda, based in  Tokyo , lost points in
scoring for five straight years.  Chrysler’s Gain  Chrysler gained 12 percent, the biggest increase. The
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company, which is run by  Fiat SpA (F) ,
improved for the third straight year. While Chrysler remained in
last place, the difference between it and both GM and  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  isn’t statistically significant, Henke said.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  fell 1.5 percent while remaining in third
place for the second straight year. It is the only non-Japanese
automaker ever ranked in the top three in the survey.  GM rose 6.4 percent and ranks fifth. The Detroit-based
automaker, which exited bankruptcy in 2009, has more than
doubled its standing with suppliers since bottoming out in 2005.
Nissan Motor Co., based in Yokohama, Japan, rose 3.6 percent and
ranked fourth.  Comments from the companies show they pay attention to the
survey results.  “While we appreciate our ranking position, we clearly
understand we have work to do in strengthening our
relationships,”  Robert Young , Toyota’s head of purchasing for
manufacturing operations in  North America , said in a statement.  ‘Very Pleased’  “There has been this convergence and all the relationships
are improving overall,”  Ron Lietzke , a Honda spokesman, said
in an interview. “It validates what Honda started 30 years ago
that developing cooperative partnerships with suppliers has
perhaps become mainstream in the industry.”  At Chrysler, “we are very pleased to see evidence that the
work we are doing to improve our relationships with our
suppliers is making an impact,” Scott Kunselman, senior vice
president for purchasing, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
survey results make it clear that while we are on the right
track, we still have a long way to go.”  Ford, which had $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through
2008, earned $20.2 billion last year. The turnaround helped the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker boost its ranking 65 percent
since 2007. The company hit a plateau in supplier relations in
2010, Tony Brown, Ford’s global purchasing chief, said in a
statement.  “This year’s results tell us we have more work to do to
regain our momentum,” he said.  Survey’s Scope  Planning Perspectives surveyed 564 salespeople and
engineers from 439 direct suppliers, on areas such as trust,
communication, helpfulness in engineering and the opportunity to
make a profit.  The parts produced by suppliers, such as instrument panels,
seats, axles and navigation systems, typically make up more than
two-thirds of a vehicle’s value, Planning Perspectives has said.  While the survey collected data on European automakers,
Planning Perspectives said it didn’t have enough information to
rank those companies. If rankings had been made on what data
were collected,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  would have placed
first among the Europeans, followed by  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen
AG. (VOW)  BMW and Daimler would have topped all of the automakers in
the U.S. and Japan, and VW would have ranked last, according to
the research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  