-- Paramount Hotels & Resorts Plans 50 Hollywood-Themed Properties
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-05-14T12:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/paramount-hotels-resorts-plans-50-hollywood-themed-properties.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA) ’s Paramount Pictures is
lending its name to a group of investors building as many as 50
Hollywood- and California-themed luxury hotels worldwide.  “We will offer something unique,” Paramount Hotels &
Resorts Chief Executive Officer Thomas Van Vliet said in an
interview in the hotel-management company’s Dubai headquarters.
“In addition to luxury and services, our hotels will add
Paramount entertainment and technology as well as elements of
the California lifestyle.”  Chairman Ghassan Aridi negotiated a deal with the Viacom
unit for the licensing rights in March. Van Vliet declined to
disclose the value or details of the accord. Paramount Hotels,
owned by a group of investors from the U.S., U.K.,  Russia  and
the Middle East, hasn’t announced its first hotel opening.  The company is in talks about locations in  Brazil , the
U.K., the Caribbean, Russia, Qatar, Oman,  South Africa  and
Indonesia, Van Vliet said. The hotels will be opened in large
cities and tourist destinations and some will be part of theme
parks, resorts or casinos. Paramount’s logo, the mountain and 22
stars, has been seen by about 5 billion people and that provides
a powerful attraction, Van Vliet said.  “There is a lot of interest simply because of the
attraction of Paramount,” said Van Vliet, who was an executive
at  Accor SA (AC) ,  Europe ’s biggest hotel company, for more than 20
years.  Each of Paramount’s hotels will feature mini-theaters for
guests to use for private screenings and a library of Paramount
films will be available for them. Van Vliet said he expects
typical room rates to be around $250 to $350 a night.  “It’s not like we are trying to develop something that
looks like Planet Hollywood or Hard Rock Hotel,” Van Vliet
said. “It will be a more subtle and creative adaptation of the
Hollywood element into the concept.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  