-- Poland Raised Rates on GDP Growth and Inflation, Belka Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-14T09:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/poland-raised-rates-on-gdp-growth-and-inflation-belka-says-1-.html
Poland’s “persistently” high
 inflation  rate and solid economic-growth figures in the first
quarter prompted policy makers to raise borrowing costs last
week, central bank Governor Marek Belka said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw raised its  main rate  by
a quarter-point to 4.75 percent on May 9. The bank’s policy
remains “accommodative” and policy makers are ready to react
if the economic outlook worsens, Belka said in an  interview  for
the bank’s Obserwatorfinansowy.pl today.  The tightening came just before the European Commission
raised its economic-growth forecast for Poland to 2.7 percent,
the fastest seen this year in the European Union, citing
domestic demand and public spending on the Euro 2012 soccer
championship. The economy expanded 4.3 percent last year and was
the only EU country to dodge a recession in 2009.  “First-quarter data confirmed our view that there won’t be
a drastic, significant economic slowdown” in  Poland , Belka said
in the interview. “Companies are in good shape. Consumption has
stayed at a good level. At the same time, we saw that the
monthly figures weren’t showing a gradual fall in the inflation
rate.”  The zloty traded at 4.295 per euro at 11:10 a.m. in Warsaw,
down from 4.24 late Friday, making it the worst-performing
emerging-market currency this month. The yield on the  two-year
government bond  rose five basis points to 4.80 percent.  Economic Expansion  The May meeting was the first after the release of
preliminary first-quarter data showing Poland’s economy expanded
3.5 percent. The statistics office will publish its official
first-quarter GDP report on May 31.  While economic growth remains strong, inflation has
remained above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target since
October 2009.  “Inflation is bouncing around 4 percent, but the important
thing is its stubborn persistence at this high level,” Belka
said. “A monetary policy based on a direct inflation targeting
must influence inflationary expectations. We had to send the
appropriate signal and gradually increase its intensity.”  While investors “didn’t want to listen for quite some
time,” Belka said, “now I hope they will pay close attention
to our opinions and not just rely on their own judgment.”  Only nine of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted the rate increase last week.  The increase sent a “strong signal” that the central bank
won’t tolerate elevated inflation and policy makers can now
“return to a wait-and-see mode,”  Adam Glapinski  of the
Monetary Policy Council was quoted today as saying by PAP
newswire.  “My opinion is that we’ve done enough,” Glapinski said in
an interview, according to PAP. “Rate increases can’t be ruled
out. Certainly there’s no question of rate cuts in coming
months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  