-- Portman Defending Romney Calls Job Losses ‘Capitalism’
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-15T05:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/portman-defending-romney-on-bain-deflects-vice-president-talk.html
Ohio Senator  Rob Portman  downplayed
the political impact of job cuts linked to  Mitt Romney ’s former
private-equity firm and a $2 billion trading loss at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., calling them examples of “capitalism” that
shouldn’t affect the election or financial regulation.  Portman, a potential running mate for Romney, the
presumptive Republican nominee, also sought to deflect questions
about his prospects for joining the party’s ticket, calling
himself “better suited” to stay in the Senate.  “I think I’m better suited to stay where I am in the
Senate,” Portman said at a Bloomberg View luncheon yesterday in
 New York , declining to answer questions about whether he is
letting himself be vetted for the vice presidential spot on the
Republican ticket.  Still, Portman, 56, defended Romney’s business record,
dismissing an advertising offensive by President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election campaign that highlights job losses at a steel mill
that was taken over in 1993 by Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-
based private-equity firm Romney co-founded and led. The mill,
GST Steel, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2001.  “You know, that is capitalism,” Portman said. “There are
not different kinds of capitalism; there’s the free market, and
he can show where his efforts, net, created 100,000-plus jobs --
that’s pretty good,” Portman said of Romney.  ‘Rush Headlong’  Portman said the trading loss disclosed May 10 by JPMorgan
shouldn’t be a reason to “rush headlong” into implementing
measures under the Dodd-Frank Act aimed at strengthening
financial regulation.  “That’s capitalism. They made a mistake,” Portman said of
the loss at  JPMorgan (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, adding that
taxpayers won’t foot the bill.  In the wake of the loss, JPMorgan said Chief Investment
Officer Ina Drew will retire. The bank may lose an additional $1
billion or more as it winds down the trading position.  Portman questioned a provision of Dodd-Frank named for
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  meant to bar
proprietary trading by banks with federally insured deposits.  “I’m not saying that there shouldn’t be any regulation in
terms of derivatives, or in terms of proprietary trading,”
Portman said. “I do think the way Volcker is being implemented
would be hugely problematic.”  Romney, 65, has yet to comment on the JPMorgan loss. He has
called for repeal of Dodd-Frank, saying it should be replaced
with more limited, less-burdensome regulation.  Legislative Ally  Adding Portman to the ticket could give Romney an advantage
in  Ohio , a political battleground state won by former President
 George W. Bush  in 2004 and by Obama in 2008. The state has
backed the White House winner in 12 consecutive elections, the
longest active streak among the 50 states, and no Republican has
been elected president without carrying it.  While Portman shied away from the speculation about his
chances as a running mate, he pointed to his experience working
across party lines in Congress, where he also served from 1993
to 2005 in the U.S. House of Representatives.  “I’ve spent a career on the legislative side getting
things done,” Portman said, saying he had authored 12 bills
that were signed into law by former President  Bill Clinton ,
“which makes Republicans nervous sometimes, to hear that.”  Portman, a first-term senator who headed the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget under Bush, said he sees his role as a
legislative ally should Romney win the White House, helping the
former Massachusetts governor push his agenda through Congress.  Even with Romney as president, he said, “it would be very
difficult to get anything done given the dysfunction of the
United States Congress.”  Portman, who also was U.S. Trade Representative under Bush,
said Obama has been “way too weak on exports” to  China ,
criticizing the president for failing to seek fast-track trade
negotiation authority from Congress.  “We are sitting on the sidelines while the rest of the
world moves forward and takes away our markets,” Portman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  