-- Pound Favored as Haven Currency Amid Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-14T14:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/pound-favored-as-haven-currency-amid-europe-debt-crisis.html
The British pound has become currency
traders’ favorite refuge from the resurgent European debt
crisis, threatening efforts by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
to lift the economy out of its second recession in three years.  Sterling has appreciated 4 percent this year, the most
among 10 developed-market peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Strategists have boosted their year-end forecasts for the
pound against the euro by 3.6 percent in 2012, while options
show investors are becoming more positive on the pound versus
its 17-member European counterpart.  Bulls say the pound’s 8 percent  advance  against the euro
since the end of October, even as the Bank of England flooded
the financial system with sterling, is a sign the economy has
bottomed. Bears say the gains may prove fleeting because the
strong pound makes exports less competitive in the euro region,
which buys about 47 percent of the U.K.’s overseas sales.  “The U.K. economic backdrop may not be brilliant, but it’s
enjoying a haven status because of the political uncertainty in
the  euro zone ,”  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London, said in a telephone
interview on May 8. “The advantage of sterling over a
traditional haven like the Swiss franc is that its asset market
is more liquid. The downside is that the strength of the pound
may backfire as it hurts exports.”  Swiss Franc  Switzerland was the top choice for investors seeking safety
from global financial and political turmoil, driving the  franc 
to 1.0080 per euro in August from 1.6828 in 2007. The  Swiss
National Bank  then said on Sept. 6 it wouldn’t allow its
currency to appreciate beyond 1.20 per euro. Since then, the
franc has traded between 1.2474 and 1.1990.  That leaves the pound, which accounted for twice the daily
trading volume in the foreign-exchange market of the Swiss
currency in 2010 based on Bank for International Settlements
data, as the best alternative.  The pound strengthened 0.7 percent to 79.84 pence per euro
at 3:36 p.m. in London as  Greece  struggled to form a government
after inconclusive May 6 elections. Sterling was little changed
versus the dollar at $1.6090 after the  Bank of England  last week
halted its quantitative-easing, or QE, program at 325 billion
pounds amid the threat of inflation.  The U.K. economy fell into its second recession since 2009
in the first quarter amid Cameron’s spending cuts, the deepest
fiscal squeeze since World War II. The double-dip contraction is
the first since 1975.  ‘More Anxiety’  Growth will return over the full year, with gross domestic
product rising 0.6 percent, according to the median of 24
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The euro area will
shrink 0.3 percent in 2012, a separate Bloomberg survey showed,
as recessions grip no fewer than five countries from Greece to
the Netherlands.  “There has been a lot more anxiety about what’s been going
on in  Europe  recently than there has in the U.K.,” Jeffrey Molitor, chief investment officer for Europe at  Vanguard Group ,
which has about $1.7 trillion of assets under management, said
in an interview on May 8. “Britain is attractive because it has
a relatively stable government, an intelligent workforce and an
economy that can grow.”  Forecasts Raised  The pound will end the year at 81 pence per euro, according
to the median estimate of 42 analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. On Dec. 31, analysts were forecasting sterling would
weaken in 2012, to 84 pence from 83.34 pence. The U.K. currency
will end the year at $1.59, another survey shows, up from a
prediction of $1.56. The pound has averaged 72.26 pence per euro
since the common European currency was introduced in 1999, with
the dollar averaging $1.2081 versus the euro in the period.  Barclays Plc raised its three-month forecast for the pound
on April 23 to 79 pence per euro from 84 pence, citing
“sticky” inflation preventing the Bank of  England  from
loosening monetary policy. Royal Bank of Canada strategist Elsa Lignos said sterling will strengthen to 77 pence by the second
quarter of 2013, from a previous forecast of 79 pence.  “We expect the pound to be one of 2012’s outperformers,
with an overall positive uptrend,” London-based Lignos wrote in
a May 10 investor report.  Cameron is sticking to the austerity program pledged when
he came to the office two years ago, ending 13 years of Labour
rule. He told the House of Commons on May 9 that deficit
reduction is needed to keep interest rates low.  Cameron’s Cuts  His program includes at least 80 billion pounds of spending
cuts to eliminate a deficit totaling 8 percent of gross domestic
product by 2017. The reductions will result in 700,000 public
sector job losses and lower spending on programs ranging from
education to health care.  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Britain’s AAA rating and stable
outlook on April 13, saying Cameron will maintain his focus on
closing the budget gap.  U.K. output is about 4 percent below a pre-recession peak
reached in 2008 and unemployment at 8.3 percent was close to a
16-year high in the three months through February, the Office
for National Statistics reported on April 18, using
International Labour Organization methods.  The economy grew 0.1 percent in the three months through
April and will remain flat the next six months, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research said May 10 in  London .  Inflation Risks  The Bank of England halted its so-called  quantitative-
easing program  the same day amid rising inflation risks.
Consumer-price growth has been above the government’s 2 percent
target since December 2009. Policy makers kept their benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low 0.5 percent.  The boost the pound has received by putting QE on hold in
the recession will probably be short-lived because the economy
remains weak, according to Paul Meggyesi, managing director and
currency strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London.  “It’s an impressive blip, but it’s still a blip,”
Meggyesi said in a telephone interview on May 11. “I’m not sure
the Bank of England has the luxury of sitting on the sideline
watching while the economy continues to stagnate. The economic
foundations, or the growth foundations, of sterling strength are
not that compelling.”  Pound ‘Problem’  An appreciating currency may impose additional hardships on
U.K. companies.  “A stronger pound at a time when domestic demand is being
affected by the austerity measures is a problem,” British
Chambers of Commerce Chief Economist  David Kern  said in a May 11
telephone interview. “It hasn’t reached dimensions yet that
require immediate counteraction but it needs to be watched as it
can cause a problem for exporters.”  Sensor Technology Ltd., a Banbury, Oxfordshire-based maker
of torque sensors, which sells to companies including
GlaxoSmithKline Plc, sends about 25 percent of its exports to
Europe, said Tony Ingham, one of the three owners of the closely
held company.  “If the exchange rate changes markedly then we obviously
have to change the price that we sell at,” Ingham said in a May
11 telephone interview. “We will have to look very carefully at
the euro rate,” even as the company hasn’t adjusted its prices
yet, he said.  The pound is no  Swiss franc  in terms of national economic
fundamentals. Britain’s gross public debt to GDP ratio will rise
about 6 percentage points this year to 88.4 percent, according
to an  International Monetary Fund  forecast. Switzerland’s debt
will be 49 percent, and its  budget surplus  will extend through
next year, an IMF report showed on May 8.  Political Impasse  The euro tumbled to a more than three-month low versus the
dollar today as Greek political leaders struggled to form a
government after inconclusive May 6 elections raised the
possibility another vote will have to be held. The standoff
reignited European concern over the nation holding to the terms
of its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010, and sparked
speculation about the country leaving the currency bloc.  Fifty-seven percent of investors said at least one country
will abandon the euro by year-end, according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll published May 10.  “Sovereign debt bloat and austerity resistance are
undermining the euro,” said Clem Chambers, chief executive
officer at financial website provider ADVFN.com. “It’s thus
little wonder the currency has reached the low against the pound
not seen for three and a half years.”  Socialist President  Francois Hollande , who defeated French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to become the first Socialist in 17 years to control
Europe’s second-biggest economy, has said he’ll push for less
austerity and more growth in the region. Hollande has advocated
more aggressive measures to spur economies, putting him at odds
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who opposes adding to
nations’ debt burdens.  The premium for three-month options granting the right to
sell the euro against the pound relative to those allowing for
purchases reached 1.84 percentage points today, the most this
year. It’s up from 0.59 percentage point in January, the 25-
delta risk reversal rate shows.  “In an ugly bug ball, the pound is not quite as ugly as
the rest of them,” said  Alan Brown , a special advisor in London
at Schroders Plc, which has $319 billion in assets under
management. “The pound is one of our favorite currencies at the
moment. That’s a tactical view, although it may probably last
for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  