-- Sberbank Said to Return With Higher Denizbank Bid
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-14T15:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/qnb-talks-to-buy-dexia-s-denizbank-stall-over-price.html
Russia’s  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  has returned to
negotiations to purchase  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  with a bid higher than
that of  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , previously the only potential
buyer for the Turkish lender, according to people familiar with
the situation.  QNB remains in negotiations with  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Franco-
Belgian owner of Denizbank, after seeking a price close to the
Turkish unit’s book value, which stood at about $2.7 billion at
the end of the first quarter, the people said, declining to be
identified as the talks are private.  Alexander Baziyan, a spokesman for Moscow-based Sberbank,
declined to comment on the process or Denizbank’s valuation. A
spokesman for Dexia declined to comment.  Dexia, based in Paris and Brussels, put Denizbank up for
sale as part of a rescue plan imposed by the French and Belgian
governments when the debt crisis eroded its ability to obtain
funding. The sale came amid decisions by lenders including
Deutsche Bank AG and France’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to shed more
than $1 trillion in assets, loan portfolios and entire units to
raise cash, according to Bloomberg data, creating a surge in
available banking assets.  The European Banking Authority told the region’s banks to
raise 114.7 billion euros ($151 billion) in fresh capital in
December to respond to the fall in the value of securities
issued by euro-area governments. The agency also required banks
to keep a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent and hold
additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, to protect
against default on debt tied to weaker euro-area economies.  Sberbank Expansion  Sberbank has started expanding outside its mainstay in the
former  Soviet Union  this year by purchasing most of
Oesterreichische Volksbanken’s eastern European business. It
plans to use the Vienna-based banking group as a springboard for
buying new assets in Poland and Turkey, the biggest banking
markets in the emerging European economies.  Sberbank and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  had previously dropped out
of the Denizbank process, saying the price was too high.
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the Italian bank that is Sberbank’s biggest
competitor in the region, also said it would consider an offer
for Denizbank if the sale to QNB foundered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  