-- Rand Slumps to 4-Month Low on Europe Debt, JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-14T14:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/rand-slumps-to-4-month-low-on-europe-debt-jpmorgan-loss.html
The rand depreciated for a fifth day,
the longest losing streak since September, as commodities
retreated to their cheapest this year and stocks tumbled on
growing concern  Greece  will exit the single European currency.  South Africa ’s currency fell as much as 1.4 percent to
8.2100 per dollar, the weakest level this year. It traded 1.2
percent down at 8.1934 per dollar by 4:05 p.m. in Johannesburg,
bringing its decline this month to 5.1 percent. The yield on the
nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.79 percent, the highest on a
closing basis since April 16.  Alexis Tsipras, who heads Greece’s anti-bailout Syriza
party, won’t attend a meeting called by President Karolos
Papoulias today, the Athens-based party said in a statement.
Syriza rejected a unity government last week following
inconclusive elections on May 6. Greece may face another vote
unless leaders can agree on a new coalition. Emerging market
stocks fell to a four-month low and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index declined for a ninth day. Commodities account for 45
percent of South Africa’s exports.  “The rand remains under considerable pressure as Greece
looks like it’s sliding towards a euro zone exit”  John Cairns 
and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Risks are clearly
for further losses on both the euro and the rand.”  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, with a
statistical correlation of 0.7 over the past year. A value of 1
would mean they moved in lock step.  China  The rand extend its decline after  China  cut banks’ reserve
requirements for the third time in six months after industrial
production, new loans and retail sales grew less than forecast
last month, signalling the slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy may be steeper than expected.  Greek withdrawal from the euro area was “technically”
possible yet would damage the euro, European Central Bank
Governing Council member  Patrick Honohan  said in Tallinn on May
12. The euro area accounted for 22 percent of South Africa’s
exports last year.  “With the Greek political crisis far from resolved, there
is likely to be more bad news for investors to trade on which
will guide short-term decision making and direction,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote
in e-mailed comments today. “That the rand may have under-
performed in recent weeks does not reflect much other than the
local unit’s link to commodities that have also come under some
pressure.”  Price Swings  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar rose 45 basis points to 16 percent today, the highest
since Feb. 23, indicating that options traders see wider price
swings in coming weeks.  The yield on South Africa’s $1 billion of 8.875 percent
bonds due 2022 dropped one basis point to 3.87 percent. The
extra yield investors demand to hold the debt rather than  U.S.
Treasuries  widened by 12 basis points to 213 basis points, the
most since April 10.  The cost of insuring the nation’s foreign-currency debt
rose 11.1 basis points today to 171.1 basis points, the highest
since Feb. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The move
was the biggest in a day since Jan. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  