-- Rangers-Devils Ticket Prices Top $900 for New York Playoff Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-14T10:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/rangers-devils-ticket-prices-top-900-for-new-york-playoff-games.html
Ticket prices are climbing as the  New
York  Rangers and  New Jersey Devils  meet for a spot in the
National Hockey League’s  Stanley Cup  Final, with seats offered
for an average of almost $800 on the secondary market.  The Rangers host the Devils in the first two games of the
best-of-seven Eastern Conference finals, with Game 1 tonight at
New York’s Madison Square Garden.  Tickets for the games in New York have an average cost of
$931, more than 51 percent higher than the $615 listing price
for the three potential games at the Devils’ Prudential Center
in Newark,  New Jersey , according to  TiqIQ , an aggregator of the
online resale ticket market. Those games in New Jersey may also
see a healthy turnout of Rangers fans.  “We have seen within our transactions currently about a 4-
to-1 ratio of New York to New Jersey buyers,” TiqIQ spokesman
Chris Matcovich said by e-mail. “This obviously does not take
into account Rangers fans who live in New Jersey, which actually
might take this ratio slightly higher in favor of New York.”  The average listed ticket price of $781 for the series is
the highest for the NHL’s conference finals in TiqIQ’s three-
year history. It’s 56 percent higher than the next-highest
priced series in that span, as the 2010 East finals between the
 Philadelphia Flyers  and  Montreal Canadiens  had an average cost
of $501 on the secondary market.  All seven possible games in the East finals have a higher
average ticket price than any contest in the Western Conference
finals between the  Los Angeles Kings  and  Phoenix Coyotes .  New York would host Games 1, 2, 5 and 7, while New Jersey
is scheduled to be at home for Games 3, 4 and 6.  Rangers Are Favored  The Rangers are the -140 money line favorite, meaning
oddsmakers give them a 57 percent chance of reaching the Stanley
Cup Final, according to Las Vegas-based handicapping information
website  Pregame.com .  The Rangers and Devils split their six regular-season
games, with the last meeting on March 19 -- a 4-2 win for New
York -- starting with three simultaneous fights.  New York won the  Atlantic Division  with a 51-24-7 record
this season, while the Devils finished in fourth place out of
five teams even though they had only three fewer wins.  The last time the New York-area rivals met in the
conference finals was in 1994, when the Rangers beat the Devils
in a decisive Game 7 on Stephane Matteau’s overtime goal and
went on to win the Stanley Cup. While the Rangers have been back
to the East finals once since then, losing to Philadelphia in
1997, the Devils won NHL titles in 1995, 2000 and 2003.  “I just hope the team is not too interested in getting
caught up in all the sideshows as far as Jersey- New York
Rangers ,” Rangers coach  John Tortorella  said. “It’s great for
the area, don’t get me wrong, but we have to concentrate on who
we are and what we have to do to win some hockey games.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  