-- Romania Utilities Post First-Quarter Profit Drops on Weather
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-05-14T14:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/transelectrica-s-first-quarter-profit-declines-73-on-costs-1-.html
Transelectrica SA (TEL)  and Transgaz SA,
 Romania ’s biggest publicly-traded utilities, said profit fell in
the first quarter as a cold snap and heavy snowfall disrupted
energy supplies, lowering revenue and raising maintenance costs.  Transelectrica’s net income fell 73 percent to 43.6 million
lei ($12.7 million) from 160.9 million lei a year earlier,
according to an earnings statement to the Bucharest Stock
Exchange today. Transgaz posted an 11 percent decline in net
income in the first quarter to 173.5 million lei from 194.9
million lei a year ago, it said in its bourse filing.  Romania’s utilities need to increase spending to expand and
upgrade their outdated energy grids to accommodate growing
output and consumption. A decline in the companies’ first-
quarter profits may be compensated by higher regulated tariffs
later this year, as the country’s energy regulator is expected
to approve pricing plans for both utilities.  “Even though the volumes transported by the two companies
declined and none of them benefited from an increase in
regulated prices, the results are quite promising,” said Mihai Caruntu, an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG’s Banca Comerciala
Romana SA. “We expect 2012 to be a decent year especially if we
compare the current results with an exceptional first quarter
last year, but for  Transgaz (TGN)  it will be crucial to see a tariff
increase approved by the energy-market regulator in July.”  State-owned Transelectrica plans to invest 782 million lei
this year in power-grid expansion, as Romania’s incentives for
renewable-energy companies boost investments and wind-farm
output.  No Capital Raise  Transelectrica’s majority owner, the Romanian Economy
Ministry, has no plan to increase the company’s share capital
through a cash contribution this year, after it sold a 15
percent stake on the stock exchange in March.  Romania raised 37.7 million euros ($49 million) from the
sale of the minority stake, the country’s first in more than
four years, to meet pledges to international lenders under a
precautionary agreement. The ministry plans to sell a 15 percent
stake in Transgaz on the stock exchange this year.  “Considering the results the Transelectrica shares may
fall below 12 lei per share in the short term,” Andrei
Radulescu, an analyst at the brokerage SSIF Broker SA, said in
an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “Trangaz’s results
are decent. The company is undervalued at this point, so its
shares may rise to about 235 lei.”  Transgaz fell 6.7 percent at close to 194 lei per share in
Bucharest trading today, while Transelectrica’s shares declined
5.8 percent to 13 lei, valuing the company at 953 million lei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  