-- Treasuries Rally on Greek Concern, 7-Year Yield Falls
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-14T21:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/treasury-yields-fall-toward-3-month-low-on-greek-concern.html
Treasuries rose,  driving the 10-year
yield  to a seven-month low, as  Greece ’s leaders prepared for
more talks on forming a government amid concern failure will
force the nation from the euro area.  U.S. debt  advanced for a second day, with seven-year note
yields falling to a record low 1.1679 percent, after the party
of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  was defeated in an election
in the nation’s most-populous state. The difference between the
two-year swap rate and the yield on similar-maturity U.S. debt
widened to the most since January.  “The fear out of Europe continues as the rhetoric about
the possibility of Greece leaving the  euro zone  gets stronger,”
said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S. government trading
at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “The global growth concerns haven’t
left flight, and as such, Treasuries continue to benefit, with
investors buying any dip in prices on the march to lower
yields.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  slid seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
after touching the least since Oct. 4. The 1.75 percent note due
May 2022 added 21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 99
28/32, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year yields reached a record low 1.67 percent on Sept.
23 after a Group of 20 finance chiefs failed to ease concern the
global economy was on the brink of another recession.  Eight-Week Advance  Ten-year notes completed an eighth  weekly advance  on May
11, the longest stretch since the nine weeks ended in October
1998. That series of gains had been driven by demand for safety
after Russia said in August of 1998 it would allow its currency
to depreciate and delay some debt payments.  “It’s all about  Europe  and there is a lot of chatter about
the possibility of Greece exiting the euro zone and what the
fallout could be,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in
New York of government and agency debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “The flight-to-quality move is in
place, and as such there is demand for Treasuries as investors
are looking for a safe place.”  Treasury 10-year notes will fall to 1.5 percent as the
flight-to-quality trade will “accelerate.” Terry Belton, the
global head of fixed-income strategy for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York, wrote in a note to clients.  “Political developments in Europe took a clear turn for
the worse,” Belton wrote.  Swap Spreads  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc recommended betting on a
gain in two-year U.S. swap rates as the intensifying debt crisis
in Europe raises concern that banks will incur losses on their
bond holdings, according to Yoshinori Shigemi, a strategist for
non-yen debt at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in  Tokyo .  The gap between the two-year swap rate and the yield on
similar-maturity U.S. debt may widen to 50 basis points, he
said, from 39 basis points today. The spread’s previous high was
37.25 basis points on Jan. 19, according to Bloomberg data.  Swap rates are usually higher than Treasury yields in part
because the floating payments are based on  interest rates  that
contain credit risk. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for
investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and
auto-loan securities.  A gauge of trader expectations for inflation slid before a
Labor Department report tomorrow that economists estimate will
show the U.S. consumer-price index rose 2.3 percent last month
from a year earlier, down from 2.7 percent in March.  TIPS Yields  The  yield gap  between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, fell to as low as 2.09 percentage points
today, the least since Feb. 1.  “Recent trends in inflation are showing we may be heading
toward another downswing in inflation,” said Thomas Simons, a
government debt economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc.,
one of 21 primary dealers that trades with the  Federal Reserve .
“With inflation low at the moment, it makes you less nervous
about being in the nominal market. It takes away a little bit of
demand from the TIPS market.”  The U.S. government will sell $13 billion of 10-year
inflation-indexed bonds on May 17.  U.S. TIPS returned 3.1 percent this year as of May 11,
compared with a 0.7 percent gain for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares has handed investors
an 8.4 percent gain, including reinvested dividends, during the
period.  Inflation Measure  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy was at 2.6 percent as of May 9. The figure
compares with a 2012 high of 2.78 percent and its five-year
average of 2.79 percent.  The Fed bought $4.7 billion of U.S. bonds maturing in May
2018 to April 2019 today as part of its program to replace
shorter-term notes with longer-dated debt.  Greek President Karolos Papoulias will meet party leaders
today, state-run NET TV said, without citing anyone. Alexis
Tsipras, who heads the largest anti-bailout party, Syriza, and
rejected a unity government, won’t attend the meeting. Greece
may face new national elections unless a government is formed
following the inconclusive voting on May 6.  The outcome of the Greek election “has increased the
likelihood of a further, disorderly Greek default and ultimately
of Greece’s departure from the euro area,” Nondas Nicolaides, a
senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, wrote in a Weekly
Credit Outlook report today. “A Greek exit from the euro would
be a severe credit negative for Greek banks.”  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  got the smallest vote
share since World War II in the North Rhine-Westphalia ballot
yesterday.  The difference between two- and 30-year yields  narrowed  to
266 basis points, the least since January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  