-- Treasury Demand Shows Deficits Irrelevant With Record Yields
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-14T16:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/treasury-demand-shows-deficits-irrelevant-with-record-yields-1-.html
The inability of the U.S. government
to reduce record debt and  deficits  is being rewarded in the  bond
market .  For all the concern in Washington that the nation is piling
on too much borrowing as the deficit exceeds $1 trillion for a
fourth straight year, investors are showing insatiable demand
for its bonds. They snapped up the 10-year notes sold by the
Treasury Department at an auction last week at a yield of 1.855
percent, a record low for that maturity. Trading has  slowed  to
levels last seen before the global financial crisis began in
2007 as money managers sock away the securities.  “Are we likely to get out of this unusually low yield
environment anytime soon? I don’t think so,” said David Gerstenhaber, who founded Argonaut Management LP after leaving
 Julian Robertson ’s Tiger Management LLC in the 1990s. While
deficits will matter someday, investors’ desire to preserve the
value of their capital is capping yields, he said.  “Right now there seems to be more than enough demand for
safe haven assets on the part of fiduciaries who need fixed-
income,” Gerstenhaber, whose New York-based firm manages $1.8
billion, said in a May 10 telephone interview.  While the amount of Treasuries outstanding has more than
 doubled  to $10.4 trillion since 2007, a decline in securities
globally deemed safe enough to meet tougher  bank regulations  has
made the debt seem scarce. Citigroup Inc. says the pool of
“high-quality” debt from the U.S., U.K.,  Germany  and nine
other European countries is 72 percent of what it was in 2007.  Greater Reluctance  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, which are benchmarks for
everything from mortgages to corporate bonds, fell in each of
the last eight weeks, the longest stretch since 1998.  The yield fell as much as seven basis points to a seven-
month low of 1.77 percent today. It was six basis points lower
at 1.78 percent at 12:31 p.m. New York time, down from this
year’s high of 2.40 percent on March 20. The average over the
past 20 years is 4.93 percent. The 1.75 percent note due May
2022, which was auctioned on May 9, added 15/32, or $4.69 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 22/32, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  Even at these low rates investors are showing a greater
reluctance to sell the debt. Average weekly trading volume in
April among the 21 primary dealers was $495.7 billion, or 4.8
percent of the amount outstanding. That’s down from $649 billion
in June 2007, or 15 percent of the $4.3 trillion outstanding.
Back then, the 10-year note yield reached 5.32 percent.  ‘Top of the Heap’  “Investors continue to put Treasuries at the very top of
the heap” even though “the U.S. budget situation is terrible
and the debt burden has risen dramatically and is continuing to
do so without any clear solution in view” Robert Tipp, the
chief investment strategist for Prudential Financial Inc.’s
fixed-income division, said in a May 8 telephone interview. The
Newark, New Jersey-based insurer manages $335 billion in bonds.  The continued demand suggests worries about deficits are
misplaced, giving President  Barack Obama  and Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke the flexibility to keep spending to
generate sustainable growth.  “We just ultimately need to maintain the confidence of the
markets, and we clearly have that today,” Matt Rutherford, the
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Finance at the Treasury
said in Senate testimony on May 8. “What’s priced into the
Treasury market today is that we are going to put together a
long-term solution to our debt issues.”  Competing Plans  Representatives for  Mitt Romney , the former governor of
Massachusetts and the co-founder of private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, didn’t respond to request for comment.  Obama’s 2013 budget calls for  boosting debt  held by the
public to 77 percent of gross domestic product by 2021 from a
projected 74 percent in 2012. That compares with an increase to
86 percent for Romney, according to the nonpartisan Committee
for a Responsible  Federal Budget  in February.  Debt would rise under Romney because his budget proposal
reduces  tax revenue  by a greater amount than it cuts spending,
the CRFB study found. Obama’s budget leaves the nation’s debt
smaller than Romney’s by $246 billion in 10 years, according to
the committee’s projections.  The CRFB compares Romney’s budget with what it calls a
“realistic baseline” of debt totaling 85 percent of GDP in 10
years. That assumes the extension of policies including tax cuts
enacted under President  George W. Bush  that Obama wants to end
for families earning $250,000 or more.  ‘We’re Not Greece’  “We have a tremendous amount of debt” and “the only
thing that makes it appear to be insurmountable is that you’re
dealing with politics,”  Michael Materasso , co-chairman of the
fixed-income policy committee at Franklin Templeton Investments
in  New York , which oversees $320 billion of bonds, said in a
telephone interview May 10. “The  U.S. economy  and political
system, even though it doesn’t appear that way right now, does
have tremendous flexibility. We’re not Greece.”  Bond investors have the ability to push up borrowing costs
if they disagree with fiscal policies. Greece, Ireland and
Portugal were forced to seek bailouts from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  after investors shunned their
bonds amid concern their debt and deficits were too high.  Government spending and near zero  interest rates  have kept
the U.S. economy going even as Europe falls back into recession.
America’s GDP will expand 2.3 percent this year, according to
the median forecast of 75 economists, while Europe’s economic
output shrinks 0.3 percent, the median estimate of 41 economists
in separate surveys by Bloomberg News.  Krugman Says Borrow  The U.S. should borrow while there is strong demand at low
yields to stimulate the economy and return it to its long-term
growth-rate trend, according to Nobel Prize winner  Paul Krugman 
and Princeton University professor.  “Right now is not the time to be worrying” about debt
levels, Krugman said in a May 1 interview with  Charlie Rose .
“Slashing spending right now is counterproductive, even from a
fiscal point of view.”  Treasury debt outstanding has ballooned from $4.254
trillion in June 2007 as the government borrowed to pay for
bailouts of the banking system and programs designed to pull the
economy out of recession, including Obama’s $797 billion in
stimulus, and extensions for unemployment insurance and tax cuts
implemented under Bush.  The last four budget deficits have been the largest in U.S.
history, totaling $4.46 trillion. In that time, the 10-year
yield averaged 3.35 percent. During the preceding four-year
period it was 4.49 percent as deficits totaled $1.14 trillion.  ‘Middle Road’  “Markets have given time to the policy makers to come up
with a middle road” on spending as long as it’s part of “a
viable plan” to reduce deficits in the long term, Eric Pellicciaro, head of global rates investment at BlackRock Inc.,
said in a May 10 telephone interview. The New York-based firm
manages $1.14 trillion in fixed-income assets.  Rather than a referendum on U.S. fiscal policy, rising
demand for Treasuries shows investors seeking shelter from
global financial turmoil, according to  Stuart Thomson , a bond
fund manager at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, Scotland.  “We consider America to be the best horse in the glue
factory,” said Thomson, whose firm oversees $121 billion. “As
the world’s reserve asset and the deepest and most liquid global
government bond market,” the U.S. “still retains that safe-
haven status,” he said.  Treasuries of all maturities returned an average of 38.7
percent, including reinvested interest, since June 2007 and the
start of the crisis, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
bond indexes. That compares with a 1.7 percent loss for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  stock index when including dividends and a
7.6 percent loss in the ThomsonReuters/Jefferies CRB  Commodity
Index. (CRY)   IMF Report  When combined with a decreasing supply of high quality
debt, pending regulatory and market reforms such as those
dictated by the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law in the U.S.
and Basel III regulations for banks set by the Bank for
International Settlements will “increase the price of safety”
embedded in assets deemed a reliable store of value, the
 International Monetary Fund  wrote in an  April 18  report.  Opposition to Dodd-Frank reforms, including the so-called
Volcker rule to limit bets banks can make with their own funds,
was dealt a blow on May 10 when JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it
lost $2 billion trading synthetic credit securities.  Banks have increased  Treasury holdings  5.2 percent since
December to $475.8 billion while boosting their stake in
mortgage debt sold by government sponsored enterprises Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac 7.4 percent to $1.3 trillion, Fed data show.
The  combined amount  is up from $1.25 trillion in 2008.  Fed Positions  Central banks, led by the Fed, have also taken Treasuries
out of the market. The Fed has increased  its position  in  U.S.
government debt  to $1.67 trillion from $475 billion in March
2009 as it undertook two rounds of asset purchases to bolster
the economy.  Investors have stepped up bidding at Treasury auctions,
offering $3.18 for each dollar of the $791 billion in Treasury
notes and bonds auctioned this year, the most since the
government began releasing the data in 1992. That compares with
$2.50 in 2009, $2.99 in 2010 and the record of $3.04 in 2011.  “We are going to be in this low interest rate environment
for some time,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of
Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp.
“Investors just care about getting their money back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  