-- ResCap Judge Says Quick Request Related to Loan ‘Unfair’
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-14T23:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/rescap-judge-says-request-for-bankruptcy-loan-unfair-correct-.html
A federal judge told Residential
Capital LLC, the bankrupt mortgage company indirectly owned by
the U.S. government, to “rethink” part of its request for
approval of a $1.45 billion loan designed to help fund the
company’s operations.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan  said it was
“unfair” for the company to ask him to make certain legal
findings related to the loan on the first day of the company’s
bankruptcy without giving him more details. After the company
dropped part of its request for the judge to make a so-called
true sale finding, Peck gave the company interim approval for
the loan.  “For you to be doing what you are insisting on is
fundamentally unfair,” said Peck, who is filling in today for
another judge who will take over the case when he returns. “I’d
like you to rethink what you are doing.”  The company was in court today seeking emergency approval
to refinance two off-shore debt instruments in order to free up
cash being held as collateral for the debt. Peck said he
objected to ResCap’s request that he find the transaction
involved a true sale without producing enough evidence.  Peck halted the hearing so lawyers could decide how to
proceed on the loan request. After they returned, company
attorneys agreed to drop that provision.  ResCap filed for bankruptcy today with plans to sell most
of its assets to  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)  The company
listed assets of $15.7 billion and debt of $15.3 billion in a
petition filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.
ResCap’s Chapter 11 filing is the biggest this year, based on
liabilities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  