-- ResCap Gets Interim Approval for $1.45 Billion Bankruptcy Loan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-15T04:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/rescap-wins-interim-approval-for-1-45-billion-barclays-loan-1-.html
Residential Capital LLC, the bankrupt
mortgage company indirectly owned by the U.S. government, won
interim approval to borrow $1.45 billion to help fund the
company’s operations.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan agreed to
approve the loan after initially criticizing the request because
it asked him to make a legal finding he said he didn’t have
enough evidence to support. The so-called debtor-in-possession
loan is being provided by  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “This is just an interim order,” said Peck, who was
filling in yesterday for U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn, who
will take over the case when he returns. “I believe the DIP
loan in this instance is necessary for the commencement of this
case.”  The company was in court yesterday seeking emergency
approval to refinance two off-shore debt instruments in order to
free up cash being held as collateral for the debt.  Peck said he didn’t have enough evidence to find that a
part of the loan transaction involved a so-called true sale.
Peck agreed to approve the transaction after ResCap agreed to
remove the request for the finding from the initial loan
request. The company will return to court in about 45 days to
seek final approval.  ResCap filed for bankruptcy yesterday with plans to sell
most of its assets to  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)  The company
listed assets of $15.7 billion and debt of $15.3 billion in its
petition in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. ResCap’s Chapter
11 filing is the biggest this year, based on liabilities,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ally’s Protection  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , which is trying to repay a U.S.
government bailout, is the parent of ResCap.  Ally will have protection against creditor claims in
ResCap’s bankruptcy, said Laura Bartell, a bankruptcy law
professor at  Wayne State University  in Detroit.  “ResCap is clearly separate,” Bartell said. “It’s
independently incorporated. They have separate debt. They have
separate board of directors.”.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  