-- Romney Vowing Dodd-Frank Repeal Hits JPMorgan Risky Trades
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-05-14T16:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/romney-vowing-dodd-frank-repeal-hits-jpmorgan-inconvenient-truth.html
Mitt Romney  says he wants to talk
about the economy in this presidential campaign, including his
call to repeal the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion trading loss in risky transactions
isn’t the sort of conversation he had in mind.  So far, presumptive Republican nominee Romney has said
little about the transaction that is roiling Wall Street and
Washington, prompting an inquiry by the  Federal Reserve , a call
for a congressional investigation and a demand by  Elizabeth Warren , a Democratic Senate candidate in  Massachusetts , that
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  resign from the
board of the New York Federal Reserve.  “Any time you have a development that suggests businesses
take unnecessary and unwise risks, you give ammunition to
Democrats and cause problems for the Republican narrative,”
said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report. “Romney will have to deal with it.”  Romney, co-founder of private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
has spotlighted his vow to repeal the Dodd-Frank law that aims
to strengthen financial regulations, calling it one of several
overly burdensome laws backed by President  Barack Obama  that
costs jobs. Romney hasn’t directly commented on the JP Morgan
losses since Dimon disclosed them on May 10; he ignored a
reporter’s shouted question about the matter at a May 11 rally
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  ‘Common-Sense Regulation’  Campaign spokeswoman Andrea Saul had said in a statement
the losses showed “the importance of oversight and transparency
in the  derivatives market ,” and that Romney as president would
“push for common-sense regulation that gives regulators tools
to do their jobs, and that gives investors more clarity.” she
said.  Asked for specifics, the campaign later replied with
remarks he made last year while campaigning in  New Hampshire ,
when he said he would favor regulating derivatives and imposing
different capital requirements on different forms of securities.
The campaign also pointed to Romney’s 59-point economic plan, in
which he writes that “some of the concepts in Dodd-Frank have a
place.”  For Obama, the JPMorgan difficulties offer an opportunity
to contrast the positions of the two candidates.  “It is amazing that there are still those who are out
there arguing we should repeal  Wall Street  reform, that we
should let Wall Street write their own rules again,” White
House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said today.  Making Connections  Obama is in New York today for events including a
fundraiser with Wall Street executives.  Obama has sought greater regulation. He signed the Dodd-
Frank law and asking for more funding for the Commodities
Futures Trading Commission to implement the new rules.  “I would think the president would seek to connect the
JPMorgan story with his message of a need for regulators to
watch big business,” Rothenberg said.  Saul, the Romney spokeswoman, responded yesterday to the
Obama campaign with a statement saying the Republican “believes
in a system of sensible financial regulation,” while the
president “supported legislation that makes another crisis more
likely, thus putting taxpayers at risk for future bad decisions
made by Wall Street banks.”  Romney’s economic plan, released in September, argues for
the repeal of the Dodd-Frank law while saying some aspects of it
should be retained.  ‘Necessary Elements’  “Greater transparency for inter-bank relationships,
enhanced  capital requirements , and provisions to address new
forms of complex financial transactions are all necessary
elements of effective financial reform,” the plan says. “But
these concepts must be translated into law in a way that creates
a simple, predictable, and efficient regulatory system
appropriate for our dynamic economy.”  As the presidential race has heated up, Romney has focused
on his repeal proposal without elaborating on what parts of the
law he backs.  Romney as a candidate also toughened his position on the
Sarbanes-Oxley financial accounting overhaul enacted in the wake
of the Enron Corp. scandal. After initially saying he would
favor amending that law, he sharpened his stance.  Asked by a voter March 3 in Beavercreek,  Ohio , if he
planned to “basically repeal” the Sarbanes-Oxley measure,
along with the health-care overhaul Obama pushed through
Congress and the Dodd-Frank measure, Romney responded, “Yes.”  “By the way, when I get rid of Obamacare and I get rid of
Dodd-Frank and I get rid of Sarbanes-Oxley, it doesn’t mean I
don’t want to have any law or any regulation,” Romney said.
“It means I want to make sure it’s modern, it’s updated, it
goes after the bad guys, but it also encourages the good guys.”  Repeal Difficulty  Repealing financial reforms will be difficult following
JPMorgan’s $2 billion loss, which Dimon said could cost an
additional $1 billion this quarter or next. Proponents of
oversight will be bolstered, said Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat and chairman of the  Permanent Subcommittee  on
Investigations, on NBC News’ “Meet the Press” yesterday.  “The real problem is, the battle is not just between
 Washington  and Wall Street,” Levin said. “The battle is inside
of Washington.”  Dimon, also on “Meet the Press,” said JPMorgan was
“sloppy” and “stupid.” He said he didn’t know if his firm
broke any laws or U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
“You always make mistakes,” he said.  Volcker Rule  Dimon has been a critic of Dodd-Frank provisions including
the so-called Volcker rule, which is meant to bar proprietary
trading by banks with federally insured deposits.  When he announced the losses, almost four weeks after
characterizing articles about the transactions as “a complete
tempest in a teapot,” Dimon said the trading “may not violate
the Volcker rule, but it violates the Dimon principle.”  Warren, who formerly worked in the Office of the President
and served as chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel
for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, distributed an e-mail
over the weekend calling on Dimon to step down from his  New York 
Fed position.  “He advises the Federal Reserve on the oversight of the
financial industry,” Warren said in an e-mailed statement.
“Dimon should resign from his post at the New York Fed to send
a signal to the American people that Wall Street bankers get it,
and to show that they understand the need for responsibility and
accountability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  