-- Ropes & Gray Expands in Asia on Chinese Private Equity
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-05-14T23:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/ropes-gray-expands-in-asia-on-chinese-private-equity.html
Ropes & Gray LLP, the Boston-founded
law firm with more than 900 lawyers, said it hired two partners
from U.S. and U.K. firms in  Hong Kong  and plans to double its
Asia-based lawyers by the end of the year.  Julian Chung, 51, will join on May 28, when Ropes & Gray
becomes formally licensed to practice Hong Kong Law, from
London-based Norton Rose LLP, the Boston firm said. Gary Li, 36,
joined as a partner from New York-based Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP, on May 10. Both lawyers will work on
private equity investments in publicly-listed companies, Ropes &
Gray said.  “It’s a response to a specific request from our clients,”
said Marcia Ellis, a Hong Kong-based partner at Ropes & Gray.
She said private equity firms are increasingly investing in
public companies in mergers and acquisitions and as cornerstone
investors in initial share sales.  Ropes & Gray joins other U.S.-based law firms such as
Kirkland & Ellis LLP in increasing the number of private equity
and capital markets lawyers in Hong Kong. Wall Street firms,
including Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP, have also started advising on local law in the Chinese
city, catching up to U.K.-founded firms that have offered local
law advice since Hong Kong was a British colony.  “In the area of servicing private equity funds, we’re far
ahead of the U.K. firms,” Ellis said, adding the firm will open
an office in  Seoul  “within a few months.”  The new Hong Kong and South Korean practices will
contribute to an almost doubling of the number of lawyers the
firm has in Asia, from 35 at the end of 2011 to more than 60 by
the end of 2012, Ellis said.  Private Equity Investment  Private equity firms invested $28 billion in mainland
Chinese companies in 2011, according to the figures compiled by
the  Asian Venture Capital Journal . That compares with about $9
billion so far this year, according to the AVCJ. In the past
year the firm’s Asia-based lawyers have worked on three of
Asia’s six leveraged buyouts valued at more than $1 billion,
Ellis said.  Chung said Chinese state-owned enterprises looking to take
stakes in natural resources companies listed overseas may rely
on private equity firms to provide financing and global
expertise.  Ropes & Gray clients include Bain Capital LLC, TPG Capital,
and Baring Private Equity.  The firm opened its first  Asia  office in  Tokyo  in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  