-- Rusal Quarterly Net Slumps 84% on Weaker Aluminum Prices
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-05-14T15:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/rusal-s-first-quarter-profit-falls-84-on-weaker-aluminum-prices.html
United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest
aluminum producer, reported an 84 percent slump in first-quarter
earnings as prices of the lightweight metal declined.  Net income dropped to $74 million from a restated $451
million a year earlier, the Moscow-based company said today in a
statement. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 65 percent to $237 million, missing the $261.8
million average estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Global aluminum companies are seeing earnings squeezed as
lower demand weighs on prices of the metal used in drink cans,
cars and aircraft. Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum producer,
said in January it would shut older plants in  North America  and
 Europe  amid lower consumption and rising costs, while Rusal is
set to curtail high-cost smelting capacity in the second half.  “The first quarter of 2012 has proved to be a tough test
for the aluminum industry with the global demand for the metal
slowing down and the aluminum price weakening,” Chief Executive
Officer  Oleg Deripaska  said in today’s statement.  The company is studying cutting 300,000 metric tons to
600,000 tons of smelting output next half, Deputy CEO Oleg Mukhamedshin said on a conference call. That equates to 6.4
percent to 13 percent of total capacity, which is 4.7 million
tons, Rusal’s  website  shows.  Permanent Halt  The idled facilities won’t be restarted, according to a
 presentation  today by the company, which said it may also curb
output of alumina, the raw material used to produce the metal,
to balance capacity.  Even as Rusal scales back high-cost production, it plans to
open two more-efficient smelters in Siberia next year with a
combined initial capacity of 600,000 tons of alumina. The plants
will reduce output costs because they’ll use cheaper energy from
hydropower stations, Mukhamedshin said in April.  Aluminum averaged $2,219 a ton on the London Metal Exchange
in the first quarter, down 12 percent from a year earlier.
Rusal’s sales declined 3.7 percent to $2.9 billion.  With negative trends including prices and costs “rolling
over in April and May, we do not expect any meaningful
improvements in the second quarter,”  Mikhail Stiskin , an
analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in a note. “Ebitda in
first half could be around $500 million, or just 27 percent of
the full-year consensus estimate, driving earnings downgrades.”  Shares Slide  Rusal dropped 1.4 percent to HK$4.96 in  Hong Kong  trading
today, its lowest closing price in four months. The stock has 13
 buy  ratings, 12 hold and three sell, according to analysts
tracked by Bloomberg.  Rusal forecast stronger auto sales in  Germany , as well as
demand growth in the U.S. and  Japan .  “We’re optimistic because of the consumption figures,”
Mukhamedshin said on the call. “Consumption of aluminum is
going up all around the world except for Europe.”  Aluminum, which has declined 4.3 percent this quarter, may
rise to $2,369 a ton by the fourth quarter, according to the
average estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rusal elected Barry Cheung as chairman on March 16 to
replace  Victor Vekselberg , who quit amid a dispute with
Deripaska over the CEO’s refusal to cash in its stake in OAO
 Norilsk Nickel . Vekselberg had supported a $12.8 billion buyback
offer from Norilsk in February 2011 to help Rusal pay down debt.  Deripaska said on April 20 the 25 percent stake is a
strategic investment and may increase in value to $20 billion.
The market value of the holding fell 29 percent to $8.9 billion
at the end of March from a year earlier, Rusal said today. The
company’s net debt was $11.1 billion at the end of the quarter.  Vekselberg’s Sual Partners holding company is also seeking
arbitration over an aluminum sales contract between Rusal and
shareholder  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , saying the deal breaks a
shareholder agreement and effectively turns Rusal into
Glencore’s production unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Hong Kong at 
 Rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 