-- Russian GDP Grew 4.9% in First Quarter, Beating Estimates
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-15T14:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/russia-s-economy-probably-slowed-as-euro-crisis-roiled-exporters.html
Russia ’s  economy  grew last quarter at
the fastest pace since the three months ended September 2011,
suggesting the world’s biggest energy exporter is more resilient
to  Europe ’s debt crisis than economists estimated.  Gross domestic product expanded 4.9 percent from the same
period last year after rising 4.8 percent in the fourth quarter,
the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed
statement today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 14
economists was 4.1 percent. The Economy Ministry projected
growth at 4 percent.  President  Vladimir Putin  is counting on domestic demand to
balance shrinking sales in Russia’s biggest trading partners,
the European Union and  China . Putin, who was inaugurated for his
third term in the Kremlin on May 7, has said Russia’s growth
must exceed the global pace of expansion over the next decade by
gaining at least 6 percent annually to turn the economy into one
of the world’s five largest by purchasing power by 2015.  “This is a very good figure under quite a challenging
global backdrop,” said Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for
Russia at ING Groep NV in Moscow. “The upside surprise may be
related to an even stronger gain from the government consumption
and a better contribution from net exports.”  Stocks Fall  The 30-stock Micex Index, a ruble-denominated equities
benchmark, was 0.1 percent lower at 1,338.45 at 6:15 p.m. in
Moscow. The ruble erased earlier gains today, weakening 0.5
percent to 30.5550 against the dollar.  An increase in  government spending , including additions to
state pensions, in the run-up to March’s presidential election
helped spur domestic consumption,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of
research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note.  Retail sales grew 7.3 percent from a year earlier in March,
down from 7.7 percent the previous month. Real disposable
incomes gained 2.8 percent and unemployment remained at 6.5
percent for a second month.  Slower Growth  Russia’s economy grew at an average annual rate of 7
percent during Putin’s presidency from 2000 to 2008 before
plunging 7.8 percent in 2009. The government reduced its
projection for economic growth this year to 3.4 percent, from
3.7 percent, because investment will be weaker than initially
estimated.  Bank Rossii last week refrained from cutting  interest rates 
for a fifth month, keeping the refinancing rate at 8 percent as
it seeks to bring inflation in 2012 below last year’s record-low
level of 6.1 percent.  Policy makers said first-quarter production growth was
“sufficiently high” and industrial capacity usage in March was
near the level reached before the 2008-2009 crisis, according to
a statement that accompanied Bank Rossii’s decision on May 10.
The slowdown in March industrial output doesn’t pose risks to
the broader economy, it said.  Higher-than-expected economic growth is strengthening the
central bank’s incentive to extend the current pause in monetary
easing and increases the probability interest rates will remain
unchanged for three or four months, Tsepliaeva said.  ‘Welcome Relief’  The EU, Russia’s largest trading partner, is battling to
staunch a debt crisis that is threatening to trigger another
global slowdown. GDP in the 17-nation euro region stagnated in
the latest quarter compared with the prior three months as
 Germany  helped the bloc avoid its second recession in three
years, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Russian growth data “is a welcome relief following the
disappointing first quarter GDP releases from elsewhere in
emerging Europe earlier today,” said  Neil Shearing , chief
emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics  in  London .  “Russia is less directly exposed to the crisis in the  euro
zone  than most of its peers in eastern Europe,” Shearing wrote
in a note. “But the indirect effects of the euro crisis on
Russia could be equally severe, with the biggest risk being that
it triggers a fall in  oil prices .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  