-- Russia Stocks in Bear Market as RTS Tumbles 20% From Year High
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-14T15:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/russia-stocks-in-bear-market-as-rts-tumbles-20-from-year-high.html
Russian stocks tumbled, driving the
dollar-denominated  RTS  Index down more than 20 percent from this
year’s high as the slump in oil to a five-month low curbed
appetite for equities in the world’s biggest energy exporter.  The RTS dropped 3.6 percent to 1,401.73 compared with this
year’s March 15 peak of 1,754.81, breaching the threshold
analysts say marks a so-called  bear market . The 30-stock  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 3.5 percent to 1,337.42 by the close in Moscow,
the lowest since Oct. 6. Federal Grid Co. sank 7.2 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut the stock to sell from buy. United
Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, slumped 3.9
percent after posting an 84 percent first-quarter earnings
decline.  Oil fell as much as $2.48 to $93.65 a barrel in New York,
the lowest intraday price since Dec. 19. Russia-focused equity
funds recorded this year’s biggest outflows for the week ended
May 9, posting redemptions of $188 million, according to EPFR
Global. Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  plans to present
President  Vladimir Putin  with his proposed government candidates
tomorrow, RIA Novosti reported.  “Oil is still not offering support to the market,” Andrey Kuznetsov, an equities analyst at Citigroup Inc., said by phone
from Moscow. “There’s a lot of uncertainty surrounding the new
government cabinet. If the new cabinet consists of market-
oriented people, the market will rejoice.”  National Transmission Plan  Federal Grid, also known as FSK, the state monopoly for
high-voltage power transmission, retreated to the lowest level
in more than three years after Goldman Sachs cut the stock on
concern the company will acquire power distributor OAO MRSK
Holding and on slower-than-expected tariff growth.  Federal Grid fell to 21.42 kopeks, the weakest price since
July, 2009. The shares have fallen 24 percent this year. MRSK
dropped 6 percent to 2.007 rubles.  Russia is considering the creation of a national
electricity transmission company, Interfax reported today,
citing acting Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , without giving
a timeline for the deal. The government, which owns 56 percent
of MRSK, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, ordered that
the company be put under the management of Federal Grid, MRSK
said in a statement May 11.  Cabinet Changes  Medvedev held meetings today to discuss the makeup of the
new government RIA reported, without citing anyone.  Tatyana Golikova, the acting health minister, may be
appointed finance minister,  Nezavisimaya Gazeta  reported, citing
unidentified officials. Arkady Dvorkovich, an aide to Medvedev
when he was president, may head the  Economy Ministry , while
acting economy minister Elvira Nabiullina will be moved to the
post of health minister, the Moscow-based newspaper reported.  Russia received almost 50 percent of budget revenue from
oil and gas sales last year, according to government estimates.
 Brent crude  for June settlement dropped 1.6 percent to $110.43.  Oil fell for a second week through May 11, retreating below
$95 a barrel for the first time since December, as  Greece 
struggled to form a government after inconclusive elections,
prompting concern that the country may withdraw from the euro.  WTI may decline to $90 a barrel, and Brent to $105, as
central banks struggle to resolve the debt turmoil, Bank of
America Corp. said in a report e-mailed today.  Protests continued in the Moscow capital over the weekend
with Russian novelists and poets yesterday leading thousands in
a walk along Moscow’s central boulevards aimed at defending
people’s rights to gather on the streets without permission from
the authorities.  Police detained hundreds on May 6 after clashes between
riot officers and demonstrators who gathered in thousands to
rally against Putin 24 hours before his inauguration. More
arrests followed in the next three days as protesters held a
series of unauthorized gatherings.  Global Concern  “Global factors will continue to pressure the Russian
market,” Ilya Zharskiy, who manages $3.3 million at Astercom
Asset Management in Moscow, said by phone. “We may see a large
drop this week and the index may fall to 1,200 by the middle of
July.”  A move by Chinese policymakers to spur growth failed to
bolster global equities amid signs the country’s economic
expansion is losing steam. Reserve ratios will fall 50 basis
points, effective May 18, the  People’s Bank of China  said on its
 website  on May 12. The level for the nation’s largest lenders
will decline to 20 percent based on previous statements.  Valuations  China ’s industrial output rose 9.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau reported on May 11. That
missed a 12.2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 32 economists.  Trading on the Micex slumped 30 percent in April from the
month before compared with a 22 percent drop in the same period
a year earlier.  Russian stocks trade at 5.1  times  estimated earnings,
having lost 4.6 percent this year. That compares with a 4
percent gain for the MSCI Emerging-Market Index which trades at
9.6 times projected earnings.  -- With assistance from Jason Corcoran; Editors: Alex Nicholson,
Gavin Serkin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  