-- Salafi Party Vows to Use Reason, Not Force, to Change Tunisia
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2012-05-14T14:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/salafi-party-vows-to-use-reason-not-force-to-change-tunisia.html
The head of  Tunisia ’s first licensed
Salafi party said today the group was intent on showing that
democracy and strict adherence to Islam could co-exist in the
secular nation that gave birth to the so-called Arab Spring
uprisings.  The main challenge for the Islah Front party, which was
licensed on May 11 by the Islamist-led government, is to change
the misperception toward Salafis in Tunisia, who “have faced a
smear campaign by the secularists,” party head Mohamed Khouja
said in a telephone interview.  The principle of freedom espoused by democracy does not run
counter to Islam, and “we do not see a contradiction between
Sharia and contemporary modernism,” Khouja said, referring to
 Islamic law  by its Arabic name.  Tunisia’s uprising that began in December 2010 set in
motion other mass protests across the Arab world that led to the
ouster of its president, as well as the leaders of  Egypt  and
 Libya . Since then, Islamists have gained solid holds in power,
dominating the legislatures of both Tunisia and Egypt.  In addition, Salafis, who adhere to a stricter
interpretation of Islam, have emerged as a force in politics
after decades of crackdowns by the secular governments in those
countries.  The Salafis’ growing strength has raised worries among
secularists and others that they may seek to impose strict
Islamic guidelines. In turn, those could limit  women’s rights 
and undercut key revenue sources for the country such as tourism
by banning alcohol sales in restaurants or the mixing of the
sexes on beaches. Salafis in Tunisia have already clashed with
artists during protest rallies.  Khouja stressed that Islah “is a political party based on
the principles of reform within the Islamic heritage, and we
will not use force to prohibit wine or beach clothing.”
Instead, the party will use “persuasion and advice” to change
attitudes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunisia via the Cairo newsroom at 
   jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  