-- San Antonio Voters Pass Record $596 Million in Bonds
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-05-14T22:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/san-antonio-voters-pass-record-596-million-in-bonds.html
San Antonio  won authority to borrow a
record $596 million from the municipal-bond market in Texas
elections that put $1.8 billion in debt issues before voters.  The state’s second-largest city topped all others in the
amount requested from voters in municipalities and school
districts across Texas in the May 12 polling, according to
Strategic Partnerships, an Austin consulting firm.  In five separate items, San Antonio voters passed debt
issues for bridges and streets; drainage and flood control;
parks and public buildings. The largest amount, $337.4 million,
will cover roadwork. Approval margins ranged from 62 to 73
percent, according to a municipal website. With 1.3 million
residents, San Antonio trails only Houston, with 2.1 million,
among  Texas  communities, according to U.S. Census Bureau data.  “The election is a clear mandate on the city leadership,
the mayor and the city manager,” Christian Archer, a consultant
to Mayor Julian Castro, a 37-year-old Democrat, said today by
telephone. He said municipal voters passed a $550 million bond
authorization in 2007.  Archer, who organized a campaign for this month’s bond
measures, said residents were willing to let the city borrow
because San Antonio “is in such a strong financial condition.”  The city is the only one among the 10 largest in the U.S.
by population to get top ratings on general-obligation debt from
the three biggest evaluators of municipal credit.  Voters Approve  Across Texas, voters approved more than $1.5 billion of the
bonds up for authorization, according to J. Lyn Carl at
Strategic Partnerships.  Among the larger bond questions on municipal ballots, a
$97.5 million proposition in the New Caney Independent School
District, near Houston, won approval by a two-to-one margin,
according to the district’s website. The money will pay for
renovations and new school buildings.  In Andrews County, near Midland in West Texas, voters
agreed to $59.4 million in borrowing for a new Permian Regional
Medical Center hospital, according to unofficial results from
the county appraisal district.  Voters in the town of Addison, north of  Dallas , passed
measures to permit $56 million in bonds, mostly to finance
street and utility repairs and improvements. The results were
posted on the community’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow at  kwarbelow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 