-- SAP’s Facebook for Companies Trails IBM in Soaring Market
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-05-15T12:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/sap-s-facebook-for-companies-trails-ibm-in-soaring-market.html
Martina Girkens is determined to
change the way  Continental AG (CON) ’s 160,000 employees work together
in what amounts to a micro version of how  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
Twitter Inc. have linked more than 1 billion people.  In the past two months, Girkens has helped more than half
of the German auto supplier’s workers set up online profiles
that let colleagues find each other and team up when specific
skills are called for.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
provided the internal social networking system, even though  SAP
AG (SAP)  runs most of its back-office programs, including personnel
management software. That’s a headache for the company’s
technology staff.  It’s a typical conundrum for many customers of SAP, which
has lagged behind efforts to provide social networking software
for corporate customers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  Now, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP wants to catch up,
challenging IBM and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  in a market that’s
growing 60 percent a year and will reach $6.4 billion by 2016,
according to Forrester Research.  “We’d like to see a better integration of tools in the
workplace, so you don’t always need to switch back and forth
between programs,” says Girkens, Continental’s head of
technology for corporate functions.  SuccessFactors Takeover  SAP has boosted its presence in the market with the
acquisition last December of SuccessFactors Inc., whose software
includes Jam, a program featuring a Facebook-style layout, video
integration and tools to help new hires get up to speed. SAP
also offers StreamWork, a collaborative decision-making tool and
a rival to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s SharePoint.  The increasing demand for employee productivity has also
fueled the growth of independent makers of social enterprise
software, including  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) , which shares have jumped
50 percent since its initial public offering in December.
Salesforce.com, which offers Chatter as an internal business-
collaboration platform, has surged 35 percent this year, beating
SAP’s 19 percent increase.  SAP slipped 0.1 percent to 48.74 euros at 2:28 p.m. on the
Frankfurt exchange. The company has a market value of 59.9
billion euros ($77 billion).  For  companies  that make such software, the main advantage
is connecting directly with customers’ employees, strengthening
their hold on a client, says  Ray Wang , chief executive officer
of Constellation Research Group in  San Francisco .  Next Category  “The world of enterprise and consumers are blending,”
Wang said. “That’s why social is critical for a company that’s
trying to defend a billion users from someone else’s sales
activities.”  After focusing on routine enterprise tasks like payroll and
supply-chain management for the first 35 years of its existence,
SAP, beginning in 2007, ventured into business analytics,
software for mobile devices, cloud computing and databases. The
company wants to add a new field of business every 12 to 18
months, Co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe said last year, singling out
collaborative software as the next category.  Office workers at Hanover-based Continental can use the IBM
program, called Connections, to navigate internal forums, write
company-wide blogs, and find peers across the world. The
initiative also involves Microsoft’s SharePoint to collaborate
on documents and IBM’s SameTime for chatting.  Girkens plans to add editable Wiki documents and a search
function which helps weed through unstructured content.  Intel Adviser  About the same time Continental started its social network,
SAP hired consultant and blogger Sameer Patel to lead its entry
into the market.  Patel, who has advised clients like  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  on collaboration, says solutions have to tie into business
processes, like customer-relationship management or material
sourcing, where employees actually encounter ad-hoc problems,
rather than being a blanket forum.  “You need to have the level of depth around these core
processes that SAP has offered for 40 years, where social
becomes more focused and works as an enabler,” said Patel, who
is scheduled to discuss SAP social networking software today at
the Sapphire conference in  Orlando ,  Florida .  SAP today began offering its mainstay software including
payroll and supply-chain management via the Internet, Lars
Dalgaard, the head of cloud operations, said in Orlando today.
The service contains software to interact with customers via
Facebook and Twitter.  Internal Messaging  SAP’s 55,000 employees now have the option to use
SuccessFactors’s Employee Central platform internally, including
performance-review functions, Chief Information Officer Oliver
Bussmann said in an interview.  Since many companies have already signed up with
competitors, SAP can’t afford to simply offer what’s already on
the market, said Ramon Baez, chief information officer at
 Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of Huggies diapers.  A Kimberly-Clark engineer in  Wisconsin  was recently trying
to set up a business-to-business website where clients can
validate multiple products by running a test on one single
sample. He wrote about his problem in an internal messaging
group and got the solution from a U.K.-based employee who had
written a book on the matter.  Baez, whose company started using Chatter last year, said
any new solution needs to be accessible from anywhere, via the
so-called cloud, and the social network should support video
messaging. Currently, Chatter and SharePoint don’t work
together, he said.  Like Tablet Computers  “If you looked at the tablet market last year with the
iPad, the Samsung Galaxy, the Playbook, only a couple
survived,” Baez said. “There may well be room for competition,
but if SAP wants to come up with a solution, they have to show
how it’s going to differentiate.”  Other independent makers of social enterprise software
include Yammer Inc., Box Inc. and Lithium Technologies Inc.
SAP’s venture arm has invested in the latter two. Taking over a
smaller company makes sense for SAP to help plug gaps and boost
adoption, Constellation’s Wang said.  As SAP and others push forward on corporate social
networking, they may find many companies willing to take a look
at their offerings.  “We definitely don’t want to be too dependent on one
supplier,” Continental’s Girkens said. “The aim should be to
obtain as many synergies as possible, but not to be locked in
with proprietary formats and interfaces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Orlando, Florida at   crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  