-- Saudi Security Tightens Around World’s Biggest Crude Facility
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-05-14T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/saudi-security-tightens-around-world-s-biggest-crude-facility.html
Lieutenant Talal al-Hajri guides his
four-by-four slowly around the perimeter of the world’s biggest
oil plant in the eastern deserts of  Saudi Arabia . Motion
detectors mounted over multiple tiers of fencing will capture
any movement, he says, “even a bird.”  Al-Hajri is patrolling the Abqaiq installation as a
member of the 35,000-strong Facilities Protection Force, which
also guards oil pipelines and desalination plants. This month, 
with U.S. army officers watching from a grandstand, the unit 
deployed new remote-control devices for defusing explosives in 
exercises that  simulated scenarios  such as the hijacking by 
terrorists of a gasoline tanker. Some 2,600 Saudi troops were 
trained in the technology, the government said.  Upheaval in the  Persian Gulf  has amplified Saudi concerns.
Regional leaders have exchanged charges of political meddling
while tensions over  Iran’s nuclear program  have helped keep oil
above $100 a barrel for most of this year. In Yemen, where U.S.
and Saudi intelligence disrupted an al-Qaeda bomb-building plan,
unrest has weakened the central government. That environment has
prompted Saudi rulers to tighten security against the threat of
the kingdom’s first major terrorist attack since a foiled
suicide bombing at Abqaiq more than six years ago.  Another attack on Abqaiq “would be quite a shock,” said
 Paul Sullivan , a political scientist specializing in Middle East
security at  Georgetown University  in Washington DC. “An all-out
hit that shut it down for weeks or months could bring the oil
price to $250 a barrel or even much more. This would also change
the psychology of the entire world oil market’s sense of risk
and vulnerability.”  Car Bombs  Islamic militants linked to al-Qaeda tried to penetrate the
southern gate of Abqaiq with twin car bombs on Feb. 24, 2006.
The failed attack caused a surge of almost 4 percent in oil
prices. In May 2004, militants attacked a residential complex
for oil industry employees in the eastern coastal town of al-
Khobar, killing 22 foreign workers.  Crude jumped more than 3 percent on March 1 this year when
Twitter messages, internet blogs and an Iranian state news
channel said an explosion had destroyed a pipeline near the  Ras
Tanura  refinery. Prices dropped after a Saudi denial.  Oil is currently trading at about $94 per barrel after a 10
percent decline this month.  On his daily circuit around the facility to check perimeter
defenses, Al-Hajri points out the site of the 2006 attack, which
spurred Saudi Arabia to set up the protection force. He
describes the location as the “Red Gate.” It’s now closed off
by cement barriers, and a truck with a mounted machine gun sits
outside under a shaded canopy.  Pipeline Patrol  Other patrols follow the route of the pipelines that carry
crude to Ras Tanura. The refinery lies near al-Qatif in the
 Eastern Province  where most of kingdom’s Shiite Muslim minority
live.  Shiite protesters have clashed with Saudi forces this year
in what the government has described as a new form of terrorism.
Saudi troops entered  Bahrain  in March last year to help quell
unrest among the Shiite majority there.  On the outskirts of Abqaiq, anti-aircraft guns sit behind
sand bunkers. In front of the main gate, Colonel Bandar al-
Harbi, in military fatigues with sunglasses to shield from the
desert glare and an automatic handgun strapped around his upper
thigh, directs a force that scans the undercarriages of trucks
and trunks of cars as they head inside.  “We are mainly looking for explosives,” said al-Harbi, a
native of Abqaiq and son of a retired employee of the state-run
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. “We are looking for anything
suspicious.”  Spare Capacity  Saudi oilfields hold a fifth of the world’s reserves and
are key for the global economy. When 1.3 million barrels a day
of Libyan output halted during the revolt against  Muammar Qaddafi , extra Saudi output covered the gap.  “Saudi Arabia is the only place that has significant spare
production capacity,”  Paul Gamble , chief economist at Jadwa
Investment Co., said. “If something eats into that there’s
little scope for production elsewhere being raised to
compensate.”  Saudi security forces detained more than 100 terror
suspects in March 2010, and some were accused of plotting
attacks on energy installations and military sites in the east.
It was the biggest sweep since August the previous year, when
authorities said they broke up an al-Qaeda-linked network of
university graduates and businessmen who were organizing and
recruiting for attacks.  The government has boosted defense spending, agreeing to a
$29.4 billion deal in December to buy 84  Boeing Co. (BA)  F-15 planes
and upgrade its existing fleet.  Disarmament Droids  The facility defense force is overseen by Prince Mohammed,
the assistant interior minister and son of Crown Prince Nayef.
Mohammed landed by helicopter on May 7 at a training center
outside the oil hub of Dammam to preside over an exercise
displaying the new protection system.  He watched remotely controlled buggies maneuvered by Saudi
soldiers. They lowered its crane arm over a suspected bomb,
placing a concrete tube around it that would contain the impact
of a blast, before removing it to be disarmed. Another larger
unmanned vehicle used a two-pronged fork-lift to carry away a
truck stowed with explosives. One of the remote vehicles was
powerful enough to tow a full-size gasoline tanker. Others were
small enough to peek under vehicles for bombs.  Prince Mohammed has direct experience of the need to stay
vigilant. In August 2009 he was injured when a suicide bomber
blew himself up at the prince’s office in Jeddah, on the Red Sea
coast, after saying he wanted to turn himself in. Officials said
the explosives were hidden in the assailant’s underwear.  ‘Deeply Embarrassed’  Saudi authorities said that attack was planned in Yemen,
where the government lacks control over much of its territory
and is fighting al-Qaeda militants in the south. Earlier this
month, the U.S. said that it had worked with Saudi Arabia to
foil a plan by al-Qaeda in Yemen to build a potentially
undetectable bomb and blow up an airliner. A Saudi agent inside
the group played a key role, according to the  Associated Press .  “Al-Qaeda has been deeply embarrassed that they have been
penetrated so deeply by Saudi intelligence,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “They may want to respond
by trying to target a Westerner or by attacking an oil
installation.”  Saudi Arabia’s combination of intelligence and policing has
been a success, Sullivan said.  “So far, so good,” he said. “But no protection is
perfect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  