-- Schaeuble Urges Greece to Act Right, Avert ‘Terrible’ Cost
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-14T12:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/schaeuble-urges-greece-to-act-right-avert-terrible-cost-1-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  urged  Greece  to make the “right decision” over its
future in the euro to avert the “terrible” poverty that would
follow re-adoption of its own currency.  Germany  respects Greece’s democratic right to decide its
own course of action yet exiting the euro would cause the
devaluation of a new Greek currency and “a huge amount of
turbulence for the rest of us,” Schaeuble told a group of
school students today in Berlin.  “We can only hope that the Greeks make the right
decision,” Schaeuble said. “If they make another decision,
we’ll have to react in such a way as to ensure that the
consequences are as constrained as possible.”  Stocks and European  government bonds  fell today ahead of a
meeting of single-currency area finance ministers in Brussels
and the euro weakened to a three-month low on concern that
Greece will exit the 17-nation currency union following its
inconclusive May 6 elections.  Schaeuble said staying in the euro would mean “advantages
for the Greeks are greater, but it will be strenuous.”  “We have a very nervous situation in the  euro zone ,”
Schaeuble said. “We have to get Greece back on its feet.”  Merkel-Hollande Meeting  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will host French President-elect
Francois Hollande in Berlin tomorrow. Hollande, who defeated the
incumbent,  Nicolas Sarkozy , with a platform of shifting away
from the Merkel’s focus on austerity, also wants to reopen the
European Union’s budget treaty to include measures to spur
economic growth.  “I think Hollande knows that the fiscal pact can’t be
renegotiated,” Schaeuble said.  Even so, Schaeuble said that he was confident Franco-German
relations will continue on a good course and that any
difficulties will be overcome.  Schaeuble also signaled that he’s ready to head the group
of euro-area finance ministers. He said the so-called euro group
must be led by a finance minister from one of the euro nations
after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker steps down, and that he
has to go to meetings anyway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  