-- Schaeuble Says If Greeks Had Own Currency It Would Devalue
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-14T10:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/schaeuble-says-if-greeks-had-own-currency-it-would-devalue.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that Greeks are better off in the euro, for all
the efforts required to stay in the single currency.  “The advantages for the Greeks are greater, but it will be
strenuous,” Schaeuble said today during a visit to a Berlin
school. “The price if they decide to leave the euro is very
high.” If Greece left and reintroduced its own currency, it
would devalue, he said.  An exit from the  euro zone  wouldn’t only harm the country
leaving, he said. “It would cause a huge amount of turbulence
for all of us.”  Stocks and European  government bonds  fell and the euro
weakened to a three-month low on concern that  Greece  will exit
the 17-nation currency union as the political impasse in Athens
following inconclusive elections entered a second week.  “We have a very nervous situation in the euro zone,”
Schaeuble said. “We have to get Greece back on its feet.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will host French President
 Francois Hollande  in Berlin tomorrow after his election on a
platform of a switch away from the chancellor’s focus on
austerity. He also wants to reopen the European Union’s budget
treaty to include measures to spur economic growth.  “I think Hollande knows that the fiscal pact can’t be
renegotiated,” Schaeuble said.  Even so, Schaeuble said that he was confident Franco-German
relations will continue on a good course and that any
difficulties will be overcome.  Schaeuble also signalled that he is ready to head the group
of euro-area finance ministers. He said the so-called euro group
must be led by a finance minister from one of the euro nations
after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker steps down, and that he
has to go to meetings anyway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at   acrawford6@bloomberg.net  