-- SEC Sues China Natural Gas Chairman for Secret Loans to Son
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-14T21:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/sec-sues-china-natural-gas-chairman-for-secret-loans-to-son.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a China-based natural gas company over claims
its chairman secretly used the firm’s money to make $14 million
in loans to benefit his son’s real-estate business.  Qinan Ji, the former chief executive and current chairman
of  China Natural Gas Inc. (CHNG) , arranged the two short-term loans,
one through a sham borrower, in January 2010, the SEC said in a
lawsuit filed today at U.S. District Court in  Manhattan . Ji lied
about the loans to the company’s board, investors and auditors,
as well as during an internal investigation into the matter, the
SEC said.  China-based companies listed on U.S. exchanges have faced
increased scrutiny over the past two years after regulators
became concerned that certain firms may not be providing
accurate financial statements to investors. Many of the
companies, like China Natural Gas, entered the U.S. capital
markets through so-called reverse mergers, in which a closely
held firm buys a shell company already listed on an exchange,
allowing them to sell shares without the scrutiny that would
surround a public offering.  “Ji’s misconduct caused  China  Natural Gas to file a series
of false reports with the SEC and showed total disregard for his
obligations as an officer and director of a company whose stock
trades in the U.S.,” John McCoy, associate director of the
SEC’s regional office in  Los Angeles , said in a statement.  In a separate action today, the SEC halted trading in 379
shell companies that could be used for reverse mergers.  The SEC is seeking unspecified financial penalties and to
bar Ji from acting as an officer or director of a public
company, according to the complaint.  Ji, a resident of Shaanxi Province, China, could not be
immediately located. A call to a telephone number listed on
China Natural Gas’s website wasn’t answered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  