-- SEC Halts Trades in 379 Shell Companies in Fraud-Prevention Push
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-14T14:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/sec-halts-trades-in-379-shell-companies-in-fraud-prevention-push.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission halted trading in 379 shell companies over concern
that fraudsters could hijack stocks to steal investor money.  The trading suspensions, the most by the SEC in a single
day, stem from the work of an agency task force that identified
clearly dormant microcap stocks in 32 states and at least six
countries, the SEC said today in a statement.  Microcap shares have long been used for frauds such as
pump-and-dump schemes, in which a perpetrator buys stock in a
thinly traded company and touts its value through false and
misleading statements. Illicit profits are reaped when those
behind the fraud dump their shares into the market after pumping
the prices higher.  “Empty shell companies are to stock manipulators and pump-
and-dump schemers what guns are to bank robbers -- the tools by
which they ply their illegal trade,” SEC Enforcement Director
 Robert Khuzami  said in the agency’s statement. “This massive
trading suspension unmasks these empty shell companies and
deprives unscrupulous scam artists of the opportunity to profit
at the expense of unsuspecting retail investors.”  Regulators sharpened their focus on shell companies about
two years ago amid complaints that issuers, many from  China ,
were using them to enter U.S. markets through so-called reverse
mergers. In a reverse merger, closely held firms buy shells that
let them sell shares on exchanges without the scrutiny that
would surround a public offering.  Several reverse-merger companies have seen their share
prices plummet amid allegations that their financial statements
were inaccurate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  