-- Senator Presses SEC Over Decision to Put Investigator on Leave
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-05-14T20:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/senator-presses-sec-over-decision-to-put-investigator-on-leave.html
U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  is
pressing the Securities and Exchange Commission to explain how
the agency decided to place the chief investigator in its
inspector general’s office on leave over concerns he posed a
threat to other employees.  In three letters sent today, including one to SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro , Grassley, of  Iowa , asked for a copy of the
“security threat evaluation” that was used to exclude the
investigator, David Weber, from the SEC’s offices. Grassley, the
senior Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, also
requested details on any complaints that were filed about Weber.  Weber was suspended last week after some of his co-workers
said they were bothered by his suggestion that he and other
employees in the watchdog office seek authorization to carry
guns as part of their jobs. The concerns were raised after Weber
reported allegations about the conduct of former Inspector
General H.  David Kotz  to an outside group for review.  Weber’s complaint, filed in late March, could cast doubt on
the integrity and independence of Kotz’s investigations into the
SEC’s failure to catch the  Bernard Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford
Ponzi schemes, according to people familiar with the matter.  The brouhaha has prompted Schapiro and the other four SEC
commissioners to look for an independent attorney to review the
allegations. They are also seeking a person unaffiliated with
the SEC to run the inspector general’s office on a temporary
basis.  Along with Schapiro, Grassley sent letters to Acting
Inspector General Noelle Maloney and Chuck Tobin, the president
of  At-Risk International LLC , the firm that conducted the
security review. The senator asked them to respond by May 21.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment as did
Weber’s attorney, Christopher Mead. Tobin and Maloney didn’t
immediately return calls.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 