-- Sexwale Aid for Poor Seen as Boon for Banks: Mortgages
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/sexwale-aid-for-poor-seen-as-boon-for-banks-mortgages.html
When Mzukona Mantshontsho approached
a real estate agent about buying a two-bedroom, 300,000 rand
($37,500) house in a new development south of Johannesburg this
year, she told him he’d need a 10 percent deposit for his
application to be considered, and his salary was too low.  Human Settlements Minister  Tokyo Sexwale , who spent 13
years in prison with former President  Nelson Mandela  and served
in his first post-apartheid government, is trying to help South
Africans like Mantshontsho, who lost his first home and his
unblemished credit record when he was laid off 10 years ago. The
government’s new Finance-Linked Individual Subsidy Programme is
intended to make it easier for low-income buyers to get loans.  “I am in a committed relationship, hence my desperate need
to have property,” said Mantshontsho, a 37-year old father of one
who earns 6,500 rand ($852) a month as a journalist at a non-
profit community newspaper, and rents his home. “I’ve been
looking for two years, but affordability through the banks has
been an issue. The agent told me I would have to earn at least
9,000 rand for her even to consider my application.”  Reducing the country’s housing backlog, which has grown to
2.3 million from 1.5 million in 1994 when the  African National
Congress  took office after the nation’s first all-race
elections, is a key unmet goal in the transition to a
multiracial democracy. The government is falling behind even
after building 4 million low-cost homes, and 16 percent of the
population lives in substandard housing, as banks tighten
lending standards while property prices fall.  Down Payment Help  The government plan, known as FLIPS, reduces the initial
home loan amount for first-time buyers of properties that cost
300,000 rand or less by serving as a down payment, bringing
mortgage-financed housing within reach of low-income earners.
The nation’s banks are counting on the subsidies, together with
a government mortgage guarantee program due later this year, to
help revive lending, stagnant since 2009 as the economy slowed
and lending criteria tightened.  Mortgage lending growth  in  South Africa  slowed to 1.2
percent in the year through February, from 3.3 percent a year
earlier, according to central bank data. The pace of growth was
as high as 9.9 percent in 2009 as the central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a three-decade low of 5.5 percent and
kept it there for a record 18 months. FLIPS may lift lending in
the affordable-home segment, which accounts for about 5 percent
of the nation’s 831 billion rand mortgage market.  ‘Huge Impact’  “It’s going to have a huge impact on the market,”
Nicholas Nkosi, director of affordable housing at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. “One of the reasons
for the slump in mortgage lending is affordability, and this
subsidy will address that.”  Standard is the biggest lender in South  Africa ’s low-cost
housing market, with 12 billion rand of loans, about 30 percent
of the market, Nkosi said. Affordable-housing loans account for
4.2 percent of the lender’s mortgage book.  “We want to double that by 2015,” Nkosi said. “It is a
hard target but it is achievable. It is a market we’re focusing
on.”  Sexwale, 59, a former member of the ruling African National
Congress’s military wing who left government for business in
1997 before returning to President  Jacob Zuma ’s cabinet in 2009,
introduced the new finance-linked subsidy on April 1 and plans
to start the mortgage guarantee plan later this year. South
Africa should also consider creating a state-owned construction
company to reduce the cost of building new homes, he told
lawmakers in  Cape Town  on May 9.  Who Qualifies?  Under FLIPS, households earning between 3,501 rand and
15,000 rand per month qualify for subsidies ranging from 87,000
rand to 10,050 rand, depending on income, in terms of the
program. The subsidy amount is inverse to  household income ,
according to government documents.  Prospective home buyers receive the subsidy only if they
qualify for a mortgage to buy a new house for less than 300,000
rand in a housing development approved by the National Housing
Finance Corp., a unit of the Department of Human Settlements.
The subsidy takes the place of a cash deposit.  About 10 percent of South Africans, or 4.5 million people,
predominantly blacks, live in self-built shacks in so-called
shanty towns in South Africa’s six major urban areas, according
to the Human Sciences Research Council, a Pretoria-based,
government-funded research organization. Another 6 percent live
in rural dwellings.  Apartheid’s Legacy  South Africa’s housing backlog is partly a legacy of
apartheid, which consigned black people to rural areas or so-
called townships on the outskirts of cities. More affluent
suburbs closer to city centers were reserved for white  South
Africans , who make up about 4.6 percent of the population.  Black South Africans like Mantshontsho, who covers
community news for the Cosmo City Chronicle, a free newspaper,
were barred from owning property in South Africa’s urban areas.
Government houses built since 1994, when the African National
Congress came to power, are typically 40 square meter brick
structures, with two or three rooms, running water and
electricity. The homes, known as RDP houses after the
government’s Reconstruction and Development Plan which conceived
them, were often built on available land far from urban centers.  Mantshontsho pays 1,500 rand a month rent to share a three-
bedroom house in Cosmo City, a sprawling RDP development south
of Johannesburg where he is also looking to buy a home. While
he’d prefer to live closer to the city center, where his
workplace is located, housing there is unaffordable, he said.  Slowing Growth  Slowing economic  growth ,  unemployment  of 24 percent,
 inflation  that’s almost doubled since September 2010 and
household debt levels, on average, of 75 percent of disposable
income, have put  mortgage loans  out of reach of many consumers.
In addition, South Africa’s National Credit Act came into effect
in 2005, establishing strict criteria for bank lending, said
Jacques du Toit, a real-estate analyst at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  in
Johannesburg, a unit of Barclays Plc and South Africa’s second-
biggest mortgage lender.  “It’s not that we don’t want to lend,” Du Toit said in a
phone interview. “To a large extent, the problem is on the
demand side. Mortgages tapered off quite significantly during
the recession and haven’t really recovered. The National Credit
Act has tightened lending criteria, and many consumers are still
battling with impaired credit records.”  South Africa’s economy, which emerged from a recession in
2010, will probably grow by 2.7 percent this year, down from 3.1
percent growth in 2011, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in
his February budget speech.  Lending Rates  The central bank has kept its benchmark  repurchase rate  at
5.5 percent, the lowest level in more than three decades, since
November 2010 to help support growth in Africa’s largest
economy. Inflation, which exceeded the bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target for four consecutive months until February and
was at 6 percent in March, will probably peak at 6.5 percent in
the second quarter, Governor Gill Marcus said on March 29. The
rate was 3.2 percent in September 2010.  Investors are betting the central bank will lift its repo
rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, in the next
year, with forward-rate agreements starting in 12 months
yielding 6.01 percent. An increase in the repo rate, which banks
use as a benchmark for  mortgage rates , would make the loans even
less affordable for many consumers and banks less eager to
finance them, Du Toit said.  Falling Home Prices  “It’s not only affordability that is an issue,” he said.
“You also have to take into account the property cycle. With
real home prices in decline, you’d be financing a depreciating
asset. Obviously, banks are reluctant to do that.”  South African small-home prices dropped 18 percent in April
from a year earlier to 622,000 rand, compared with a 4.9 percent
decline in the prices of mid-sized homes and a 0.5 percent drop
for large houses, Du Toit wrote in May 8 research note. That
puts a small home of 80 to 140 square meters out of reach of
Mantshontsho and many others, who can only dream of owning a 40
square meter house with the government’s help.  Mid-sized houses of 141 to 220 square meters sell on
average for 964,000 rand, and large homes of up to 400 square
meters for 1.47 million, according to Absa. A four-bedroom home
in one of Johannesburg’s more affluent, predominantly white,
northern suburbs can fetch between 5 million and 15 million
rand.  The average monthly income of a South African household is
14,000 rand, according to Statistics South Africa.  Affordable Home Lending  Absa’s affordable-housing loan book, catering for mortgage
loans of 300,000 rand or less, rose by 11 percent to 7.4 billion
rand, or 2.5 percent of total mortgages, in 2011 even as its
overall home loan book declined by 5 percent, according to the
company’s 2011 annual report.  At Johannesburg-based First National Bank Ltd., a unit of
 FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , the third-biggest lender, residential mortgages
grew 2.2 percent to 156 billion, with affordable housing
accounting for 8.2 billion, or 5.2 percent of that, according to
the company’s 2011 annual report.  “The increase in advances was driven mainly by growth in
affordable housing where sales increased 13 percent,” CEO
Michael Jordaan said in the report.  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s home loans declined 1.9 percent to 143
billion rand in the year through December 2011. Affordable-
housing loans stood at 3.3 billion rand, or 2.3 percent of the
total.  Home prices around Johannesburg, South Africa’s economic
capital, start from 242,000 rand for a 40 square meter
sectional-title unit, the Centre for Affordable Housing Finance
in Africa, a Johannesburg-based organization, said on its
website.  Banks Will Participate  The FLIPS subsidy together with the mortgage guarantee
incentive would put a 300,000 rand house within reach of a
family earning 7,000 rand a month, Kecia Rust, a researcher with
the center, said by e-mail in response to Bloomberg’s questions.  “I do think banks will participate,” Rust said. “This is
a market that continues to approach them and for whom they can
currently do nothing.”  For Mantshontsho, FLIPS represents a glimmer of hope.  “I will definitely investigate,” he said. “I have
started asking the questions. I hope it helps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 