-- Singapore May Introduce Measures on Shoebox Flat Sales
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-05-14T09:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/singapore-may-introduce-measures-on-shoebox-apartment-sales.html
Singapore  may introduce measures to
regulate the sale of smaller-sized residential units after
developers sold a record number of so-called shoebox apartments
in the first quarter.  The increase in the sales of such homes is a concern and
the government has asked developers to provide more details,
Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore’s National Development Minister, said
in Parliament today. Shoebox apartments are those smaller than
50 square meters (538 square feet).  “We are monitoring the trend of shoebox units in
Singapore,” Khaw said. “If additional regulations are
necessary, we will consider them.”  Developers sold 1,764 shoebox apartments in the three
months ended March 31, the most since the  Urban Redevelopment
Authority  began collating the data in 2007. The smaller units
accounted for 27 percent of new sales in the first quarter when
private  home prices  fell for the first time in almost three
years following curbs including more stringent mortgage
requirement and higher taxes.  Singapore’s property market is heading for a soft landing
and the government’s cooling measures are producing results,
Khaw said. Concerns remain as prices in some districts are still
rising, he said.  Developers will be required to provide more information
including floor plans that reflect the actual size of the
apartments, Khaw said. Model homes should also depict the
apartments “accurately,” he said, adding that the changes will
be introduced in the second half when the law is passed.  Property Curbs  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when it barred interest-only loans for some housing projects and
stopped allowing developers to absorb interest payments for
apartments still being built. Analysts at Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc., CLSA Asia Pacific Markets, Nomura Holdings Inc. and Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit all forecasted last month
that the government will introduce further measures to curb
price increases.  Home sales climbed to 6,458 units in the quarter, according
to the data. Developers are increasing sales by offering smaller
units, according to CBRE Group Inc., the Los Angeles-based
property broker. The median size of units declined 24 percent to
667 square feet in the quarter ended March from the previous
three months, while the median price slid 18 percent to
S$786,340, according to CBRE.  Developers completed 2,500 shoebox apartments and such
units will increase to 9,700 by 2015, Khaw said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  