-- Star Bartenders Mix $10,000 Cocktails in High-End Spirits
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/star-bartenders-mix-10-000-cocktails-in-high-end-spirits.html
Jim Meehan won the  James Beard
Foundation ’s first Outstanding Bar Program award last week as
the foodie group decided to expand its beverage honors beyond
the wine list.  At the foundation’s annual party, the Academy Awards of the
U.S. culinary calendar, Meehan’s  Manhattan  bar PDT was selected
as “a restaurant that displays and encourages excellence in
cocktail, spirit, and/or beer service,” according to the
citation.  Meehan, PDT’s general partner and general manager, took the
stage at  Lincoln Center ’s  Avery Fisher Hall  amid applause from
legendary chefs such as Wolfgang Puck,  Thomas Keller  and Jacques
Pepin.  “The awards committee decided that it was time to
recognize the money and time restaurants were investing in their
bar programs,” Mitchell Davis, executive vice president of the
James Beard Foundation, said by phone.  The Beard award was the latest sign of how the growing
demand for exceptional cocktails has accorded near-celebrity
status to the people who excel at creating them.  “We’re seeing the elevation of the bartender as an
artist,” Dave Karraker, director of public relations and events
and brand manager at the San Francisco-based  Campari America (CPR) ,
said by phone. At one time, “if a bartender took more than 30
seconds to make your drink, you were upset. Now, bartenders put
on a show in front of the customer,” Karraker said.  More Drinking  The trend also has boosted growth in spirits consumption.
Sales of vodka, which makes up about a third of the distilled-
spirits market, rose 5.9 percent to 63 million 9-liter cases,
according to the Washington-based  Distilled Spirits Council of
the U.S .  Campari sales were up 16 percent last year, Karraker said,
as the company has been nudging influential U.S. bartenders to
create unique cocktails with spices, herbs or fresh fruit juice
and to market some of them as a complement to food.  “You’re seeing people change their idea of what to
drink,” said Marshall Altier, co-founder of industry site  The
Hooch Life.com . “You’re seeing a farm-to-glass movement with
bartenders using local ingredients.”  Meehan is appearing at this week’s annual  Manhattan
Cocktail Classic , along with author  Dushan Zaric  and  Dale
DeGroff , master mixologists who helped lure about 8,000 ticket
buyers this year, up from about 7,500 in 2011 and about 3,500
the year before, said Lesley Townsend, the MCC’s founder, by
phone.  Mixing in Stilettos  The festival’s events and seminars sold out within days
after they went on sale. They include “On Bespoke Cocktails,”
“How to Mix a Cocktail in Stilettos” and a master class with
Momofuku Milk Bar chef and owner Christina Tosi.  Even the troubled economy has failed to check the luxury
cocktail market. In Manhattan, the Martini at Club Macanudo on
the Upper East Side charges $63 for a pear-flavored, Cognac-
infused creation.  The Encore Wynn hotel in  Las Vegas  has offered a $10,000
Ono Champagne Cocktail made of rare Louis XIII Black Pearl
Cognac and Charles Heidsieck Champagne, along with orange juice
and apricot nectar. It comes with men’s sterling silver
cufflinks and an 18-carat woman’s white-gold chain.  “Handcrafted cocktails are no longer a specialty item,
it’s de rigueur,” Townsend said. “Most restaurants don’t open
without a solid cocktail program in place.”  When Meehan decided to forgo a career in medicine to become
a bartender, he said he had no finesse. He didn’t know how to
stir a drink and would whack a stuck shaker tin on the side of a
bar counter. To sharpen his game, he got a job at Pegu Club,
which like Manhattan’s Milk & Honey and Angel’s Share, was
raising the bar for cocktail-making techniques.  ‘Finishing School’  “Pegu Club was finishing school, technique wise,” he says
of his time working at Audrey Saunders’s cocktail bar, which was
also up for a James Beard award.  Saunders opened Pegu in 2005 with 27 kinds of gin, and only
a few vodkas, with the aim of changing the perception of the
cocktail bar.  She and her bartenders -- including Meehan and Toby
Maloney, of The Violet Hour in  Chicago , also a contender for the
best-bar award -- used fresh ingredients and high-quality
liquors, elevating the craft and keeping the atmosphere
approachable.  “My bartenders and I were like a  rock band ,” Saunders said
by phone. “Experimenting and discussing and tasting. That
continues to be the case.”  Today when Meehan gets behind the bar, he mixes a  Negroni 
like a laboratory chemist, using a small beaker-like pitcher and
a glass stirrer.  “Bartending used to be a job that kind of gets you by when
you’re not in a band or a play,” said Meehan, but now
bartenders have “started approaching their job as a
profession.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Smith  in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 