-- State Street Junk ETF Used to Obtain Up to $780M of Bonds
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-05-14T17:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/state-street-s-junk-etf-sees-biggest-redemptions-since-07.html
An investor used  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s
exchange-traded  fund  to anonymously obtain almost $780 million
of speculative-grade bonds without moving prices in the
secondary market.  The investor on May 10 exchanged as much as 19.7 million
shares in the  SPDR Barclays Capital High Yield Bond ETF (JNK)  for the
equivalent of about $779.3 million in bonds held by the fund,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The redemption, the biggest in the four-year history of the
$11.4 billion fund, came after the investor had accumulated
shares over several weeks, according to Knight Capital Group
Inc., which brokered the trade. The investment in the fund,
which tracks the Barclays Capital High Yield Very Liquid Bond
Index, may mark a new way for investors to gain control over a
large group of bonds without tipping off other investors.  “He used the ETF to get his exposure initially; he figured
it was an easier way to maintain his anonymity,” Eric Lichtenstein, the global head of ETF trading at  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based  Knight Capital (KCG) , said in a telephone interview. “It
was a unique approach. This was his plan going into it.”  An additional 700,000  shares  were redeemed on May 11,
Bloomberg data show.  ETFs typically allow individual investors to speculate on
securities without directly owning them. Unlike mutual funds,
whose shares are priced once daily, ETFs are listed on exchanges
and are bought and sold like stocks.  ETFs generally don’t buy securities directly when they
receive inflows or sell them to meet outflow requests. Instead,
an authorized participant receives cash from investors and uses
it to buy securities in exchange for ETF shares. With redemption
requests, the approved participant returns shares to an ETF’s
fund manager and receives securities.  Knight Capital is the largest market-maker of ETFs, trading
more than 20 percent of the daily volume, Lichtenstein said.  Junk bonds  are ranked below Baa3 at Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  