-- Sudan Lawmakers Accept UN Resolution on South Sudan Conflict
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-05-14T14:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/sudan-lawmakers-accept-un-resolution-on-south-sudan-conflict-1-.html
Sudanese lawmakers accepted “with
reservations” a United Nations Security Council resolution that
calls for  Sudan  and  South Sudan  to end hostilities, said Ahmed
Ibrahim al-Tahir, the head of parliament.  The 15-member council unanimously passed a resolution on
May 2 calling for the withdrawal of all forces from disputed
territories, an end to air raids by the north and a negotiated
solution to the issue of payments by South Sudan for shipping
oil to  Port Sudan  in the north.  “The National Assembly approves the UN Resolution 2046 on
our relationship with South Sudan,” al-Tahir told members of
parliament today in the capital, Khartoum.  Relations between the two countries have deteriorated since
South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July after a popular
referendum on independence intended to end a long-running civil
war. The south kept three-quarters of the formerly united
country’s oil output of about 490,000 barrels a day. Tensions
between the countries escalated last month when South Sudan
occupied the contested, oil-rich area of Heglig. It pulled
troops out 10 days later, saying it was complying with a UN
Security Council request.  The UN council urged Sudan and the rebel Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement-North to cooperate with efforts to reach a
negotiated settlement on security arrangements in  Blue Nile  and
South Kordofan states, while allowing humanitarian access to the
population in those areas.  “Sudan rejects negotiations with the northern branch of
Sudan People’s Liberation Movement,” Mohamed al-Hassan, head of
the parliament foreign relations committee, told lawmakers.
“It’s an armed movement and this is an internal matter.”  The SPLM-N was the northern branch of South Sudan’s ruling
party before it became a separate group following the south’s
independence. It is banned by the Sudanese authorities.  Sudan also rejects allowing humanitarian agencies that have
“hostile activities,” al-Hassan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  