-- Suing Super Bowl QB Only a First-Quarter Effort at FDIC
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/suing-super-bowl-qb-only-a-first-quarter-effort-at-fdic.html
Ex-quarterback Jim McMahon helped
drive the  Chicago Bears  to a Super Bowl victory in 1986. Two
decades later, U.S. regulators say, he helped drive  Chicago ’s
Broadway Bank to failure.  In March, the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  named the
football star-turned-bank-director as a defendant in a lawsuit
that soon will be followed, the agency says, by a surge of legal
actions aimed at officials of banks that failed after the 2008
financial crisis.  The FDIC alleges that McMahon, who became one of Broadway’s
directors in 2003, is personally responsible along with other
bank officials for bringing down the bank by approving bad
loans. Among 437 banks failing in the wake of the 2008 financial
crisis, Broadway was 25th to be the focus of such suits, which
seek to recover from bank officials the FDIC’s costs of shutting
them down.  FDIC Deputy General Counsel Richard Osterman said the
agency plans to increase the pace of such legal actions against
former directors and officers, and that they will probably peak
at “the end of this year, early next year.”  Osterman declined to specify how many officials will be
sued: “We don’t have quotas. It’s not like we’re giving out
traffic tickets.”  The usual delay between a bank’s collapse and the
regulator’s filing of a director-and-officer liability suit --
2.2 years, as measured by consulting firm  Cornerstone Research  -
- means banks that failed in the peak year of 2010 will now
begin to see court action. In 2011, the FDIC board authorized
lawsuits against 264 defendants; in just the first four months
of this year, suits against 120 defendants were authorized.  Settlements Common  Many authorized suits will be settled before they are
filed. Since the 2008 crisis, the board has approved suits
involving 58 firms and has so far filed 29.  Few of the FDIC legal actions have targeted major U.S.
banks. The exceptions have included suits against officials at
 Pasadena , California-based IndyMac Bancorp Inc. and  Seattle ,
Washington-based Washington Mutual Inc., the largest bank
failure in U.S. history.  “What you’re seeing in this crisis, overwhelmingly, is
smaller banks,” said William K. Black, who teaches economics
and law at the  University of Missouri  at  Kansas City ’s law
school and was a former litigation director of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board. Most of the largest banks won’t be sued by the
FDIC because, as beneficiaries of other government help, they
didn’t fail, he said. “The big baddies don’t go through
receivership.”  Low Bar  Ronald R. Glancz, a former FDIC assistant general counsel
who heads Venable LLP’s financial-services group, said the FDIC
is using a low bar for deciding which cases to pursue. He is
helping defend directors and officers of Wilmington, North
Carolina-based Cooperative Bank, which failed in June 2009 and
is the subject of an FDIC suit.  “We may be going back to the FDIC’s very aggressive ways,
back in the ‘80s,” Glancz said, referring to the savings and
loan crisis, which he said was very different from the 2008
crisis. “This was a worldwide recession. Are you saying
directors ought to have more foresight? Are they responsible for
predicting something that the rest of the world didn’t?”  After savings and loans collapsed in the 1980s, the FDIC
went after officials at about one in four of the 1,813 failed
firms. In the wake of the 2008 crisis, the ratio of failures
pursued by the agency has been building to a current rate of
about one in eight.  ‘Should Be Screaming’  The FDIC “should be screaming to the  Justice Department  to
bring criminal actions and investigations,” said Black, adding
that on the civil side, “the percentage of folks who did things
worthy of suit is much higher this time around.”  That was especially true in the commercial real estate
market, he said, in which bankers were “massively increasing”
their investments “as the glut and the vacancy rate
skyrocketed.”  In the Broadway Bank case, the FDIC accused McMahon of
helping approve a $28 million interest-only loan to Normandy
Shores LLC for a Miami Beach, Florida, condominium development
that lost the bank $19.5 million, according to the March 7
complaint in federal court. No application was submitted for the
loan; there was no demonstration of ability to pay it back;
construction was already millions over budget; and the guarantor
had lived in  Brazil  for five years, the FDIC said.  ‘20-20 Hindsight’  In a statement issued through his lawyer, McMahon said he
and his colleagues on the bank’s board could not have foreseen
the coming crisis. “Broadway was unable to withstand the
greatest market decline since the Great Depression,” McMahon
said in the statement. “With the advantage of 20-20 hindsight,
the FDIC now blames Broadway’s former officers and directors for
not anticipating the same unprecedented market forces that also
surprised central bankers, national banks, economists, major
Wall Street firms, and the regulators themselves.”  The former quarterback joined the bank’s board in 2003, at
about the same time that a Northbrook, Illinois restaurant that
bore his name, McMahon’s Arena, was failing. McMahon, now living
in Scottsdale,  Arizona , is among a group of former players who
sued the National Football League Inc. last year for its
policies on concussions, claiming they suffer health problems
from repeated head injuries.  McMahon, who is said in the FDIC lawsuit to have missed
multiple meetings during his five-year stretch on the board, is
accused of being so inattentive to the bank’s business that it
constituted “gross negligence.”  Degree of Negligence  The generally understood difference between negligence and
gross negligence is in the degrees between failing to use
reasonable care in protecting the bank’s interests and
recklessly dodging those duties. Many states don’t allow the
regulators to go after simple negligence.  “I suspect that the FDIC now, even in the screening
process, may be basically going ahead and deciding that they’re
going to sue for ordinary negligence,” Glancz said, adding that
the agency seems to be suing “even in cases where there were
just mistakes in judgment.”  The FDIC, which acts as the receiver of failed banks and
also maintains the fund that protects customers from losses, has
three years from each failure to file a suit. It recovered
$231.9 million in such professional liability cases last year,
spending $139.5 million, Osterman said.  “I don’t see the FDIC going after fairly small losses,”
said Tariq Mirza, a managing director at Grant Thornton LLP who
previously worked as a senior adviser to former FDIC Chairman
 Sheila Bair . “It has to be material. It also has to be
worthwhile regarding the probability of success.”  1992 Policy Applies  A 1992 policy statement spelled out the approach the FDIC
still uses. The agency isn’t interested in going after directors
who are doing their jobs based on informed judgments, it says.
It also won’t go after claims it can’t readily prove in court
and for which there’s no available cash to collect -- either
from an insurance policy or a defendants’ own wealth.  “Our worry is where you start to criminalize business
judgment,” said  Wayne Abernathy , an executive vice president at
the  American Bankers Association . He said punishing bank
officials for business decisions “dampens the willingness of
banks to take prudent risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 