-- SunTrust’s Rogers Says JPMorgan Loss ‘Black Eye’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-05-14T12:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/suntrust-s-rogers-says-jpmorgan-loss-black-eye-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
loss on synthetic credit securities bolsters the case of banking
critics pushing for tighter regulations on proprietary trading,
SunTrust Banks Inc. Chief Executive Officer William Rogers said.  “It is a black eye for the industry,” Rogers said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” from
Atlanta. “It would certainly embolden those on the Volcker side
of that equation,” referring to the so-called Volcker rule
setting restrictions on trading.  Senator Carl Levin, Democrat from Michigan and co-author of
the rule, said May 11 the JPMorgan loss was a “stark reminder”
to regulators drafting a proprietary trading ban as part of the
Dodd-Frank act. JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley have lobbied to expand exemptions included in the
initial proposal, complaining that the measure is so broad and
ill-defined that it will increase risks for clients.  The chief executive of Atlanta-based  SunTrust (STI)  said he had
“reached out to our board” after JPMorgan’s disclosure to
explain the regional bank had “very modest exposure” to the
market for credit derivatives.  “For SunTrust, Volcker is not the big issue for us,”
Rogers said. “Our trading activity is really client oriented
and client directed. So while that force would be more
emboldened, I am not really worried about the financial
immediate impact on SunTrust.”  ‘Small Number’  Rogers said the any concern over the loss at JPMorgan
should be tempered by the institution’s size.  Noting the bank’s
market capitalization of $142 billion, “$2 billion relative to
JPM’s total cap is a small number,” he said.  JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon , who said the company made
“egregious mistakes,” deserves credit for how he has handled
the disclosure and crisis, Rogers said.  “I am not sure Jamie Dimon is seeking my advice on how to
handle a crisis, but he met it head on and I think that is what
CEOs are supposed to do,” he said. “Your personal credibility
and your company’s credibility is on the line.”  Rogers also said SunTrust will resubmit a capital plan to
the  Federal Reserve  after an initial proposal was not accepted
by the central bank in March following its “stress test”
reviewing how the lender would fare in a several economic slump.  The new plan will incorporate results from “a really good
first quarter at our company” and will benefit from more
clarity in how the Fed has calculated losses from its recession
scenarios.  ‘More Transparency’  “We have a much better understanding of the modeling, more
transparency” from the Fed, he said. “That will help us build
a better internal system and a better ability to respond.”  SunTrust’s Tier 1 common capital ratio would fall to 4.8
percent if the lender carried out capital plans submitted to the
Fed, below the central bank’s minimum requirement of 5 percent,
according to the test results. Capital plans can include
dividend payouts, stock repurchases and share sales.  Shares of SunTrust have risen 34 percent this year through
May 11, nearly double the 18 percent gain for the KBW Bank
Index. SunTrust has operations in  Florida ,  Georgia ,  Maryland ,
North Carolina,  South Carolina , Tennessee,  Virginia , West
Virginia and the  District of Columbia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net  