-- Swiss Bank Whistle-Blowers Said to Have Handed Over Data to U.K.
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-05-15T10:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/swiss-bank-whistle-blowers-said-to-have-handed-over-data-to-u-k-.html
Whistle-blowers at two Swiss banks
have handed over client account data to U.K. tax authorities,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The  authorities  are examining the data before writing to
U.K.-resident account holders and sharing the information with
other countries, said the people, who declined to be named
because the matter is confidential. At least one of the banks is
foreign-owned and has clients spanning more than 100
jurisdictions, they said.  Swiss private banks are under pressure following a
crackdown on  tax evasion  in the U.S. and  Europe . Whistle-blowers
at UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
revealed information to tax authorities that has undermined
Swiss banking secrecy and prompted Americans and Europeans to
disclose hidden offshore accounts.  “We don’t comment on information we receive but we get
information from a wide variety of sources which we carefully
examine to make sure everyone pays the right tax,”  Patrick
O’Brien , a spokesman for HMRC, said yesterday. “Tackling tax
evasion is a top priority and the days of hiding money offshore
to evade U.K. tax have gone.”  The U.K. tax authority, known as HMRC, said in October it
was acting on information on about 6,000 individuals, companies,
trusts and other bodies after the French government passed on
stolen client data from Herve Falciani, a former software
technician at HSBC’s Geneva-based private bank.  Criminal Prosecutions  Investigations resulting from the Falciani data may lead to
more than 100 criminal prosecutions, one of the people said.  At the time of the  data theft , HSBC’s Swiss private bank
had no more than 1,500 clients in any one country, said a
Geneva-based spokesman who declined to be named in line with
company policy. He declined to comment further.  The handover of data by Swiss bank whistle-blowers comes
after the U.K. and Switzerland finalized an agreement in March
to settle a dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Britons holding
offshore accounts with Swiss private banks. Under the agreement,
customers must either make a declaration to HMRC or pay a
withholding tax that also covers their past failure to disclose
undeclared assets.  The U.K. is targeting residents with bank accounts held
outside the country as it seeks to plug a 35 billion-pound ($56
billion)  tax gap  and help reduce the nation’s fiscal deficit.  Voluntary Disclosures  More than 33,000 Americans have made voluntary disclosures
on money held abroad to the  Internal Revenue Service  in the
three years through 2011. That came as UBS paid a $780 million
penalty in 2009 and handed over data on about 4,700 accounts to
settle a tax-evasion dispute with the U.S.  Whistle-blower Birkenfeld, a former UBS banker in Geneva,
was sentenced to 40 months in prison after exposing what a U.S.
prosecutor described as a “massive tax scheme” at the Swiss
wealth manager.  Tax authorities have increasingly been offered secret bank
information since  Germany  in 2009 prosecuted tax evaders,
including former Deutsche Post AG Chief Executive Officer Klaus
Zumwinkel, using the information bought from a former computer
consultant at LGT, owned by Liechtenstein’s princely family.  Swiss secrecy laws threaten bank employees with a jail term
if they divulge client information.  Switzerland  agreed in March 2009 to cooperate with
countries investigating tax evasion in order to avoid being
blacklisted as a tax haven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  