-- Swiss Stocks Drop as Greek Government Talks Deadlocked
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-14T16:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/swiss-stocks-drop-as-greek-government-talks-deadlocked.html
Swiss stocks  fell as Greece moved
closer to a possible exit from the euro currency union and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party lost a state election.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse AG paced declines among European
lenders.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  slipped after the Sunday Times reported that
the world’s largest supplier of power grids is a possible suitor
for Invensys Plc.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the second-biggest cement
company, retreated from earlier gains, losing 1.1 percent as it
announced a plan to streamline the purchase of raw-materials and
run factories more efficiently.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  fell 1.3 percent to 5,875.66 at the
close of trading in Zurich, extending last week’s drop as the
May 6 elections left Greece struggling to form a government,
raising questions about that nation’s ability to obtain
financial assistance and pay back its debts on time. The Swiss
Performance Index slipped 1.4 percent today.  “The risk of another Greek election is almost 100 percent
while the biggest party according to polls is against the
euro,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension
A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55 billion. “Other
European politicians are increasingly playing hardball, so the
risk of  Greece  leaving the euro is surely on the rise.”  Greece’s political deadlock looks set to continue for a
second week as President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure
agreement on a unity government and avert new elections. Syriza,
the left-wing group opposed to austerity measures, defied
overtures to join the government yesterday.  Finance Ministers Meet  Euro-area finance ministers met at 5 p.m. in Brussels today
and may discuss the international bailout for Greece, as well as
the situation in  Spain , where the government last week made a
fourth attempt to clean up the country’s banks.  The debate between growth and austerity will form the
centerpiece of talks tomorrow between the newly installed French
President  Francois Hollande  and Merkel, who has championed an
agenda of spending cuts.  Merkel’s party was defeated in  Germany ’s most populous
state in an election that helped the  Social Democrats  tighten
their grip on the country’s regional governments.  The SPD, the main opposition party nationally, increased
its vote share in yesterday’s ballot in North Rhine-Westphalia.
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union fell to its worst score
since World War II.  The People’s Bank of China said the amount of cash banks
must set aside as reserves will fall 50 basis points from May
18. This is the third time in six months that the central bank
has cut reserve ratios to increase  money supply  for lending.  Banks Fall  UBS and Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s largest lenders,
dropped 3.1 percent to 11.10 Swiss francs, and 2.6 percent to
19.29 francs, respectively, as a group of European lenders was
among the biggest decliners of  industry groups  in the Stoxx
 Europe  600.  ABB declined 1.7 percent to 15.52 francs after the Sunday
Times said the Swiss company is among prospective suitors for
Invensys Plc, the British maker of controls for washing machines
and factory equipment.  Holcim dropped 1.1 percent to 54.60 francs after earlier
rising as much as 3.5 percent. Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fontana unveiled a plan to increase operating profit by 1.5
billion francs ($1.6 billion) by the end of 2014 through
streamlining the purchasing of raw materials and improving
cement factory efficiency.  Holcim joins larger competitor Lafarge SA in seeking to
beat sluggish demand in parts of Europe and improve
profitability by cutting fuel costs and matching inflation with
price increases.  Swatch Group AG slid 3.2 percent to 385.20 francs.
Transocean Ltd., the biggest owner of offshore drilling rigs,
sank 4.1 percent to 41.60 francs. Oil fell below $94 a barrel in
 New York  for the first time since December as Europe’s debt
crisis worsened and Saudi Arabia’s energy minister said prices
should decline further.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  