-- U.K. Stocks Tumble on Concern Greece Will Leave the Euro
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-14T16:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/u-k-stocks-tumble-on-concern-greece-will-leave-the-euro.html
U.K. stocks  tumbled to their lowest
level this year, extending a two-week selloff for the FTSE 100
Index, amid concern Greece is moving closer to leaving the euro
currency union.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led banks lower, retreating more than 6
percent in London as the cost of insuring against a sovereign
default in Europe surged.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  led a
selloff by commodity producers as oil and metal prices fell.  The benchmark FTSE 100 sank 2 percent to 5,465.52 at the
close in London, its lowest level since Dec. 22, as only four
companies advanced. The FTSE All-Share Index lost 1.9 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 2.1 percent in Dublin.  “I can’t see even after the next Greek election a
government appearing that will be able to do anything else than
perhaps manage the Greek exit,” said Simon Sole, chief
executive officer of Exclusive Analysis Ltd., in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “And now the  European Central Bank  today
is postulating that that might be how this ends up. That’s the
best that they can hope for I think.”  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  has  fallen 8.4 percent from its 2012 high  on
March 16, erasing all of  its gains this year , amid renewed
concern that the euro area has yet to contain its sovereign-debt
crisis. The gauge sank 1.4 percent last week as investors waited
to see whether Greece would form a government and as Spanish
credit risk surged.  Possible Euro Exit  European Union officials have begun to assess the fallout
from Greece’s possible withdrawal from the euro, even as the
country’s politicians struggled to form a government.  Greek President Karolos Papoulias was due to hold further
meetings today after Syriza, the country’s largest anti-bailout
party, rejected a unity government following last week’s
inconclusive elections. The Mediterranean nation moved closer to
a new vote and to the possibility of leaving the euro.  Euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels today where
they may discuss the international bailout for  Greece , as well
as Spain, where the government last week began its fourth
attempt to clean up the country’s banks.  Meanwhile in Germany, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party lost
an election in the country’s most populous state. Support for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union fell to the lowest level
since World War II.  Merkel had headlined nine campaign rallies in 27 days in
North Rhine-Westphalia in a bid to regain the state, the first
the CDU lost in 2010 as the debt crisis erupted and voters
rebelled against bailing out Greece. The SPD now holds power in
 11 of Germany’s 16 states .  Barclays, RBS Slide  Barclays paced a selloff in European lenders, falling 6.4
percent to 189.8 pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  slid
4.8 percent to 21.85 pence,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  declined
5.5 percent to 29.38 pence and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe’s
largest bank , slid 1.5 percent to 545.8 pence.  Lenders retreated as the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of credit-default swaps on 15 governments jumped 7.5 basis
points to 293.5 at 3:15 p.m. in London. Contracts on Spain
soared as much as 26 basis points to a record 543, according to
Bloomberg data.  Vedanta fell with copper, sliding 3.3 percent to 1,053
pence.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the  world’s largest mining company ,
declined 3.5 percent to 1,798 pence and Anglo American Plc
slipped 3.1 percent to 2,119 pence.  Metal Prices Drop  Copper sank to a four-month low on the London Metal
Exchange, on concern that a cut in the reserve requirement for
China’s banks indicates that the slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy is steeper than forecast. Zinc, lead and nickel
also retreated.  The People’s Bank of China said on May 12 it will cut
banks’  reserve-requirement ratio  by 50 basis points from May 18.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  slumped 5.2 percent to 854 pence after the
world’s third-largest platinum producer posted an unexpected
first-half loss of 6.9 cents a share, excluding one-off items.
That compared with the  median estimate for profit  of 9 cents.  Elsewhere, oil slid to its lowest price in almost five
months in  New York  as Saudi Arabia’s petroleum minister, Ali al- Naimi, said  Brent crude  should fall to about $100 a barrel.  BP retreated 2.7 percent to 403.9 pence, Royal Dutch Shell
Group Plc declined 2.5 percent to 2,015 pence and  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
slipped 3.5 percent to 1,290 pence.  Chariot Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR)  plunged 50 percent to 75 pence, the
lowest price since the company listed in 2008, after failing to
find hydrocarbons at an exploration well off the coast of
Namibia and abandoning the block.  Moneysupermarket.com Plc, a price-comparison website,
declined 8.1 percent to 116.2 pence after Numis Securities said
a new service from Google Inc., the owner of the world’s most
popular search engine, may put about two-thirds of the U.K.
company’s profit at risk.  Invensys, Rank Group  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  paced advancing shares, rallying 3.2 percent
to 209 pence after the Sunday Times said that Siemens AG, ABB
Ltd., Emerson Electric Co. and General Electric Co. may bid for
the company. The newspaper didn’t say where it obtained the
information.  Rank Group Plc (RNK)  gained 5.8 percent to 123.5 pence after the
U.K. gambling company conditionally agreed to buy the casino
unit of Gala Coral Group Ltd. for 205 million pounds ($330
million).  C&C Group Plc (GCC)  added 0.8 percent to 3.60 euros in Dublin
trading. The Irish Independent reported that SABMiller Plc and
Carlsberg A/S have examined the company since the start of the
year. The newspaper didn’t identify its sources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  