-- JPMorgan’s Trades Probed by U.S. National Bank Agency
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-14T23:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/u-s-national-bank-regulator-examining-jpmorgan-s-risky-trading.html
The Office of Comptroller of the
Currency said yesterday that it is examining  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s activities and evaluating their transactions following a
$2 billion loss that shook up bank leadership.  “The OCC is examining the bank’s activities and is in
continuous dialogue with bank personnel and other regulatory
colleagues as we evaluate details related to the specific
transactions as well as the surrounding risk management
processes that resulted in this unexpected loss,”  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The regulator, which oversees national banks including
JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., also is evaluating risk management
strategies and practices at other large banks to validate their
understanding of risk levels and controls. The OCC said
JPMorgan’s losses affect its earnings while not presenting a
threat to the safety and soundness of the bank.  The “vast majority” of the bank’s chief investment office
that suffered the loss was part of the national bank, Hubbard
said. JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.’s deposits are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The bank used a new model for calculating its trading risk
in the first quarter that Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
56, said was inadequate. Former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said
yesterday that the change to the so-called value-at-risk
calculation “is something I can only assume the regulators were
aware of and briefed on.”  Federal Reserve spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  said the
central bank, which supervises JPMorgan’s holding company, is
studying organizational issues around the trading loss to assure
that they aren’t repeated in other areas of the bank. The loss
underscores the importance of capital buffers, Hagenbaugh said.  Other Probes  The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, which regulates derivatives trading,
are also examining JPMorgan’s trading activities, according to
people familiar with the probes.  Hubbard said it is “premature to conclude” the trades
would either have been permitted or banned by a forthcoming
regulation restricting banks’ proprietary trading. The
regulation, known as the Volcker rule, is still being revised.  “The transactions at issue are complex and whether they
would qualify for exceptions under the statute or proposed rule
requires careful analysis,” Hubbard said. “The OCC and other
regulators are gathering additional details regarding the
transactions to determine the full regulatory implications of
these activities and the proposed rules currently being
considered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  