-- Dow Falls to Lowest Level Since January on Greece Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-14T21:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-before-jobs-report.html
U.S. stocks declined, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to the lowest level since January, as
Greece struggled to form a new government amid growing
speculation the nation may leave the European currency.  Financial and energy shares fell the most among 10 groups
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sank at least 2.6 percent as European
lenders slumped.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  slid more than
1.5 percent to pace declines in commodity producers.  Symantec
Corp. (SYMC) , the biggest seller of security software, retreated 1.4
percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  cut  its recommendation.  The  S&P 500  slid 1.1 percent to 1,338.35 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the lowest since Feb. 2. The Dow fell 125.25 points, or 1
percent, to 12,695.35. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using options as
insurance against S&P 500 losses, rose 10 percent to an almost
four-month high of 21.87. About  6.6 billion  shares changed hands
on U.S. exchanges, in line with the three-month average.  “The fear factor is definitely higher,” said Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee about $14.7 billion at Huntington
Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “The whole  European (SX7P)  political
situation is really the focus at this point. Nobody really knows
what’s going to happen next and the market hates uncertainty.”  Global stocks fell as Greece’s political deadlock went into
a second week after President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure
agreement on a unity government. Alexis Tsipras, leader of
Greece’s Syriza party, said Europe must reexamine its policy of
austerity and that his party wants Greece to stay in the euro.  Record High  Concern about Europe’s crisis grew as the cost of insuring
against a Spanish default jumped to an all-time high. Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s party was defeated in Germany’s most populous
state in an election that helped the  Social Democrats  tighten
their grip on the country’s regional governments. The result may
embolden the Social Democrats as they align with French
President-elect Francois Hollande in an anti-austerity front.  “We certainly have a lot to worry about,” said  John Manley , chief equity strategist for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds
in New York. His firm oversees $207 billion. “The odds of
Greece leaving the euro are higher. It’s an enormous game of
chicken that they are playing with each other. To the degree it
does represent the democratic process in Greece, it makes it
more likely they default and the Europeans have to do
something.”  American banks slumped as a measure of European lenders
tumbled 2.8 percent. JPMorgan, which plunged 9.3 percent on May
11, lost 3.2 percent to $35.79. Bank of America fell 2.7 percent
to $7.35.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  retreated 4.1 percent to $28.14.  ‘Renewed Focus’  JPMorgan’s Matt Zames, newly appointed to lead the firm’s
chief investment office after it suffered a $2 billion loss,
shook up the unit’s leadership and announced a “renewed focus”
on hedging risks. Achilles Macris, who was hired in 2006 to
oversee trading in London where the losses occurred, will
“transition” his CIO responsibilities, Zames said today in an
employee memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Energy and raw material producers sank as the S&P GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities dropped 1.1 percent. Schlumberger lost
2.3 percent to 67.25. Alcoa fell 1.6 percent to $8.92.  Symantec slid 1.4 percent to $15.24. Goldman Sachs cut its
rating to  sell  from neutral, citing worsening margins and cash
flows. The share-price estimate was lowered to $14 from $16.  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  rose 1.5 percent to $19.56. Founder Richard
Schulze will step down as chairman after a probe found he failed
to tell the board about allegations that then-Chief Executive
Officer Brian Dunn was having an inappropriate relationship with
a female employee.  Loan Agreement  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  surged 4.8 percent to $15.52. The
company reached a $3 billion loan agreement with a unit of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and affiliates of Jefferies Group Inc.
to help ease a cash shortfall that threatens to curtail its
development of oil and natural-gas wells.  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  rallied 3.8 percent to $20.96 as the
company said it will respond within a week to Coty Inc., the
perfume-maker that last week boosted its takeover offer for Avon
to $10.7 billion.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  rose 2 percent to $15.50. Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Thompson  is stepping down after failing to correct
errors in his credentials and the company is revamping its
board, handing a victory to activist investor  Daniel Loeb , who
had pushed for the overhaul.  Ross Levinsohn, Yahoo’s head of global media, was named
interim CEO, and director Fred Amoroso will become chairman.  Facebook’s IPO  Facebook Inc. (FB)  plans to stop taking orders for its initial
public offering tomorrow, two days ahead of schedule, according
to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Facebook will likely finish taking orders for the IPO after
U.S. markets close May 15, said the person, who declined to be
identified as the plans are private. The offer of 337.4 million
shares at $28 to $35 each has been oversubscribed, people with
knowledge of the matter said. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for
Facebook, declined to comment.  “They’re swamped with the orders that are in,” said Jon Merriman, chief executive officer at investment firm Merriman
Holdings Inc. in San Francisco. “They just need time to
determine the price. They can send the message -- the books are
closing, send in your orders now.”  As individuals bail out of U.S. stocks at the fastest rate
in three decades, professional speculators have  cut bearish bets 
by the most since 2008.  Money managers are net short 19,375 contracts on the S&P
500, down 82 percent from a four-year high in September even
after the figure jumped from 3,584 last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Most Since 1984  U.S. equity mutual funds recorded $18 billion of outflows
in April, the most since at least 1984, according to preliminary
data from the Investment Company Institute.  Hedge funds and other institutions are speculating the
index will extend its 23 percent rally since October after 69
percent of S&P 500 companies beat first-quarter earnings
estimates and economists projected accelerating U.S. growth this
year. Bears say last week’s addition to bets on declines show
short sellers have completed almost all of the buying they are
likely to do, depleting demand for equities.  “For the professional side, stocks look pretty
compelling,”  David Goerz , chief investment officer at Highmark
Capital Management Inc., said in a telephone interview from San
Francisco on May 9. His firm oversees about $17 billion.
“Underlying economic strength is much more resilient than
anybody expected it to be this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Rita Nazareth} in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  