-- UniCredit, Intesa Among 26 Italian Banks Cut by Moody’s
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-05-15T10:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/unicredit-intesa-among-26-italian-banks-downgraded-by-moody-s.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
were among 26 Italian banks that had their credit ratings cut
one to four levels by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
weakened earnings and the country’s economic outlook.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, had its long-term debt
rating lowered one step to A3, Moody’s said in a  spreadsheet  on
its website yesterday. Milan-based Intesa, the nation’s second-
largest lender, also was downgraded to A3 from A2.  “Italian banks are particularly vulnerable to adverse
operating conditions, which are likely to cause further asset
quality deterioration, earnings pressure, and restricted market
funding access,” Moody’s said in a statement. “These risks are
exacerbated by investor concerns over the sustainability of the
Italian government’s debt burden, which has contributed to the
difficult wholesale funding conditions faced by Italian banks.”  Banks that are downgraded may need to pay more to borrow
and post additional collateral in their derivatives businesses.
ABI, the Italian banking association, today said the downgrades
were “irresponsible” and an “aggression” on  Italy . Moody’s
decided on Feb. 13 to cut the credit rating of Italy and five
other countries, including Spain, on doubts over the euro
region’s ability to deal with the debt crisis.  Shares of the lenders were mixed today on speculation that
 their slump  in May already reflects the weaker outlook. Carlo
Mereels, a credit analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a note
today that the downgrades were “less than what Moody’s had
previously flagged.”  Cut ‘Expected’  Italy was lowered by Moody’s to A3, or four steps above
junk, from A2 with a negative outlook in February.  “The cut was largely expected and the fact that all the
banks we cover remain above the investment grade threshold is,
at the end, a good news in relative terms,” analysts at
Fidentiis Equities wrote in a note to clients today.  UniCredit rose 0.4 percent to 2.69 euros as of 12:20 p.m.
in Milan trading, while Intesa gained 1.8 percent to 1.05 euros.
 Unione di Banche Italiane Scpa , which released first-quarter
earnings before the market opened, rose 0.6 percent to 2.44
euros while  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena  SpA fell 0.9 percent
to 24.1 cents.  Moody’s reduced debt and deposit ratings by one level for
10 banks, two levels for eight banks, three levels for six
banks, and four levels for two banks. UBI was lowered to Baa2
from A3; Monte Paschi was downgraded to Baa3 from Baa1; and
 Banco Popolare SC (BP)  was cut to Baa3 from Baa2.  Government Bond Holdings  Italian banks’ holdings of the nation’s bonds jumped in the
first three months of the year as the  European Central Bank 
injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.28 trillion) into the
region’s financial system through two offerings of three-year
loans. Italy’s sovereign debt held by its banks rose 39 percent
to 291 billion euros in those two months, according to  Bank of
Italy  figures, as the country’s lenders took up almost a fourth
of the funds offered by the ECB.  “At this stage, a downgrade on Italian banks was likely,
given their correlation with the economic cycle and the
country’s debt,” said Fabrizio Spagna, managing director at
Axia Financial Research. “They have a huge amount of  government
bonds  in their portfolios, which affect their financial
positions.”  Economic Outlook  After abating in the wake of the ECB’s long-term lending
program,  Europe ’s debt crisis has flared up again, widening the
gap in yield between Italian and German government bonds and
increasing the cost of insuring against a sovereign default.  “The Italian government’s austerity measures and
structural reforms are weighing on the country’s near-term
economic outlook,” Moody’s wrote in the statement.  Moody’s first announced in February that it was putting 114
European banks and an additional eight non-European firms with
large capital-markets businesses under review to assess the
impact of Europe’s debt crisis.  “Funding costs are more sensitive at lower ratings,
especially for senior unsecured medium- and long-term debt,”
Citigroup Inc. analysts Kinner Lakhani and Sentoor Kanagasabapathy wrote in a report on April 30. “While potential
Moody’s rating downgrades may largely be priced into credit
markets, the corresponding impact of these on banks’ funding
costs will naturally take place over the refinancing calendar.”  Bond Yields  ABI, the banking lobby, said it will meet tomorrow to
review the rating downgrades and consider possible action.  The yield on UniCredit’s 1.5 billion euros of 4.875 percent
bonds due 2017 has risen 89 basis points to 5.83 percent since
the notes began trading in February, BNP Paribas SA prices show.
Intesa Sanpaolo’s 1 billion euros of 5 percent, five-year bonds,
sold the same month, yielded 5.279 percent in Hong Kong trading,
an 11 basis-point increase since May 11.  Monte Paschi’s 4.5 percent bonds were paying investors 5.72
percent, according to BNP Paribas. The notes yielded 4.49
percent at the beginning of March.  The  Bank of Italy  said in a report on April 26 that the
potential downgrades of domestic banks and their bonds carried a
risk to the Italian banking system’s funding capacity.  UniCredit and Intesa said in separate statements that their
ratings were aligned to that of Italy. UBI said in a statement
that Moody’s had confirmed “the bank’s second-tier ranking, as
the tier 1 ranking is accessible only to Italian banks with a
strong presence abroad.”  Moody’s said on April 13 that it expected to finish all the
reviews by the end of June, pushing back the deadline from a
previous goal of mid-May. After Italy, it had said reviews of
banks in  Spain  were expected next, followed by Austria and a
dozen other nations, including Germany, France and the U.K.  A Moody’s official who wasn’t authorized to comment
publicly said yesterday that planned downgrades on banks were
delayed. Moody’s previously had said it planned to begin the
decisions in early May. Kirsten Knight, a Moody’s spokeswoman,
subsequently said the schedule for “concluding bank rating
reviews” hadn’t changed and was expected by the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  