-- USDA Studying Data Releases as Commodities Trading Hours Expand
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-05-14T19:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/usda-studying-data-releases-as-commodities-trading-hours-expand.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  is
studying procedures for releasing crop reports as exchanges add
trading hours for corn, soybeans, wheat, soybean meal,  soybean
oil , oats and rough rice, Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange and grain markets, plans to give traders access for 22
hours a day starting next week. The move will result in USDA
releasing reports during trading hours. The department hasn’t
decided whether to change its release schedule, Vilsack said.  “We have to be careful before we make any decisions,” he
said today in an interview in his office at USDA headquarters in
Washington. “It’s not just our markets that are impacted, it’s
markets all over the world.”  The CME announced its new schedule May 1, three weeks after
competitor IntercontinentalExchange Inc. in Atlanta said it
plans to offer trades on futures and options on grains.  Agriculture contracts will trade for 23 hours, starting at
5 p.m. Sundays and ending at 4 p.m. Mondays Chicago time.
Trading on the Chicago-based CME will close for two hours, then
resume at 6 p.m. for 22 hours, a schedule that will continue
through Fridays, the CME said. Floor trading is unchanged from
9:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. daily.  The USDA’s monthly World Agricultural Supply and Demand
Estimates report is released at 7:30 a.m. Chicago time.  IntercontinentalExchange (ICE) , based in Atlanta, announced plans
on April 12 to provide futures and options trading in U.S.
grains and oilseeds. The contracts, which settle on a cash basis
linked to prices on CME Group’s Chicago Board of Trade, started
trading today.  Vilsack, noting the 150th anniversary of the USDA tomorrow,
said data-collection has been a core function of the agency. The
next challenge is improving information worldwide, he said.  “Markets don’t just reflect what’s happening in the  United
States ,” Vilsack said. “If we don’t have accurate information
from providers all over the world, those markets will not be as
accurate as they need to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Alan Bjerga in  Washington 
at   abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  