-- Vivendi Jumps After Profit Tops Estimates on Music, SFR
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-15T07:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/vivendi-first-quarter-profit-beat-estimates-on-brazil.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  reported first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates on growth at the music
division and as earnings held up at French wireless unit SFR
amid intensifying competition.  Vivendi jumped as much as 6.6 percent to 13.25 euros and
was up 4.6 percent at 9:15 a.m. in Paris. Net income excluding
one-time gains or losses and some costs was 823 million euros
($1.1 billion), compared with the 765 million-euro average of
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales slipped 0.9
percent to 7.1 billion euros, also exceeding predictions, helped
by Universal Music Group and the GVT Brazilian division.  SFR, which accounted for 41 percent of Paris-based
Vivendi’s sales and 35 percent of profit in the period, has cut
prices to stop customers from defecting to discounter  Iliad SA. (ILD) 
With SFR’s new Chief Executive Officer Michel Combes due to
start on Aug. 1, the carrier is working on cutting network,
computer and call-center costs, Pierre Trotot, SFR’s senior
executive vice president, said on a conference call yesterday.  “With the first-quarter numbers not bringing any further
nasty surprises and management’s comments on cost cutting, there
may be some light at the end of a very long tunnel,” Ian 
Whittaker, an analyst at Liberum Capital in  London , wrote in a 
note. He has a buy rating on the shares.  Iliad Gains  Iliad, the broadband provider founded by entrepreneur
Xavier Niel, won 2.6 million subscribers within the first 80
days of its mobile-service launch, in a burst that is
unprecedented in the past decade in  Europe .  The company, which operates under the Free brand, became
 France ’s fourth mobile-network operator on January 10, with
packages starting at 2 euros.  Iliad shares jumped 6.1 percent to 104.60 euros in Paris.  “The first quarter hardly felt the impact of the fourth
entrant,” SFR’s Trotot said yesterday. “You will see the drop
in our Ebita as soon as the second quarter.”  Vivendi continues to project a decline of as much as 570
million euros in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization at SFR in 2012, from 3.8 billion euros last
year. First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization at SFR slipped 0.9 percent to 561 million euros.  SFR plans to reduce operating expenses by as much as 450
million euros this year through firings, cuts in marketing
spending and renegotiating contracts with  call centers , two
people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Bieber, Swift  Vivendi reiterated its forecast adjusted net income of
“above” 2.5 billion euros this year, or a decline of as much
as 15 percent from 2011. It said in March it expects an earnings
slump that will last through 2013, largely because of SFR, about
a year after CEO Jean-Bernard Levy spent 7.95 billion euros to
take full control of the unit from  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Universal Music Group  reported Ebita growth of 48 percent
to 68 million euros. Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron
said on the call that one should “not over-emphasize” the
unit, even though it has important scheduled album releases
including Justin Bieber,  Jennifer Lopez  and  Taylor Swift .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  