-- Vuillard’s Women, Sleek Tycoons Dazzle: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/vuillard-s-women-sleek-tycoons-dazzle-lance-esplund.html
French painter Edouard Vuillard never
married. He lived with his widowed mother, his self-proclaimed
“muse,” until her death in 1928 when he was 60.  Foreshadowing Freud’s views on real family values,
Vuillard’s interiors suggest the cluttered, conflicted inner
worlds of their inhabitants.  Close-knit quarters become charged, theatrical sets in
which psychological dramas unfold. “Madame Vuillard at Table”
(1896-97), is as frontal and fraught as Giacometti’s frenzied
portraits of his own mother. Vuillard was clearly a precedent.  The artist is the subject of a rich, beautiful and well-
balanced retrospective at the  Jewish Museum .  Best known as a
visionary painter of densely woven, domestic interiors, as
“Edouard Vuillard: A Painter and His Muses, 1890-1940” bears
out, he was also a master of portraiture, landscape, playbills,
posters and the decorative mural. And he got better with age.  Vuillard’s preoccupation is often the uneasiness of human
interaction, of things experienced and imagined yet
unacknowledged, unsaid. Working somewhere between Dutch
Realism and Existentialism, he expresses the tension between
naturalism and claustrophobic family life, where binding
relationships can also constrict.  Things Simmer  If his fellow Symbolist and studio mate  Pierre Bonnard 
turned up the heat, stretching fever-pitch color to ecstatic
heights, Vuillard, a realist and introspective dreamer,
preferred to let things simmer.  In his dual portrait of the brothers, entrepreneurs and
collectors, “Henri and Marcel Kapferer in Their Dining Room”
(1912), an extremely long telephone wire bisects the table.
Separating the successful brothers (Henri founded Air France,
while Marcel started Royal Dutch Shell) as clearly as a line
drawn in the sand, it drops to the floor, unravels and snakes
across the blood-red carpet like some living umbilical cord.  Intimate and well-paced, the Jewish Museum’s chronological
exhibition is as elegant and satisfying as a fine meal. Early
on, a gathering of theater programs, in turn festive and
melancholy, are magical marriages of word and image. Letters,
leaves, mouths and eyes interweave as accent and punctuation.  The exhibit proceeds into larger landscapes, murals and
portraits. In “Madame Hessel Sitting in a Meadow in Normandy”
(c. 1905), Vuillard’s naturalism invokes Constable. And in
the nearly abstract “Twilight at Le Pouliguen” (1908), he
is as broad, plainspoken and direct as Milton Avery.  Silhouettes  Figures in Vuillard’s early paintings and lithographs are
nearly consumed by the pictures’ advancing, Impressionistic
fields of textiles and rose-patterned wallpaper. In many of his
portraits, people darken and harden into near silhouette. They
appear to carve out pockets of space in an attempt to anchor
themselves within the flurry of their surroundings.  The interior “Woman in a Striped Dress” (1895) suggests a
garden. Two women flower from out of the picture’s russet
ground. The vibrant red and white stripes of the younger woman’s
dress deepen the sense of furrowed field, yet also lend to her
the anxiety of wiggling worms. The women’s heads are fused like
twin blossoms on a single stem, but they are worlds apart.  Spooky Mist  Children have a special place in Vuillard. In the opulent
“Claude Bernheim de Villers” (1905-6) the child is clearly
articulated, the picture’s ballast, while the woman dissolves
into spooky mist.  Yet it is in the last galleries devoted to work from the
1920s and ’30s that Vuillard’s genius and range -- his
verisimilitude -- take flight.  In “Woman in an Interior” (c. 1935-38) his loose brushwork
is worthy of Delacroix. And in “Luncheon at Les Clayes”
(1935-38), the gleaming seated diners are as brilliant and
translucent as glassware.  The gray-violet landscape “Garden in Winter with Peacock”
is among the last pictures Vuillard painted before his death in
1940, just before the German occupation of Paris. According to
the curators, its prescient “gloominess” and “gray tonalities”
convey an “impending sense of tragedy.”  Far from gloomy, however, the large, gorgeous, twilit
painting is inviting and romantic enough to step into.
Vuillard modestly and somewhat disingenuously remarked, “I have
never been anything but a spectator.”  Here, as elsewhere, he paints what he sees. Yet even in the
landscape he was a painter of interiors as his perceptive eye,
prophetic perhaps, penetrated to the world within.  “Edouard Vuillard: A Painter and His Muses, 1890-1940”
runs through Sept. 23 at 1109 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-
423-3200;  http://www.thejewishmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  book  and  wine  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story: Lance Esplund in
 New York  at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 