-- Welspun Group, Alpha Lead Bidders in Indian State Solar Auction
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-14T07:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/welspun-group-alpha-lead-bidders-in-indian-state-solar-auction.html
Welspun (WLCO)  Group,  India ’s largest solar
photovoltaic developer, and Alpha Infraprop Pvt. led with the
lowest bids in an auction for 200 megawatts of solar capacity in
the central state of Madhya Pradesh, a government official said.  “We have to review the bids to see if they are realistic
before we announce the winners,” Rajesh Mehta, chief general
manager of Madhya Pradesh Power Management Co., the state-run
agency overseeing the auction, said by telephone today. The
results will be announced in about 15 days, he said.  India is using auctions to push down average solar power
rates, which have fallen 38 percent since December 2010, as it
seeks to avoid the surging renewable-energy subsidies seen in
 Europe . Global solar power prices are plunging because of
declining equipment costs amid a panel supply glut, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Alpha Infraprop, a Mumbai-based company that’s building a
coal-based generation plant in Andhra Pradesh state, submitted
the lowest bid for 20 megawatts of capacity, committing it to
sell solar-based power at 7,900 rupees ($147) a megawatt-hour,
Mehta said. That’s about 13 percent lower than the global
average for a photovoltaic project using crystalline panels,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Welspun offered the second-lowest bid of 8,050 rupees a
megawatt-hour for 125 megawatts of capacity, Mehta said.  Simplex Infrastructure Ltd. and  Acme Tele Power Ltd. (ATPL) 
followed with bids of 9,590 rupees and 12,450 rupees a megawatt-
hour, according to a list from Acme, which was present at the
bid opening.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  