-- White Sugar Premiums May Signal Increased Demand Before Ramadan
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-14T10:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/white-sugar-premiums-may-signal-increased-demand-before-ramadan.html
Premiums for white, or refined, sugar
are rising in  India  and  Europe , possibly signaling increased
demand for the sweetener before the Ramadan, according to Swiss
Sugar Brokers.  The price of white sugar in India, the world’s second-
biggest producer and largest consumer, is $25 a metric ton above
the August futures on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , the
broker said in a report e-mailed dated May 12. The premium was
$15 a ton on May 5, according to data from the broker.  The premium in the European Union is $40 a ton above NYSE
Liffe, up from $35 a ton on May 5, data from the broker show. In
 Thailand , the world’s second-largest exporter, the premium held
is $25 a ton for shipment in bulk and $35 a ton for containers.  The premiums and the price difference between white and raw
sugar futures are “firm” and that “could be the front-runner
indicator of the pre-Ramadan demand,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at
the Rolle, Switzerland-based company, wrote in the report. EU
supplies are also limited because the season that started in
October is now coming to an end, he added.  Muslim nations usually stock up on sugar before Ramadan,
which starts in July this year. White sugar futures trading in
London were $109.90 a ton more expensive than the raw sugar
contract negotiated in New York by 11:22 a.m. in London, an
increase of 23 percent so far this year,  data  on Bloomberg
showed. Thailand may benefit this year from demand before
Ramadan because the crop in top global producer  Brazil  started
later than usual.  Raw Sugar Premium  The premium buyers have to pay to obtain raw sugar from
Brazil, the world’s biggest producer, also rose this week as
traders sought to cover their short positions, or bets on lower
prices, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Brazilian sugar for loading at the port of Santos from May
15 to June 15 was 0.2 cent a pound above the July contract on
the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York , Swiss Sugar Brokers
said in the report. That compares with a premium of 0.03 cent to
0.06 cent on May 5.  The increase in premiums may signal “short-term supply is
not as ample as expected,” Beydoun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 