-- Wines Targeting Women Are Long on Legs, Short on Flavor
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/wines-targeting-women-are-long-on-legs-short-on-flavor.html
Freud struggled to find an answer to
the question “What does a woman want?” Ninety-odd years later,
some in the wine industry think they know.  Really?  According to the new “girly-wine” brand marketers, we
want to be skinny, to toss our hair playfully like ponies as we
pick our bottles to match moods, not foods. We also crave an
easy-sipping flavor profile with a naughty edge of sweetness.  High-heeled shoes star in our fantasies. Well, maybe they
got that one right. But aren’t Canadian wine maker  Strut’s 
labels featuring photos of long, shapely, perfect legs emerging
from short skirts a guy fantasy?  Just looking at them makes me want to forget about drinking
and head for the gym.  In the past few years the wine world has finally discovered
that women drinkers are a coveted customer niche.  Hello? We’re the sex that makes up nearly 60 percent of
U.S. wine consumers, according to the Beverage Information
Group’s 2011 Wine Handbook.  Which is why there are so many companies are starting up
lines of wines for chicks. Most are targeting women 21 to 34,
but their marketing efforts often treat this audience as if it
had no more sophistication than a bevy of sorority sisters on
spring break.  Flirty Moscato  Recently, global giant  Treasury Wine Estates (TWE)  launched four
wines under the “Be.” label: Flirty, a pink moscato; Bright, a
pinot grigio; Fresh, an unoaked chardonnay; and Radiant, a
riesling.  I guess so-called Millennial women are supposed to only
turn to wine when they’re feeling upbeat, not when they’re tired
and grumpy at the end of the day. Treasury’s website describes
the pinot grigio mood: “Your sunny disposition sets your
soundtrack to the soothing sounds of a steel drum band as you
flip flop through fabulousness.”  This new marketing vision also assumes all women are diet-
obsessed. Last month, three lower-calorie Skinnygirl wines from
Beam Global Spirits & Wine Inc. hit retail shelves. Beam claims
a five-ounce glass of any of the Skinnygirl wines contain 100
calories. (Typically, most wines contain 110 to 125, unless
they’re sweet dessert bottlings.)  ‘Real Housewives’  The white, red, and rose “guilt-free” blends are the
first wines released by Skinnygirl which has been making
premixed cocktails since it was founded in 2009 by reality TV-
star Bethenny Frankel from “The Real Housewives of New York
City.”  New York’s  Mister Wright Fine Wines & Spirits  stocks the
rose, and so far the wine isn’t exactly flying out the door,
according to manager Jodie Leishman. She also carries another
“fun” wine brand for women, Mommy’s Time Out. “Moms buy it
for a joke, when they’re going on a play date with their kids,”
Leishman says. “They buy it for the name, not the wine. I keep
it on a low shelf.”  Barbara Insel, president of St. Helena, California-based
wine consulting firm  Stonebridge Research , says men’s and
women’s motivations are very different. “In focus groups, women
say they buy wine to go with food, to relax, to drink with
friends, to have fun.” Men, on the other hand, “say they drink
for health, but off the record, they admit they buy wines that
will impress their friends.”  Emotional Connection  The  Middle Sister  wine brand reflects this lifestyle
approach, according to Mary Ann Vangrin, one of its three
partners. She says women look for wines that offer an emotional
connection.  Its 10 sassy-style wines have personality-profile names
like Drama Queen (pinot grigio), Smarty Pants (chardonnay) and
best-selling Rebel Red (a blend). All share a flavor-phobic
house style.  “Women don’t want a wine that bites back. They like ripe,
fruit-forward wines without a lot of tannin and oak,” says
Vangrin. She should know: Middle Sister regularly solicits
feedback from its 115,000 Facebook friends.  Deutsch Family Wine & Spirits , which brought us the
ubiquitous Yellowtail, has launched its own new wine marketed to
women, Flirt, a blend of syrah, zinfandel, and tempranillo. Its
approach is obvious yet more subdued and somewhat less cringe-
worthy than other brands. Think lipstick advertisement.  Blind Tasting  I almost forgot taste. I sampled a selection of all these
blind alongside a few “non-women’s wines.”  What can I tell you? The girly brands tasted like neutered
commercial plonk. Only three stood out as barely acceptable
chilled plastic cup party fare: 2011 Skinnygirl White, 2011
Skinnygirl Rose, and 2011 Be. Fresh (chardonnay).  The bottom line? For the $10 to $15 that most of these
cutsey bottling go for, drinkers seeking an emotional connection
with what they swill in their glass could have real wine made by
real people -- think rieslings, proseccos, roses, Beaujolais,
Argentinean torrontes and malbecs -- you know, the kind of vino
even guys like.  (Elin McCoy writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  television  and  books .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 