-- Workers Lacking Skills Hinder More Factory Gains: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-14T20:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/workers-lacking-skills-hinder-more-u-s-factory-gains-economy.html
Paul Bonin has no problem getting
enough orders to keep his South Bend, Indiana, factory busy.
What he can’t find are enough qualified employees to work on the
assembly lines.  “The biggest challenge we face is a skilled  labor force ,”
said Bonin, president of  Bertrand Products Inc. , which makes
transmission parts for helicopters. He said he sees
opportunities to fill more orders, “but I can’t take the work
because I can’t find the workforce.”  The inability to locate employees with the right abilities
is holding back manufacturing, the industry that led the U.S.
out of the worst recession since the 1930s, just as the economy
shows signs of cooling. The number of  factory jobs  waiting to be
filled climbed to 326,000 in March, the most since November
2007, according to data from the Labor Department.  “The manufacturing sector is clearly showing signs of a
skills mismatch,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at
Barclays in  New York . “It is likely to weigh on manufacturing
growth.”  Manufacturing was the only one of the seven seasonally
adjusted major industry categories tracked by the government
with as many openings in March as in the months before the
recession started in December 2007. Openings at factories had
been as low as 93,000 in May 2009, the fewest in records going
back to 2000.  At the same time, the hiring rate, which is the number of
people added to factory payrolls as a share of total employment,
was 2.2 percent in March compared with 2.9 percent in November
2007, according to the Labor Department.  Skills Mismatch  “There’s a sharp divergence on what’s happening on the
opening side and what’s happening on the hiring side,”
underscoring the skills mismatch, said Maki.  Economists like Heidi Shierholz are among those who
disagree with the premise that a lack of skills is restraining
factory hiring.  “There is always some degree of skills mismatch,” said
Shierholz, a labor-market economist at the  Economic Policy
Institute  in Washington, which gets some of its funding from
labor unions. “That’s one of the reasons why even in boom times
we have 4 percent unemployment. The vast majority of the
increase in unemployment is just due to weak demand.”  U.S. stocks fell today as  Greece  struggled to form a
government amid growing speculation the nation may leave the
euro region. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 1.1 percent
to 1,338.35 at the close in New York.  European Production  European industrial production unexpectedly declined in
March, capping a quarter that probably saw the economy slip into
its second recession in as many years. Production in the 17-
nation euro area slipped 0.3 percent in March from a month
earlier, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. In the first quarter, output fell 0.5 percent.  The Manufacturing Institute, which is affiliated with the
 National Association of Manufacturers , said in a 2011  report 
that in the U.S., “shortages in skilled production jobs --
machinists, operators, craft workers, distributors, technicians,
and more -- are taking their toll on manufacturers’ ability to
expand operations, drive innovation and improve productivity.”  The Washington-based group said 74 percent of its survey
respondents “indicated that workforce shortages or skills
deficiencies in skilled production roles are having a
significant impact on their ability to expand operations or
improve productivity.”  That scenario is playing out for Kevin Ahaus.  ‘We Could Hire’  “We’re turning down some business because we can only take
in so much with the staff we have,” said Ahaus, president of
Ahaus Tool & Engineering Inc. in Richmond,  Indiana . The company
now has 90 employees after taking in 10 more in the past six
months. “We could hire five more today” if the right people
are found, he said.  A survey by the National Federation of  Independent Business 
showed a net 17 percent of owners said  job openings  were hard to
fill in April, up 2 points from March and close to the almost
four-year high reached in January.  Auto-parts supplier Jody Fledderman said his company faces
a similar situation.  “We fight the same thing,” said Fledderman, president and
chief executive officer of Batesville Tool & Die Inc., a
Batesville, Indiana-based firm that supplies both foreign and
domestic automakers with brackets, oil pans and suspension
parts. “There are very few younger people starting to go into
the industry.”  Hurdles for Factories  Bonin, Ahaus and Fledderman are members of the Precision
Metalforming Association and the National Tooling and Machining
Association. They were in  Washington  last week with about 100
other small-business owners to meet with lawmakers and discuss
the hurdles faced by manufacturers.  Bonin said many job seekers he meets, particularly younger
applicants, do not have a mechanical background, nor do they
have machinery skills or the math and science aptitude needed to
operate the company’s equipment. Instead, he said, “all I’m
doing is stealing from the other shops now.”  One reason for the skills mismatch is that “the
manufacturing sector over time has become much more technology
intensive,” said Barclays’ Maki. The computer comprehension
needed to work the equipment “is making it harder to fill more
positions,” he said.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, grew in April at the fastest pace in almost a year, as
a pickup in orders signaled factories will remain a source of
strength for the expansion. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s  factory index  climbed to 54.8 last month, the best
reading since June, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said May 1.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Factory Employment  Factory employment  has helped drive the U.S. expansion.
Manufacturing payrolls have climbed 4.2 percent since December
2009, compared with a 2.8 percent increase in total hiring.  Employers in half of the  Federal Reserve ’s 12 regions
“reported having difficulty finding qualified workers,
especially for certain high-skilled positions,” the central
bank said April 11 in its Beige Book business survey.  Fed policy makers are debating the extent to which a skills
mismatch is contributing to unemployment as they consider
whether more stimulus is needed to spur hiring.  Jeffrey Lacker , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond, says much of unemployment results from structural
weaknesses like inadequate training that can’t be fixed by Fed
policy. Investing in job training and education may more
successfully address labor-market weakness, Lacker said last
week in a speech in Greensboro,  North Carolina .  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has said she’s concerned
structural unemployment may rise if “the labor market heals too
slowly.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that “continued
weakness in aggregate demand is likely the predominant factor”
in unemployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  