-- Yahoo CEO Departs Amid Inquiry; Loeb Wins Board Shake-Up
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-14T21:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/yahoo-ceo-departs-amid-inquiry-loeb-wins-board-shake-up.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  said Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Thompson  stepped down after failing to correct
errors in his credentials and the company revamped its board,
handing a victory to activist investor  Daniel Loeb , who pushed
for the overhaul and said the Web portal is mismanaged.  Ross Levinsohn, Yahoo’s head of global media, was named
interim CEO, and director Fred Amoroso will become chairman, the
Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Amoroso replaces Roy Bostock, the non-executive
chairman, who is exiting the board immediately. Yahoo agreed to
add Loeb to its board along with two other directors nominated
by his fund, Third Point LLC, to end a proxy fight.  Third Point, which owns about 5.8 percent of Yahoo, stepped
up pressure on Yahoo since flagging discrepancies in Thompson’s
resume on May 3. The departure of Yahoo’s third CEO in just over
three years adds to  upheaval  at a company that was once a leader
in Web search and information. Yahoo’s sales tumbled 31 percent
last year from a peak three years earlier, and its market value
has dropped by more than half since the end of 2005.  “The company is starting from scratch yet again,”  Ben Schachter , an analyst at  Macquarie Capital , said in an
interview. He has a neutral rating on the stock and doesn’t own
it. “Scott put them in a very difficult position and something
had to happen.”  Yahoo’s Challenges  Thompson, 54, was brought on in January to orchestrate a
turnaround at the struggling Web portal after Google Inc. and
Facebook Inc. lured users and advertising dollars.  “This is a damaged company and a company competing in a
space that’s moving incredibly fast,” Schachter said.  Thompson’s undoing stems from erroneous biographical
 references  that said he held a bachelor’s degree in computer
science from Stonehill College. A former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  executive, he
earned a degree in accounting from the Easton, Massachusetts-
based school, and the information is correctly listed in EBay
regulatory filings and some Yahoo press releases. The incorrect
degree showed up in Yahoo’s April 27 10-K  filing , as well as on
the company’s  website .  Before resigning as CEO, Thompson told directors he has
been diagnosed with thyroid cancer, according to a person
briefed on the matter. The cancer disclosure was previously
reported by the  Wall Street Journal .  Thyroid Cancer  About 56,000 people will be diagnosed with thyroid cancer
this year and 1,780 will die, according to the  National Cancer
Institute .  Treatments  can include chemotherapy, radiation and
surgery to remove the thyroid. Doctors can sometimes remove the
organ using radioactive medicine, which destroys the thyroid
without harming surrounding tissue.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to
comment.  In addition toLoeb,  Third Point  nominees  Harry Wilson  and
 Michael Wolf  will join Yahoo as directors. A fourth nominee,
Jeffrey Zucker, said in yesterday’s statement that he withdrew
his nomination to allow a quick transition.  “We’re particularly enthused by the addition of the new
board slate,” Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research
Group, wrote in a research note. “Loeb, Wolf and Wilson appear
to be focused upon restoring Yahoo’s importance for the
industry, and from our observations, care very much about the
opportunity.”  Bostock, Patti Hart,  Gary Wilson , Arthur Kern and Vyomesh Joshi have resigned from the board, Yahoo said. Previously, the
company said they wouldn’t stand for re-election at the annual
shareholders meeting. Third Point also had suggested Hart’s
academic credentials weren’t accurate, though a review by the
board of  International Game Technology (IGT) , where she is CEO, found
“no material inconsistencies,” IGT said last week.  Turnaround Efforts  Yahoo shares rose 2 percent to $15.50 at the close in  New
York . The stock has declined 3.9 percent this year.  Thompson, the former president of EBay’s PayPal unit, was
hired in January to replace  Carol Bartz , who had been dismissed
by Yahoo’s board in September amid falling sales and market-
share losses. Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse was named
interim CEO after Bartz’s departure.  Thompson cut 2,000 jobs and overhauled management, and
Yahoo’s stock had its biggest rally in three months on April 18
after the company reported first-quarter sales that topped
estimates, fueling optimism that turnaround efforts might take
hold. A day earlier, Yahoo reported its first revenue gain in
more than three years.  ‘Precarious Position’  “The company is in a precarious position,” said  Paul Sweeney , a senior analyst with Bloomberg Industries. “Probably
the best thing and the easiest thing to do is to make this
change.”  Levinsohn expressed optimism about the company’s future in
a memo to employees yesterday that was obtained by Bloomberg
News. The company is “achieving genuine and meaningful
successes,” he said.  “Fred and the new Yahoo board are looking forward to
working constructively to stabilize the leadership team and to
further accelerate the progress we have made in reinvigorating
Yahoo, executing against the company’s strategic initiatives and
enhancing stockholder value,” he said. “Yahoo is a dynamic,
global company in a dynamic, global industry, so change --
sometimes unexpected and sometimes at lightning speed -- is
something we will continue to live with and something we should
embrace.”  Third Point Negotiations  Third Point had been locked in a dispute with the company
about its direction and appointments to the board, calling Yahoo
one of technology’s “most mismanaged companies.”  The fund faulted Thompson in April for embarking on job
cuts before he articulated a more complete strategy, and it
criticized earlier management for failing to accept a $44
billion takeover bid from Microsoft Corp.  Yahoo named three independent directors in March as part of
an effort to shake up the board and appease investors. The
company negotiated with Third Point’s Loeb about adding one of
his nominees and another that both sides could agree on, though
the discussions broke down when Loeb insisted that he himself be
added, Yahoo said at the time. The fund announced plans in March
to seek shareholder votes for its slate of four directors.  ‘Full Responsibility’  After the  disclosure  of the resume error, Yahoo initially
called the discrepancy an “inadvertent error” and said it “in
no way alters that fact that Mr. Thompson is a highly qualified
executive with a successful track record leading large consumer
technology companies.”  Yahoo later formed a review committee led by Amoroso, who
joined the board in February. The other directors named to the
panel were John Hayes and Thomas McInerney, who both joined the
board in April. The committee also retained independent counsel,
Terry Bird of  Bird, Marella, Boxer, Wolpert, Nessim, Drooks &
Lincenberg  in  Los Angeles .  Thompson, in a memo to staff on May 7, apologized for the
fallout from the disclosures and said he takes “full
responsibility.”  “I want you to know how deeply I regret how this issue has
affected the company and all of you,” Thompson said.  PayPal, owned by  San Jose , California-based EBay, has
services that help retailers and individuals exchange funds for
purchases or payments, even without a  credit card . As president,
Thompson contributed to an increase of the payment service’s
users from 50 million to more than 100 million, helping it near
a goal of revenue as high as $7 billion by 2013, compared with
about  $3.3 billion  in 2010.  Compensation  Thompson also engineered the company’s expansion to online
daily deals and mobile payments. His  past jobs  also included
overseeing global technology for  Visa Inc. (V)   Thompson’s potential compensation was set at as high as $27
million when he joined. Besides an annual base salary of $1
million, he received a hiring bonus of $1.5 million in cash and
$5.5 million in stock, according to Yahoo’s agreement  letter 
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The company said there would be no severance compensation
as part of the separation agreement, according to a filing
today. Thompson, who also stepped down as director, will keep
the cash and stock awards that had vested, the filing said.  Thompson was set to receive a so-called inducement equity
award in February worth $5 million, regulatory filings show. He
was eligible for incentive compensation of as much as twice his
annual salary, depending on performance, with the bonus
guaranteed to be least $1 million for the fiscal year.  He also was slated to receive an additional $1 million
stock award in March 2013 and to get long-term equity grants
that were projected by the company to be worth $11 million for
2012, according to the regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  