-- Zloty Slides to Weakest in Almost Four Months on Greece Concern
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-05-14T15:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-14/zloty-slides-to-weakest-in-almost-four-months-on-greece-concern.html
The zloty slid to its weakest in
almost four months and Polish bond yields jumped the most since
November on concern  Greece  may exit  Europe ’s currency union.  The zloty depreciated 1.2 percent to 4.3146 against the
euro as of 5:06 p.m. in Warsaw, the lowest intraday level since
Jan. 23. It had the steepest drop among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on 10-year
notes rose 10 basis points to 5.47 percent, the steepest rise
since Nov. 23.  Greece’s political deadlock looked set to continue for a
second week as President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure
agreement on a unity government. German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s party was defeated in an election in the country’s most
populous state. The euro area is Poland’s biggest trading
partner.  “ Central Europe  is back to being at the epicentre of
contagion risks, due to its proximity to the danger zone,”
 Benoit Anne , head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe
Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-mail to clients. “There
are good reasons to like the zloty from a fundamental
standpoint, but investors are switching to an aggressive
position-squaring mode, which means that even the fundamentally
sound currencies are being penalized.”  Poland’s  economy  will grow 2.7 percent this year, the
fastest pace in the European Union, as the euro area contracts,
European Commission forecasts showed May 11. The country was the
only member of the trading bloc to avoid a recession in 2009.  The central bank last week surprised the market with the
first  increase  in  interest rate  by an EU nation this year to
control inflation. Policy makers lifted the main rate by a
quarter point to 4.75 percent, the highest since January 2009,
and didn’t rule out further moves as the economy slows at below-
forecast rate.  The cost of insuring Polish government debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps grew 15 basis
points to 234, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps that
rise as the perception of country’s creditworthiness deteriorate
are at the highest level since Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  