-- ‘Billionaire’s Apprentice’ Follows Rajat Gupta’s Downfall
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/-billionaire-s-apprentice-follows-rajat-gupta-s-downfall.html
The Galleon Group insider-trading
scandal involving Raj Rajaratnam and  Rajat Gupta  featured
arrogance, greed and, ultimately, prosecution. To  Anita
Raghavan , whose riveting new book tells the story in meticulous
detail, that’s a sign that Indian-Americans have finally
arrived.  “The South Asian diaspora in the U.S. had enjoyed
unrivaled success,” she writes in “ The Billionaire’s
Apprentice .” “Its members were considered the new ‘model
minority.’”  Then she reminds us of Israeli statesman David Ben Gurion’s
observation that “in order for  Israel  to be counted among the
nations of the world, it has to have its own burglars and
prostitutes.”  The apprentice of the title is Gupta, a Shakespearean
figure who rose to head global consulting firm McKinsey & Co. as
a consummate politician and paragon of discretion. Yet when he
stepped down he became all too eager to transcend mere wealth
and achieve mega-riches.  To that end, he threw in his lot with Rajaratnam, a boorish
hedge-fund manager of Sri Lankan birth whose success was due in
part to a network of South Asian contacts in Silicon Valley and
elsewhere. Gupta was on the board of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
and sometimes within minutes of leaving a confidential meeting
he would telephone Rajaratnam.  Prison Sentences  The two men were partners in a separate fund -- for the
most part, disastrously -- but Gupta doesn’t appear to have
directly profited from any of his friend’s Goldman trades, which
helped earn both men prison sentences. (Gupta is currently free
while he appeals his conviction.)  Perhaps Gupta expected to profit from maintaining a good
relationship with Rajaratnam; prosecutors introduced evidence
that Gupta was negotiating for a stake of about 15 percent in an
entity called Galleon International, a $1.3 billion Asian
investment vehicle from which he could expect performance fees.  Raghavan’s tale is enlivened by a wealth of detail thanks
to some impressive reporting. We learn that Gupta had at least
13 phones -- and used them all -- and that Rajaratnam held job
interviews at a topless club.  “Galleon traders who made bets and lost would be required
to spend the day wearing lingerie,” Raghavan notes.  The author’s Herculean labors spanned three continents, and
she benefited as well from the wiretaps used by prosecutors to
nail Rajaratnam. The book, which reads at times like a who’s who
of the Indian-American elite, is also valuable for the glimpse
it provides into a supremely successful group of immigrants --
one that, like the Jewish community before them, has triumphed
through education.  Good Timing  Their arrival was well-timed, as Raghavan notes. The civil-rights revolution opened doors to non-white talent, and the U.S.
economy’s new emphasis on finance and technology perfectly
suited the training of these newcomers.  Eventually Rajaratnam and Gupta were prosecuted by a U.S.
Attorney’s office headed by another Indian-American, the
brilliant and ambitious Preet Bharara, whose brother, not to be
outdone, sold an online business to Amazon for $540 million.
Later, when Bharara visited  Harvard Business School  to lecture
on white-collar crime, one of Gupta’s daughters was in the
class.  If the book has weaknesses, they are mostly side effects of
its strengths. It’s an excellent work of journalism, but
Raghavan is no great prose stylist -- toward the end she refers
redundantly to “a pivotal turning point” -- and at times she
seems the captive of her own prodigious reporting, so that in
some places readers must forge ahead snow-blind from the
blizzard of details.  No Psychology  A larger failing is that while the book is long on facts,
it’s a tad short on analysis. Raghavan has succeeded in avoiding
dime-store psychologizing, yet she’s unable to provide much
insight into what makes the major players tick.  In particular, why would a cultured and admired man like
Gupta, one of the world’s most esteemed business leaders and
already worth a fortune, take the risk of passing along
nonpublic information to a coarse character like Rajaratnam?  Years before his downfall, Gupta offered a possible answer
in a lecture he gave at  Columbia University , where he
acknowledged that, “Yeah, I am driven by money.” And he warned
his listeners that they will be too: “However much you say that
you will not fall into the trap of it, you do fall into the trap
of it.” One hopes the students were listening.  “The Billionaire’s Apprentice: The Rise of the Indian-American Elite and the Fall of the Galleon Hedge Fund” is
published by Business Plus (493 pages, $29). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lili Rosboch  on art and  Philip
Boroff  on Broadway.  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in  New York  at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 