-- ABB Investors Seek Frugal CEO to Solve $10 Billion Puzzle
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-06-12T08:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/abb-investors-seek-frugal-ceo-to-solve-10-billion-deal-puzzle.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  investors, reeling from
Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan’s announcement last month to
step down, want a more frugally-minded replacement to integrate
the $10 billion worth of U.S. acquisitions he left behind.  Hogan’s three-year spending spree added motors and low-voltage gear to the world’s biggest supplier of power grids.
While the deals boosted profitability and helped ABB’s shares to
outperform German rival  Siemens AG (SIE) , they’re also absorbing
management time. That’s prompted ABB to offer a bonus program to
executives for meeting integration targets.  “I would be happy with a quieter guy who integrates what
they have bought, rather than another guy who again wants to
grow the company $5 billion to $10 billion with acquisitions,”
said Bernhard Signorell, CEO of ABB shareholder 3v Asset
Management. “Hogan definitely filled a gap in the U.S., but I
don’t feel that there is a big gap for acquisitions anymore.”  Hogan, who took over almost five years ago during the 2008
financial crisis, expanded ABB by buying motor-maker Baldor
Electric Co. and low-voltage gear maker Thomas & Betts Corp.,
purchases that helped counter a decline in spending on power
grids in  Europe . The company now needs to deepen the integration
of these purchases to market new offerings through its global
operations with 145,000 employees.  Senior Executives  ABB may choose its new CEO in mid-June and Ulrich Spiesshofer, the head of ABB’s Discrete Automation & Motion
unit, and Henkel AG Chief Kasper Rorsted are favorites to
succeed Hogan, Swiss magazine Bilanz reported last month without
saying how it got the information. A Henkel spokesman later said
that Rorsted won’t join ABB.  Other senior ABB executives include division heads such as
Power Systems’ Brice Koch, Power Products’ Bernhard Jucker, Low
Voltage Products’ Tarak Mehta and Process Automation’s Veli-Matti Reinikkala.  ABB said May 10 that Hogan, the first American to lead the
Zurich-based company in its 120-year history, will step down for
“private reasons” and will continue in the role until a
replacement is appointed. He didn’t resign because of ill health
and there was no conflict with the board or chairman, said
spokesman Antonio Ligi, declining to give further details.  Hogan, who joined ABB following more than 20 years at
 General Electric Co. (GE) , will probably have left his succession
well-prepared, according to Noel Tichy, Professor of Management
& Organizations at the  University of Michigan . Succession
planning is a key element for GE’s management, he said.  Acquisition Spree  ABB has said it will look internally and externally for a
new chief. Gilles Bey, an ABB shareholder and portfolio manager
at Valiant Bank AG in Bern, said investors are expecting an
internal candidate to succeed Hogan.  “Hogan’s acquisitions were good for ABB because they
brought in new technology and diversification for the
business,” he said. “I would prefer someone who consolidates
Hogan’s acquisitions if it’s an internal appointment. The
internal people don’t have the experience to make acquisitions
like Hogan did.”  ABB’s margin based on earnings before interest, taxes,
amortization and depreciation rose by 1.1 percentage points to
15 percent in the first quarter while sales increased by 9
percent to $9.7 billion, the company said April 24. Thomas &
Betts power fittings, connectors and switches contributed 7
percent to operating earnings.  Outperforming Siemens  A week later, German rival Siemens cut its full-year
forecast after quarterly earnings missed analyst estimates and
said revenue fell 6.7 percent to 18 billion euros ($24 billion).  ABB shares rose 0.1 percent to 20.30 francs in Swiss
trading as of 9:54 a.m., valuing the company at 49 billion
francs ($53 billion). The stock has risen 8 percent this year,
while  Germany ’s Siemens dropped 1.5 percent.  ABB runs the risk that executives passed over for the top
job will leave the company, Tichy said.  “My strong bias is to always go inside if you have the
talent, also because the track record of outsiders is pretty
sketchy, although Joe is one of the exceptions,” he said.  Spiesshofer, a former consultant at  Roland Berger  and  A.T.
Kearney  before joining ABB as head of corporate development in
2005, oversaw the integration of Baldor and the agreed $1
billion acquisition of California-based  Power-One Inc. (PWER) , Hogan’s
most recent deal.  Fewer China Orders  Power-One will give ABB inverters that allow solar power to
be fed into grids and the deal is an example of how Hogan has
been bringing new technology to the Swiss company. ABB is
looking to tap a market forecast to grow by more than 10 percent
annually, driven by a need for affordable energy and declining
costs of producing solar power.  Hogan’s successor also needs to continue a revamp of the
power systems unit, said  James Stettler , an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  London . ABB faces lower orders from
 China  State Grid Corp., its largest customer, as local rivals
make technological advances and make inroads into the Swiss
company’s market share, he said.  Power Systems should extend the restructuring of its
engineering, procurement and construction businesses announced
in December to contracts for high-voltage power connections,
which depend on China, the analyst said.  For ABB’s new CEO, “a main priority will be the
integration of the recent acquisitions,” said Richard Frei, an
analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank. “Then cost savings are still
an issue. Additionally, the restructuring of Power Systems is
ongoing,” he said.  While Hogan’s overall reign at ABB is seen as a success,
the new CEO now has to make his predecessor’s strategy work.  “The company is in damn good shape after where it was five
years ago,” saidTichy. “But it’s halfway up  Mount Everest  and
all kinds of stuff can happen on the rest of the climb.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  