-- Abe Measures May Boost Gains in Stocks, Temasek’s Fullerton Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-06-11T08:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/abe-measures-may-boost-gains-in-stocks-temasek-s-fullerton-says.html
Japan  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
efforts to revive the economy and fight deflation could lead to
further gains in the country’s stocks, according to the head of
Temasek Holdings Pte’s fund-management unit.  Abe needs to get through next month’s election for the
upper house of parliament before he’s able to detail his reform
plans, said Manraj Sekhon, chief executive officer of Fullerton
Fund Management Co. Abe’s success in pushing his policies could
drive earnings higher and more liquidity into equities, Sekhon
said a press conference in Singapore today.  The Bank of Japan’s bond-purchasing program and other
measures helped push the Nikkei 225 Stock Average 28 percent
higher this year, the best performance among developed markets
worldwide. The yen fell 12 percent in 2013, the second worst
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “It’s early days yet,” Sekhon said. “If Abe gets what
he’s doing right, it will be very positive for the equity
market.”  There’s still a lot of liquidity in the Japanese market,
with funds waiting to be invested, he said.  The Nikkei fell 1.5 percent today, retreating from the
biggest advance in two years yesterday, after the Bank of Japan
kept its policy unchanged and the yen gained. Policy makers
refrained from expanding their tools to address bond-market
volatility, sticking with an April plan to double the monetary
base as they seek to rekindle inflation and stoke growth.  “It shouldn’t surprise people if it goes down a bit”
after the rally in the past five months, Sekhon said. “The
volatility we have seen is not totally surprising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  