-- Thai Stocks Drop Most in 2 Years on Fund Outflows: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-11T10:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/thai-stocks-drop-as-much-as-5-3-on-fund-outflows-bangkok-mover.html
Thailand’s benchmark  stock index 
fell the most in more than two years as foreign investors cut
holdings of the nation’s assets amid speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve will rein in its monetary stimulus.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  slid 5 percent to close at
1,452.63, the biggest drop since October 2011. The gauge has
lost 12 percent since reaching its highest level since 1994 on
May 21, exceeding the 10 percent level that some investors
define as a correction. The baht weakened to an eight-month low
and government bonds declined.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , the nation’s biggest company by market value,
slumped 3.9 percent and  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , the second
largest, dropped 6 percent. Global funds sold $744 million more
Thai equities than they bought this month through yesterday and
 pulled  a net $143 million from Thai sovereign debt, official
data show.  “Overseas investors want to take money out from Thailand’s
stocks and other financial assets at any price,” said  Kavee Chukitkasem , an investment strategist at Kasikorn Securities Co.
in Bangkok. “The  money flow  has reversed to outbound from
inbound earlier this year even as the country’s overall economic
and earnings growth remain sound.”  The U.S.’s AA+ credit rating outlook was increased by
Standard & Poor’s yesterday, boosting the odds that the Fed will
reduce its bond-buying program. Foreign investors have sold a
net $1.3 billion of Thai shares, $1.2 billion in Indonesia and
$70 million in the Philippines since May 22, when Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank could consider paring
stimulus if the U.S. labor market improves.  The recent declines pared the SET gauge’s gain this year to
4.4 percent, after the measure surged 36 percent in 2012. The
stock gauge’s 14-day  relative strength index  fell to 30.8, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. A reading below 30 signals to some
technical analysts a security may gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  