-- Anadolu Efes Falls to Year Low on Alcohol Ban: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-11T16:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/anadolu-efes-falls-to-year-low-on-alcohol-ban-istanbul-mover.html
Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt
Sanayii AS (AEFES) , the beermaker part owned by  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , retreated
to the lowest level in a year after President  Abdullah Gul 
approved a law that bans the advertising of alcoholic drinks.  The shares  of the nation’s biggest brewer lost 3.3 percent
to 22.25 liras at the close in Istanbul, the lowest since June
1, 2012. The drop brought the decline this year to 13 percent.
 Turk Tuborg Bira ve Malt Sanayii AS , another beermaker, slid 2.3
percent. The benchmark  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index fell
1.8 percent.  Gul’s approval of the law, which was published by the
Official Gazette today, quashed some investor hopes that he
might send it back to parliament after almost two weeks of anti-government protests. The law will come into effect gradually and
bans retail sales of alcoholic products between 10 p.m. and 6
a.m.  “There was an expectation that maybe the president would
veto the bill and the government would make some concessions,”
Melda Agirdas, an analyst at Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, said in
a phone interview today. “After Gul’s approval, investors
started selling the stock.”  The law, which was passed in parliament late May 23, is
among the complaints voiced during protests that spread after
police attacked a group of environmentalists occupying an
Istanbul park to prevent its redevelopment. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan today vowed to go forward with a plan to rebuild
an Ottoman-era barracks in the Taksim Square, while police moved
back into the area occupied by activists.  Since parliamentary approval, Anadolu Efes, in which
SABMiller owns a 24 percent stake, dropped 27 percent, exceeding
the benchmark equity index’s 18 percent retreat in the period.  “I expect more selling over the short term,” Agirdas
said. “Afterward, investors may perceive a buying
opportunity.”  Eighteen analysts  recommend  investors hold the shares while
five say sell, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  