-- Are Chinese Bad Global Guests?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-11T22:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/are-chinese-bad-global-guests-.html
Could the biggest threat to  China ’s
image be its own citizens when they work and  travel abroad ? It’s
a question that’s been the subject of a noisy public debate in
recent days as the country learned that more than 160 Chinese
miners in Ghana had  been arrested  -- and were soon to be
deported -- for a range of illegal and destructive activities.  The accounts were greeted with shock, anger and an unusual
degree of introspection, in large part because China has spent
the last decade reaching out to  Africa , hoping that economic
assistance and diplomatic cooperation can result in friendship.
News that stories of renegade Chinese miners were prominent in
Ghana over the last several weeks was thus not only unwelcome
but also a rude reminder of how China’s aspirations for
international respectability can be undone by its citizens’
behavior.  The nationalist, Communist Party-owned Global Times
newspaper, rarely an oracle of self-examination, made such a
point in a  June 7 editorial : “This incident alerts us once again
that China has risen and achieved national power, but it is far
from solid. In order to make a living there are many Chinese who
would still like to take the risks that the elder generations
have taken, and illegally enter countries, illegally obtain
employment and do illegal businesses. They’re not able to
connect their personal struggle to China’s rise.”  The Chinese Mining Association in Ghana  estimates that  more
than 50,000 Chinese gold miners have moved to Ghana since 2005,
with the Chinese Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  estimating there
are currently between  20,000 and 30,000 Chinese mining there .
Roughly 12,000 miners came from poor Shanglin county since 2006,
according to the state-owned Xinhua newswire. (The mining
association estimates that as many as two thirds of all miners
since 2005 came from the county.) In any case, it’s not clear
why so many people from that region chose Ghana, but once they
found it, they succeeded. According to a widely circulated May
15 report in China 21st Century Business Herald, Shanglin miners
 wired more than $150 million  home in May and June 2011.  It would be a happy story but for a few problems. First,
according to media reports, many of the Chinese miners are in
 Ghana   on tourist visas  (with entry  sometimes facilitated  by
corrupt immigration officers). Second, Ghanaian law restricts
licenses for “ small scale mining ” of the sort favored by Chinese
prospectors only to Ghanaians. Many Chinese miners  manage to
rent licenses , or enter into partnerships, thereby circumventing
the law while inciting intense local resentment. It doesn’t help
that the Chinese miners use techniques that are efficient but
 low-tech  and  damaging to the environment  and farmland. Personal
conduct, meanwhile, is also an issue, with  reports of widespread
prostitution  in Chinese miner camps.  On Chinese social media, neither the allegations nor the
resulting crackdown was that surprising. In contemporary China,
rare is the financially successful businessperson (or
politician) who isn’t subject to whispers about what backroom
deal made his or her fortune possible. This phenomenon has only
been intensified by  China’s ongoing corruption crackdowns  and
the many media stories about  crooked politicians  and their
fortunes.  Zhang Tianwei, a well-known television commentator and
columnist at the Communist Party-owned Beijing Youth Daily, used
his account on Sina Weibo, the country’s leading social-media
platform, to connect stereotypes about Chinese corruption to the
Shanglin miners in a June 9  tweet : “We can absolutely imagine
what these Shanglinese have done in Ghana, and the image that
the locals now have of them: smart, cunning and unruly with a
tendency to exploit loopholes. In places with laws, they exploit
the legal loopholes; in places without laws, they are just like
ducks to water. The local people aren’t able to compete with
them in business and finally get outraged and drive them out.”  Even the most nationalistic papers -- including the hard-line Global Times -- have avoided outright defenses of the
miners, much less calls for the government to intervene beyond
diplomacy. The foreign ministry reacted to the detention of 124
Chinese miners by  lodging “representations”  -- a Chinese
diplomatic euphemism for a stern letter -- to the Ghanaian
government and, after negotiating with the authorities,
 arranging for miners to be transported  back to China.  Unfortunately, representations and diplomacy, especially
when Chinese citizens or territory are at stake,  often irritate 
the country’s microbloggers more than placate them. Some
microbloggers were reminded of China’s careful approach to its
dispute with  Japan   over the Diaoyu Islands  (known to the
Japanese as the Senkaku Islands) and its humiliations at the
hands of colonial powers during the 19th and 20th centuries.  A characteristic version of  this line of thinking  was
 tweeted June 8  by an anonymous Sina Weibo user in Suzhou: “Our
compatriots mining for gold are bullied in Ghana, and the
government, without any sympathy, doesn’t protect them and
declares that their behavior is illegal. You say that the
dispute over the Diaoyu Islands will be left to future
generations to solve. What can you do as the world’s second
biggest economic entity? During the Qing Dynasty, China was the
biggest economic entity but still got bullied! Without some
ideas and guts, will these weak countries really respect you?”  Some of the country’s most influential news  media  -- both
independent and Communist Party-directed -- have run editorials
that push back against such patriotic, microblogged fervor with
reminders that Chinese abroad are obligated to respect local
customs and laws. Though often unstated, Chinese readers will
recognize these warnings as related to the national  discussion
over  the occasionally poor behavior of Chinese tourists at home
and abroad (a concern  recently voiced  by one of China’s deputy
prime ministers).  Chen Bing, writing for the independently minded, Communist
Party-supervised Beijing News, made this comparison in a  June 7
commentary : “Another point we should consider in this ’tragedy’
is whether we are reasonable and our behaviors fit international
norms. Many Chinese who go to Ghana to mine gold enter the
country using tourist visas and don’t have permission to work
there. Since they are behaving in an illegal manner, and the
locals are merely carrying out their laws, to some degree there
is no ground for blame. So whether people go to  Europe , America,
Africa or  Latin America , they should have the sense to obey
their laws.”  This week, the detained miners (more than 40 additional
Chinese were arrested after the initial 124 that set off the
furor) will begin  an involuntary journey  back to China, with the
assistance of their government. For the immediate future,
they’re the public face of China’s engagement with developing
Africa. That doesn’t need to remain the case, however: The many
thousands of Chinese miners they leave behind in Ghana are more
than capable, if not willing, to change their ways. For the sake
of China’s shaky global image, their government and compatriots
can only hope they will.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 