-- Large-Sized Soda Limits Should Be Reinstated, N.Y. Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-11T17:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/large-sized-soda-limits-should-be-reinstated-n-y-says.html
New York Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg ’s plan to restrict sales of large-sized soda drinks is
legal and should be reinstated, a lawyer for the city told a
panel of state appeals court judges.  The city’s Board of Health in September approved the plan
to cap the size of sugary soft drinks sold in restaurants, movie
theaters, stadiums and arenas at 16 ounces (473 milliliters) a
cup. A trial court judge barred the city from implementing the
plan, and the city appealed.  The health board has the authority to enact the ban under
its charter, which grants it the power to address public health
issues such as obesity, Fay Ng, senior counsel for the city,
told the appeals panel in  Manhattan  today.  People will eat and drink what is placed in front of
them, and the ban is about the reducing the size of “default
portions” of sugary beverages, which have “exploded” in size,
Ng said.  Groups representing beverage makers, restaurants and
theaters challenged the regulation in court in October, calling
it “unprecedented interference” with consumer choice. State
Supreme Court Justice Milton Tingling in Manhattan issued a
permanent injunction against it in March.  Ignored Rights  The plaintiffs said the city had overreached and ignored
the rights of  New Yorkers  to make their own choices. The plan is
“grossly unfair” to small businesses such as street-food
vendors and pizzerias because convenience and grocery stores can
still sell the larger sizes, the businesses’ lawyers argued.  The city has argued it’s trying to stem an epidemic of
obesity driven by consumption of sugary beverages sold in ever-larger portions. Under the rule, consumers would be free to buy
an unlimited number of drinks and get refills.  Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Under  the rule , food-service establishments would have had
three months to comply. After that, they would have faced a
$200 fine each time a city inspector found violations. The ban
wouldn’t apply to convenience and grocery stores, which are
regulated by the state.  Calorie Content  Since taking office in 2002, Bloomberg has made public
health a hallmark of his administration. He led in banning
trans-fat food additives and workplace smoking, raising tobacco
taxes and requiring  restaurant chains  to post the calorie
content of menu items.  The mayor, a Republican turned independent, said such
actions have raised  life expectancy  in the city to almost 81 for
babies born in 2010, 2.2 years longer than the national average.  The lower-court case is  New York  Statewide Coalition of
Hispanic Chambers of Commerce v. New York City Department of
Health and Mental Hygiene, 653584-2012, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan). The appeal, with the same
case name, is in New York State Supreme Court, Appellate
Division,  First Department  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 