-- Marketo Vows Independence Amid Oracle Buying Spree
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-06-11T13:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/marketo-vows-independence-amid-oracle-buying-spree.html
Marketo Inc. (MKTO)  Chief Executive Officer
Phil Fernandez is committed to staying independent while  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  buy up his top marketing-software
competitors.  Salesforce agreed to acquire  ExactTarget Inc. (ET)  for $2.5
billion last week, less than a month after Marketo sold shares
to the public. Eloqua Inc., Marketo’s most direct rival, was
bought by Oracle in February for about $935 million.  While Fernandez said that his company could be sold at the
right price, the better route for its marketing automation
technology is to partner with other cloud-software providers
such as HootSuite Media Inc. for social-media management and
 Marin Software Inc. (MRIN)  for managing online-advertising campaigns,
he said. Because the software is delivered via the Web, it works
with customer-relationship tools from Salesforce and  NetSuite
Inc. (N)  without being owned or controlled by any of them.  “Our mission has been to be the independent innovator,”
Fernandez said in an interview. “That’s the best way for this
company to create long-term value.”  Marketo, based in  San Mateo , California, had climbed 70
percent since its initial public offering on May 16, through
yesterday. All of the gains came in its market debut, with the
stock losing 4.4 percent since its opening-day pop. The shares
fell 4.4 percent to $21.13 at 9:38 a.m. in New York.  Fernandez, 52, spoke in an interview at the end of
company’s 25-day quiet period following the IPO.  Growing Industry  With a market value of $810.6 million, Marketo trades for
12.3 times revenue during the past 12 months, higher than the 7
times price-to-sales ratio for Salesforce or the 7.9 times
multiple Salesforce paid for ExactTarget. Marketo’s net loss
widened in the first quarter to $9.52 million from $6.66 million
because of rising sales and marketing costs, according to a May
16 filing.  Marketing automation, technology that helps businesses
tailor and measure the effectiveness of their campaigns, is
still a sub-billion dollar industry. The  market  will grow 50
percent this year to $750 million, according to Raab Associates
Inc., a Chappaqua, New York-based research firm. The leaders are
Eloqua, Marketo, Infusionsoft Inc. and HubSpot Inc., Raab said.  Fernandez sees a much bigger opportunity. He’s looking at
the $1.5 trillion spent on marketing and the likelihood that
companies will increasingly turn to technology to become more
efficient in their spending.  “That produces a very big market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  