-- Army Officer Suspended for Allegedly Ignoring Affairs
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-06-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/army-officer-suspended-after-allegedly-ignoring-sexual-affairs.html
The head of an Army unit operating
the primary U.S. missile-defense system has been suspended after
an investigation into allegations that he overlooked sexual
affairs and promoted a pinup calendar featuring scantily clad
female soldiers.  Army Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Miley was suspended
yesterday by Lieutenant General Richard Formica, commander of
the Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command, according to John
Cummings, a spokesman for the Huntsville, Alabama-based command.  Miley is commander of the 49th Missile Defense Battalion at
Fort Greely, a remote base in  Alaska . The Space and Missile
Defense Command received two sets of allegations involving
misconduct at the battalion -- the first in August and the
second in January -- before it opened a joint inquiry with the
Alaska National Guard, Marco Morales, a spokesman for the
command, said in an e-mail last month.  The allegations surfaced amid an uproar over a surge in
sexual-assault allegations in the military that President  Barack Obama  has described as “shameful and disgraceful.” Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel told graduates at the U.S. Military
Academy at  West Point  last month that they must build a
“culture of respect” to stop “these debilitating, insidious
and destructive forces.”  Miley was suspended after the Army and the Alaska National
Guard reviewed preliminary findings provided on June 7, Cummings
said in an e-mailed statement. Miley’s final status will be
determined following a final review, Cummings said. He didn’t
discuss the allegations or the findings of the investigation.  Misconduct ‘Commonplace’  Miley said during a Jan. 4 meeting that adultery isn’t
punishable under military law, according to soldiers who
complained in an e-mail two days later to Formica.  “The modern military is an environment where sexual
misconduct is commonplace,” Miley said at the meeting,
according to comments cited in the e-mail and confirmed by one
of the people who was in the audience.  Bloomberg News  obtained a
copy of the e-mail, which was unsigned, and the account was
confirmed by three people who worked on the base and are
familiar with the events.  The service already was looking into Miley for promoting
the World War II-style pinup calendar with photos of his wife
and scantily clad female soldiers, when it received the
anonymous complaint from the soldiers.  The calendar was sold to raise funds for the  American
Cancer Society ’s “Relay For Life,” the Army Times newspaper
reported in March, quoting a spokesman for the Space and Missile
Defense Command.  Pinup Calendar  Other military units around the country also have sold
pinup calendars featuring military spouses and soldiers to raise
money for veterans, the newspaper said.  Fort Greely, about 250 miles (402 kilometers) northeast of
Anchorage, is home to 26 interceptors that are part of the
Ground-Based Midcourse Defense system intended to shoot down
long-range intercontinental ballistic missiles such as the ones
that  North Korea  and  Iran  are suspected of developing.  While the system managed by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  hasn’t
successfully intercepted a test target since December 2008,
Hagel reinforced its role in a potential attack when he
announced in March plans to spend $1 billion adding 14 more
interceptors at Fort Greely by 2017.  The isolated base is portrayed  on its website  as the “home
of the rugged professional,” who’s likely to come upon a moose
or fox amid snow-capped mountains. Fort Greely has a population
of 539, according to U.S. Census data, and the winters are so
cold it’s the location of the military’s Cold Regions Test
Center for winter warfare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  