-- Marvel Must Defend ‘Ghost Rider’ Copyright, Court Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-11T17:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/marvel-must-defend-ghost-rider-copyright-court-says.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel
Entertainment must go to trial to defend against a copyright
claim by Gary Friedrich, who claims he created the comic book
character “ Ghost Rider ,” a motorcycle-riding superhero with a
flaming skull.  Friedrich claims he first came up with the idea for Ghost
Rider in 1968, then assigned his rights to Marvel, which
published the first “Ghost Rider” comic book in 1972.
Friedrich claims in his suit that the rights to Ghost Rider
automatically became his after the initial copyright term
expired in 2000.  Marvell argued that Friedrich assigned his renewal rights
to it in a work-for-hire agreement he signed in 1978. The  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  today reversed a lower-court
ruling in favor of Marvel, granting Friedrich a trial on his
claim.  “The agreement is ambiguous and there are genuine disputes
of material fact regarding the parties’ intent to assign renewal
rights in that agreement, the timeliness of Friedrich’s
ownership claim, and the authorship of the work,” U.S. Circuit
Judge  Denny Chin  wrote on behalf of a three-judge panel.  In the suit, Friedrich seeks an unspecified share of the
money made by Marvel on “Ghost Rider.”  In 2007,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Columbia Pictures Industries released
a film version of “Ghost Rider,” starring Nicholas Cage and
Eva Mendes. The film took in $228.7 million in worldwide ticket
sales, according to  Box Office Mojo . A 2012 sequel, “Ghost
Rider: Spirit of Vengeance,” made $132.6 million.  Jeff Klein, a Marvel spokesman with Dan Klores
Communications, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Gary Friedrich Enterprises LLC v. Marvel
Characters Inc., 12-00893, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  