-- Asia Stock Futures Drop After BOJ Keeps Policy Unchanged
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-11T23:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/asia-stock-futures-drop-after-boj-keeps-policy-unchanged.html
Stock futures in Japan and Australia
declined after the  Bank of Japan  kept monetary policy unchanged,
raising concern central banks from Tokyo to Washington are
increasingly reluctant to add more stimulus to boost their
economies.  American Depositary Receipts  of Toyota Motor Corp.
retreated 3.6 percent after the yen rose the most against the
dollar in three years, weakening the earnings outlook at the
world’s largest carmaker. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
global miner, sank 0.4 percent as metals prices declined.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring this
month closed at 12,980 in Chicago, down from 13,380 at the end
of trading in Osaka. They were bid in the pre-market at 13,000
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index retreated 0.8 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
fell 0.2 percent. Markets in China,  Hong Kong , Taiwan and the
 Philippines  are closed for holidays.  “There’s lots of confusion around the world at present
about what central bank policy means for the outlook of the
global economy, earnings and valuations,” said Matthew Sherwood, Sydney-based head of investment market research at
Perpetual Ltd., which manages about $25 billion. “The  Federal
Reserve  is likely to continue to be ambiguous about its next
step, probably because it’s not sure. In this way, they will try
to play both sides and talk about the need to continue to
support the economy and the need to not repeat past mistakes of
supporting it for too long. This will see markets continue to be
volatile.”  BOJ Maintains  Japan ’s Topix index dropped 1 percent yesterday after the
central bank refrained from extending the maturity of loans to
lenders it uses to smooth bond-market volatility, bucking
economists’ predictions. Policy makers stuck with an April
pledge to increase the monetary base by 60 trillion to 70
trillion yen ($611 billion to $713 billion) per year. The BOJ
today delivers its monthly economic assessment for June.  U.S. Stocks  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed, following yesterday’s 1 percent loss. Stimulus from the
Fed and better-than-estimated corporate earnings have propelled
the U.S. bull market into a fifth year and driven the  S&P 500  up
140 percent from a 12-year low in 2009. The index has fallen 2.6
percent from its record high on May 21, the day before Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested the central bank could
curtail its $85 billion monthly bond purchases if the economy
improved in a “real and sustainable way.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Index sank 0.5
percent, declining a second day, in New York yesterday.  Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.6 percent and
contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong retreated 0.8 percent.
The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
shares in the U.S. dropped 1.4 percent in New York yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, fell 8.9 percent through yesterday from this
year’s high on May 20 on speculation that a strengthening U.S.
economy will lead the Fed to scale back record stimulus. That
left the measure yesterday trading at 12.8 times average
estimated earnings, compared with 14.8 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 12.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  