-- Auditors Question $464,000 in Payments to Ex-Lawmaker
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-11T18:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/auditors-question-464-000-in-payments-to-ex-lawmaker.html
A former Republican congresswoman
was paid almost a half-million dollars by four U.S. Energy
Department laboratories for work that government auditors were
unable to verify was performed.  Heather Wilson and Company LLC received about $464,000
mostly from contractor-run Sandia and Los Alamos national
laboratories, the department’s Inspector General Gregory Friedman said today in the report. The contractors, which
weren’t able to provide evidence of the firm’s work, have
reimbursed the U.S. about $442,000, the report said.  “We were unable to verify that all agreed-to services had
been provided” by Wilson’s firm, Friedman said in the report.  Wilson, 52, represented  New Mexico  in the U.S. House for a
decade before making unsuccessful runs for the Senate in 2008
and last year.  Friedman said his review “identified serious concerns with
the administration and management” of the contracts the
laboratories had with Wilson’s firm.  “The report confirms that the labs were satisfied with my
work,” Wilson said in a separate statement. “The work was done
in full compliance with the contracts we signed and under the
direct supervision of lab sponsors.”  Sandia, which is managed by a subsidiary of  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , also had Wilson lobby for more intelligence and defense
work for the lab, an apparent violation of the original contract
terms, the inspector general said.  Intelligence, Defense  Wilson said she advised the labs on intelligence and cyber
issues. “I have always supported the good work of our national
labs and will continue to do so,” she said in the statement.  From January 2009 when her term ended through March 2011,
the month she announced her recent Senate campaign, Sandia
authorized 23 payments for $226,378 without documenting the work
of Wilson’s firm, the IG said. Los Alamos paid Wilson $195,718
without having “detailed invoices,” the report found.  The Nevada National Security Site and Oak Ridge National
Laboratory in  Tennessee  paid Wilson $30,000.  Wilson, now president of the South Dakota School of Mines
and Technology, lost the Senate race last year to Representative
Martin Heinrich, a Democrat.  The inspector general report said managers at the
laboratories generally agreed to the recommendations and are
implementing fixes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  