-- Aussie Rebounds From Near 3-Year Low on Sign Selling Excessive
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-12T07:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/aussie-rebounds-from-near-3-year-low-on-sign-selling-excessive.html
Australia ’s dollar rebounded from
the lowest level in almost three years as a technical indicator
signaled recent selling was overdone.  The Aussie snapped a three-day slide after tumbling 9.2
percent since the end of March, set for the biggest quarterly
decline since the period ended September 2011. The currency
advanced after a private report showed that Australia’s  consumer
confidence  recovered in June after slumping the most in 17
months. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar climbed.  There are “probably quite a few people who’ve got short
the Australian dollar near the lows yesterday, and they’re now
suffering a painful squeeze,” said Ray Attrill, the global co-head of foreign-exchange strategy in Sydney at National
Australia Bank Ltd. “At the moment, there’s the potential for a
squeeze up to 95 or 96” U.S. cents, he said. A short position
is a bet that an asset’s price will fall.  The Australian currency gained 0.4 percent to 94.65 U.S.
cents as of 5:05 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched
93.26, the lowest since Sept. 14, 2010. It earlier climbed as
much as 0.8 percent. The New Zealand dollar rose 0.4 percent to
79.02 U.S. cents after earlier rallying as much as 0.6 percent.  The Australian dollar’s relative strength index versus the
greenback slid to 30.7 yesterday, near the 30 level that some
traders see as a sign that an asset’s price has fallen too
rapidly and is poised to reverse course. The New Zealand
dollar’s RSI against its U.S. counterpart was 33.7 yesterday.  One-month implied volatility for the Aussie was 14.07
percent, based on currency options, after reaching 14.47 percent
yesterday, the highest since June 5, 2012.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year government bond rose five
basis points to 3.46 percent, after earlier touching 3.50
percent, the highest since May 29.  Taking Profit  Citigroup Inc. strategists including New York-based Chief
Technical Analyst Tom Fitzpatrick recommended buying the
Australian dollar with a target of 98 U.S. cents.  “In an environment with so much market volatility and
position squeezing taking place, investors may be forced to take
profit on their winners to offset losers,” they wrote in an e-mailed note. “There are not many winners at the moment, but
short AUDUSD has been a big one.”  Australia’s currency tumbled 6.5 percent in the past month,
the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The New Zealand dollar
was the second-worst performer with a 5.6 percent slide.  Record Shorts  Futures traders increased bets to a record that the Aussie
will fall against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission from last week show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Aussie compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 58,550 on June 4,
the most bearish in data going back to January 1993.  Trading in over-the-counter options on the Aussie against
the U.S. dollar jumped to $1.3 billion, the most-traded pair in
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the
exchange rate was the largest share of trades at 28 percent.
Aussie contracts surged to $5.4 billion yesterday.  The Australian currency was supported after  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute said today that their  index  for
consumer sentiment in Australia rose 4.7 percent in June,
rebounding from a 7 percent slump last month.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens and his
board reduced the overnight cash-rate target to a  record  2.75
percent in May. Traders are  pricing  in a further 33 basis points
of cuts within 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse AG index
based on swap contracts. They  see  36 basis points of rate
increases in New Zealand.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand decides monetary policy
tomorrow. All 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
central bank to leave the official cash rate at a  record low  2.5
percent, extending a two-year pause.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  