-- S. Korea, Australia Get Closer to World Cup; Argentina Draws
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-12T23:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/australia-beats-jordan-4-0-in-asian-qualifying-for-world-cup.html
South Korea , Australia and Iran hold
Asia’s remaining soccer  World Cup  qualifying spots after wins in
the next-to-last round of games. Argentina’s lead in South
America’s group was cut after a tie at  Ecuador , and in Europe,
Armenia passed Denmark with a 4-0 win in Copenhagen.  South Korea, seeking its eighth straight appearance at the
four-yearly championship, beat Uzbekistan 1-0 yesterday to move
a point clear atop Group A ahead of Iran, which routed Lebanon
4-0. The Socceroos defeated Jordan by the same score to take
second place in Group B behind already qualified  Japan .  “The concentration of the players was important and
winning will give the players a lot more confidence,” South
Korea coach Choi Kang-Hee, whose team hosts Iran next week, told
reporters. “Iran are also looking to qualify for  Brazil  and we
remember the difficult conditions we faced in the away match.”  With the winners and runners-up from each five-team group
taking the region’s four direct berths at next year’s 32-nation
tournament, the final three qualifiers will be decided June 18.
The third-place finishers play off for the right to take on
 South America ’s fifth-ranked team for another spot.  South Korea’s victory last night in  Seoul  was secured on
Akmal Shorakhmedov’s own goal in the 42nd minute.  The result meant a win for Lebanon against Iran in Tehran
would have guaranteed the South Koreans a World Cup berth,
though the home team won with two goals by Javad Nekonam and one
each from Mohammad Khalatbari and Reza Ghoochannejhad.  Socceroos’ Rout  South Korea leads its  group  with 14 points, one ahead of
Iran before they meet next week in Ulsan. Uzbekistan, which
hosts Qatar next week, has 11 points as it seeks to qualify for
the World Cup for the first time.  Australia leapfrogged Oman into second place in the other
group by beating Jordan in  Melbourne . Mark Bresciano put the
Socceroos ahead in the 15th minute and  Tim Cahill , Robbie Kruse
and  Lucas Neill  added second-half goals.  Japan, which last week became the first nation to qualify
for the World Cup, finished its campaign with a 1-0 win against
 Iraq  in Doha. Shinji Okazaki’s last-minute goal ended Iraq’s
chances of advancing.  Australia has 10 points, one more than Oman, and will
guarantee its third straight World Cup appearance by beating
Iraq in Sydney next week, when Oman visits Jordan.  “We had a big step forward, but we haven’t crossed the
finish line,” Australia coach Holger Osieck told reporters. “I
made it perfectly clear in the dressing room to the players that
the preparation for next Tuesday has started already.”  South America  Two-time world champion Argentina was held 1-1 by Ecuador
in Quito and now has a three-point lead over Colombia atop the
nine-nation South American group. Segundo Castillo’s header tied
 Sergio Aguero ’s early penalty kick for the visiting team.  Second-place Colombia beat Peru 2-0, Chile defeated Bolivia
3-1 to stay fourth and Uruguay moved into fifth spot with a 1-0
win at Venezuela in yesterday’s other games.  Brazil, the record five-time champion, has an automatic
berth as the tournament host.  In Africa’s Group F, Nigeria missed the chance to seal a
World Cup berth with a game to spare by drawing 1-1 at Namibia
today. Malawi and Kenya earlier drew 2-2.  European Results  Denmark’s 4-0 home loss to Armenia allowed the visiting
team to move above it on goal difference in Europe’s  Group B .
The result ties Armenia’s biggest win, a 4-0 defeat of Slovakia
in a Euro 2012 qualifying match.  Armenia  and Denmark have six points, four points behind
second-place Bulgaria and eight behind leader Italy.  Sweden defeated the Faroe Islands 2-0, giving it 11 points
in Group C alongside Austria and Ireland.  Germany  leads the
group with 16 points.  Belarus and Finland drew 1-1 in Group I. Finland, which has
only won once in the group, is in third place with six points,
behind defending champion Spain with 11 and France with 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  