-- Australia’s Banks Rank First on Yields: Riskless Return
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-11T18:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/australia-s-banks-rank-first-on-yields-riskless-return.html
Australian banks posted the best
risk-adjusted returns among global peers in the past 10 years,
attracting investors with rising earnings and the highest
dividend yields of the world’s biggest lenders.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s No. 1 lender
by market value, had the highest returns when adjusted for price
swings of the largest companies in the MSCI World Bank Index
with a market capitalization of more than $5 billion, the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows.  Westpac (WBC)  Banking Corp.
and  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. ranked fourth
and seventh.  Against a backdrop of almost 22 years without a domestic
recession, Commonwealth Bank’s market value has exceeded that of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc.,  Japan ’s largest lender. While high valuations and a
worsening economy are clouding the growth outlook for the
country’s banks, dividend yields of as much as 8.9 percent have
helped keep volatility well below that of peers.  “Australian banks have been the biggest beneficiary of
flows to the highest-yielding stocks,”  Binay Chandgothia , Hong
Kong-based fund manager at Principal Global Investors, where he
helps oversee $292 billion, said by phone June 6. “You had
Australian growth that was doing well and the banks have made
great progress in terms of stable profitability.”  No Recessions  Bank profits grew as the Australian economy expanded
uninterrupted since 1991, a record unmatched by any other
advanced nation. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its
benchmark interest rate among the highest in the developed world
to stem inflation.  Commonwealth returned a risk-adjusted 18 percent over the
10-year period through May 31, helped by a volatility of 24,
compared with the average of 40 for the group. Westpac returned
a risk-adjusted 11 percent in the same period, with a volatility
of 26, and ANZ returned 8.7 percent with a volatility of 27.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest lender, ranked No. 2 for risk-adjusted return during the
past 10 years, the data show. BOC  Hong Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., a
unit of Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s fourth-largest lender,
ranked third.  The MSCI World Bank Index comprises 91 lenders listed in
developed markets with a combined market capitalization of $2.6
trillion. The index doesn’t include companies such as New York-based Goldman Sachs and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America Corp. Shares of both U.S. firms trailed their Australian
counterparts over the past decade on a risk-adjusted basis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Prices  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
determined by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Six of the 10 worst performers were banks in  Europe , where
a recession has curbed growth and increased the proportion of
soured loans. The worst performer when adjusted for volatility
was Spanish lender  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , followed by
 Germany ’s Commerzbank AG, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Italy’s  Unicredit Spa (UCG)  was the third-worst performer,
the data show.  Financial Crisis  Australian banks, like the rest of the global financial
industry, suffered during the 2007 to 2009 financial crisis.
After reaching a record in November 2007, Commonwealth shares
tumbled 61 percent in 14 months as lenders set aside more money
as asset values slumped during the global financial crisis that
began in the U.S. A doubling of bad debts through 2008 further
crimped earnings growth at Commonwealth to the slowest pace in
four years.  Unlike many peers in the developed world, ANZ, Westpac and
Commonwealth all reached records within the first five months of
this year. Record profits, higher dividend payout ratios and low
bad debts fueled a 10 percent gain in Australian bank shares in
2013 through the end of May. Overseas investors bought
Australian bank shares, lured by the income the lenders pay to
investors, as bond yields sank amid unprecedented stimulus by
central banks from the U.S. to Europe and Japan.  ‘Modest’ Risk  After reaching a six-year low in January 2009, Commonwealth
shares surged 205 percent to a record on May 20 this year.
Commonwealth’s $99 billion market capitalization now tops the
$80 billion value of Goldman Sachs, Wall Street’s top merger
adviser last year. Japan’s  Mitsubishi UFJ (8306)  is worth $89 billion.  That pace probably won’t last. Earnings growth at
Australian lenders will be slower than average as an aging
population, low mortgage growth and increased regulation weaken
the outlook, Melbourne-based Goldman Sachs analyst Matthew Ross
said in a report dated May 29. He forecasts medium-term growth
in earnings per share of 5 percent, below the yearly average
growth of between 10 percent and 20 percent.  “Banks’ earnings risk is modest, dividends are safe and
yields remain attractive,” Richard Wiles, a Sydney-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a report dated May 31. “A
further decline in the Australian dollar would drive a de-rating
because it would likely reflect a weaker domestic economic
outlook, and it could also lead to increased selling of banks.”  Slower Growth  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
last month cut its 2013 growth forecast for Australia to 2.6
percent, from 3 percent projected in November, citing currency
strength and fragile business confidence. Australia’s economy
expanded less than economists forecast last quarter as
manufacturers and builders detracted from growth. The nation’s
investment boom may have peaked after companies scrapped or put
off A$150 billion ($145 billion) of mining and energy projects
in the past year, the government said last month.  An era of lackluster growth and low returns that has
plagued the world economy since 2008 has now reached Australia,
according to  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., which has $2 trillion of assets worldwide and
manages the biggest bond fund.  ‘Bad Debts’  “You don’t need a crisis or a housing bust, but any sort
of pickup in bad debts is going to pressure profits at banks,”
Sean Fenton, a Sydney-based  fund manager  who helps oversee about
$1 billion at Tribeca Investment Partners, said by phone on June
3.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Banks Index fell 13 percent in May,
the most in a year, as the Aussie currency plunged 7.7 percent
against the dollar, reducing the appeal of Sydney-listed shares
for  overseas  investors, according to Wiles of Morgan Stanley.  Still, the gauge is up 252 percent in the 10 years through
the end of May including reinvested dividends, beating a 123
percent total return by the MSCI World Index and a 109 percent
gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Dividend yields of 8.7 percent at Westpac and 9.2 percent
at National Australian Bank are more than double the 3.7 percent
average estimated payout on the MSCI World Bank Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. ANZ pays 8.1 percent and
 Commonwealth (CBA)  7.9 percent, the data show.  Payout Ratios  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest lender by market value
pays 85 percent of its earnings to shareholders through
dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Commonwealth
Bank has a dividend payout ratio of 75 percent, the data show.  That payout ratio has helped keep volatility for the four
banks around 20 this year, compared with 32 for group, despite
the selloff in May.  Australia’s four pillar banks, a name derived from a law
that prevents the four biggest lenders from buying each other,
all trade with forward price-earnings multiples higher than the
11.4 times average for the MSCI World Bank Index. ANZ trades at
11.7 times  estimated profit  and Westpac has a multiple of 12.5.
NAB trades at 11.3 and CBA at 14.1.  “The growth story for the long term is now on a knife
edge,” said Fenton. “Banks look overpriced, but that’s
supported by abnormally low  interest rates  and extraordinary
measures of quantitative easing in various parts of the world.
As long as that environment persists, they will do well. They’re
delivering strong dividend yields and that’s going to stay
important in this low-interest-rate environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  