-- Axis Hires Morgan Stanley’s Bautista in Capital Markets
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-11T15:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/axis-hires-morgan-stanley-s-bautista-in-capital-markets.html
Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. (AXS)  hired
Edgar Bautista and Sandeep Ramachandran, formerly of  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s commodities unit, as the reinsurer expands in capital
markets tied to weather.  Bautista and Ramachandran will be co-heads of the weather
and commodity markets initiative, the Bermuda-based company said
today in a statement. The two established a weather and outage
risk management team at Morgan Stanley, Axis said.  “The global weather and commodity related risk markets
have seen significant growth over the past decade,” Jay Nichols, chief executive officer of Axis Re, said in the
statement. “We look forward to Edgar and Sandeep’s combined
contributions to help position us to actively participate in
these important markets.”  Reinsurers are expanding in dealmaking as investors seek
new ways to bet on risks such as storms and other natural
disasters.  White Mountains Insurance Group Ltd. (WTM)  established a
capital markets initiative last month and  XL Group Plc (XL)  hired
Craig Wenzel from Deutsche Bank AG as a senior vice president in
December to help a push into insurance-linked securities.  Low interest rates on corporate debt are attracting
investors to catastrophe bonds, which offer higher yields in
exchange for the risk that holders’ principal can be wiped out
by natural disasters. The securities have climbed 4 percent
since the beginning of last June according to the Swiss Re Cat
Bond Price Return Index. The measure tracks dollar-denominated
debt sold by insurers and reinsurers.  Gorman’s Retreat  Morgan Stanley cut 1,700 jobs in January and deferred more
pay for senior bankers and traders as it looks to cut $1.6
billion in costs over the next two years as part of CEO  James Gorman ’s push to double return on equity. The firm also held
talks with Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund last year about selling
a stake in its commodities unit amid lower revenue from the
business and new capital rules.  The bank has said that the second and fourth quarters of
2012 featured the worst commodities revenue in 17 years. Gorman
said at the company’s annual meeting last month that the firm is
“always looking at different structural alternatives” for the
business. Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment.  Bautista and Ramachandran both worked in units of  Swiss Re
Ltd. (SREN)  related to energy and weather prior to joining Morgan
Stanley. Bautista was director of client markets in Swiss Re’s
weather and energy unit. Ramachandran helped start Swiss Re’s
capital markets weather and outage business and was head of
weather and electricity outage protection products.  Bautista, who has a Ph.D. in engineering mechanics from
 Columbia University , previously established the weather business
unit at  PartnerRe Ltd. (PRE)  Ramachandran has an undergraduate degree
in civil engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology and
a master’s in civil engineering and operations research from
 Princeton University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  