-- BAE Sees South Korea Typhoon Choice Leading Other Bids
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-11T16:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/bae-systems-sees-south-korea-typhoon-decision-leading-other-bids.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s largest
defense company, said  South Korea  is poised to decide whether to
buy Eurofighter Typhoon combat planes, in one of the biggest
decisions since the jet lost tenders in India and Japan.  South Korea may buy as many as 36 Typhoons in the next two
months, Peter Anstiss, BAE’s business development director for
military aircraft, told reporters today. Rivals include  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, in which London-based
BAE is a major partner, and  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F-15.  The Eurofighter Typhoon, built in a consortium with
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and  Finmeccanica Spa (FNC) ,
had lost competitions in India to the  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) 
Rafale, the F-35 in Japan, and the  Saab AB (SAABB)  Gripen in Switzerland
before getting a lift on Dec. 21, when Oman agreed to buy 12
Typhoon jets and eight Hawk 128 trainers. Other countries are
also looking at ordering new combat planes.  “The international marketplace is where we have to put a
lot of effort,” Anstiss said. “There are a number of
activities around the Gulf states with a potential for combat
aircraft purchases of 150 aircraft in the Typhoon class.”  BAE, which has been looking to export markets to offset low
U.K.  defense spending , has identified potential for sales of 900
combat aircraft, worth 90 billion pounds ($140 billion), through
the end of the decade, Anstiss said.  Gulf Opportunities  Discussions also are under way over the potential sale of
Typhoons to the United Arab Emirates, Anstiss said. Kuwait and
Qatar are other potential buyers, and further orders may come
from Saudi Arabia, he said. Malaysia also has begun an
evaluation for as many as 24 jets. Anstiss said the list of
bidders could be narrowed to two this year.  The Eurofighter partners also remain hopeful India may
emerge as a buyer if contract talks with Dassault Aviation
falter. Anstiss said the company may find out more before Indian
elections due next year. The Typhoon offer has been improved
since the losing bid was submitted, he said.  Combat-plane sales also could spur orders for training
aircraft, said Steve Timms, BAE’s managing director for defense
information training and services. Oman and Saudi Arabia are
among recent fighter buyers also opting for the company’s Hawk
trainer plane, he said.  India, which builds the Hawk under license, may buy more,
Timms said, while Germany and France have an aging trainer
aircraft fleet that may need modernization. Poland is actively
seeking a new plane, he added.  A major focus for BAE’s training-plane business is a future
U.S. competition to replace T-38 jets under the T-X program. The
effort could lead to sales of more than 300 planes to the U.S.
with another 500 or more export orders possible, Timms said. BAE
has teamed with  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  L-3 Communications
Holdings Inc. (LLL)  for the U.S. bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  