-- Bankers Joining Plumbers on Canada Housing Agency Board
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-06-11T20:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/bankers-joining-plumbers-on-canada-housing-agency-board.html
Canada ’s housing agency, which
insures C$563 billion of mortgages, named former Bank of  New
York  Mellon Corp. Chief Executive Officer Robert Kelly chairman
last month amid government pressure to upgrade management. He
joins a board that includes a partner in a plumbing company and
the former solicitor of a town in rural Nova Scotia.  Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. has been told by the
government to behave more like a commercial financial
institution. In response, CMHC is ensuring its directors know as
much about balance sheets as home improvement.  CMHC is screening its board of directors for an enhanced
set of skill requirements, including experience in the financial
industry and risk management, according to a Nov. 5 memo
obtained by  Bloomberg News  under freedom-of-information law.
They include a requirement for “financial acumen and
literacy,” says the memo, which was labeled “confidential”
and addressed to Human Resources Minister Diane Finley, to whom
the agency reports.  The Canadian government has been strengthening oversight of
CMHC, which insures most mortgages in the country and which
would be the nation’s sixth-largest bank by assets.  The changes suggest those overseeing CMHC “don’t like what
they see,” said George Athanassakos, a finance professor at
Western University’s Ivey Business School in  London , Ontario.
The economic risks of a housing-market decline justify taking
“aggressive measures” at CMHC, he said.  “Consumers are leveraged,” Athanassakos said in a
telephone interview. “Combined with an overpriced housing
market, it doesn’t bode well for the economy and the financial
sector.”  Encouraging Lenders  The agency, established in 1946 to address a housing
shortage at the end of the Second World War, began insuring
mortgages in 1954, partly to encourage private lenders to play a
bigger role in mortgage underwriting. By law, mortgages in
Canada with down payments of less than 20 percent must be
insured. CMHC’s insurance is fully backed by the federal
government, and the government has capped the amount of
insurance it can offer at C$600 billion ($586 billion).  CMHC also issues Canada Mortgage Bonds and uses the funds
to buy mortgage-backed securities from financial institutions.
The Bank of America Merrill Lynch 1-5 Year Canada Housing Trust
Index, comprising 11 mortgage bonds with a par value of C$88
billion, has returned 0.52 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with losses of 1.1 percent for Canadian government debt
and gains of 0.92 percent for an index of the nation’s corporate
bonds.  Finance Experience  Kelly’s experience in housing finance and  capital markets 
“will be of great benefit to CMHC,” Finley said in the
 statement  that announced the appointment. The former Wachovia
Corp. chief financial officer and Toronto-Dominion Bank
executive “will ensure the continued strong governance of
Canada’s national housing agency.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has taken steps to rein in
CMHC in an attempt to shield taxpayers from a potential downturn
in the nation’s housing market. In last year’s fiscal plan, he
directed the country’s financial regulator, Superintendent of
Financial Institutions Julie Dickson, to review CMHC’s books at
least once a year. The government also placed the most senior
bureaucrats in the finance and human-resources departments on
CMHC’s board.  Karen Kinsley said last month she will step down as CMHC’s
chief executive officer when her term ends June 17. Kinsley, a
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accounts of Ontario, had
been with the agency for more than 25 years. CMHC said June 3 it
is seeking a “dynamic and visionary” CEO with risk-management
experience and knowledge of financial markets.  Risk Management  The majority of directors, other than the finance and
human-resources officials, should have “senior” experience in
the financial industry or risk management under the changes laid
out in the memo.  Directors are also being screened for experience or
expertise judging corporate and executive performance. Board
members were already required to demonstrate knowledge of CMHC’s
commercial operations and have experience in real estate and
social housing.  “While the previous board skills profile always called for
experience and knowledge in the areas set out in the current
board skills profile, there is now an increased emphasis, in
particular, on experience in the financial industry,” spokesman
Charles Sauriol said in an e-mail.  Updated Governance  “CMHC continually updates its governance and risk
management practices,” Sauriol said. “As the organization
evolves, so too will the skills required of the board.”  Alyson Queen, a spokeswoman for Finley, said the memo
represented “a continuation of the enhanced governance”
promised in Flaherty’s budget. A spokeswoman for Flaherty,
Kathleen Perchaluk, deferred to CMHC when asked to comment on
the memo.  Brock Kruger, a spokesman for OSFI, said by phone last week
that the regulator’s review of CMHC covers the agency’s
commercial operations, not its board governance.  There are 12 positions on CMHC’s board. Current  members 
include E. Anne MacDonald, the solicitor who helped manage real
estate for Pictou,  Nova Scotia , a town of 3,437 about 10 hours
by car northeast of  Boston . MacDonald’s  biography  on CMHC’s
website says she has “extensive knowledge of provincial and
municipal law” and primarily practices “real estate, wills,
probate, municipal law and family law.”  Homebuilders Association  The board also includes Rennie Pieterman, a partner in
Practical Plumbing Co. Ltd. of London, Ontario. Her CMHC
 biography  says she served eight years on the Board of Directors
of the London Home Builders’ Association, including as President
in 2003, and has been a member of the Association’s Renovators’
Council since 1994.  MacDonald didn’t immediately respond to two voicemail
messages seeking comment on this story. Pieterman declined to
comment when contacted by telephone, referring questions to
Kelly, who wasn’t available for an interview according to
Sauriol.  Board members should have a wide range of skills and bring
“qualifications and experience related to CMHC’s overall
operations and mandate,” Sauriol said in an e-mailed statement.
All of the current directors “possess a range of
experience in housing-related areas, such as housing finance,
aboriginal and seniors’ housing, residential and commercial
construction, real estate and public policy.  Rising Debt  Household debt has risen to a record 165 percent of
disposable income as Canada relied on a housing boom and
 consumer spending  to lead the world’s 11th-largest economy out
of the 2008 global financial crisis. Flaherty tightened rules on
insured mortgages for the fourth time in four years in July on
concern some regional housing markets were overheating.  Canadian  house prices  have increased 16 percent in the past
five years, according to the Teranet-National Bank Composite
House Price  Index. (TNBHICP)  By comparison, U.S. prices measured by the
S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values fell 11 percent over
the same period.  Flaherty said in his March budget that he would limit use
of CMHC’s portfolio insurance, which covers home loans with down
payments greater than 20 percent.  The government said the change was intended to restore
‘‘taxpayer-backed portfolio insurance to its original purpose of
allowing access to funding for mortgage assets.” Since the 2008
financial crisis, Canadian lenders have used government-backed
insured mortgages to shore up capital in line with international
standards.  Flaherty said May 22 that CMHC has grown into a “major
financial institution” and needs to operate like one. Canada’s
banking regulator OSFI “has been over there doing some stress
testing, and we’re going to continue monitoring CMHC very
closely,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  