-- Bank of Japan’s June 11 Monetary Policy Statement: Full Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-11T03:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/bank-of-japan-s-june-11-monetary-policy-statement-full-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the full text of the policy statement released today
by the  Bank of Japan  in Tokyo.  1. At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today，the Policy Board of
the Bank of Japan decided，by unanimous vote，to set the
following guideline for money market operations for the
intermeeting period:  The Bank of Japan will conduct money market operations so
that the monetary base will increase at an annual pace of about
60-70 trillion yen.  2. With regard to the asset purchases，the Bank will continue
with the following guidelines:
a) The Bank will purchase Japanese  government bonds  (JGBs) so
that their amount outstanding will increase at an annual pace of
about 50 trillion yen，and the average remaining maturity of the
Bank’s JGB purchases will be about seven years.
b) The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and  Japan 
real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) so that their amounts
outstanding will increase at an annual pace of about 1 trillion
yen and about 30 billion yen respectively.
c) As for CP and corporate bonds，the Bank will continue with
those asset purchases until their amounts outstanding reach 2.2
trillion yen and 3.2 trillion yen respectively by end-2013;
thereafter，it will maintain those amounts outstanding.  3. Japan’s economy has been picking up. As for overseas
economies，while the manufacturing sector continues to show a
lackluster performance，they are gradually heading toward a pick-up as a whole. In this situation，exports have started picking up.
Business fixed investment continues to show resilience in
nonmanufacturing and appears to have stopped weakening on the
whole. Public investment has continued to increase，and housing
investment has generally been picking up. Private consumption
has remained resilient，assisted by the improvement in consumer
sentiment. Reflecting these developments in demand both at home
and abroad，industrial production has been picking up. Meanwhile，
financial conditions are accommodative. On the price front，the
year-on-year rate of change in the  consumer price index  (CPI,
all items less fresh food) has been negative，due to the reversal
of the previous year’s movements in energy-related and durable
consumer goods. Some indicators suggest a rise in inflation
expectations.  4. With regard to the outlook，Japan’s economy is expected to
return to a moderate recovery path，mainly against the background
that domestic demand increases its resilience due to the effects
of monetary easing as well as various economic measures，and that
growth rates of overseas economies gradually pick up，albeit
moderately. The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI is likely
to gradually turn positive.  5. Regarding risks，there remains a high degree of uncertainty
concerning Japan’s economy，including the prospects for the
European debt problem and the growth momentum of the  U.S.
economy  as well as the emerging and commodity-exporting
economies.  6. The bank will continue with quantitative and qualitative
monetary easing，aiming to achieve the price stability target of
2 percent，as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target
in a stable manner. It will examine both upside and downside
risks to economic activity and prices，and make adjustments as
appropriate.[Note]
Such conduct of monetary policy will support positive movements
in economic activity and financial markets，contribute to a rise
in inflation expectations，and lead Japan’s economy to overcome
the deflation that has lasted for nearly 15 years.  [Note] Mr. T. Kiuchi proposed that the Bank will aim to achieve
the price stability target of 2 percent in the medium to long
term and designate quantitative and qualitative monetary easing
as an intensive measure with a timeframe of about two years. The
proposal was defeated by an 8-1 majority vote. Voting for the
proposal: Mr. T. Kiuchi. Voting against the proposal: Mr. H.
Kuroda, Mr. K. Iwata, Mr. H. Nakaso，Mr. R. Miyao，Mr. Y.
Morimoto，Ms. S. Shirai，Mr. K. Ishida, and Mr. T. Sato.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  