-- BC Said to Make Sole Bid for Springer Science as EQT Weighs Exit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-11T15:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/bc-said-to-make-sole-bid-for-springer-science-as-eqt-weighs-exit.html
BC Partners Ltd., the London-based
buyout firm, is the sole bidder to hand in an offer for German
academic publisher Springer Science & Business Media GmbH as
owner EQT Partners AB weighs whether to sell the company or take
it public, three people familiar with the matter said.  BC Partners made a bid of more than 3 billion euros ($4
billion) while KKR & Co. and  Providence Equity Partners  dropped
out ahead of a June 10 deadline, said two of the people, who
asked not to be identified as talks are private. Swedish buyout
firm EQT may decide by the end of the week whether to sell or
conduct an initial public offering, one of the people said.  Springer Science said June 5 that it plans to raise about
760 million euros in an IPO and shares would start trading in
 Frankfurt  before the summer break, according to a statement that
day. Still, EQT was accepting takeover offers and may scrap the
share sale, people familiar with the matter have said.  Springer Science+Business Media Deutschland GmbH, based in
Berlin, has said it will be converted into Springer
Science+Business Media AG before the listing.  Spokeswomen for KKR, Springer Science and  BC Partners 
declined to comment, and spokesmen for EQT and Providence
couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  The Stockholm-based buyout firm, which bought the company
jointly with the Government of Singapore Investment Corp. in
2009, is seeking offers of 3 billion euros to 4 billion euros,
people familiar with the matter said in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  