-- Berkshire’s Eastwood Builds Staff, Takes On AIG
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-06-11T20:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/berkshire-s-eastwood-builds-staff-takes-on-aig.html
Peter Eastwood, who left  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  with three other executives in April to
start a new insurer at  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
said he’s finding it easy to attract staff.  Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance had 40 employees at
the end of last week, a month and a half after it was founded,
Eastwood said today in an interview. It now has people in
 Boston , New York,  Chicago ,  Los Angeles  and Atlanta after
bringing on staff from insurers including AIG and  CNA Financial
Corp. (CNA) , he said.  “Talent attracts talent,” Eastwood said on the sidelines
of a conference hosted by Advisen in New York. “We’ll
absolutely be hiring more.”  Buffett, 82, has said he’s seeking to get into commercial
insurance “big time.” The new operation complements Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire units selling reinsurance and auto
coverage and can give the billionaire investor more funds to buy
stocks and fund takeovers.  Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer has used
premiums from insurance operations over four decades to build a
$280 billion holding company that hauls freight, generates
electricity, manufactures chemicals and sells chocolate.  Eastwood said his unit will start by focusing primarily on
excess-and-surplus lines, or coverage that isn’t available from
insurers licensed by the state. The business has already written
a “good amount” of property risk and is planning to provide
coverage particularly in catastrophe-prone areas, he said.
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty is also offering some casualty
products and looking to sell professional and management
liability insurance, he said.  Eastwood’s Experience  Eastwood spent more than two decades at New York-based AIG
and was CEO of the company’s property-casualty operation in the
Americas. He’s president of the Berkshire unit he started with
former AIG executives David Bresnahan, David Fields and Sanjay Godhwani.  The business is overseen by Buffett’s reinsurance
lieutenant Ajit Jain. Berkshire’s reputation for integrity,
financial-strength ratings and a “tremendous balance sheet”
will help the new company compete against larger rivals
including AIG, Eastwood said.  AIG had about 15,000 people in its U.S. property-casualty
unit at the end of 2012, selling products from directors-and-officers’ liability policies to commercial property coverage.
Berkshire’s largest insurance unit by employees is auto insurer,
Geico, which had more than 27,000 employees at the end of last
year. Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group had about 700 people,
according to the company’s  annual report .  Permanent Focus  Under Jain, Berkshire has taken on risks that others
shunned and often charged a premium for the service. That won’t
change, Eastwood said. In addition to that business, his unit
will try to put some of Berkshire’s capital to use “in a more
permanent, long-term, focused way,” he said.  “Everybody in this audience who participates in the
business should continue to think about Berkshire Hathaway being
that market participant that you’re used to,” Eastwood said
during a panel discussion at the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  