-- Bill Daley Plans Bid for Governor Amid Illinois Fiscal Mess
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-11T17:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/bill-daley-running-for-illinois-governor-amid-state-fiscal-mess.html
Bill Daley, a former White House
chief of staff and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive, has filed
papers to run for  Illinois  governor next year, setting up a
fractious primary in a state plagued by political gridlock.  The son and brother of two former Chicago mayors, Daley
plans to challenge Democratic incumbent Governor Pat Quinn, who
leads a state with the nation’s worst bond rating and most
underfunded pension. The  primary  is March 18.  “We can no longer stand idly by while our pension debt
bankrupts our schools and robs our children of a better
future,” Daley, 64, said in a statement. “From the stinging
injustice of inequality to the painful toll of unemployment, the
people of Illinois are paying a perilous price for political
failure.”  The victor of the 2014 general election probably will
inherit deep fiscal challenges that have emerged over decades
and have remained unsolved in a state where Democrats control
the legislature and the governorship.  In a statement today, Quinn’s campaign defended his record
and said he had gotten “big things done for the people of
Illinois,” including construction projects, education changes
and new ethics laws.  “Governor Quinn continues to lead the fight for
comprehensive pension reform, marriage equality and gun-safety
and he will not stop fighting until these are law,” according
to the statement.  Opponents Everywhere  Daley, his new challenger, was secretary of the U.S.
Department of Commerce in President Bill Clinton’s
administration from January 1997 to July 2000.  After leaving the administration and serving as president
of SBC Communications for more than two years, Daley joined New
York-based JPMorgan in 2004, serving as Midwest chairman and the
bank’s head of corporate responsibility.  Daley was chief of staff for President  Barack Obama  from
January 2011 to January 2012.  Potential and announced Republican candidates for governor
include businessman Bruce Rauner, Illinois Treasurer Dan Rutherford, state Senator Kirk Dillard and state Senator Bill Brady.  Democratic Attorney General Lisa Madigan, 46, daughter of
the state’s House of Representatives speaker and Democratic
Party chairman, is “seriously considering a run,” according to
a statement from Gina Natale, a campaign aide.  Continuing Crisis  With the exception of Obama, there are no bigger Midwest
political names than Daley and Madigan. Their Democratic
dynasties have dominated Chicago and Illinois government for
much of the past half century. They’re also part of families
that, in varying degrees, have participated in a culture of
kick-the-can-down-the-road budgeting.  Quinn, 64, last week called lawmakers back for a June 19
special session, less than two hours after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the state’s credit rating, citing an unresolved
pension crisis.  Legislators on May 31 adjourned without taking final votes
on dueling proposals to reduce an unfunded liability of almost
$100 billion in the state retirement system that grows $17
million daily. It was the third time in less than a year that
lawmakers didn’t pass measures to address the shortfall.  Paralysis over the deficit led Moody’s to drop its grade on
general-obligation bonds issued by Illinois one step to A3 on
June 6. It’s the fourth-lowest investment grade and the weakest
among U.S. states. The cut affects $32 billion of debt. A lower
rating typically signals higher borrowing costs.  Moody’s reduction pushes Illinois’s rating two steps below
the company’s grade on California debt, the second-lowest level
among states.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market demand  1.43
percentage points  of extra yield over benchmark debt to own
bonds of Illinois issuers, the most among states tracked by
Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. The gap over debt issued by
California is just  0.52 percentage point .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  