-- Bloomberg Proposes $20 Billion NYC Flood Plan After Sandy
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-11T21:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/bloomberg-proposes-20-billion-new-york-flood-plan-after-sandy.html
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg
called for a $20 billion system of flood barriers to protect
low-lying areas from storms almost eight months after  Hurricane
Sandy  devastated the region.  In a report released today, the mayor made 250
recommendations, including installing bulkheads and dune systems
on beach areas of Staten Island and the Rockaways in Queens, and
bolstering building codes to protect hospitals. He cited
environmental scientists who predict sea levels rising as much
as 31 inches by 2050, accompanied by severe storms and prolonged
spells of extreme heat and cold.  Bloomberg last year appointed a task force to assess the
city’s vulnerability after Sandy brought a record 14-foot (4.3-meter) storm surge to Lower Manhattan in October. It flooded
seven subway tunnels, immersed electrical substations, shut down
the financial district and killed power south of 35th Street.
All five boroughs bore its brunt in the city of 8 million.  “Hurricane Sandy made it all too clear that, no matter how
far we’ve come, we still face real, immediate threats,”
Bloomberg said in a speech at the  Brooklyn  Navy Yard. “Much of
the work will extend far beyond the next 200 days -- but we
refuse to pass the responsibility for creating a plan onto the
next administration. This is urgent work, and it must begin
now.”  Term Ending  The mayor, 71, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is to end his third and final term Dec. 31.  His estimate assumes each proposal is implemented on the
suggested timeline. The city can rely on $10 billion in city
capital funding and federal aid, and another $5 billion in U.S.
disaster relief, the mayor said. Additional federal funding and
capital raised through the sale of municipal bonds would be
needed to cover the remaining $4.5 billion, the mayor said.  By mid-century, as much as one-quarter of New York’s land
area, where 800,000 residents live, will be in a flood plain,
the mayor said. The city has about 520 miles of coastline, more
than Miami, Los Angeles and San Francisco combined, he said.  ‘Defining Challenge’  Fifty-three percent of New York’s power plants are in the
100-year flood plain now, and 97 percent will be in the 2050s,
the mayor said. Fuel suppliers remain at risk of flooding or
power blackouts, and significant gaps in telecommunications
regulations have left cable TV, broadband, wireless and wired
voice networks exposed, Bloomberg said.  “Make no mistake: This is a defining challenge for our
future, and if anyone is up to the task of defending and
adapting the city they love, it’s New Yorkers,” Bloomberg said.  While conceding that no program could protect the city
against all climate-related disasters, the mayor envisioned a
New York much more prepared than the one Sandy hit.  “Instead of colliding with ocean-facing homes, waves
rushing toward our city will hit breakwaters and wetlands that
will help sap their strength and break their momentum,” he
said.  “Waves that do reach our shores will find a strong line of
coastal defenses: reinforced dunes and widened beaches, levees,
floodwalls and bulkheads and tide gates and surge barriers.”  ‘Green Infrastructure’  The mayor also proposed planting more trees and other
vegetation on streets and rooftops, and drains to manage rain-runoff -- “green infrastructure” -- to absorb water or divert
it to higher-capacity sewers.  At Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy,
Director Jason Bordoff issued a statement supporting the mayor
and welcoming the opportunity “to partner with him on
implementation of these recommendations to make the city more
resilient.”  Meteorologists calculate that a storm of Sandy’s severity
has a 1.4 percent probability of occurring within 100 years, the
city report said.  While Sandy caused $19 billion in economic damage, a
similar storm in the 2050s would cost $90 billion in lost
property, jobs, infrastructure and government expense, the
report states, citing calculations by Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s
second-largest reinsurer.  “We have an interest in managing risks our clients face
and how those risks can change,” said Megan Linkin, a Swiss Re
scientist who studies natural hazards, in an interview. “That’s
why we care about climate change and its potential impact.”  Bloomberg’s plan calls for $1.2 billion to be made
available for building owners to institute flood-resiliency
measures, including elevating or protecting equipment, upgrading
foundations and reinforcing exterior walls.  It also proposes levees, floodwalls and other protections
along the eastern shore of Staten Island from Fort Wadsworth to
Tottenville, which would rise 15 feet to 20 feet to protect
neighborhoods devastated by Sandy that have seen coastal
flooding from nor’easters for years.  To pay for a study of the project with the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, the mayor said he’s added $50 million to the
fiscal 2014 budget currently under consideration by the city
council, which would go into effect July 1.  Restoration of beaches requires 1 million cubic yards of
sand to be added at Coney Island; 3.6 million cubic yards at
Rockaway Peninsula; and similar measures at damaged shore line
of Staten Island, the mayor said.  Turning Tide  Bulkheads of stone or concrete to hold shorelines in place
and protect against rising sea levels and erosion would be built
throughout the city, including in west Midtown in  Manhattan ; the
Rockaway Peninsula, Broad Channel and Howard Beach in Queens;
Greenpoint in Brooklyn; the North Shore in Staten Island; and
West and Locust Point in the Bronx. The city would also repair
bulkheads on the Belt Parkway along the south shore of Brooklyn
and Queens, which failed during Hurricane Sandy, the mayor said.  Billions more would be spent on such protections as a
system of floodwalls and levees adaptable for recreation and
waterfront transportation, the mayor said. Similar devices could
be installed near Hunts Point in the Bronx, the site of the
city’s largest food-distribution center; the East River Drive,
where the United Nations sits; and near hospitals on the city’s
east side, where Sandy’s floods forced patient evacuations and
facility shut-downs.  “A floodwall doesn’t have to be just a wall, it can be
part of an elevated park or boardwalk, and still block flood
waters,” the mayor said.  The city’s building code must require low-lying hospitals,
nursing and adult-care homes to make sure electrical equipment,
emergency power systems and water pumps are flood-proof by 2030,
the mayor said.  The mayor’s task force predicted city temperatures could
reach 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 Celsius), 57 days a year by mid-century, up from 18 days a year now, and equal to the weather
now experienced in Birmingham,  Alabama , 960 miles to the south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  