-- Bollore-Led Bid for Abidjan Terminal Broke Law: Minister
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-06-11T14:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/bollore-led-bid-for-abidjan-terminal-broke-law-minister.html
Bollore SA (BOL) ’s winning proposal to
build a second container terminal at the port of Abidjan in
Ivory Coast violates the nation’s competition law, the country’s
minister of commerce said late yesterday.  Bollore’s unit Bollore Africa Logistics CI and partners
should not have been allowed to participate because the French
company already runs the port’s first terminal, Commerce
Minister Jean-Louis Billon told reporters in Abidjan, the
commercial capital.  Bouygues SA (EN)  and A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s
APM Terminals partnered with Bollore for the project.  The Bollore-led project would create a monopoly, Billon
said. Abidjan is the main harbor for Ivory Coast, the world’s
largest producer of cocoa, and also serves landlocked neighbors
Burkina Faso and  Mali .  Dalila Beritane, head of communications for Bollore Africa
Logistics, declined to comment when called on her mobile-phone
today. Bollore made the “best offer” in a “transparent and
rigorous” process, the company said in an e-mailed statement
last week.  Bollore, which is based in the French city of Puteaux, beat
bids from groups led by Geneva-based Mediterranean Shipping Co.
SA and Marseille-based CMA CGM SA.  The French company offered 122 million euros ($162 million)
for the concession and 14 million euros in annual operating
fees, the company said. The plan is to build the terminal in a
partnership with the government at a cost of about 450 million
euros, it said.  Ivory Coast ’s Public Procurement Regulatory Authority last
month dismissed an appeal by the CMA CGM group to annul the
tender, saying the request was unfounded.  Separately, The West African Economic and Monetary Union’s
competition department accepted a complaint against the bid and
will decide whether to investigate, Director Amadou Dieng said
last week. The complaint was submitted to the body by Movis Côte
d’Ivoire and NCT NEcotrans, part of the CMA CGM group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  