-- Brazil Ranked Lowest in G-20 in Trade Openness Study, ICC Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-11T20:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/brazil-ranked-lowest-in-g-20-in-trade-openness-study-icc-says.html
Brazil is the most protectionist
among the world’s major economies, ranking below nations
including Argentina and Nigeria in a  survey  of global trade
trends by the  International Chamber of Commerce .  The Paris-based ICC, in a report today, ranked Brazil 67th
out of 75 countries -- the lowest among the Group of 20 -- for
openness to trade, foreign direct investment and infrastructure
competitiveness. Hong Kong topped the list while Canada, coming
in at 19th, was ranked the highest among the G-20 nations,
according to the ICC’s open markets index.  Brazil’s increasing reliance on trade barriers has been
punishing Latin America’s biggest economy amid a renewed global
push to promote free trade. President  Dilma Rousseff  last year
raised taxes and tariffs on foreign-made cars and more than 100
other products after manufacturers complained about losing
ground to Chinese imports made cheaper by a 33 percent rally in
the real against the dollar in the past decade.  While U.S. President  Barack Obama  pursues a free trade
agreement with Europe, and regional neighbors including Mexico,
Chile and Peru negotiate a Pacific-region accord, Brazil has
been slower to seek access for its manufacturing exports. In two
decades of existence, its trade pact with Argentina, known as
Mercosur, has negotiated the entry of a single member,
Venezuela, and has inked just three free trade deals, with
Israel, Egypt and the Palestinian territories.  Since helping lead opposition to the U.S.-led Free Trade
Area of the Americas in 2005, Brazil’s share of global trade has
shrunk. While the country’s exports have jumped 262 percent over
the past decade, that’s less than half the average growth for
other  emerging markets  such as Russia, India and China, a World
Bank  study  in February found.  After running a  trade surplus  for much of the past decade,
thanks to strong demand for its commodities from China, Brazil
this year is buying more than it sells abroad. The shortfall
reached a record $4 billion in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 