-- Brazilian Real Selloff Sparks More Intervention: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-11T21:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/brazil-swap-rates-surge-to-highest-in-14-months-sao-paulo-mover.html
Brazil ’s real touched a four-year
low, prompting the central bank to intervene for a second
straight day to stem the rout. Swap rates surged on concern the
weakening currency will cause inflation to accelerate.  The real rose for the first time in six days, appreciating
0.7 percent to 2.1326 per  U.S. dollar  after dropping 0.9 percent
to 2.1656, the weakest intraday level since May 2009. Swap rates
due in January 2016 climbed 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 10.06 percent after earlier increasing 57 basis
points, the most since 2008 on a closing basis. The  Ibovespa (IBOV) 
benchmark stock index tumbled 3 percent, sliding into a  bear
market .  President  Dilma Rousseff  prepared to meet Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  as the two-month selloff in the real threatened to
push up import prices and add to an inflation rate that is
already at the upper end of policy makers’ target range. The
currency fell earlier on signs of a sputtering economy and
speculation the U.S. and  Japan  will curb monetary stimulus
programs that have buoyed emerging-market assets.  “It’s going to be hard to completely stop this,”  Eduardo Suarez , a strategist at Bank of  Nova Scotia , said in a phone
interview from Toronto. “People are shifting away from very
heavy-handed positions in  emerging markets  or at least hedging
them. So Brazil has a bit of a double whammy right now because
there’s not a very constructive view on Brazil.”  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the outlook on Brazil’s BBB
rating to negative last week on concern over sluggish growth and
weakening fiscal accounts. The U.S.’s AA+ credit rating outlook
was increased to stable from negative yesterday by S&P, citing
receding fiscal risk.  Currency Intervention  The real erased its drop today as the central bank sold
$2.2 billion in currency swaps in a pair of auctions today. Last
week the government removed a 6 percent tax on foreign investors
who buy Brazilian bonds in the domestic market.  “The fact that Rousseff is meeting with Mantega could mean
that they will hammer out some measure,” Ronaldo Patah, the
head of fixed income at Itau Asset Management in  Sao Paulo , said
in a phone interview.  The currency is still too strong for Brazil’s exporters,
Robson Andrade, the president of the national industry
confederation, known as the CNI, told reporters in Brasilia.  The real has traded in a range of 1.94 to 2.17 per dollar
this year as the monetary authority fluctuated between selling
currency swaps to prevent it from falling too much and offering
reverse swaps to rein in gains. The central bank sold $2.1
billion in currency swaps yesterday.  Real Volatility  The three-month volatility of the real increased to 14
percent, the highest since July 2012 and trailing only the South
African rand and Mexican peso among the 16 major dollar
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  Bond markets were also volatile. Brazil sold 344 million
reais of inflation-linked bonds due in 2050 today with an
average yield of 5.4513 percent, a 0.98 percentage point
increase from the previous auction on May 14, according to
auction data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on outstanding inflation-linked bonds due in 2050
jumped 47 basis points today to 5.51 percent, the biggest
increase since the securities were issued in 2010.  The central bank has boosted its benchmark rate 0.75
percentage point this year to 8 percent to curb inflation after
lowering it by 5.25 percentage points in cuts that began in
August 2011.  Quickening Inflation  The annual rate of  consumer price  increases quickened in
May to 6.50 percent, the upper end of policy makers’ target
range, from 6.49 percent the prior month, the government
reported last week. The inflation outlook is unfavorable and
requires a timely reversal to avoid undermining investment,
policy makers said in minutes released last week from the May
28-29 policy meeting.  The economy expanded 0.9 percent last year and will grow
2.53 percent in 2013, according to the median forecast of about
100 analysts in a central bank survey published yesterday. They
had projected an expansion of 2.77 percent last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  