-- Britons Seeing Unprecedented Wage Squeeze Since 2008
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-06-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/britons-seeing-unprecedented-wage-squeeze-since-2008.html
Britons experienced an unprecedented
squeeze on incomes over the past five years as workers accepted
pay cuts as the price of keeping their jobs, research published
today showed.  Real wages posted the largest five-year drop on record
after the recession began in 2008, according to the  Institute
for Fiscal Studies . A third of workers staying in the same job
saw their wages cut or frozen in nominal terms in 2011, it said.  The fall helps to explain why unemployment rose less than
in previous recessions, despite the steepest loss of output in a
century, according to the report. While larger companies tended
to fire workers, smaller ones reduced wages and investment,
leading to an unprecedented drop in productivity, the IFS said.  “To the extent that it is better for individuals to stay
in work, albeit with lower wages, than to become unemployed, the
long-term consequences of this recession in terms of labor-market performance may be less severe than following the high
unemployment recessions of the 1980s and 1990s,” said Claire
Crawford, program director at the IFS in  London .  U.K. unemployment peaked at 8.4 percent at the end of 2011
compared with rates above 10 percent in the aftermaths of the
previous two recessions, government data show.  Cuts to welfare mean more lone parents and older workers
are remaining in the labor market, increasing the competition
for jobs and putting pressure on wages, the IFS said.  In addition, fewer workers belong to labor unions or are
covered by collective wage agreements than in the past, it said.
Those left to negotiate their own pay got the smallest increases
since 2008 and were more likely to experience nominal wage
freezes in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  