-- Lions Shut Out Combined Country 64-0 to Stay Perfect on Tour
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-11T14:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/british-irish-lions-shut-out-combined-country-in-tour-match.html
The British and Irish Lions shut out
Combined Country 64-0 to maintain their 100 percent record on
tour before facing  Australia  in a three-Test rugby series.  Three days after grinding out a 22-12 win against the
Queensland Reds, the Lions ran in 10 tries at Hunter Stadium in
Newcastle last night against a squad featuring 10 part-timers
including an electrician, an apprentice plumber and a medical
student. Winger George North touched down twice.  The combined team from the U.K. and Ireland, which opened
its 10-game tour by routing the Barbarians and Western Force,
faces the New South Wales Waratahs and ACT Brumbies Super Rugby
teams in its next two matches before the first Test against
Australia on June 22 in Brisbane. The third-ranked Wallabies
rallied for a 2-1 series win when the teams last met in 2001.  “There’s great harmony in the squad,” Lions head coach
Warren Gatland said in a news conference. “If we can win the
next two games and arrive at  Brisbane  undefeated it will be a
good positive frame to arrive in.”  Against a team featuring only eight starters with any Super
Rugby experience, the Lions were 26-0 up within 20 minutes as
Alex Cuthbert, Conor Murray, Stuart Hogg and North all ran in
tries, three of which Hogg converted. Hogg’s miss from his own
try was the first effort at goal the Lions had failed with in
their first 20 attempts on Australian soil this tour.  Forward’s Try  Hooker Richard Hibbard peeled off a rolling maul to dive
over for the first try of the game by a forward, and Hogg
converted. Welsh winger North added his second try five minutes
later to put the Lions ahead 38-0, a lead they took into half
time as Sean O’Brien’s effort was disallowed by the television
match official because his foot hit the touchline as the Irish
flanker powered his way past three defenders.  With handling becoming difficult in the dew, the Lions
spilled the ball several times in the opening exchanges of the
second half. They showed sure hands in the 49th minute to put
captain Brian O’Driscoll into space for the Ireland center’s
eighth try in four tours with the Lions.  Leigh Halfpenny, on as a substitute for North, missed the
conversion, though his own converted try made it 50-0. Gatland
said he’d taken North off to rest him because he’d “had quite a
bit of rugby.”  With 15 minutes remaining, O’Brien bounced off a tackler
near the line to score the Lions’ ninth try and O’Driscoll
kicked the ball through for replacement center Jonathan Davies
to score in the corner with the last play of the game. Halfpenny
rounded out the win by converting from out wide.  Next Stop Sydney  O’Driscoll said handling errors, exacerbated by the
conditions, had prevented the Lions from adding more tries in
the second half.  “We tried to kick on in the second half but it just didn’t
really happen for us at times,” O’Driscoll told reporters. “It
was difficult conditions and that’s why some of the first-half
stuff was so pleasing, but we should have been able to kick on
from there but we didn’t.”  The Lions travel to Sydney today ahead of their June 15
match against the Waratahs. They then take on the Brumbies, the
current Super Rugby leaders, on June 18 in their final match
before facing the Wallabies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  