-- Britvic Casts Doubt on Reviving Barr Merger After Clearance
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-06-11T11:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/britvic-reconsidering-a-g-barr-merger-on-provisional-approval.html
Britvic Plc (BVIC)  cast doubt on
resurrecting its proposed merger with  A.G. Barr Plc (BAG)  after the
U.K.’s main antitrust regulator provisionally cleared the
combination of the soft-drink makers.  Britvic “is in a different place to last summer when the
terms of the merger were agreed,” Chairman Gerald Corbett said
in a statement. “The cost savings from merging are less, we are
performing better, we have new management and we have a new
strategy to deliver good growth.” A company spokesperson
declined to comment on whether the company would seek to adjust
the terms of any potential deal.  Britvic, the Hemel Hempstead, England-based maker of
Robinsons Barley Water, and A.G. Barr, maker of Irn-Bru, agreed
to combine last November before scrapping plans three months
later after the U.K. Office of Fair Trading referred the deal to
the Competition Commission. The commission said today it didn’t
see the deal resulting in a “substantial lessening” of
competition or causing prices to increase significantly, as the
two companies’ brands are not close competitors.  Britvic’s statement “raises the question of whether a deal
will be concluded this time around,”  Nicola Mallard, an
analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in London, wrote today. While it’s
possible the company’s statement could be an effort to reduce
value of an offer, “we see the probability of both parties
agreeing a deal as reduced.”  Cost Benefits  Britvic and A.G. Barr’s merger would have created a
business with sales of about 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion).
Britvic shareholders stood to have owned 63 percent of the
enlarged company, which would have been led by A.G. Barr Chief
Executive Officer Roger White, with John Gibney, Britvic’s chief
financial officer, retaining the role at the merged group. The
combination would have created  cost and revenue benefits of 40
million pounds a year by 2016, they said.  Britvic fell 1.3 percent to 494.2 pence at 12:22 p.m. in
London trading, giving it a market value of 1.2 billion pounds.
A.G. Barr rose 0.1 percent to 509.5 pence, valuing it at 594.9
million pounds.  Since scrapping the deal, Britvic has appointed a new CEO,
Simon Litherland, and announced its own cost-cutting plans May
22, expected to result in savings of 30 million pounds a year
from 2016. The news sent shares up the most in more than eight
months and spurred investor speculation that the company may
have given up on the merger.  ’Positive Step’  A.G. Barr, based in Cumbernauld,  Scotland , said today it
welcomed the commission’s findings. The board “believes this is
a significant positive step and in light of this will continue
to work closely with the Competition Commission throughout the
remainder of the inquiry with a view to reconsidering a
merger,” it said, though no new merger can be formally
announced until a final report is published.  Britvic said it would bear in mind the changes since the
original deal was agreed when discussing the matter in August
after the Competition Commission, an antitrust body, publishes
its final conclusions.  The Competition Commission will publish provisional
findings “shortly,” with the final ruling expected by July 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  