-- Brookfield Offers Five Australia East Coast Hotels for Sale
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-06-11T23:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/brookfield-offers-five-australia-east-coast-hotels-for-sale.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM) ,
which last year took over Thakral Holdings Group in Australia,
has put up for sale five of the hotels it acquired as part of
that transaction.  The Canadian company, which has more than $175 billion
under management, is seeking expressions of interest by July 19,
according to an e-mailed sale document from broker  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , which is handling the sale along with HSBC
Holdings Plc. The hotels are being offered all together or
separately, with or without their existing management teams,
according to the document.  Brookfield, a Toronto-based asset manager, took over
Sydney-based Thakral last year to gain ownership of a
development site in Sydney and its offices and apartments on
 Australia ’s east coast. Brookfield, which has focused on office
and retail property, in April spun off the $48 billion
 Brookfield Property Partners LP (BPY-U) , to pursue purchases in other
areas.  Brookfield is offering for sale two Sofitel hotels in
Brisbane and the  Gold Coast  in Queensland state, two Novotel
hotels in Brighton Beach and Wollongong in New South Wales state
and the Hilton on the Park in Melbourne. All are rated 4.5 stars
or above, according to the document.  The document didn’t disclose the value of the hotels. Peter
Harper, senior vice president for investment sales at Jones Lang
LaSalle, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  Brookfield could also seek to sell as much as A$700 million
($662 million)) of offices in Australia, and has drawn interest
from  Cromwell Property Group (CMW) , the Australian Financial Review
said in its Street Talk column today, without saying where it
got the information. Cromwell Chief Executive Officer Paul
Weightman didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  