-- Brown Strikes Deal on California Budget With Legislators
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-06-11T19:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/brown-strikes-california-budget-deal-with-legislators.html
California  Governor Jerry Brown and
fellow Democrats struck a deal to base the fiscal 2014 budget on
his more conservative revenue estimate rather than higher
projections, clearing the way for passage of a spending plan on
time for the most populous U.S. state.  Brown and lawmakers will rely on figures the governor
announced in May when he unveiled a $96.4 billion budget for the
year that begins July 1. Democrats had wanted to use a higher
estimate from the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office to
justify spending about $2 billion more. Democrats said they’ll
return to the issue when collections become clearer in January.  “All budgets are acts of compromise, and this budget is no
exception,” Senator Mark Leno, a Democrat from San Francisco
and chairman of the conference committee reviewing the spending
plan, said yesterday at a hearing in  Sacramento . “While it may
be disappointing at first blush, I actually think there is
wisdom in it on a number of levels. It’s conservative, so
potentially that puts us at less risk.”  Brown, 75, built into his plan an $850 million surplus,
California’s first in about a decade. He persuaded voters in
November to boost income and sales taxes to end deficits that
cumulatively exceeded $100 billion since 2007. He has vowed to
use the money with restraint and won the state a credit rating
upgrade by Standard & Poor’s, the first since 2006.  New Spending  The governor placated Democrats by agreeing on some
additional spending for health and welfare programs by diverting
about $650 million that he had proposed to use to reduce debt.  Democrats and Brown also reached a compromise on his
proposal to change how the state doles out additional money for
schools in which 50 percent of students are poor and studying
English as a second language.  Democrats opposed that plan because they said it
shortchanged poor or English learning students in wealthier
districts. The agreement increases the threshold to 55 percent,
and boosts overall per pupil spending in all districts.  “The Legislature is doing their job and doing it well,”
Brown said late yesterday in a statement. “It looks like
 California  will get another balanced budget and, very
importantly, educational funding that recognizes the different
needs of California’s students.”  The governor, who  projected  state receipts at $97.2 billion
in 2014, said May 14 that California’s economic growth will be
curbed by higher federal payroll taxes and automatic U.S. budget
cuts, known as sequestration. The Analyst’s Office three days
later said Brown’s revenue estimate was $3.2 billion too low.  Fiscal Health  Democratic lawmakers sought to build the higher figure into
their budget to cover spending increases on items such as
indigent-adult dental care and tuition assistance for middle-income families. They’ll get some of that funding for those
programs under the agreement.  California’s fiscal health has been strengthened by the
higher income and sales taxes as well as an improving economy
that’s fueling increases in capital-gains tax revenue. In May,
the Legislative Analyst’s Office had estimated the state’s
revenue was running about $4.5 billion more than forecast.  Brown has said his budget assumes that the windfall was a
one-time infusion from high earners who cashed out investments
at year-end, before federal capital-gains rates increased.  Worker Pay  Brown and Democrats also agreed to give state workers a 4.5
percent  pay increase , phased in over two years beginning in 2014
if revenue growth continues, the largest public-employee labor
union said today. If revenue fails to meet a minimum target, the
entire pay increase would begin later, in 2015. The union must
still ratify the deal.  Brown’s budget, which includes a $1.1 billion reserve,
would reduce a portion of what he calls the “wall of debt” --
amounting to $35 billion in internal and external borrowing and
delayed payments to schools and community colleges. The new
agreement puts off some of the reduction to later than the
governor had proposed.  Democrats also agreed to Brown’s plan to borrow $500
million in carbon-allowance auction proceeds, required by law to
be spent on reducing emissions of pollutants, to cover general
expenses. So far the auctions have generated about $260 million.
Borrowing against the fund also adds to the debt Brown has said
he wants to bring down.  Budget Deadline  Lawmakers must pass a budget before June 16 or they lose
pay under a 2010 law passed by voters. That measure also lowered
the vote threshold to pass a spending plan to a simple majority
instead of two-thirds.  Before the change in the law, budgets were routinely late
in California, including a record 100 days in 2010 under
Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. Since taking office,
Brown has signed the annual spending plan on time two years in a
row. The last time California enacted a budget on time for  three
consecutive years  was in the middle 1980s.  “For the third year in a row, we will meet the June 15
constitutional deadline to pass a balanced budget,” Senate
President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said in a
statement. “More importantly, this plan wisely uses our
resources to strengthen the foundation of California’s future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  