-- Capriles Starts Internet TV Show to Skirt Venezuela ‘Censorship’
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-06-11T18:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/capriles-starts-internet-tv-show-to-skirt-venezuela-censorship-.html
Venezuelan opposition leader
Henrique Capriles Radonski started a weekly Internet television
program today, after alleging that the country’s television
stations and newspapers are squeezing him out of their coverage.  It will be the first show hosted by a politician in the
Latin American country since the late President  Hugo Chavez 
canceled his Sunday show as he battled cancer.  “All of Us Are Venezuela” will run at 11 a.m. every
Tuesday on Capriles’ website  capriles.tv  and will be
interactive, the former presidential candidate said today.
Today, the hour-long show was held in a studio where he fielded
questions from national and international journalists.  Capriles was labeled a “fascist assassin” by state media
following street disturbances after he lost an election in April
to Chavez’s handpicked heir Nicolas Maduro by 1.5 percentage
points. The government said the protests left nine people dead.
The recent sale of private media such as television network
Globovision and newspaper chain Cadena Capriles are efforts to
“make him invisible” as he contests the result of the
election, claiming fraud, Capriles said today.  “What they’re trying to do is make invisible those who
have an alternative vision to this government,” Capriles said
today. “I’m grateful to the free media, to those who are not
allowing themselves to be censored and to journalists who
continue to give free information to take note of the program,
which will be a window for information.”  Media Control  Until its sale to the owners of Caracas-based insurance
company Seguros La Vitalicia, Globovision was the only channel
in  Venezuela  to air speeches by Capriles live. Francisco
“Kiko” Bautista, host of a daily chat show at the station,
said he was fired by the network for airing a speech by
Capriles.  Cadena Capriles, a newspaper chain that includes
Venezuela’s best-selling daily Ultimas Noticias, was sold last
week to “a well-known Venezuelan investment group,” El Mundo,
another newspaper owned by Cadena Capriles, said in a statement
on its website on June 4, without giving further details.  Chavez, who died of cancer March 5 after winning a third
re-election in October, started a show known as ‘Hello
President’ in May 1999 so he could “express himself without
limit” and “to give the voiceless a voice,” according to the
show’s  website . The program, which traveled around the country
and in its early years featured spontaneous phone-ins from
Venezuelans, became better-known for long monologues by Chavez.  War Planes  The first program, held at the studios of state radio
station Radio Nacional de Venezuela, featured a question-and-answer session between Chavez and two journalists and lasted an
hour. The longest program, in September 2007, lasted eight hours
and seven minutes, according to the show’s website.  The last program was made on January 29, 2012, after which
Chavez canceled the show as he traveled to Cuba for cancer
treatment. Since his death, state television has aired re-runs
of the show on Sundays.  Capriles said today he will send a letter to Pope Francis
ahead of a meeting at the Vatican scheduled with Maduro so that
the pope can inform him about the contested election. He also
joked about an accusation by Maduro that the opposition bought
18 fighter planes in  Colombia  as they plan to topple his
government.  “Maybe I’ll lend one of those planes to Maduro so he can
fly to  Rome ,” Capriles said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 