-- CBOE Ordered to Pay $6 Million by SEC for Oversight Flaws
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-06-11T17:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/cboe-ordered-to-pay-6-million-by-sec-for-oversight-breakdowns.html
Federal regulators fined the  Chicago
Board Options Exchange (CBOE)  $6 million, saying staff interfered
with their three-year investigation of short selling at a member
firm in an unprecedented breakdown of trading supervision.  The settlement, which calls for immediate remedial actions,
is the first ever assessed by the Securities and Exchange
Commission for violations related to regulatory oversight,
according to a statement. Four days ago, an administrative law
judge ruled that CBOE member OptionsXpress Inc., a unit of
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , helped facilitate sham transactions that
violated U.S. securities laws known as Regulation SHO.  While actions against traders and investors are common at
the SEC, exchanges enjoy legal protections in their capacity of
self-regulatory organizations. In the CBOE’s case, oversight
suffered when it transferred responsibility for Regulation SHO
enforcement from one department to another in 2008, the SEC
wrote.  “CBOE put the interests of the firm ahead of its
regulatory obligations by failing to properly investigate the
firm’s compliance with Regulation SHO and then interfering with
the SEC investigation,” the commission  said . The failure
reflected “an ineffective surveillance program that failed to
detect wrongdoing despite numerous red flags,” it said.  CBOE shares slipped 0.2 percent to $42.14 as of 1:35 p.m.
in New York. The stock has rallied 43 percent this year.  Misguided Steps  During the investigation of OptionsXpress, it became
apparent that CBOE staff didn’t know enough about the law to
adequately enforce it, according to the SEC statement. Not only
did they fail to detect violations, they “took misguided and
unprecedented steps” to assist the firm that was under
investigation.  Staff members didn’t have enough training in securities law
and CBOE never ensured that they had read the appropriate rules,
the order said. It cited the exchange for failing to respond
quickly enough to requests for information. It credited the CBOE
for beefing up its compliance staff and budget since the
investigation was begun.  Policing Markets  “It sends a message that SROs need to be more vigilant in
policing their member organizations,” said James Angel, a
finance professor at Georgetown University’s business school,
said in a phone interview. “The SEC doesn’t have the resources
to police the markets as effectively as it should and it depends
on the SROs.”  CBOE’s fine comes two weeks after  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.
agreed to pay $10 million for its mishandling Facebook Inc.’s
initial public offering in May 2012. The SEC complaint against
Nasdaq cited securities law violations rather than breakdowns in
its regulatory capacity.  As part of its response to the SEC inquiry, the CBOE said
in January it planned to exclude trading industry directors from
its board, bringing its governance in line with other exchange
operators.  “This settlement marks a significant step in putting the
SEC matter behind us,” CBOE said in an e-mailed statement.
“All actions either required or recommended by the SEC, as well
as those resulting from our rigorous self-review, have been or
are now being implemented.”  Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based market
operator, declined to comment beyond the statement. CBOE said in
a filing in February that it expected to pay as much as $10
million to settle the SEC’s investigation.  Short Sales  OptionsXpress and Thomas E. Stern helped a client, Jonathan
I. Feldman, conduct trades designed to fake compliance with laws
prohibiting so-called naked short sales, where investors sell a
stock they don’t possess in hope of profiting from declines,
according to the June 7 ruling by Brenda P. Murray, the chief
administrative judge for the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Feldman’s use of so-called buy-write transactions, where a
share purchase is immediately offset by selling an in-the-money
call option, to cover  short positions  broke rules requiring all
short sales to be backed by deliverable shares, the judge said
in a 105-page initial decision issued June 7. OptionsXpress and
Stern allowed the trades knowing the shares would never be
delivered and knowing other rulings indicated the practice was
illegal, the judge said.  Securities Delivered  OptionsXpress says it did nothing wrong. Stephen
Senderowitz, a lawyer representing OptionsXpress, disputed
Murray’s interpretation today, and said OptionsXpress is
reviewing the decision for the purposes of an appeal.  “We believe the evidence at trial demonstrated that
OptionsXpress at all times acted consistent with all regulations
and bought in the shorts and delivered securities as required,”
said Senderowitz in an e-mailed statement. “The firm was in
touch with regulators regarding the transactions, no one was
harmed, and the transactions were neither novel nor exotic.”  Gregory Lawrence and Daniel McCartin, lawyers for Feldman,
did not return calls seeking comment.  In a short sale, an investor borrows a stock and sells it,
with the goal of profiting from a price decline. The SEC’s
Regulation SHO requires investors and their brokers to deliver
shares within three days of making a short sale and bars firms
from executing further bets until previous ones are settled.  Borrowing Costs  Feldman used OptionsXpress to target companies where demand
to sell short was so high that it was difficult or expensive to
borrow shares. To get around that, synthetic short bets were
created by selling bullish options priced far below the level of
the stock, known as deep-in-the-money calls.  “Whenever the deep-in-the-money call options that Feldman
wrote were assigned to him, Feldman ended up in a short
position,” Murray said in the judgment. “This would have been
true for any trader. What was different for Feldman and certain
other customers was that it was not an infrequent or unplanned
occurrence, rather it was their deliberate and consistent
trading practice.”  Five customers including Feldman used the strategy between
October 2008 and March 2010 on about 25 stocks, including  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and American International Group Inc., the SEC
said. In 2009, they bought about $5.7 billion of securities and
sold about $4 billion of options, the regulator alleged.  ‘Very Entertaining’  Feldman’s trades, involving at least $2.9 billion of
purchases and $1.7 billion of options, occurred between July
2009 and March 2010, the SEC alleged. Feldman estimated he made
$3 million to $4 million on the trades he did through
OptionsXpress, according to the judgment.  At one point, according to the judgment, Feldman messaged
Dean Kolocouris, a friend who was also alleged to have engaged
in the practice: “read the latest thread on the [Sears] ‘volume
spikes.’ Very entertaining. (Until someone notifies the SEC, and
they shut down the strategy!! Then we’ll need a real job.”  OptionsXpress didn’t levy extra fees on hard-to-borrow
stock and was alone at the time in allowing the use of buy-writes to cover short positions, according to Judge Murray’s
ruling.  “Feldman’s actions constitute fraud because by writing
calls he represented to the market as a whole and to purchasers
of his deep-in-the-money calls that he was going to make
delivery if his calls were exercised and assigned when he had no
intention of doing so, and, in fact, by entering buy-writes, he
did not cover his short position,” Judge Murray said.  Charles Schwab, the San Francisco-based brokerage, agreed
to buy OptionsXpress for about $1 billion of stock in 2011,
adding the retail options brokerage founded in 2000 to its
equity and mutual fund offerings. The acquisition was completed
in September 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  