-- Chevron CEO Says Industry Must Deal With Fracking Concern
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-11T19:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/chevron-ceo-says-industry-must-deal-with-fracking-concern.html
Energy producers must deal with the
“legitimate concerns” that gas development associated with
hydraulic fracturing is unsafe by adopting tougher standards,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  Chief Executive Officer John Watson said.  BP Plc’s 2010 oil spill at its deepwater well in the  Gulf
of Mexico  -- the worst in U.S. waters -- fueled public
skepticism of the industry, Watson said today in Washington.
Fracking, a drilling technique that has increased production by
extracting oil and gas trapped in shale rock, has drawn oil and
gas companies to rural communities that aren’t familiar with the
development.  Recent developments add to public awareness of the risks of
drilling, and the industry needs to do a better job in resolving
the concerns, Watson said at a Center for Strategic and
International Studies event.  “Public expectations are very high, and there’s no reason
they shouldn’t be high,” Watson said. “There are some risks
out there. Some risks are overstated. But we have to engage them
either way.”  Kurt Glaubitz , a Chevron spokesman, said Watson was
referring to concerns with truck traffic and the disposal of
hazardous wastewater from the fracking process as areas of
concern the industry needs to confront.  Air, Water  In hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, producers shoot a
mixture of water, sand and chemicals underground to break apart
shale rock formations to free trapped oil and gas. The technique
has led to record production of natural gas and sent domestic
oil output to its highest level in two decades.  Opponents say fracking creates air and water pollution.  Chevron has joined environmental groups including the
Environmental Defense Fund to establish the Center for
Sustainable Shale Development that has crafted 15 performance
standards to be followed by oil and gas producers.  “I don’t believe any company would be certified today, but
we’re moving towards those standards,” Watson said.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration said yesterday
that oil and gas from shale formations are greater than
previously estimated. Tight oil resources could be 345 billion
barrels worldwide, and shale gas estimates were increased by 10
percent from 2011, to 7,299 trillion cubic feet, according to
the EIA, which tracks and analyzes energy data.  Watson said it may take “a lot of time” to develop some
of the resources because infrastructure is in short supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  