-- Chinese National Gets 12 Years for Pirated Software
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/chinese-national-sentenced-to-12-years-over-pirated-software.html
A Chinese national was orderer to
serve 12 years in a U.S. prison for selling more than $100
million worth of software pirated from American companies,
including  Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) , from his home in China.  Xiang Li, 36, was sentenced yesterday in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware, after pleading guilty to copyright and
wire fraud conspiracy charges in connection with software sales
from his China-based website, prosecutors said in a release.  Li and his wife, of Chengdu, China, were accused of running
a website called “Crack 99” that sold copies of software for
which “access-control mechanisms” had been circumvented, the
U.S. said in an unsealed 46-count indictment. The pair was
charged with distributing more than 500 copyrighted works to
more than 300 buyers in the U.S. and overseas from April 2008 to
June 2011. The retail value of the products was more than $100
million, the government said.  Li is the first Chinese citizen to be “apprehended and
prosecuted in the U.S. for cybercrimes he engaged in entirely
from  China ,” prosecutors said in court filings.  “It was hard for me to accept that Mr. Li deserved” a 12-year sentence for his actions,   Mingli Chen , Li’s lawyer, said
in a telephone interview.  Li was arrested by federal agents in June 2011 in  Saipan ,
an island about 120 miles (193 kilometers) northeast of  Guam  in
the western  Pacific Ocean , according to court filings.  Undercover Agents  Li agreed to travel there from his home in southwest China
to deliver pirated software and 20 gigabytes of proprietary data
from a U.S. software company to undercover agents posing as
businessmen, according court filings.  The pirated software included programs made by  Santa Clara ,
California-based Agilent and Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based
 Ansys (ANSS)  Inc., prosecutors said.  An Agilent product intended to speed the design process for
electronic equipment was among the software illegally copied by
the couple, according to the indictment. The  SystemVue 2009 
program sells for $45,000.  Xiang Li’s websites listed prices of $20 to $1,200 for
products with retail values of several hundred dollars to $3
million, according to the government. He engaged in more than
700 sales of pirated software, prosecutors contended.  Prosecutors had asked U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark in
to sentence Li to more than 17 years in prison over the illegal
software sales. Li will be deported to China once he serves his
prison term, the government said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Li, 10-cr-112, U.S. District Court,
District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 