-- Christie Endorsed by N.J. Democratic Leader DiVincenzo
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-06-11T19:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/christie-endorsed-by-powerful-n-j-democrat-divincenzo.html
Republican  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , who leads his re-election challenger by 30 percentage
points in polls, won the support of Essex County Executive
Joseph DiVincenzo, one of the state’s most influential
Democratic leaders.  Today’s endorsement from DiVincenzo, who oversees the
county that includes  Newark , New Jersey’s largest city, comes a
day after Christie won the backing of state Senator and Union
City Mayor Brian Stack, the first sitting legislator and sixth
mayor to cross the aisle in support of the governor.  “I don’t know how many more votes this will mean for me in
November,” Christie told about 100 people today in West Orange.
“I’ve watched politics in this state most of my life, and I
never thought that I’d see a day like this.”  Christie, 50, already has been endorsed by several lesser-known Democrats who have said backing the incumbent was their
smartest move because he’s likely to win a second term. The
governor led Democratic state Senator Barbara Buono 59 percent
to 29 percent in a Quinnipiac University poll released
yesterday. Sixty-five percent of respondents said he deserves
another term, including 35 percent of Democrats and 76 percent
of independent voters.  Political Prize  Christie lost Essex County in 2009 when he unseated
Democrat  Jon Corzine  to become the first Republican elected
governor since 1997.  DiVincenzo was joined by Essex County Sheriff Armando Fontoura and more than a dozen mayors, council members and black
clergy during his endorsement event. Democratic mayors from
Belleville, Orange, Glen Ridge and Livingston backed Christie.  “He embraced President Obama a week before the election
and he told his party it’s about New Jersey,” DiVincenzo said,
referring to the governor’s approach after  Hurricane Sandy  last
year. “What he’s shown is a willingness to work across the
aisle.”  Christie has forged alliances with prominent Democrats,
including DiVincenzo on his pension overhaul, Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  on public education changes and southern New Jersey party
leader George Norcross on his plans to reshape the state
university system.  ‘Formidable Obstacle’  Brigid Harrison , a professor of government at New Jersey’s
Montclair State University, said the endorsement shows
Christie’s ability to win support from Democratic leaders he
blamed for weak state finances and high taxes in his 2009
campaign.  “The alliance between Democratic party bosses and Christie
is really a formidable obstacle for any opponent, and it’s
particularly damaging to Barbara Buono because it’s coming from
a geographic area of the state that should be her stronghold,”
Harrison said in an interview.  The governor has appeared at DiVincenzo events in recent
months, including his State of the County speech in February and
the opening of a sea lion exhibit at the Turtle Back Zoo in  West
Orange  in April.  The Democratic State Committee rallied around Buono, a 59-year-old lawyer from Metuchen, after more popular members of her
party -- Booker, former acting Governor Richard Codey and Senate
President Stephen Sweeney -- all opted not to run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  