-- Colombia Can Keep Stimulus Until at Least Year End, Cano Says
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-06-11T22:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/colombia-can-keep-stimulus-until-at-least-year-end-cano-says.html
Colombia’s central bank can maintain
its current monetary stimulus until at least the end of the year
without putting its inflation target at risk, central bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano said.  ‘We are growing below potential, with an output gap that is
still negative, and these conditions allow the central bank to
contribute in a fundamental way, via an expansionary monetary
policy, as we have now,’’ Cano said today at a seminar in
Bogota. “We can do that, because our inflation goal isn’t in
doubt. Conditions are there so that, barring accidents, we could
maintain an expansive cycle until at least the end of this
year.”  Cano and his colleagues on the central bank’s policy
committee held the  policy rate  at 3.25 percent at their April
and May meetings, after cutting it by 2 percentage points over
the last year to revive the slowest growth in the Andean region.
Economists in the central bank’s most recent monthly survey
forecast that policy makers will raise the benchmark rate three
quarters of a percentage point to 4 percent in the first quarter
of next year.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 2 percent in May, from 2.02
percent in April, after touching a 6-decade low of 1.83 percent
in February. The central bank seeks to get inflation back to the
3 percent midpoint of its target range, Cano said.  “Inflation of 2 percent isn’t good, just as inflation at 4
percent isn’t good,” Cano said. Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said in a June 7 interview that inflation will probably
end the year closer to 2.5 percent than to 3 percent.  The economy expanded by about 2.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Cardenas said, after expanding 4
percent in 2012. Colombia’s national statistics agency publishes
its first quarter gross domestic product report on June 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  