-- Comcast Unveils New Cloud-Based TV Guide, Set-Top Box
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-06-11T20:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/comcast-unveils-new-cloud-based-tv-guide-set-top-box.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable provider, said its new X2 TV guide will be available to
customers later this year, as it seeks to offer a more
interactive service similar to online video platforms.  The guide is cloud-based and builds on the current X1
interface, which the Philadelphia-based company introduced last
year. The interface segments content into new categories
including live listings, kids, movies, sports and recommended
programming to help users find the shows they want, Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Roberts  said today at the  National Cable
& Telecommunications Association Cable Show  in  Washington .  “We’ve refocused X1 to make it faster for consumers to get
what they want,” Roberts said. “The home screen is simple,
beautiful and elegant.”  While X2 is a software update, Comcast also debuted a new
set-top box and a remote control with voice technology which
allows users to find movies, actors and TV shows by pushing a
button and speaking commands. Comcast and  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC) , the second-biggest U.S. cable company, which said
yesterday it will begin testing a cloud-based video guide, are
trying to retain customers by improving search functionality to
match the service of online platforms like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Comcast’s new X2 software will also include recommended Web
videos for the first time and a new Comcast mobile application
will allow customers to shift online video from their devices to
the TV screen. Comcast hasn’t decided on the pace of the X2
rollout or when it will begin, Roberts said.  “By taking most of the brains out of the box and putting
it into the cloud, we’re able to innovate at a pace and with
elegance that we’ve never had before,” Roberts said.  Comcast’s current X1 guide will be available to all of the
company’s 22 million customers by the end of the year, Roberts
said.  The company’s stock fell 1.3 percent to $40.16 at the close
in  New York . The shares have gained 7.5 percent this year
through today, compared with a 14 percent gain for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  