-- Copper Climbs for First Day in Five on Concern Over Mine Supply
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2013-06-11T02:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/copper-climbs-for-first-day-in-five-on-concern-over-mine-supply.html
Copper advanced for the first time
in five days, rebounding from the lowest level in more than
three weeks, on concern that a disruption at  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  will cut output.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange rose as much as 0.9 percent to $7,223.25 a metric ton
and was at $7,181 at 11:06 a.m. in Tokyo. The price touched
$7,126.50 yesterday, the lowest since May 16. Metal for delivery
in July on the Comex was little changed at $3.2415 a pound.  Freeport may need to declare force majeure on shipments
from Grasberg if the world’s second-largest copper mine stays
shut for too long, Rozik B. Soetjipto, the president director of
the company’s Indonesian unit, said yesterday in a phone
interview. Force majeure is a legal clause allowing companies to
miss deliveries because of circumstances beyond their control.  “Copper appeared to be finding a floor around the current
level with support from supply concern,” said  Tetsu Emori , the
chief  fund manager  at Astmax Asset Management Inc. in Tokyo.
 China , the top consumer, may increase imports in coming months
on mine disruptions and short supply of scrap metal, he said.  Operations at Grasberg are shut, except for maintenance,
until the government gets the results of an independent probe of
an accident at a tunnel that killed 28 people on May 14, the
Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry said June 5. Another
worker died on June 1 after a separate incident. The halt may
cut output by about 680 tons a day, Bloomberg calculations show.  China’s imports of unwrought copper and copper products
jumped 21 percent from a month earlier in May, customs figures
showed June 8. The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed today
through June 12 for the Dragon Boat Festival holiday.  On the LME, aluminum, nickel and zinc climbed, while lead
and tin dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in  Tokyo  at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  