-- Wheat Rises on U.S. Crop Concerns; Corn, Soybeans Climb
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-06-11T19:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/corn-drops-with-u-s-planting-near-complete-amid-better-weather.html
Wheat futures rose, halting the
longest slump in four months, on concern that U.S. supplies will
be cut after drought damaged winter crops and rain delayed
planting of spring varieties. Corn and soybeans also gained.  About 31 percent of the winter-wheat  crop  was in good or
excellent condition as of June 9, compared with 53 percent a
year earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday.
The agency probably will report tomorrow that output will fall
11 percent to 1.468 billion bushels, the lowest since 2006, a
Bloomberg survey of analysts showed.  “The wheat-crop ratings are terrible” in the U.S., the
world’s largest exporter, Joseph Vaclavik, the president of
Standard Grain Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“Traders are looking for smaller U.S. supplies, and that is
helping to give the market a boost.”  Wheat futures for July delivery rose 1 percent to close at
$6.9675 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
price dropped 2.7 percent in the previous four sessions, the
longest slump since early February.  Corn and soybeans gained on speculation that rain will slow
final planting in the Midwest, reducing the number of acres sown
and average yields, Vaclavik said. There were 4.7 million acres
left to be planted with corn as of June 9 and 23 million acres
of soybeans, based on USDA estimates, he said.  Showers will move east from  Nebraska  and  North Dakota  in
the next two days with many fields receiving as much as 1 inch
(2.5 centimeters) of rain, slowing field work, Global Weather
Monitoring said in a report to clients. A second storm will
start June 16 in the same areas, the forecaster said.  Corn futures for December delivery gained 0.9 percent to
$5.5075 a bushel. Soybean futures for November delivery climbed
0.6 percent to $13.27 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  