-- Corporate Credit Risk Rises to Two-Month High on BOJ Decision
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-06-11T10:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/corporate-credit-risk-rises-to-two-month-high-on-boj-decision.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on European high-yield corporate debt rose to the highest in two
months after  Bank of Japan  policy makers refrained from
increasing monetary stimulus.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly junk credit ratings rose for a
second day, jumping as much as 29 basis points to 477, the
highest since April 5. The gauge was trading at 473 at 11:01
a.m. in  London .  The BOJ’s decision not to take additional steps to spur
growth or extend the maturity of bank loan facilities added to
concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will wind down stimulus. The
average yield investors demand to hold European corporate debt
surged 29 basis points to 2 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said May 22 that asset purchases could be tapered if
the employment outlook showed sustained improvement.  “Global credit markets are now hostage to the rates
markets,” said Simon Ballard, a senior credit strategist at
National Australia Bank in London. “The prospect of rising
underlying yields is clearly spooking investor sentiment at the
moment.”  In the new-issue market,  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ,  Europe ’s
largest maker of  aircraft engines , is selling its first bonds
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The London-based company is offering eight-year notes in euros that will be
priced to yield 55 basis points more than the benchmark midswap
rate and 13-year securities in pounds to yield 98 basis points
more than gilts, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  Investor Meetings  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest agricultural-equipment
maker, has mandated Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG and
HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange investor meetings in Europe
starting June 18 for a possible sale of bonds in euros. It would
be the Moline, Illinois-based company’s first debt offering in
the currency since June 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 companies with investment-grade ratings rose as
much as seven basis points to 113, the highest since April 19.
An increase signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit
quality .  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers climbed nine basis points to 167 and the
subordinated index rose 12 basis points to 242.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  