-- Dole Swaps Climb on CEO Buyout Offer; Pacnet Plans Dollar Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-06-11T20:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/credit-swaps-in-u-s-approach-two-month-high-on-stimulus-concern.html
The cost to protect against losses
on the debt of  Dole Food Co. (DOLE)  rose to the highest level in nine
months as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Murdock
offered about $645 million to buy out other shareholders.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Dole jumped 139
basis points to a mid-price of 332 basis points at 4:16 p.m. in
 New York , according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw Hill Financial and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. The contracts are trading at
the highest since September and mean it would cost the
equivalent of $332,000 annually to protect $10 million of debt
for five years.  Murdock offered $12 a share in cash for the 60 percent
stake that isn’t owned by him or his family, he said today in a
statement. He also would assume the debt and other obligations
of the junk-rated fresh fruit and vegetable producer and
marketer, according to the statement.  “Any sort of buyout would mean they would probably take on
more debt and the equity would change hands,”  James Lee , a
senior fixed-income analyst at Calvert Investment Management
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “There is uncertainty
about a change of ownership, and the market hates uncertainty.”  Westlake Village , California-based Dole had $1.64 billion
of total debt as of March 23, including $155 million of 8.75
percent notes maturing July 15, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Even as Dole shares surged 22 percent to close above
the offer price at $12.46 today, “we believe there is a
relatively high probability of completion,” Barclays Plc
analysts Hale Holden, Jamie Robins and Jonathan Kahnowitz in New
York wrote in a note.  Credit Benchmark  A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk rose as the  Bank of
Japan  refrained from expanding stimulus efforts and as concern
lingered that the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its bond buying.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.3 basis
points to a mid-price of 85.4 basis points at 4:46 p.m. in New
York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index,
which reached 88.7 basis points on June 6, the highest intraday
level since April 5, climbed to as high as 87.8 earlier today.  Central banks worldwide have suppressed borrowing costs
through monetary policy and bond purchases to support a global
economy that expanded at the slowest pace last year since 2009.
Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said today he sees no
need to expand monetary stimulus immediately, while Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  suggested last month the U.S. central bank could
curb its $85 billion monthly bond purchases if the employment
outlook shows sustained improvement.  Bond ‘Fear’  “There’s just a general fear of fixed-income investments
in this environment, and you’re seeing broad-based weakness,”
Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San Diego  at LPL
Financial Corp., said by telephone. “There really is no place
to hide in fixed income.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index increased 16.1 basis points to 433.8 basis points,
the highest since March 27.  Pacnet Offering  Pacnet Ltd., the speculative-grade operator of undersea
phone and Internet cables in  Asia , plans to sell dollar-denominated senior secured notes later this month, in part to
buy back $300 million of notes due 2015, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report.  The company will offer cash to holders of the 2015 notes,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Pacnet is
also seeking to amend the debt’s terms to remove restrictive
covenants and certain terms governing events of default, the
person said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private.  Pacnet plans to meet  investors  in  Singapore ,  Hong Kong ,
 London  and the U.S. starting tomorrow to discuss the new bond
sale, which will be after June 21, subject to market conditions,
the person said.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 14.7 basis points to 548 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB-at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  