-- Crisis Saves Germany About $100 Billion, Kiel Institute Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-06-11T09:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/crisis-saves-germany-about-100-billion-kiel-institute-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government has saved 80 billion euros ($106 billion) since the
start of the financial crisis as a result of declining bond
yields, the Kiel-based Institute for the World Economy said.  Interest payments last year were about 10 billion euros
lower than they would have been under a “benchmark scenario”
that uses average yields in the decade before the crisis, the
institute said in a report. This year’s savings for the federal
government will amount to about 13 billion euros, it said. The
period covers 2009 to 2013.  “The decline of bond yields is mainly driven by the low
business cycle dynamics in the euro area and the interest rate
policy of the  European Central Bank ,” IfW economist Jens
Boysen-Hogrefe said in his report, e-mailed by the institute
today. Still, a “safe haven effect” will contribute about 3
billion euros to this year’s savings, he said.  Almost half of Germans want the country’s highest court to
stop the ECB’s bond-buying program, a Forsa poll published in
today’s edition of Handelsblatt newspaper showed, in a sign that
voters are wearying of rescue efforts for debt-stricken
countries even as  Germany  benefits.  “The gains from these low  interest rates  should not be
taken as a signal to boost public debt in Germany,” said
Boysen-Hogrefe. “These gains are one-time effects rather than a
structural improvement of the budget.”  Germany’s  10-year bund  yield was up 1 basis point at 1.61
percent at 10:30 a.m. in Berlin, the highest since Feb. 25.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  plans to balance
the  federal budget  next year in “structural” terms, adjusted
for economic swings and one-time factors. The budget plan for
2015 foresees no net new borrowing.  French Divergence  France, while also benefiting from declining bond yields
over time, doesn’t enjoy safe-haven status in the way Germany
does, Boysen-Hogrefe said. The gap between the two countries
widened during 2011, when rumors about a break–up of the euro
area became more intense, he said.  “From a European perspective, it might be argued that
these remarkable one-time effects are benefits that the German
government has experienced due to the debt crisis and that it
would be reasonable to spend this amount supporting those
countries in the euro area that are most affected by the debt
crisis,” he said. “However, one might also argue that only
those benefits should be counted that are due to the ‘safe
haven’ effect, since countries like  France  are benefiting from
effects that are due to the ECB’s policy as well.”  The benefit for the federal government, responsible for
about half of Germany’s public debt, may grow to more than 100
billion euros “in coming years,” Boysen-Hogrefe said. His
figures don’t include savings enjoyed by Germany’s 16 states,
and municipalities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  