-- Croatia Joins Greece, Italy to Push for Europe-Caspian Gas Link
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-06-11T11:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/croatia-joins-greece-italy-to-push-for-europe-caspian-gas-link.html
Croatia has joined  Greece , Albania,
and  Italy  in pushing for the  Trans-Adriatic pipeline , which
would bring natural gas to Europe from the Caspian region
through  Turkey .  Representatives from the four nations as well as Montenegro
and Bosnia-Herzegovina will meet in  Dubrovnik , Croatia, tomorrow
to give “strong and clear political support for the pipeline
and underline its commercial advantages,” Croatian Deputy
Foreign Minister Josko Klisovic said.  The project, known as TAP, is competing with the Nabucco
pipeline plan supported by Bulgaria, Romania and  Hungary , to
ship Azeri natural gas to Europe. Shah Deniz, a gas deposit
group led by  BP Plc (BP/) , is expected by July to choose between the
two projects to transport 10 billion cubic meters of gas
annually to the European Union. The group’s partners also
include  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Total SA (FP)  and State Oil Company of
Azerbaijan, or Socar.  “Our message to Shah Deniz is that TAP is less costly as
it’s shorter, and that all the governments involved support
it,” Klisovic said in an interview in his office in Zagreb
today. “This includes Italy, which is one of the biggest gas
consumers in Europe.”  EU nations want to curb their reliance on gas deliveries
from  Russia  through Ukraine after disruption in recent years
over price disputes. TAP’s 800-kilometer (500-mile) route would
go through Turkey through Greece, and Albania to Italy, while
the 1,300-kilometer Nabucco would traverse Bulgaria, Romania and
Hungary.  Gas Consumption  Gas consumption in the former Yugoslav region and Albania
will double by 2020 to 11 billion cubic meters of gas a year,
according to an October 2011 study by state-owned pipeline
operator  Plinacro d.o.o.   Croatia , which needs about 1 billion cubic meters of gas a
year, wants to meet the increased demand by diversifying its
supplies.  From the Albanian town of Fier, an interconnector would
lead toward Montenegro and further on to Croatia, joining the
existing pipeline at Split and ending at the island of Krk in
the northern Adriatic, where Croatia plans to build a liquefied
natural-gas terminal, Klisovic said. An off-shoot pipeline to
Hungary is also planned, he said.  “Croatia supports the TAP project as it gives us the
possibility to diversify our gas supply,” Klisovic said.
Diversification plans “probably” include a connector to the
South Stream gas pipeline project, whose main stakeholder is
Russia’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP) , as well as the building of an LNG terminal
on Krk, he said.  Terminal Studies  Pre-feasibility and environment studies for the terminal,
estimated at 700 million euros ($929 million) are completed, and
the government will proceed with seeking strategic partners in
the fall, Klisovic said.  The OMV AG-led  Nabucco  pipeline project said it can offer
bigger markets and greater potential for exports should it win
the right to ship natural gas from Azerbaijan’s Shah Deniz field
to Europe over a rival proposal, Christian Dolezal,
communications chief of Nabucco Gas Pipeline International GmbH,
said in March.  Azerbaijan said in February it favors TAP. Nabucco offered
in January a 50 percent equity option in the pipeline to the
Shah Deniz group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  