-- Czech Premier’s Party Says Bill Setting Debt Cap Will Be Snubbed
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-11T14:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/czech-premier-s-party-says-bill-setting-debt-cap-will-be-snubbed.html
Czech government efforts to set
limits for debt growth are poised to fail after the opposition
rejected the plan, Prime Minister Petr Necas’s party said.  Necas has proposed legislation to curb state spending if
public  debt  reaches 45 percent of gross domestic product,
requiring at least a balanced  budget  if the ratio is 48 percent,
and capping it at 60 percent. The bill needs opposition votes in
both houses of parliament to pass.  The opposition Social Democrats gave “a clear signal that
they’re determined to spend after the next elections and they
don’t want to have any limits for that,” Marek Benda, head of
the parliamentary caucus of Necas’s Civic Democrats, told
reporters today in Prague. “We don’t have any other choice but
to accept it because, clearly, 120 votes in the lower house and
three-fifths in the Senate don’t exist without their votes.”  The Social Democrats, which lead in opinion polls a year
before elections, say the next government will need to increase
spending to revive the economy after GDP  contracted  in the six
quarters through March. While Necas is pushing for debt limits,
the Cabinet is also preparing to ease its austerity drive, which
it credits with helping to cut borrowing costs to record lows.  The U.K. and the Czech Republic were the only European
Union members not to sign the bloc’s fiscal compact, a treaty
that stiffened budget rules meant to stabilize the euro, as
Necas said the country will adopt its own debt brakes. The lower
house of parliament may discuss the debt bill this week.  EU Ceiling  After cutting investment and raising taxes to bring the
fiscal  deficit  below the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP, the
government predicts this year’s shortfall will be 2.8 percent,
widening to 2.9 percent in 2014.  The deficit was 4.4 percent of GDP in 2012, less than
planned, and would have been 2.5 percent without one-time items
such as a $3 billion settlement with churches for property
confiscated under the former communist regime.  The next government’s main goal will be to help revive the
$217 billion  economy  and create jobs, Lubomir Zaoralek, a member
of parliament for Social Democrats, said today, telling
reporters the rules would “tie the hands of the future
government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  