-- Deloitte Denies It Was Fired by Lloyds for Complaint Mishandling
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-06-11T11:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/deloitte-denies-it-was-fired-by-lloyds-for-complaint-mishandling.html
Deloitte LLP denied it was fired by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to run a call center handling payment
protection insurance complaints because it had mishandled
customers’ grievances.  Britain’s biggest mortgage lender said in a statement today
that the contract ended after it “became aware of issues” at
the center, which processed complaints by clients who said they
had been improperly sold the loan insurance. It followed a
report in The Times newspaper that call center employees had
been trained to discourage customers from claiming compensation.  Deloitte said the termination was “unrelated” to press
articles and that it had been notified of the intention to end
the contract in May when the London-based bank decided to move
to two from three suppliers. “We provided a high level of
 service  throughout the period,” the accounting firm said in an
e-mailed statement.  Lloyds has set aside more than 6.7 billion pounds ($10.4
billion) to compensate customers sold PPI, more than any other
U.K. bank. Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49,
said last July that more than half of claims received from some
claims-management companies, which help individuals pursue cases
against firms for a fee or percentage of any successful award,
were linked to insurance policies that didn’t exist.  Initial Rejection  A trainer told new workers that sales advisers had
sometimes ticked a box indicating borrower’s acceptance of PPI
coverage without clients’ knowledge, The  Times newspaper  said.
Workers were told most customers would give up pursuing
complaints after an initial rejection, The Times said.  Deloitte processed customers’ claims “in accordance with
the bank’s policies and procedures,” it said in the statement.  Employees at the call center are being retrained by a new
company, London-based Lloyds said in the statement. Some of the
comments made to The Times didn’t reflect the bank’s training
standards or policies and were “isolated” and are being
addressed, the bank said.  Regulators have ordered U.K. banks to compensate clients
who were forced to buy, or didn’t know they had purchased,
insurance to cover repayments on credit cards or mortgages they
were taking out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  