-- Detroit Rescue Plan Vetted as City Confronts Bankruptcy
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/detroit-rescue-bid-debated-as-city-confronts-bankruptcy.html
Detroit  residents condemned and 
praised Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr at a forum he used to 
drive home the severity of the city's fiscal crisis, which 
has pushed it to the brink of bankruptcy.  One step he plans to take as Detroit’s financial overseer
is to lease the Belle Isle municipal park to the state to save
$6 million a year, Orr said late yesterday at the hearing on his
roadmap to revival. The City Council rejected a similar proposal
from Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  earlier this year.  Leasing the park is just one step proposed by Orr to help
the city deal with a  budget deficit  nearing $386 million and to
restructure $9.4 billion in long-term debt. In a report last
month, Orr also called for altering benefits for city workers as
a way to cope with $5.7 billion in projected unfunded
obligations for retiree health care. He says the city may owe
billions of dollars more to the retirement system because of
skipping payments to preserve cash.  “People had their differences but they listened and were
respectful,” said Sheila Cockrel, a former city councilwoman
who teaches at  Wayne State University , where the meeting took
place. “This was democracy in action.”  Priorities Outlined  Improving public safety is his top priority, to rebuild
confidence in a city where crime, blight and population loss
have left swaths of vacant and unused land, Orr told a packed
crowd of more than 260 people. Next in line, he said, are
dealing with the city’s liabilities and reworking services such
as the transit system, which is unreliable. Detroit isn’t
sustainable on its present course, the emergency manager said.  Orr spoke for half the 70-minute session, where as many as
100 people couldn’t get in. Outside the meeting hall, a few
dozen protesters against the emergency manager marched with
signs and chanting such slogans as “Make the banks pay.”  Lenders that do business with the city caused the crisis,
Jerome Goldberg said at the meeting, identifying himself as a
lawyer who helps block foreclosure proceedings. “They owe us
billions of dollars.”  Covering what the city owes on an annual basis will consume
about a third of Detroit’s $1 billion fiscal 2014 general-fund
budget, according to Orr’s May report. The payments are draining
the city’s ability to provide basic services, yet it has
borrowed more in recent years to cover budget deficits.  “We have to break our addiction to debt,” Orr said.  Bankruptcy Option  Resident Marie Thornton asked Orr, a bankruptcy lawyer in
 Washington , if he intended to put the city under court
protection from its creditors. He said that’s an option, yet he
aims to reach agreements with creditors and others to reduce
costs and financial burdens.  Afterward, Thornton said she wasn’t persuaded by that
response.  “You talk about how you’re going to fix the situation, not
the hammer that you hold in your hand for bankruptcy,” she
said.  Cockrel, the former councilwoman, said Orr displayed
empathy while expressing firmly that “he’ll do what needs to be
done” to help the city recover.  Detroit’s revenue has dwindled as its population has
declined. Once among the top 10 U.S. cities by population, it
has lost more than a quarter of its residents since 2000, to
about 701,000 last year. That’s less than half its postwar peak
of 1.8 million in 1950.  Declining Fortunes  The city’s income-tax receipts have dropped 40 percent
since fiscal 2000, to $233 million in 2011, while the jobless
rate has tripled and property values have declined, reducing
related revenue. State aid has fallen 48 percent, to $173
million in 2012 from a peak of $334 million in 2002, the report
shows. Unemployment at 18 percent in June 2012 was almost double
the state average  rate  of 9.3 percent at that time.  A new emergency manager law passed by the state legislature
gives Orr sweeping authority to cut city spending and services,
and to impose new terms for employee contracts, including wages
and benefits. Yesterday’s hearing on his report was required by
the law.  On June 14, Orr plans to meet with more than 100 creditors,
union leaders and bond insurers to lay out his plan to revive
the city’s fiscal fortunes. Orr’s call for concessions will be
“staggering,” Bill Nowling, a spokesman, said in a June 7
interview. He declined to elaborate.  Negotiations could extend into August or beyond, Orr said
in a June 5 interview.  Tax-exempt Detroit general-obligation bonds maturing in
April 2015 traded June 7 at an average yield of about 15.2
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The limited-tax debt
isn’t insured.  The securities carried a yield on June 7 that was almost 15
percentage points higher than the 0.4 percent yield in an index
of top-rated municipal bonds with comparable maturities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a 7.3 percentage
point spread at the start of the year, the data show.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the debt B, five steps below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 