-- Deutsche Bank’s Jain Courts Super-Rich in Money Manager Race
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-06-11T15:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/deutsche-bank-s-jain-courts-super-rich-in-wealth-management-race.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain said he and his top bankers are meeting with
super-rich clients as Germany’s biggest bank fights to close the
gap on the wealth units of UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We’re hosting a dinner tonight,” Jain told reporters in
Frankfurt today. Ultra-wealthy clients “want to feel the
confidence that they have access to the top management in any
organization they give their personal wealth to,” he said.  Jain promoted Michele Faissola, one of his investment-banking lieutenants, last June to boost earnings from its asset
and wealth management unit. With UBS managing almost four times
as many assets for the wealthy, Deutsche Bank is offering cross-border deposits, hedge-fund placements and aircraft financing to
lure 50 percent more clients with at least 30 million euros ($40
million) to invest by 2015.  “We have what it needs to be a true world champion and
yet, let’s be honest, we cannot stand in front of you today and
tell you that’s what we are,” Jain said at the briefing on the
unit that invests funds for private and institutional clients.
“We have not realized the potential of this division.”  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, has more than $1.5
trillion under management for rich clients compared with
Deutsche Bank’s 297 billion euros at the end of 2012.  Swiss Rivals  The world’s top 20 wealth managers are targeting super-rich
and emerging-market clients as wealth is increasingly
concentrated in the most affluent families and in faster-growing
economies. Ultra-wealthy households will increase assets 55
percent to $11.6 trillion by 2017,  Boston Consulting Group  said
last month. Households with under $5 million will grow at
“significantly lower rates,” the Boston-based firm said.  UBS has 45 percent of assets outside the Americas from the
ultra-wealthy, while Credit Suisse Group AG, the second-biggest
Swiss manager, has 42 percent.  The Zurich-based wealth managers are ranked No. 2 and No. 5
in the world by assets compared with Deutsche Bank’s placing in
eighth, according to a July study by Scorpio Partnership, a
London-based research company. Both UBS and Credit Suisse are
targeting super-rich customers with at least 50 million Swiss
francs ($54 million) to help improve pretax margins because the
funds can be managed by fewer bankers compared with deposits
from less affluent clients.  Established Competitors  “We have some world class, top-notch competitors,” Jain
said, adding that Deutsche Bank’s location in  Germany  and its
financial products help differentiate the firm. “There’s no
doubt we come into this with a high level of humility and
respect for the fact that we are up against entrenched, very
well-established competitors.”  Deutsche Bank doesn’t disclose details on the number of
super-rich clients or the amount they have invested with the
bank.  The bank sought to reduce costs 12 months ago by merging
its asset and wealth management arms under Faissola, who built
out Deutsche Bank’s commodities and rates business in his 17
years at the firm’s securities unit.  Headcount at the asset and wealth management division fell
5 percent to 11,233 at the end of March from a year earlier,
according to company filings.  Deutsche Bank will fire as many as 330 people at German
wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim by the end of next year, the
lender said last month.  Profit Goal  “I don’t expect any major restructuring going forward,”
Faissola said yesterday, without disclosing how many jobs his
unit will cut in total. “It’s now about investing in the
business and making this an important pillar of the group.”  Deutsche Bank can only reach a goal of generating an after-tax return on equity of 12 percent or more by 2015 if the asset
and wealth management and global transaction banking businesses
double profit from 2011 levels, Jain told analysts in September
in  Frankfurt . The richest wealth clients bring “stable
deposits,” which will help the firm meet regulatory
requirements for funding, Jain said today.  Jain and Faissola said Deutsche Bank is focused on
integrating its asset and wealth management businesses rather
than expanding the division with acquisitions.  Deutsche Bank may review potential acquisitions once the
firm has met profitability and capital targets it set for 2015
and has more clarity on banking regulation, Jain said.  More Confident  Faissola said yesterday that he’s “more confident” about
boosting pretax profit at his unit to about 1.7 billion euros in
2015 from 700 million euros last year. Attracting “hundreds”
of super-rich clients is part of that plan, according to Dario Schiraldi, head of the unit’s global client group.  Pretax profit at the asset and wealth management unit rose
6 percent to 221 million euros in the first quarter from a year
earlier, company filings show. Client assets rose 5 percent to
973 billion euros in the three months, helped by 6 billion euros
of net inflows after two years of customer withdrawals.  About 45 percent of wealth-management clients are in
Germany, with 14 percent in the faster-growing Asia-Pacific
region, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  