-- Diageo Facing Raki Trouble in Turkey After Booze-Ad Ban
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-12T07:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/diageo-facing-raki-trouble-in-turkey-after-booze-ad-ban.html
The latest ad for Turkey’s Efes beer
features an unmarked brown bottle and the cryptic message:
“Even if we don’t see each other, we’ll know.”  The slogan refers to a law signed Tuesday by President
Abdullah Gul that bans alcohol ads, limits sales, and would even
stop TV viewers from watching Homer Simpson enjoy a Duff beer in
Moe’s Tavern, as depictions of drinking on television programs
are to be blurred out.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  called the law “disappointing” in a statement,
and Turkish spirits producer Yeni Raki ran a newspaper ad
showing a hand shaking a glass of the drink with the words:
“Ads are over. Excuse us.” Turkish winemakers have published
notices with text in the shape of a wine bottle condemning the
curbs.  The law forbids the sale of alcohol at night and near
schools and mosques, going against the secular traditions of the
Muslim-majority country of 74 million, where many people drink
and women often choose not to cover their hair. Protesters
who’ve taken to the streets in recent weeks calling for Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s resignation have denounced the
alcohol restrictions, among other grievances.  Erdogan, who has dismissed the protests as the work of
extremists, says the law is aimed at improving the nation’s
health. As a substitute for the traditional anise-flavored
spirit raki, last month he declared ayran, a salty yogurt drink,
to be the national beverage.  ‘Healthy Generation’  “We did not ban alcohol; we just introduced a new
framework,” Erdogan said in Istanbul last month at a conference
on tobacco, which he has also targeted. Bans on smoking in
coffee houses and restaurants date to 2008, and on May 31, he
extended the restrictions to drivers of private cars. “We want
to raise a healthy generation,” Erdogan said.  Diageo, the world’s  largest  distiller of alcoholic
beverages, paid $2.1 billion for raki-maker Mey Icki two years
ago. The London-based company’s shares fell 5.3 percent through
yesterday from May 23, when Turkey’s parliament passed the
alcohol-ad ban.  As protests have rocked Istanbul in recent weeks, the Borsa
Istanbul National 100 Index has  dropped  more than 16 percent
since May 23. Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS, which
produces Efes beer, rose 2 percent to 22.70 liras at 10:39 a.m.
in Istanbul, paring its decline to 25 percent in the same
period.  Turk Tuborg Bira ve Malt Sanayii AS (TBORG) , which also produces
beer, was unchanged and has fallen 14 percent since May 23.  Turks consume 3.4 liters (0.9 gallons) of pure alcohol per
capita annually, or just more than half the global average,
according to the World Health Organization. In the U.S,
consumption is 9.4 liters; in Britain it’s 13.4 liters. In
Moldova, the global leader, it’s 19.2 liters.  Russian Crackdown  A year ago,  Russia  -- with annual consumption of 15.7
liters per capita -- began a similar crackdown with higher
taxes, limits on where liquor can be sold, and ad restrictions.  Industry regulations in the U.S. only allow ads for spirits
when 70 percent of the audience is over the legal drinking age -
- TV shows airing after 11 p.m., for instance, or in high-end
magazines. Rules for beer are looser.  In  India , where alcohol ads have been prohibited for
decades, producers have found a way around the ban by promoting
other products like soda and bottled water under the same name.
Kingfisher beer and Bagpiper’s Scotch Ale, for instance, both
sell soda water with logos very similar to their alcohol brands.  “Ad bans are not the way to make people drink less,” said
Dominic Lyle, director general of the  European Association of
Communications Agencies  in Brussels. The restrictions are “very
much a political move and linked to the views of the government.
It’s more about secular versus religious.”  Shifting Tastes  Turkish imports of European liquor declined from 9 million
cases in 2002 to 8 million cases last year, although their value
more than doubled to 129 million euros ($171 million) as tastes
shifted to pricier booze, according to SpiritsEurope, a trade
association for distillers. The ban will prevent new products
from entering  Turkey  since they won’t be able to build their
brands with ads, according to Paul Skehan, the group’s director
general.  “There’s a lot of industry disappointment that this law
was rushed through at supersonic speed and there was no
consultation of any of the industries affected,” Skehan said.  In a statement, Diageo -- home to brands such as Johnnie
Walker whiskey and Captain Morgan rum -- said it believes a
“collaborative approach among the industry, government, and
third parties would lead to a better outcome.” The Turkish
Association of Advertising Agencies, citing “deep tension”
with the government, declined to comment on the new law.  While the curbs will hurt them, liquor producers still have
high expectations for Turkey, said Spiros Malandrakis, a drinks
analyst at Euromonitor International in  London .  “The potential for the market is massive,” he said.
“It’s one of the few countries in the region that’s growing, so
everyone wants in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  