-- Dialight Drops as Falling Signal Sales Hurt Profit: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-06-11T11:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/dialight-drops-as-falling-signal-sales-hurt-profit-london-mover.html
Dialight Plc (DIA) , a maker of light-emitting diode fittings used at the  London  Olympics, fell the
most in almost five years after saying first-half profit will
miss estimates amid lower sales in its signals unit.  The  shares  fell as much as 16 percent, the biggest intraday
drop since October 2008, and were down 13 percent to 1,158 pence
at 12:10 p.m. in London, paring this year’s gain to 8.9 percent.
The volume of shares traded was about nine times the three-month
daily average.  The Newmarket, England-based company, which sells directly
to the mobile phone tower market, said the timing on the roll-out of contracts in that segment is hard to predict.  “Contracts in the obstruction tower business need to be
won, and soon, for 2013 not to disappoint,” Andrew Shepherd-Barron, an analyst at Peel Hunt LLP, wrote in a note to clients.
“We see this as a timing issue and with the core lighting
revenues growing at about 60 percent believe there is enough
growth elsewhere to compensate in future years.”  Pretax profit may miss estimates by 2 million pounds ($3.1
million) if not enough of the 10 contracts being bid for by the
obstruction tower lighting business come through in time,
Shepherd-Barron said. Winning either of the two largest would be
enough to secure current year forecasts, he said.  Buy Ratings  Still, analysts at Peel Hunt, Canaccord Genuity Ltd. and
Nomura Code Securities kept their  buy rating  on the stock and
their 12-month share-price estimate in expectation that the
company will win lighting orders for mobile phone masts in the
second half.  The trading statement reinforced Canaccord’s “strongly
positive view” of Dialight’s lighting business, analyst Bob Liao said in a note to clients. Liao maintained his full-year
 estimate  for earnings before interest, taxes and amortization at
25 million pounds.  If a large obstruction tower order fails to close this
year, Ebita may only reach 23 million pounds, he estimated. That
compares with 19.8 million pounds last year, he said.  Profit for 2013 will be “broadly in line with
expectations” with  results  weighted toward the second half,
Dialight said in the statement. First-half revenue in its
lighting unit will rise more than the company’s previous
forecast of 50 percent and will exceed 50 percent for the year
as a whole, the company said.  Peel Hunt estimated a 65 percent increase in first-half
revenue at the unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  