-- Diamond Foods Names New Finance Chief, Restates Results
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-06-11T20:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/diamond-foods-names-silcock-as-finance-chief-restates-results.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  named a permanent
chief financial officer and said it will revise fiscal second-quarter earnings per share after a restatement last year
derailed its effort to buy the Pringles potato-chip brand.  Raymond Silcock, 62, starts today as CFO, Diamond said
yesterday in a statement. He succeeds Michael Murphy, who served
as interim CFO since February 2012. At that time, Diamond said
it would restate earnings for the previous two years and replace
its chief executive officer and CFO after an internal probe
found the company had booked payments to walnut growers in the
wrong periods.  Separately, the maker of Kettle Chips and Diamond walnuts
said yesterday that it restated fiscal second-quarter results to
a loss of 37 cents a share, compared with a profit of 43 cents.
For the six months ended Jan. 31, the loss widened to 50 cents a
share from 3 cents before the restatement.  The results are “still very messy with little
visibility,”  Tim Ramey , an analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co. in
 Lake Oswego ,  Oregon , wrote yesterday in a note. He rates the
shares neutral, the equivalent of a hold recommendation.  Diamond said it revised the results, based on generally
accepted accounting principles, because it had miscalculated the
dilutive effect of a change in fair value of a warrant liability
to Oaktree Capital Management LP. The company agreed to a $225
million investment from Oaktree last year to strengthen its
balance sheet.  More Advertising  Brian Driscoll, named CEO last year, is cutting food-processing costs and spending more on advertising as part of a
plan to turn around Diamond. After last year’s restatement,
 Procter & Gamble Co . terminated a deal to sell its Pringles unit
to Diamond and instead sold the potato chip business to Kellogg
Co. for $2.7 billion.  Silcock was previously CFO of Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea
Co. after serving as finance chief of UST Inc., a snuff maker
acquired by  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  in 2009. He started a career in
the food and beverage industry with  Campbell Soup  Co. in 1979.  Diamond advanced 9.4 percent to $19.18 at the close in  New
York , its highest price in almost seven months. The shares have
climbed 40 percent this year compared with a gain of 14 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company said a technical breakdown led to a delay in
the release of third-quarter financial results. It started a
conference call with analysts later than originally planned.  Diamond said its third-quarter loss narrowed to $15.6
million, or 71 cents a share, from $44 million, or $2.02, a year
earlier. Revenue in the period ended April 30 declined 11
percent to $184.9 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  