-- LDK Solar Expects to Restructure $240 Million in Debt
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-06-11T20:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ldk-solar-expects-to-restructure-240-million-in-debt.html
LDK Solar Ltd. (LDK) , the second most-indebted solar manufacturer, expects to restructure “in the
next 30 days” a $240 million debt that was due last week.  A proposal is “in front of investors, going through their
respective investment committees,” LDK’s Chief Financial
Officer Jack Lai said today on a conference call with analysts.  LDK, based in Xinyu, China, has been unable to pay some
lenders after a glut of capacity drove down  prices  for solar
panels. Unlike rival Suntech Power Holdings Co., which was
pulled into bankruptcy by creditors in March, LDK’s investors
are willing to work with the company on a “rebalancing plan,”
Lai said.  “Our preferred share investors are still very supportive
to our ongoing operations,” Lai said on the call. It’s the
first details about the company’s efforts to renegotiate its
obligations since disclosing last month that it has no plans to
spin off its polysilicon unit, as required to settle the $240
million debt.  LDK’s American depositary receipts, each worth one ordinary
share, dropped 11 percent to $1.46 at the close in New York.  China Development Bank Corp. and affiliates of  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of China Ltd. provided the
funding in June 2011 by purchasing preferred shares that are
convertible into a stake in LDK Silicon & Chemical Technology,
the polysilicon unit that makes the main raw material in solar
cells. LDK agreed to spin off the unit in an initial public
offering by June 3.  LDK’s failure to do so means the three state-backed lenders
may demand that the company repay the shares plus 23 percent, a
total of about $295 million.  Chinese Support  They probably won’t, said Angelo Zino, an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. He expects lenders to
agree to a deal to roll over the debt.  “Time and time again, the Chinese investors continue to
back LDK Solar,” Zino said in an interview today.  “ China  said in December that that they’d consolidate the
industry” with fewer, stronger manufacturers coming out on top,
he said. “It’s very apparent that LDK is going to be one of
those.”  Renegotiating the debt doesn’t solve all of LDK’s issues,
Zino said. “The chance of ever seeing these guys return to
sustainable profitability remains pretty small.”  Unpaid Debts  This is the second time this quarter LDK couldn’t pay a
debt. The company was unable to fully repay $23.8 million of
dollar-denominated convertible bonds that matured April 15, due
to “a temporary cash-flow shortage,” Lai said today. It has
negotiated settlements with holders of $21.7 million of that
debt, he said.  The company had $2.6 billion in  debt  as of Dec. 31, the
most of any company in the 15-member Bloomberg Industries Global
Large Solar Energy index after  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)   A 440 million  yuan  ($72 million) China Development Bank
financing LDK announced in January to upgrade its polysilicon
plant in Xinyu China will be finalized this month, Lai said.  The second-biggest maker of wafers used to make solar cells
ended the first quarter with $174.1 million in cash, up from a
three-year low of $98.3 million at the end of 2012, according to
a statement today. LDK, which has shrunk to a third of its peak
size, reported a $187.1 million net loss on sales of $104.3
million, the lowest since the first quarter of 2007.  “We are undertaking a number of initiatives focused on the
restructuring of our business,” Tong Xingxue, LDK’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “We are working
closely with our stakeholders and relevant governmental agencies
to negotiate solutions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  