-- Dole Food Chairman Makes $645 Million Bid to Go Private
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-06-11T20:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/dole-food-chairman-murock-offers-to-buy-out-shareholders.html
Dole Food Co. (DOLE)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer David Murdock offered about $645 million to
buy out other shareholders of the fresh fruit and vegetable
producer, saying stock markets are too concerned with short-term
results.  Murdock will pay $12 a share in cash for the 60 percent
 stake  in  Westlake Village , California-based Dole that’s not
owned by him or his family, he said today in a statement. The
offer is 18 percent more than the company’s closing price
yesterday. Dole rose 22 percent to $12.46 in  New York , the
biggest gain since it resumed public trading in 2009.  “Even though Dole’s equity is trading above the offer
price, we believe there is a relatively high probability of
completion,” Hale Holden, a New York-based analyst for Barclays
Plc, said in a note today.  Murdock, 90, who took over as CEO in February, is reprising
his 2003 role in taking the company private. Operating Dole as a
private enterprise will give it more ability to focus on long-term goals “without the concern that a public company must have
for the investing public’s short-term expectations,” he wrote
in a letter to the board yesterday.  Dole has reported a decline in  earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization  for the past three years
and the company in May said there may be a fourth annual drop on
lower prices for bananas and berries.  ‘Attractive Transaction’  Murdock, the company’s largest shareholder and its CEO for
22 straight years through 2007, resumed full control when David A. DeLorenzo left to manage Dole’s packaged-foods and Asian
businesses, which were sold to  Japan ’s  Itochu Corp. (8001)  for $1.69
billion in April.  The CEO’s offer was made late yesterday to directors at
Dole, the largest North American supplier of bananas, iceberg
lettuce and cauliflower. The board will meet in the next several
days to create a committee of independent directors to consider
the bid, Dole said in a separate statement.  “We see this proposed offer as an attractive transaction
that is likely to proceed at or relatively close to this price
level, especially given Mr. Murdock’s strong ownership
position,” Jonathan Feeney, a Philadelphia-based analyst at
Janney Capital Markets who recommends buying the shares, said in
a note.  Murdock has a strong ability to close the transaction given
the cash bid, his insider status and the premium to yesterday’s
closing price, Feeney wrote.  “There is some room for debate among shareholders about a
higher longer-term value for the company,” Feeney said.  ‘Highly Confident’  Murdock hired  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to advise on the transaction
and said he received a “highly confident” letter from the bank
regarding financing for the bid.  The CEO’s bid “contemplates” the negotiation and
execution of a binding agreement by July 31 and acceptance by
investors owning a majority of the stock Murdock doesn’t
control, as well as approval from a committee of independent
directors, according to his statement.  The deal values the company at $1.5 billion, including
about $440 million of net debt, Scott A. Griswold, a spokesman
for Murdock, said in a phone interview. The bid is equivalent to
10.2 times projected Ebitda. The median multiple of the 10 bids
valued at $100 million or more that were made for comparable
food companies in the past 12 months was 12.5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Comparable Ebitda  Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB)  trades at about 7 times
estimated Ebitda while  Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. (FDP)  trades at
7.8 times estimated earnings, making them “look even more
attractive” relative to Murdock’s offer for Dole, Feeney wrote.  Dole said May 2 that full-year adjusted Ebitda will be
about $150 million, the low end of its guidance range, because
of a drop in prices for bananas and berries. Adjusted Ebitda
fell 12 percent last year to $172 million, largely because of
lower prices for North American bananas and higher costs to
produce the fruit, the company said in a March 13 presentation.  Murdock was forced to raise his 2003 offer, eventually
paying $2.5 billion for the 76 percent of Dole shares he didn’t
own, 14 percent more than his original bid. Dole is a smaller
company after the sale this year of the worldwide packaged foods
and Asian fresh food business, which accounted for 38 percent of
the company’s revenue last year.  Dole was founded 162 years ago and operates in more than 90
countries, producing bananas, pineapples and lettuce in  Latin
America  and southeast  Asia , according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  