-- Dollar General Sued Over Use of Criminal Checks in Hiring
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-11T18:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/dollar-general-sued-over-use-of-criminal-checks-in-hiring.html
Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the discount
retailer, was sued by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission for conditioning job offers for store clerks on
criminal background checks.  The illegal practice has had a negative impact on black
applicants since the company started doing it in 2004, according
to a complaint filed by the commission today in federal court in
 Chicago .  “People who have been convicted of crimes and have paid
their ‘debt to society,’ eventually ought to have a fair shot in
the job market -- especially if the conviction was years earlier
and had nothing to do with the job they seek,”  John Rowe ,
director of the EEOC’s Chicago-area office, said in a statement
announcing the lawsuit.  The check is conducted after an applicant is given a job
offer, with the pass/fail result being relayed to the store
manager by e-mail, according to the EEOC’s complaint.  Dan MacDonald, a spokesman for the Goodlettsville,
Tennessee-based company, said by phone that he couldn’t
immediately comment on the commission’s allegations.  Criminal History  Working with an outside company,  Dollar General  allegedly
developed criteria for determining when an applicant’s criminal
history warrants rejection, taking into account the nature of
the crime and date of the conviction.  From January 2004 to April 2007, Dollar General made about
344,300 conditional job offers, 75 percent of which were
conveyed to non-blacks, the EEOC alleged, citing data it says it
received from the retailer.  About 7 percent of the conditional offers made to non-blacks were rescinded for failing background checks, while about
10 percent of the offers made to blacks were withdrawn.  “The gross disparity in the rates at which black and non-black conditional employees were discharged on account of
defendant’s criminal background check policy is statistically
significant,” according to the EEOC complaint.  The commission seeks a court order barring the practice and
requiring the company to provide equal employment opportunities
to black job seekers. The EEOC also asked for a monetary
judgment to compensate rejected applicants.  Dollar General rose 2.8 percent to $51.74 at 2:16 p.m. in
 New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  trading today.  The case is Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v.
Dolgencorp LLC, 13-cv-04307, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  