-- Dubai Shares Advance on Optimism MSCI Will Upgrade to EM Status
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-11T13:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/dubai-shares-advance-on-optimism-msci-will-upgrade-to-em-status.html
Dubai’s shares gained the most in
more than a week on investor optimism the United Arab Emirates
will be upgraded to emerging-market status at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   Dubai Financial Market (DFM) , the only publicly traded stock
exchange in the Gulf Cooperation Council, advanced the most in a
week.  Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC)  posted the biggest gain since June
2 with almost 60 million shares traded, or 1.6 times the three-month daily average. The DFM General Index climbed 0.6 percent,
also the most since June 2, to 2,358.28. Abu Dhabi’s  index  rose
0.3 percent, while Qatar’s QE Index fell 0.2 percent.  The U.A.E. and Qatar are under consideration for a fifth
year for a possible upgrade from frontier-market status at MSCI,
whose indexes are tracked by investors managing about $7
trillion. A promotion could lead to about $370 million flowing
into the U.A.E. and more than $430 million into Qatar,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in a report dated May 31. MSCI will publish
the results of the 2013 annual market classification review
shortly after 11 p.m. central European summer time.  “Investors are betting on the upgrade of the U.A.E. stock
markets to MSCI’s emerging market index,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Shares in Dubai fell the most in more than a year yesterday
on concern optimism over the MSCI decision may have gone too
far. MSCI last year cited market accessibility issues related to
custody, clearing and settlement for its decision not to upgrade
the U.A.E.  Indexes in Dubai and Abu Dhabi are among the five best-performing equity measures this year out of 94 tracked globally
by Bloomberg. The DFM General  Index (DFMGI)  has rallied 45 percent and
Abu Dhabi’s ADX General Index is up 36 percent.  DFM shares rose 0.5 percent today, the most since June 5,
as the trading volume rose to about 35 million shares, or 1.1
times the three-month daily average. Dubai Investments increased
2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  