-- Tebow Thanks Patriots for Giving Him Chance After Exit From Jets
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-11T18:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/tebow-thanks-patriots-for-giving-him-chance-after-exit-from-jets.html
Tim Tebow joined his new teammates
on the practice field during his first day with the New England
Patriots and then thanked the organization for giving him a
chance after being cut by the New York Jets in April.  The former Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback’s signing was
announced by the Patriots on the same day as the start of the
National Football League team’s mandatory minicamp. Tebow’s two-year contract is worth $1.36 million, with no guaranteed money
and salaries of $630,000 this season and $730,000 in 2014,
according to the NFL Network. There are also incentives based on
playing time.  The media scrutiny that surrounded Tebow in New York and
Denver followed him to New England, where 23 of the 27 questions
posed to coach Bill Belichick during a news conference were
Tebow-related. Tebow made a brief statement to reporters after
practice, though he didn’t take any questions.  “I just want to thank the Patriots for giving me an
opportunity,” Tebow said today in Foxborough,  Massachusetts .
“It’s going to be a lot of fun. I’m looking forward to working
hard every single day and getting a lot better and learning
under some great people.”  Tebow said he’s excited to play for Belichick, learn from
two-time NFL Most Valuable Player Tom Brady and be reunited with
Patriots offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach Josh McDaniels, who was head coach of the Broncos for the first 13
games of 2010 -- Tebow’s first season in Denver.  Patriots owner Robert Kraft briefly met with Tebow on the
practice field today, shaking hands and chatting with his newest
player, according to the NFL Network.  Tebow’s Role  Tebow is listed as a quarterback on the Patriots’ roster,
though Belichick declined to say or speculate on what his role
with the team might be this season. With New England’s release
of Mike Kafka yesterday, Tebow joins backup Ryan Mallett behind
Brady, who’s won three Super Bowl titles with the Patriots.  “Anything we do is what we feel is in the best interest of
the team,” Belichick said. “Tim is a talented player, who’s
smart and works hard, so we’ll see how it goes.”  Jets coach Rex Ryan showed little faith in Tebow, who
attempted eight passes for six completions, 39 yards and no
scores during his only season in New York. He was the No. 2
quarterback to Mark Sanchez and was passed over for Greg McElroy
when Sanchez was benched late in the season. After McElroy was
injured, Ryan re-inserted Sanchez in the starting spot for the
team’s final game rather than give Tebow a chance.  “I’m happy for the young man to get another opportunity in
the league,” Ryan said today during a news conference at the
Jets’ training facility. “If they want to replace Brady with
him, that’s fine.”  Tebowmania  Tebow had been voted America’s favorite active pro athlete
in an ESPN fan-based poll after rushing for 660 yards in 2011
for Denver, where he ignited a fad known as Tebowing based on
his kneel-and-pray pose after victories. His popularity became
known as Tebowmania, even as questions remained about his
passing skills and reliance on running.  The Broncos traded Tebow to the Jets in March 2012, one day
after signing four-time NFL MVP Peyton Manning.  The Jets said at the time they planned to use Tebow in
their wildcat offense, a package featuring runs and passes by
the quarterback. Instead, he spent most of the 2012 season on
the sideline holding a clipboard. Even though Tebow saw limited
playing time, controversy remained about the Jets’ quarterback
job, as Mark Sanchez had a 6-9 record as a starter and threw 18
interceptions for the second straight season.  Tebow’s arrival in New England even captured the attention
of other players around the NFL.  “It’s good that someone stepped up and signed him,”
Washington Redskins quarterback Robert Griffin III said today at
the team’s minicamp. “I wish the best for him.”  The Patriots are scheduled to host the Jets during the
second week of the regular season on Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  