-- ECB Case Pits Market Stability Against Democracy, Court Told
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-11T10:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ecb-case-pits-market-stability-against-democracy-lawyer-says.html
Germany ’s top court must halt the
 European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan to preserve the
principles of democracy, even if it causes “uproar” in
financial markets, a lawyer that opposes the plan said.  The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions program violates
European laws and the constitutional principle of democracy,
Dietrich Murswiek, a lawyer for lawmaker Peter Gauweiler, told
the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today. The court
is reviewing seven cases filed over the OMT and the European
Stability Mechanism at a two-day hearing.  The as-yet-unused OMT foresees potentially unlimited
purchases of bonds of debt-stricken countries that sign up to
adjustment programs. Conceived as yields on Spanish and Italian
10-year bonds exceeded 7 percent, the OMT has helped the cost of
borrowing for nations like Spain and  Italy  fall to levels not
seen in more than two years.  “This hearing is a historic moment,” Murswiek said in
opening statements. “The ruling the judges have to make in this
case could turn out to be the most significant in decades.
Nothing less than the principle of democracy is at stake.”  Schaeuble Testimony  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  defended the
government’s policies, saying that Germany itself insisted on
giving the ECB independence.  “The central bank’s independence needs to be respected by
the court,” he said.  The hearings will feature testimony from ECB Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, the only ECB Governing Council member to vote against
the OMT.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in a speech in Berlin that
while the Constitutional Court has “always” backed German
participation in euro-area financial rescues while imposing
conditions for parliamentary participation in decisions.  The plaintiffs include opposition political party Die Linke
and political group Mehr Demokratie e.V., German for “More
Democracy.” Gauweiler is a lawmaker from Merkel’s CSU Bavarian
sister party. Nearly half of Germans want the court to stop the
bond-buying program, Handelsblatt reported today, citing a Forsa
poll.  “Everybody knows what uproar in the financial markets it
would cause if the court rules the way as it has to,” said
Murswiek. “But if democracy was to capitulate to the banks, it
would be lost.”  Rescue Package  The judges last year in a preliminary order allowed Germany
to ratify the 500 billion-euro ($663 billion) ESM bailout
facility and the EU fiscal pact while ruling the measures must
include provisions that the country won’t be forced to assume
higher liabilities without its consent.  “The Federal  Constitutional Court  does not have to judge
on the utility or sense of the ECB measure or that of the rescue
package the German parliament passed with a vast majority, "
Chief Justice Andreas Vosskuhle said. “On the other hand, for
judging the measure under the constitution, it doesn’t matter
whether they have been successful in a broad sense.”  The September ESM ruling didn’t cover the bond program. In
one paragraph of the  written opinion  dealing with securities
issued by the ESM, the court mentioned rules for the ECB, saying
the central bank may not buy bonds on the secondary market with
the aim of financing euro member states independently of the
 capital markets .  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 1390/12 et al.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 