-- Tel Aviv Loses MSCI Europe Index Bid: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-12T10:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/tel-aviv-loses-msci-europe-index-bid-israel-overnight.html
MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  decided against including
Israel in its Europe Index, a change that the Tel Aviv bourse’s
chief executive officer said would have lured as much as $2
billion in foreign capital.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the biggest Israeli
companies in the U.S. fell 1.3 percent prior to MSCI’s
announcement.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  fell to a seven-week
low in New York before the maker of data-transfer technology is
removed from Israeli stock benchmarks June 16.  Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT) 
dropped the most in two months after the real-estate company
held a share tender at a discount to the previous day’s price.  Institutional investors consulted “are not supportive of
an inclusion of the MSCI  Israel  Index” in the European gauge,
the New York-based index provider said in a statement after
markets closed yesterday. Tel Aviv Stock Exchange head Ester Levanon said June 6 a move to MSCI Europe would bring an
additional flow of $1 billion to $2 billion.  Commenting on MSCI’s decision, Levanon today said “we
would have wanted a different outcome” though “not everyone
understands the advantages of investing in Israel,” according
to a e-mailed statement.  The TASE requested to be included to the MSCI Europe gauge
in an effort to boost trading volumes. The country’s move to
developed market from emerging in May 2010 was one of the
factors contributing to a trading decline in Tel Aviv, the Bank
of Israel said in a March 12 report.  “This is a great disappointment and we may see this
reflected in the market tomorrow,” Sharon Naveh, head of
institutional and international sales at Migdal Capital Markets
Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone yesterday. “There were great
expectations about an entry into the Europe Index and for the
potential inflow of money this move could have brought.”  Volume Drop  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge of the 25 largest Israeli
companies traded in the U.S. slid to 92.52, trimming this year’s
gain to 7.1 percent. That compares to a 3.6 percent advance in
2013 on the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) , which declined 0.1 percent as
of 1:46 p.m. in Israel.  Volumes dropped 44 percent from the
beginning of 2010 to the end 2012, compared with an 18 percent
average global decline, the central bank said. In the first five
months of this year, volumes  fell  7.8 percent, according to data
provided by the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange. The TA-25 gauge
advanced 3.9 percent in the period, compared with a 7.1 percent
increase in the MSCI Europe Index.  The exchange will extend trading by an hour Mondays through
Thursdays beginning June 15 as part of its efforts to increase
volumes, it said in February.  ‘Work Harder’  “The market was not betting on an inclusion into the
European index and I don’t think we will see a major move if it
is not included,” Michael Klahr, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in Tel Aviv, said June 10 by phone. “Without the inclusion,
Israeli companies will have to work harder in improving returns
and showing better performance in order to attract international
interest.”  MSCI said a year ago it is considering including Israeli
stocks in its European index and would seek feedback from
investors. The company reclassified Israel as a developed market
in May 2010 and, based on “participant feedback,” didn’t
include the MSCI Israel Index in the MSCI Europe Index, it said
in a statement in June 2012.  Instead, it created the  MSCI Europe and Middle East Index 
as a new regional developed-market index. The shift reduced
Israel’s weighting to about 0.85 percent on the new index from
2.5 percent of the  Emerging Markets  index, the Bank of Israel
said in March. “Funds tracking the European index didn’t have
an incentive to switch to the new index,” the central bank
said.  Mellanox, Gazit  Mellanox sank 5.7 percent to $47.11 yesterday. Shares in
Tel Aviv fell for a second day, dropping 4.2 percent to 169.8
shekels, or $46.83. Shares of the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based
maker of data transfer and storage software are to be removed
from the TASE indexes on June 16 as the company “voluntarily”
delists from the Israeli bourse Sept. 1.  Tel Aviv-based Gazit sank 3.2 percent to $13.64, the most
since April. Shares in Israel fell for a fifth day, falling 2.7
percent to 47.67 shekels, or $13.15.  The company will offer 250 million shekels ($68 million) to
institutional investors, Clal Finance Underwritings Ltd. and
Leader Underwriters (1993) Ltd. said in an e-mailed report
yesterday. The tender’s minimum price is 49.50 shekels a share,
the underwriters said, a 2.8 percent discount to June 10’s
closing price.  Gazit has commercial and retail real estate in more than 20
countries including the U.S. and  Brazil .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  