-- Electric-Car Maker Coda Wins Approval of Fortress Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-06-11T23:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/electric-car-maker-coda-wins-approval-of-fortress-sale.html
Coda Holdings Inc., parent of the
electric-car maker that sold fewer than 100 vehicles, won court
approval of a $25 million sale to a group led by a  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  unit.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  at a hearing
today in Wilmington,  Delaware , approved the sale after
overruling objections from a lawyer for terminated workers and
the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice Department  that monitors
bankruptcy cases.  The Fortress group will pay $1.7 million in cash and the
rest of the purchase price will come from forgiving debt from a
$5 million bankruptcy loan and debt from notes owned by Fortress
affiliates. Coda will focus on its energy-storage business and
its automotive assets will be liquidated.  The sale was negotiated as part of a broader deal brokered
with the official committee of unsecured creditors that will lay
the groundwork for a potential reorganization plan. In addition
to the $1.7 million in cash, $1.9 million of the bankruptcy loan
will remain with the estate to help pay administrative claims.  “This has been a lengthy and complicated process,”
Sontchi told the attorneys. “It was a close call,” the judge
said. The opposing arguments were “tempered by the fact the
creditors’ committee is onboard” with the sale, after
negotiating for better terms under the deal, he said.  Forgiven Loans  The U.S. Trustee argued that what he called potential
claims for fraudulent transfers, against two officers for the
forgiveness of loans before the bankruptcy, were being
inappropriately sold as part of the deal.  “The purpose of a sale is not to protect insiders in this
ring, but to maximize value,” David L. Buchbinder, a lawyer for
the U.S. Trustee, told Sontchi.  The alleged claims are “not particularly strong,” Roberto
J. Kampfner, a lawyer for Coda, told the judge.  The Los Angeles-based company, whose Coda Automotive unit
also sought court protection, listed assets of as much as $50
million and debt of as much as $100 million in court documents
filed in May.  Coda was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection  because of
production delays, insufficient capital to market and sell its
sedan, and slow growth for the electric-vehicle market, which it
blames on the scarcity of charging stations, according to a
declaration by Chief Restructuring Officer John P. Madden.  Production Delays  Sales of the Coda sedan, built off China-based Hafei Motor
Co.’s Saibao platform, fell short of expectations, with fewer
than 100 units sold since entering the market in March 2012,
according to court papers. Complications adapting the sedan to
an electric platform and meeting U.S. regulatory standards
delayed production.  The compact, which cost $37,250 before a $7,500 U.S. tax
credit, averages 88 miles (142 kilometers) per charge and can
travel as far as 125 miles, according to U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency estimates.  Coda had raised about $344 million in equity investments
since its founding, according to court documents. Investors
included New World Strategic Investment Ltd., Indus Capital and
 Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , Aeris Capital, Angeleno
Group LLC, billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC and Riverstone Holdings LLC, Coda said in 2011.  The case is In re Coda Holdings Inc., 13-11153,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  