-- Telefonica Grapples With Colombian Government on Funds
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-06-12T18:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/telefonica-grapples-with-colombian-government-on-funds.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is meeting resistance
from its co-investor, the Colombian government, on a plan to
raise money in the Andean country, the phone company’s top Latin
American executive said.  Telefonica needs more cash in  Colombia  to acquire radio-frequency licenses for faster wireless services, reduce the
pension liabilities it has inherited and remain competitive,
Santiago Fernandez Valbuena said in an interview. While the
Madrid-based company is contemplating ways to raise the funds,
including a rights offering of the local unit, the government is
reluctant to dilute its 30 percent stake, he said.  “More capital is something that this company needs or else
it won’t be able to compete,” Fernandez Valbuena said yesterday
at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. “We have not even decided
which way to go. It depends crucially on what the government
wants to accept as a process, and that’s difficult.”  Telefonica is struggling to compete in Colombia against
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, which leads Latin
America’s fourth-largest economy with 62 percent of mobile-phone
 subscribers . Telefonica also needs to cut a $1.5 billion
pension-fund deficit that has to be paid off from the company’s
earnings, he said.  After an $85 billion acquisition spree over a decade
increased debt and triggered rating cuts, Telefonica Chief
Executive Officer Cesar Alierta last year began selling assets.
The company said last month it was in talks with Colombian
government officials to assess different options to capitalize
the unit after halting an initial public offering for all of its
Latin American assets.  ‘Interesting Proposition’  Colombia plans to hold an auction for faster 4G wireless
service on June 26, with payments due about three months later,
according to a schedule on the government’s  website . The plan is
“an interesting proposition -- it’s likely to be a good
investment but if you don’t have the cash, you’re out,”
Fernandez Valbuena said.  Colombian Deputy Finance Minister Andres Restrepo said he
had no response to Fernandez Valbuena’s comments. Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  was traveling and couldn’t be reached
for comment.  Telefonica is seeking to raise “substantial” funds to
participate in the auction of 4G radio spectrum, Fernandez
Valbuena said, adding the company doesn’t have a specific amount
in mind. A deal will still take months to be completed, he
added.  Unit Merger  Last year, the Spanish phone carrier merged its Colombian
units -- wholly owned wireless division Telefonica Moviles
Colombia and fixed-line venture Colombia Telecomunicaciones,
which was 48 percent state owned -- to cut $1.7 billion of debt.
That deal left Telefonica holding 70 percent of the combined
company and Colombia the remainder, with the state stake
possibly increasing by as much as 3 percentage points in 2015.  Telefonica shares were little changed at 10.20 euros at the
close in  Madrid , valuing the company at 46.4 billion euros
($61.9 billion). The benchmark IBEX 35 index gained 0.4 percent.  The  pension fund  is also hamstringing Telefonica in
Colombia by keeping its leverage far too high, at about five
times earnings, Fernandez Valbuena said. That ratio should be
closer to three times, and the company needs two or three years
to reduce the size of the fund, he said.  Mexico, Peru  “We have to bring it down,” he said. “The last thing we
need is for them to be able to say, ’Oh, these guys are broke,’
which we are sometimes depending on the configuration of yields
and things.”  While Colombia represents less than 3 percent of
Telefonica’s revenue, the company is counting on markets in
Spanish-speaking  Latin America  for expansion as growth slows in
 Brazil  and European markets struggle to recover. While Colombian
revenue  rose  13 percent last year to 1.77 billion euros, it
would have climbed 1.6 percent leaving out currency changes,
trailing growth in markets including Brazil, Chile and  Peru .  In  Mexico , where Telefonica’s market share is also dwarfed
by America Movil’s 70 percent of mobile-phone customers,
Telefonica is getting help from a new law that will help boost
competition, Fernandez Valbuena said.  Law Change  “It’s a major step forward into the 21st century, which is
where Mexico belongs,” he said. The law should boost revenue
for all smaller competitors in the country, he said. While the
law, signed yesterday by President Enrique Pena Nieto, allows
foreign companies to own landline networks in Mexico for the
first time, Telefonica is keeping its focus on mobile phones,
Fernandez Valbuena said.  “We don’t think it is such a great business today,” he
said. “It’s not high in our plans to become active in the
landline market in Mexico.”  While Telefonica already offers home-phone services through
a 49 percent stake in Grupo de Telecomunicaciones Mexicanas SA,
it uses a wireless technology to do so and doesn’t provide the
high-speed Internet and television its competitors can through
their landlines.  “The only market where you’re at a disadvantage if you
don’t have a landline is the corporate market, which is nice,
and nice to have,” Fernandez Valbuena said. “But you don’t
have to have a national network to serve and to cater to the
corporate market.”  Shelved IPO  Telefonica shelved plans earlier this year to carry out an
IPO for the company’s Latin American division mainly because of
valuation, Fernandez Valbuena said.  “A lot of the legal and tax work have been done, and we
just put it in the freezer so we can take it out if necessary in
the future,” he said. He ruled out selling more shares in other
stable, fast-growing markets in the region including Chile and
Peru.  In  Venezuela , Telefonica plans to boost spending to avoid
sitting on cash that may lose a third of its value as
speculation mounts that the government may devalue the bolivar
for a second time this year, a person familiar with the matter
said last week.  “The only  exchange rate  that worries me is the Venezuelan
bolivar because that’s the one that’s fully out of mind,”
Fernandez Valbuena said.  Other currencies in the region may also pose a risk to
Telefonica’s earnings, Barclays Plc analysts said in a June 6
note. The weakness of the Brazilian real in the second quarter
will hurt results for Telefonica,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, according to the note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  