-- Emerging Equities Decline as Brazil Enters Bear Market
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-11T22:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/emerging-stocks-fall-to-9-month-low-as-philippine-equities-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled as
Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  became the first of the major developing-nation indexes to enter a bear market amid concern that global
central banks will pare economic stimulus measures.  The Ibovespa closed 21 percent below this year’s high, led
by a plunge in Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo
& Gas Participacoes SA and LLX Logistica SA. The MSCI BRIC Index
slipped for a 10th day, the longest slide since at least January
1995. Russian shares dropped to a one-year low as commodity
producers slipped. Qatar and the United Arab Emirates were
upgraded to emerging-market status at MSCI Inc., while Greece
lost its classification as a developed market.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.9 percent to
954.38, the lowest level since Sept. 6, while its 50-day
volatility increased to a seven-month high. Stocks joined a
global selloff as the  Bank of Japan  refrained from more stimulus
that tend to weaken the yen. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that its quantitative easing program of
bond purchases could slow if U.S. employment showed improvement.  “There’s an indiscriminate selling,” Paul Christopher,
the St. Louis-based chief international strategist at Wells
Fargo Advisors, said by phone. His firm oversees about $1.3
trillion. “This is a reaction to the excessive optimism created
around the Bank of Japan’s announcement and how long the Fed
will keep quantitative easing in place.”  Biggest Losses  All  10 groups  in a measure of developing-nation stocks
slumped as health-care and commodity shares had the biggest
losses, dropping at least 2.4 percent. The broad gauge extended
this year’s drop to 9.6 percent, compared with a 9.3 percent
jump in the MSCI World Index.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1.9 percent to $39.38. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 11 percent to 26.28.  MSCI, whose stock gauges are tracked by investors with
about $7 trillion in assets, downgraded Morocco to a frontier
market. MSCI will keep South Korea and Taiwan’s emerging-market
status, and placed China A-shares on review for potential
inclusion in the emerging-markets category, according to a
statement today. Israel wasn’t added to the MSCI Europe Index.  The Ibovespa plunged into a bear market as Brazil’s
faltering economic expansion drove down consumer stocks and raw-material exporters slid with commodities. OGX tumbled 9.3
percent today, while LLX retreated 7.4 percent.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 2.5 percent on concern
commodities will extend declines, curbing growth in the world’s
biggest energy exporter. Basic materials companies led the
retreat as OAO Gazprom sank 3.8 percent.  Turkey’s Shares  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index sank
1.8 percent to the lowest level since Dec. 3, led by  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s biggest lender. Turkey’s lira
strengthened, erasing earlier losses, as the central bank
implemented exceptional tightening measures to shield the
currency from volatility triggered by anti-government protests.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 1.7 percent
in Hong Kong, the lowest close since Oct. 8. The gauge retreated
for a 10th day, its longest losing streak since November 1995.
Chinese markets are shut until June 13 for holidays, and  Hong
Kong  will also be closed tomorrow.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex declined 1.5 percent, its lowest
close since April 18. Thailand’s SET Index slid 5 percent, the
largest drop since October 2011, the baht weakened to an eight-month low and government bonds declined. The Philippine Stock
Exchange Index slumped 4.6 percent, the biggest loss since
September 2011. The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  tumbled 3.5 percent,
the lowest level since Feb. 19.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 11 basis points to 328 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  