-- Encana Names Ex-BP Oil Spill Executive Doug Suttles CEO
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-06-11T20:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/encana-names-ex-bp-oil-spill-executive-doug-suttles-ceo.html
Encana Corp. (ECA)  said  Doug Suttles , the
engineer who led  BP Plc (BP/) ’s response to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico
 oil spill , will be the next chief executive officer of  Canada ’s
largest natural gas producer.  Suttles, 52, was chosen for his “strategic leadership
capabilities, demonstrated communications skills, and track
record of building strong organizations of similar size and
scope,” Clayton Woitas, a board member for Calgary-based
Encana, said in a statement today. Suttles replaces Woitas, who
took over as interim CEO in January when Randy Eresman retired
after seven years in charge.  Suttles was chief operating officer of BP’s exploration and
production unit and the face of the company’s effort to halt the
flow of oil after the April 2010 explosion at the Macondo field.
BP and the U.S. Coast Guard ended yesterday the $14 billion
operations to clean up hundreds of miles of coastline soiled by
the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history, the London-based
company said in a statement.  Encana, which spun off its oil production business in 2009,
has been redirecting spending to boost crude and liquids output
after North American  gas prices  collapsed. The company is
seeking to cut costs, sell assets and bring in partners to help
fund development.  ‘An Outsider’  “It’s really key that he’s an outsider and the outsider is
not someone in finance but in operations,” said  John Stephenson , who helps oversee C$2.7 billion ($2.64 billion)
including Encana shares at First Asset Investment Management
Inc. in Toronto. The company needs to raise revenue and become
self-funded and may be turned around within a year, he said.  Encana had its worst year in 2012, reporting a $2.79
billion  net loss  after writing down the value of gas assets
because of declining prices. The shares, which fell  32 percent 
during Eresman’s CEO tenure, fell 2 percent to C$18.54 at the
close in Toronto.  Suttles will lead a mid-year review next month to assess
any required significant changes to the company’s 2013  capital
budget , which will be announced with second-quarter results in
July, he said on a call today with analysts.  “It will take some time before I am in a position to
articulate a clear and concise vision for Encana,” Suttles
said. “Our capital efficiency should be amongst the best in the
industry and it should improve continuously.”  Capital Budget  Encana is directing 80 percent of its capital budget this
year to almost double production of oil and petroleum liquids
while it keeps gas output unchanged. Gas prices have recovered
from a decade-low in April 2012, settling at $3.80 per million
British thermal units yesterday in  New York .  Smaller Canadian producers, including  ARC Resources Ltd. (ARX) 
and Peyto Exploration and Development Corp., spend less than
Encana to produce gas because their operations are more
concentrated and they’re not doing as much high-cost
exploration, Chris Cox, a Calgary-based analyst at AltaCorp
Capital Inc., said in a May 16 phone interview.  “What the company needs is to bring down its costs so it
starts generating better returns on its natural gas business,”
Cox said. Encana’s new CEO may sell assets or spin off divisions
of the company, separating its U.S. and Canadian businesses, he
said.  The company made its CEO choice after narrowing a list of
more than 150 candidates.  “Doug stood out as the ideal candidate to lead Encana into
its next phase of growth and development,” said Woitas, who the
company has previously said will become chairman once the new
CEO is in place.  Plugging Macondo  Suttles has a degree in mechanical engineering from the
 University of Texas  at Austin and worked for Exxon Mobil Corp.
before joining BP. He coordinated BP’s drilling of a relief well
to stop the Macondo leak and provided public updates for more
than three months after the incident. Suttles  returned  to his
prior role at BP in August 2010 after the well was shut.  Suttles left BP in 2011. He serves as a  director  of  Ceres
Inc. (CERE) , a California biotechnology company, according to its
website.  Suttles is among several BP executives named in a
multibillion-dollar lawsuit by investors. The case, which is
scheduled for an August 2014 jury trial in a Houston federal
court, alleges the company and its executives hid the true size
of the spill to limit the effect on the stock price. BP has
declined to comment on the suit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  