-- Erdogan Crisis Driving Bond Risk Closer to Russia: Turkey Credit
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-11T07:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/erdogan-crisis-driving-bond-risk-closer-to-russia-turkey-credit.html
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s stand-off with protesters is threatening to send
investor perceptions of the nation’s credit risk above  Russia ’s
for the first time in seven months.  The cost to protect against losses in Turkish debt using
credit-default swaps rose 41 basis points since May 31, when
anti-government demonstrations erupted, to 172 yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s narrowed the gap
with higher-rated Russia to 10 basis points from 25 at the end
of last month, the data show.  The unrest is threatening to drive away investors, who had
been lured to Turkey by higher yields, falling debt levels and
credit-rating upgrades. The yield on the nation’s January 2030
dollar bond has climbed 50 basis points since the protests
began, compared with a 26 basis-point increase for Russia.
Hundreds of riot police raided Istanbul’s Taksim Square today.  “Many preferred  Turkey  to Russia on the view that it had
become politically stable, transparent and democratic,
contrasting with Putin’s Russia,” Richard Segal, head of
international credit strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. in London,
said in e-mailed comments yesterday, referring to President
Vladimir Putin. “That comparison is being revisited. It’s
another sign that the long-term bullish Turkey story has come to
an end.”  Ongoing Clashes  Erdogan warned demonstrators and lashed out against
financial speculators over the weekend for seeking to profit
from the unrest. At least three people have died in more than a
week of clashes as protesters accuse Erdogan of increasingly
autocratic behavior since police cracked down on a rally in
Taksim Square. Clashes were still going on today two hours after
police stormed the square, which protesters had blocked off with
a jumble of police barricades and park benches.  The lira gained 0.5 percent to 1.8935 against the dollar at
10:41 a.m. in Istanbul today, reversing earlier losses of as
much a 0.4 percent, after central bank took tightening measures.  The amount of funding at policy rates may be reduced
temporarily and can be below the minimum amount declared for
ordinary days, the central bank said in a statement. If bank
deems it necessary, unsterilized foreign-exchange sale auctions
and direct interventions can be used, the bank said.  Yields Soar  Credit-default swaps climbed seven basis points to 179 and
yield on Turkey’s two-year notes rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 6.53 percent. The  rate  has jumped 174
basis points through from a record low on May 17, paring
declines in the past year to 265 basis points, the biggest drop
among major  emerging markets . The sell-off in the past three
weeks comes amid growing speculation the Federal Reserve will
curb its $85 billion a month purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage bonds used to stimulate the U.S. economy.  “Heightened political tensions in major cities and
lessening appetite for emerging-market assets due to Fed
tapering are seen as risk factors for Turkish investors,” Isik Okte, a strategist for the investment unit of state-run lender
 Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “As the investment community debates which
investments going forward are the riskiest under Fed tapering,
Turkey fixed income and equities are on most investors’ lists.”  Foreign investors sold $1.1 billion of Turkish lira debt in
the week ended May 31, according to the latest central bank
data.  Russian Protests  The lira has weakened 4.9 percent in the past month, the
worst performing emerging-market currency after South  Africa ’s
rand in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The ruble slipped
0.8 percent today and credit swaps on Russia rose seven basis
points to 189.  The biggest Russian protests during Putin’s more than a
decade in power following parliamentary elections in December
2011 sparked the first monthly decline in 10-year ruble bonds in
three months. That slump was followed by a three-month rally.  Turkey was raised to Baa3, the lowest investment-grade
ranking, by Moody’s Investors Service on May 16. That’s two
steps below Russia.  The protests in Turkey may wind down as they did in Russia,
according to Marco Santamaria, who helps oversee $24 billion in
emerging-market debt at  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB)  in New
York.  Default Risk  “If the unrest continues, it is entirely conceivable that
Turkish CDS spread might widen beyond Russia’s,” Santamaria
said by e-mail yesterday. “I would not expect the situation to
deteriorate much. In much the same way Russia did last year, I
suspect the protests will tend to settle down.”  The amount of Turkish debt protected by credit-default
swaps is rising, with a total of 9,321 contracts covering a net
$7.5 billion of debt outstanding as of May 31, up from $6
billion a year ago, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp. Turkey is now the eighth most-protected government,
compared with 11th last year.  The contracts, whose price increases as perceptions of
creditworthiness deteriorate, pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower renege.  Credit-default swaps on Turkey were the third most actively
traded among 1,000 entities tracked by the DTCC in the week
through May 31, following Brazil and  Italy .  “Turkey was a hype recently, seeing massive capital
inflows, stable currency, ratings upgrades, improving growth
outlook,” Viktor Szabo, who helps oversee $11.8 billion at
Aberdeen Investment Management Ltd. in  London , said in e-mailed
comments yesterday. “Capital outflows may take away all that.
It was a one-way flow for quite a long time, so it’s time for
some correction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  