-- Merkel’s Not for Turning as She Lays Out Fall Election Plan
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-11T14:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/merkel-s-not-for-turning-as-she-lays-out-fall-election-platform.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
signaled she’ll push  Europe  to balance economic growth and
budget restraint for another four years as she laid out her
campaign themes for winning a third term in September.  Merkel assured delegates at a conference of Germany’s BDI
 industry association  that her party won’t raise taxes after the
federal election and said she would seek to lower levies paid to
fund renewable energy as a result of her decision to phase out
nuclear power in Europe’s biggest economy. Her policy of
austerity during the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis isn’t
about pain, she said, but about economic overhauls and deficit
reduction that open the way for more  government investment .  “In the long run, Germany will only do well if the entire
European economic region, particularly the euro area, gets back
on its feet,” Merkel said in her speech in Berlin today.
Germany anchored Europe during the crisis by combining growth
and debt reduction, and “this is the policy we have to
continue,” she said.  Less than three months before the Sept. 22 vote, Merkel’s
speech was the clearest outline yet of her re-election strategy.
It sets up a clear divide between the tax-raising plans espoused
by the opposition Social Democrats led by  Peer Steinbrueck , her
first-term finance minister, and their Green party allies.  Additional Spending  Merkel said “50 to 60 billion euros” ($66 billion-$80
billion) in tax revenues over the next four to five years,
combined with deficit reduction during her second term, open the
way for additional social-welfare spending and investment in
Germany without threatening her budget targets.  “Due to the fragile situation, we have a responsibility to
strengthen domestic demand” in Germany, she said.  While lauding German industry’s contribution to Europe’s
biggest economy and the “excellent”  job situation , Merkel gave
little ground on what have been her second-term priorities. Her
drive to get more women in the workplace will continue and
specific industry branches must be open to paying minimum wages,
she said, citing seasonal tourism workers on the island of
Ruegen in her electoral district.  Pressing ahead with the energy strategy is “the first
order of the day after the election,” including legal changes
to cap the rise in subsidies for renewable energy that is
driving up electricity bills in  Germany , Merkel said.  German power consumers paid 17 billion euros in subsidies
last year, BDI president Ulrich Grillo said in a speech
following Merkel’s.  “The burden has reached the limit for many companies,” he
said. “You’re pulling the plug on German industry. The costs of
the energy-shift project are getting out of hand.”  Merkel reiterated her desire to extend her current
coalition, saying the “differences are smallest” between her
Christian Democratic bloc and its Free Democratic partner.  “We will continue working for Germany to stay good”
because the rest of the world “isn’t asleep,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  