-- Merkel Enforces Silence to Blunt Anti-Euro Party Election Risk
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-11T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/merkel-enforces-silence-to-blunt-anti-euro-party-election-risk.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s response
to an election-year threat from Germany’s anti-euro party is
simple: pretend it isn’t there.  Merkel, who decided to keep the euro area whole at the peak
of  Europe ’s debt crisis in 2011 and 2012 in return for austerity
measures in highly indebted countries, is signaling she will
stick to that bargain if Germans re-elect her on Sept. 22.
That’s anathema to Alternative for Germany, which wants southern
countries such as  Greece  to quit the currency union and says
Germans could one day return to the deutsche mark.  Snubbing the party founded in April by economics professor
Bernd Lucke, a former member of her  Christian Democratic Union ,
may be Merkel’s best bet to avoid derailing her bid for a third
term. Her policy of balancing Germany’s pro-European tradition
with austerity demands helps make her the nation’s most popular
politician, suggesting the election is Merkel’s to lose.  “At the moment, we think that the best strategy is to
neglect them,”  Michael Fuchs , a deputy CDU chairman, said of
the euro breakup activists, known by the acronym AfD in German.
“They’re not really known to anyone. It’s not clever if we help
them to be more popular.” Merkel shares that view, he said by
phone, though “we shouldn’t take it too easy.”  Alternative for Germany enlisted more than 10,000 members
and rose to as much as 5 percent in  polls  after its founding
convention. Support has declined to as little as 2 percent since
then, below the 5 percent minimum to win seats in parliament.  Poll Support  Latest polls put the party at 3 percent. Even so, AfD is a
wild card that could foil a rerun of Merkel’s coalition with the
Free Democratic Party, her preferred ally, if enough disaffected
voters defect from the governing parties. Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc leads the opposition  Social Democrats  by 12-17
percentage points in the six regular voter polls, yet none shows
her current coalition with enough support to return to power.  Alternative for Germany is “a danger in that they could
tip the balance,” even though the election debate “hasn’t
become a euro discussion,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at
ING Groep NV in Brussels, said by telephone.  While past anti-euro movements failed to gain traction in
Europe’s largest economy, AfD has fodder in the 222 billion
euros ($295 billion) in loans and guarantees that Merkel
committed as Germany’s share of rescues for Greece, Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Spain . The risk of losing voters fed up with
bailouts extends beyond Merkel to the Social Democrats and their
Green party allies, who backed the rescues and say they are more
pro-European than the chancellor. The AfD says it is actively
pursuing voters from all parties.  ‘Germany’s Interest’  Merkel sidestepped questions about the AfD during a call-in
session with CDU voters on May 28 and in an interview with  Der
Spiegel . “I focus on making the right decisions for our country
and my experience is that this is what’s convincing for
people,” she told the magazine when asked whether she takes the
anti-euro party seriously.  Not everyone in Merkel’s party agrees with the hands-off
approach. Three Christian Democratic regional legislative
leaders published a paper in May saying the AfD “should be
taken seriously” and the CDU “shouldn’t shy away from this
confrontation.” That prompted a reprimand by Merkel behind
closed doors at a CDU national executive meeting, Die Welt
newspaper reported.  Campaign Arguments  Little more than three months before Election Day, Merkel
isn’t cutting the euro area any slack. Countries must follow
 Germany ’s lead by overhauling labor markets and tightening
budgets, she says. She’s also rehearsed key campaign arguments,
including that Germany benefits from the euro and that a revived
D-mark would appreciate against other currencies, undermining
German exports.  The benefits include her drive to lower Germany’s deficit.
Merkel’s government has saved about 80 billion euros during the
financial crisis from 2009 to 2013 as bond yields declined
because investors consider the country a safe haven, the Kiel-based Institute for the World Economy said on June 11.  As she gears up into campaign mode, Merkel is betting that
voters will view her as best-suited to make other euro-area
governments keep economic overhauls on track and so defend
Europe’s prosperity against competitors such as  China .  A draft outline of the CDU’s election platform obtained by
 Bloomberg News  reflects Merkel’s stance, saying the 17-nation
euro has “overwhelming importance” for Europe’s economy and
the answer to the debt crisis is greater competitiveness.  Merkel is also running on an economy that makes mobilizing
fears of inflation and deficits “an uphill struggle,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in
a research note. Germany’s inflation rate was 1.5 percent in May
and Germany will run a  budget surplus  this year and in 2014, the
 Finance Ministry  said on April 17.  “As long as Merkel gives the impression she’s the guardian
of German taxpayers’ money, that’s best way of dealing with the
AfD,” said ING’s Brzeski.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  