-- EU Challenges Air-Traffic Controllers With Price Cut
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-11T17:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/eu-challenges-air-traffic-controllers-with-price-cut.html
European Union regulators requested
new powers to lower air-traffic charges and shorten flight
routes in the bloc, challenging national controllers in a bid to
offer relief for carriers.  The European Commission presented proposals to tackle the
national fragmentation of Europe’s airspace. The draft
legislation would give the Brussels-based commission greater
authority to enforce performance standards for air-traffic-control organizations and would open up their support services
such as meteorology and data collection to competition.  “The time has come to take decisive action on behalf of
Europe’s airlines and their customers,” EU Transport
Commissioner Siim Kallas said today in Strasbourg,  France . “We
are putting performance targets where they belong -- at the
heart of the reform process. And we are setting the bar high.”  The initiatives reflect impatience with vested interests
and a lack of competition that are preventing a more integrated
aviation system in Europe, where air-traffic charges are around
double the rate in the similarly sized U.S. airspace. The
proposals need the support of EU national governments and the
European Parliament in a process that can take a year or more.  Political Sensitivity  In a sign of the political sensitivity of the matter,
French air-traffic controllers anticipated the EU proposals by
announcing a three-day strike -- subsequently shortened to two
days -- that started this morning.  France’s civil aviation authority has asked airlines to cut
by half the number of scheduled aircraft movements so flights
can be managed by fewer controllers, leading to the cancellation
today of 1,800 flights to and from French airports by carriers
including Air France-KLM Group,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  and EasyJet Plc.  Inefficiencies caused by fragmentation add 42 kilometers
(26 miles) to the distance of an average flight in Europe,
imposing extra costs of almost 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) a
year, says the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm. Air-traffic
control accounts for between 6 percent and 12 percent of the
cost of a ticket, according to the commission.  The EU has sought for more than a decade to create a
“Single European Sky” by eliminating surplus civilian air-traffic centers and scaling back national military no-fly zones.
The bloc has also pressed military authorities to open up air-force exercise zones, governments to merge airspace and
controllers to use the same equipment.  Reduced Services  “Our airlines and their passengers have had to endure more
than 10 years of reduced services and missed deadlines on the
route to a Single European Sky,” Kallas said. “We cannot
afford to continue this way. We need to boost the
competitiveness of the European aviation sector.”  Airlines ranging from  Air France-KLM (AF) , Europe’s  biggest
carrier , to Ryanair, the region’s No. 1 no-frills operator, have
called for a faster end to Europe’s airspace fragmentation.  The new proposals seek to make the setting of efficiency
targets for air-traffic management more independent and to make
those standards more enforceable. The commission’s role would be
strengthened vis-à-vis EU governments, which currently have the
ultimate say.  Political Fight  The draft legislation would also require that support
services, which are the biggest cost driver in air-traffic
management, be separated so they can be put out to competitive
tender under regular procurement rules. Such a step would lead
to 20 percent savings, according to the commission.  The International Air Transport Association, representing
more than 240 airlines that carry 84 percent of global traffic,
said in a statement that the blueprint is a “clear step in the
right direction,” while lacking sufficient urgency.  The French government signaled the political fight ahead
over the proposals by saying it objects to them because existing
EU legislation in this area should be given more time to produce
benefits for airlines.  In a statement, French Transport Minister Frederic Cuvillier also said that he and his German counterpart, Peter Ramsauer, had written to Kallas to express their reservations
about the latest draft legislation.  “France does not support this new initiative of the
European Commission,” Cuvillier said.  On a parallel track, Kallas is threatening to pursue
lawsuits against EU governments for failing to heed the existing
rules designed to lower costs for airlines flying in the 27-nation bloc.  “We are doing our utmost to enforce existing legislation
as well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  