-- EU Lawmaker Groote Seeks Carbon Rescue Compromise, Lobby Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-11T13:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/eu-lawmaker-groote-seeks-carbon-rescue-compromise-lobby-says.html
Matthias Groote, the lawmaker in
charge of a carbon market rescue plan in the European
Parliament, is seeking to restrict the proposal to win support
in the assembly, according to the Friends of ETS lobby group.  Groote is proposing to keep intervention in the carbon
market to a one-time move, according to his draft amendments
published by the lobby group, which advocates strengthening the
European Union emissions trading system. The emergency measure
would postpone the sale of some allowances to reduce a surplus
and help emission prices recover from all-time lows.  The amendments also include capping the number of
allowances to be delayed to 900 million, as well as a provision
that it won’t be implemented if higher carbon costs force
companies to move production outside the EU, according to the
draft. Representatives of political groups in the Parliament’s
environment committee are discussing the plan tomorrow before a
June 19 vote in the panel.  “The amendments could tip the balance in favor of the
proposal, even though they are unlikely to find formal cross-party support,” Itamar Orlandi, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  London , said by e-mail today.  Groote said on his Twitter Inc. account today that he’s
building a broad compromise on backloading. The whole assembly
is to vote on the carbon fix on July 2 in Strasbourg,  France .  Rescue Plan  The carbon rescue plan, known as backloading, has divided
EU governments, industry and members of the Parliament. The
assembly declined to support the European Commission proposal in
April, sending the measure back to the environment committee for
further talks.  The European  People’s Party , the biggest group in the
assembly, said last month it will seek a rejection of the
measure again, or to restrict it if attempts to block the plan
fail. The EPP needs modifications to the proposal to ensure any
short-term action to cut oversupply in the market will be
followed by a deeper overhaul of the trading system, Richard
Seeber, an Austrian member of the group, said on April 24.  The emissions program should be adaptable to changing
economic conditions, and national revenues from permit sales
need to be channeled to clean technologies, Seeber said.
Groote’s draft proposal also includes a call on the EU to use
proceeds from the auction of some delayed allowances for a fund
to develop low-carbon technologies.  EU carbon permits for delivery in December dropped as much
as 3.5 percent today to 3.90 euros a metric ton on the ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange in London. The contract slumped to a
record low of 2.46 euros on April 16. It traded as high as 36.4
euros in July 2008.  The European cap-and-trade program imposes pollution limits
on about 12,000 manufacturing companies and utilities in the
region, including German utility EON SE and steelmaker
 ArcelorMittal. (MT)  Europe’s economic slowdown reduced industrial
production and cut demand for pollution rights, boosting the
surplus of permits to about 2 billion tons last year, a level
almost matching annual supply, according to the EU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  