-- EU Races to Meet End-June Deadline on Bank Creditor-Loss Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-11T15:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/eu-races-to-meet-end-june-deadline-on-bank-creditor-loss-rules.html
European Union finance ministers
will grapple next week over how far the bloc should standardize
its approach to writing down failing  banks’  creditors as they
seek agreement on a blueprint to end state bailouts.  While there is a “broad measure of agreement” on the
draft creditor-loss rules, governments have just over a week to
resolve their differences before the ministers convene in
Luxembourg on June 21, according to an EU document prepared for
the meeting and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Nations are divided over how much flexibility regulators
should be given to exempt some creditors from writedowns,
according to the document prepared by Ireland, which holds the
EU’s rotating presidency. Some governments contend that uniform
rules are needed “to ensure legal certainty and a level playing
field in the single market,” while others “would prefer a
larger degree of discretion,” the document shows.  The EU’s 27 governments are racing to meet an end-June
deadline to agree on the plans, which leaders have said will be
a first step toward more ambitious moves to centralize  bank 
interventions in the 17-nation euro area.  Under draft plans presented last year by  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, losses at a crisis-hit bank
would be absorbed first by wiping out its capital, then writing
down unsecured debt holders in order of seniority.  Standing Funds  Nations would also be required to build up standing funds
that would be tapped to cover restructuring costs at failed
lenders. These resolution funds would be financed with levies on
banks.  The plans must be approved by governments and by the
European Parliament before they take effect.  Compromise texts drawn up by Ireland would hand regulators
the power to exempt derivatives from writedowns, if including
them would cause more harm than good.  Regulators could also, exceptionally, exempt a creditor
from losses if legal or practical reasons make it impossible to
impose a writedown “within a reasonable time,” according to
the Irish document, dated June 10. Such exemptions would be
capped at 5 percent of a particular class of creditors.  “Any further changes to the balance of the text towards
greater flexibility is likely to be challenged by the group of
 member states  who favor harmonization,” according to the
document. This “could make agreement more difficult to
achieve.”  Compromise Plan  Such changes would also need to be counterbalanced by
toughening draft rules on the minimum amount of securities banks
must issue that could be subject to a so-called bail-in, or by
increasing the required size of resolution funds, according to
the document.  Under the current compromise plan, national resolution
funds would be required to have reserves equivalent to 0.5
percent of insured deposits in that country.  Nations are also split over whether the bail-in powers
should take effect in 2015 or 2018, according to the document,
which advocates a 2018 start date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  