-- Yen Weakens on Outlook for Further BOJ Stimulus; Aussie Advances
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-12T13:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/euro-near-3-1-2-month-high-before-coeure-as-rate-cut-bets-wane.html
The yen fell against all of its 16
major counterparts on speculation the biggest gain in three
years yesterday was too rapid amid forecasts for further
monetary stimulus from the  Bank of Japan .  Japan’s currency weakened for the third time in four days
against the dollar after a government report showed machine
orders dropped more than economists forecast. The U.S. currency
gained the most this month versus the euro before a report
tomorrow projected to show  retail sales  increased. Australia’s
currency climbed from almost a three-year low after  consumer
confidence  increased.  “We’re seeing a bit of a rebound in some short-yen
positions after a panicked move yesterday,” Brian Kim, a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “People might have to get used to a more-choppy path
with a couple dollar-yen drops along the way. Structural
arguments for a weaker yen still remain.” A short position is a
bet that an asset will decline in value.  The yen fell 0.5 percent to 96.48 per dollar at 9:16 a.m.
in  New York  after jumping 2.8 percent yesterday.  Japan ’s
currency declined 0.3 percent to 128.24 per euro, following a
gain of 2.4 percent yesterday. The dollar rose 0.2 percent to
$1.3293 per euro, touching the biggest advance on a closing
basis since May 31.  One-year implied volatility for the dollar-yen climbed to
16.03 percent, its highest level since March 2011.  Rand, Pound  South Africa ’s rand strengthened for a second day as
investors gauged the country’s worst bond selloff in four years
was overdone. The currency increased 1.3 percent to 9.9427 per
dollar.  The British pound rose for a second day versus the euro,
reaching the strongest level in more than three weeks, after a
report showed U.K.  jobless claims  fell more than economists
forecast in May. Sterling gained 0.3 percent to 84.83 pence per
euro after earlier climbing the strongest level on a closing
basis since May 20.  India ’s rupee rebounded a day after falling to a record low
versus the dollar as the government said it is considering
options to spur inflows and  Fitch Ratings  revised the nation’s
credit-rating outlook to stable from negative. The currency
appreciated 1 percent to 57.7900, after reaching its biggest
gain on a closing basis since Jan. 18.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index fell to
10.53 percent after rising to 10.59 percent yesterday, the
highest since June 2012.  Economic Outlook  The dollar rose against the yen and euro amid speculation
an improving  U.S. economy  will encourage the  Federal Reserve  to
scale back asset purchases that tend to devalue a currency.  Sales at U.S. retailers increased 0.4 percent last month,
following a 0.1 percent gain in April, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the Commerce Department
releases the figures tomorrow.  “The U.S. economy is going to re-accelerate in terms of
its growth path going into the second half of this year,” Kathy Matsui, chief Japan equity strategist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in  Tokyo , said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Markets
“will start to drive  interest rates  in the U.S. higher, and
that widening interest-rate differential between the  U.S. dollar 
and Japanese yen will help weaken the yen.”  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
trading partners, rose 0.1 percent to 81.156 after falling to
81.034 yesterday, the lowest on a closing basis since Feb. 19.  Aussie Bounce  Australia’s dollar snapped a three-day slide versus the
U.S. currency as a technical indicator signaled recent selling
was overdone. The relative-strength index versus the greenback
fell to 30.7 yesterday, near the 30 level that some traders see
as a sign the price has fallen too rapidly and is poised to
change direction.  The so-called Aussie has tumbled 8.3 percent since the end
of March, set for the biggest quarterly decline since the period
ended September 2011.  There are “probably quite a few people who’ve got short
the Australian dollar near the lows yesterday, and they’re now
suffering a painful squeeze,” said Ray Attrill, global co-head
of foreign-exchange strategy at National  Australia  Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “At the moment, there’s the potential for a squeeze up
to 95 or 96” U.S. cents, he said.  The Aussie gained 1.1 percent to 95.26 U.S. cents after
falling to 93.26 yesterday, the weakest since September 2010.
 New Zealand ’s dollar rose the most out of the greenback’s 16
most-traded counterparts, appreciating 1.5 percent to 79.92 U.S.
cents.  Japan Policy  The BOJ refrained from adding stimulus or expanding its
toolkit for tackling volatility in bonds after a policy meeting
yesterday. Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the central bank would
discuss longer fund operations when needed to calm markets.  Japanese  machine orders  dropped 8.8 percent in April from
March after rising for the previous two months, the Cabinet
office said in Tokyo. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
forecast a decline of 8.1 percent.  The yen has slumped 8.3 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 4
percent and the dollar strengthened 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  