-- European Film Stars Urge Exclusion of Culture From EU-U.S. Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/european-film-stars-urge-exclusion-of-culture-from-eu-u-s-talks.html
European film directors and actors
called for audiovisual works to be excluded from planned free-trade talks with the U.S., highlighting hurdles to an accord
that would expand the world’s largest economic relationship.  Greek-French movie director Costa Gavras and French actress
Berenice Bejo were part of a film-industry delegation that
showed up at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France,
yesterday to say the “cultural exception” isn’t negotiable.  “We risk seeing only American works,” Gavras told
reporters in the 27-nation European Union assembly. “It’s a
cultural invasion. We don’t want that.” In a  non-binding
resolution  last month, the EU Parliament itself urged the
exclusion of “cultural and audiovisual services, including
those provided online,” from negotiations with the U.S.  The audiovisual industry represents some of the pitfalls in
any EU-U.S. push for a broad free-trade pact, eliciting
protectionist sentiments in a French-led group and splitting
policy makers in  Europe . Agriculture is another politically
sensitive area.  On June 14, EU trade ministers are due to decide whether to
authorize the start of talks with the U.S. on removing tariffs,
easing regulatory barriers and expanding access in investment,
services and public procurement. The European Commission, the
EU’s trade authority, would lead the negotiations for the
European side.  The Brussels-based commission has rejected calls for an
exclusion of the audiovisual sector. Instead, the commission has
proposed fixing “concrete redlines” for the negotiations to
ensure European policies to promote cultural works aren’t
jeopardized.  Cultural Diversity  “The issue is not whether cultural diversity needs to be
defended, but what is the best way to pursue this overriding
objective of general interest whilst seeking an ambitious
agreement with the U.S.,” the commission said in a position
paper on the matter.  One redline recommended by the commission would protect
2010 EU legislation requiring broadcasters to reserve for
European works a majority share of their transmission time. This
law also reserves for European “independent” works at least 10
percent of broadcasters’ transmission time or at least 10
percent of their programming budget.  A second redline would protect all forms of subsidies to
the audiovisual industry in the EU.  Soft Loans  EU nations support films to the tune of around 3 billion
euros ($4 billion) a year, including 2 billion euros in grants
and soft loans and 1 billion euros in tax incentives, according
to the commission, which says most of this aid comes from
France, the U.K.,  Germany ,  Italy  and  Spain .  In addition, the EU itself backs audiovisual works through
a seven-year program that has a budget of 755 million euros,
according to the commission.  A third red line outlined by the commission would preserve
the right of the EU and its member nations to adapt legislation
to the digital environment.  The film-industry representatives, among 7,000 backers of a
petition to keep audiovisual matters out of the planned free-trade talks with the U.S., said nothing but a blanket exclusion
would suffice.  “I am worried,” said Bejo, who has starred in films such
as “The Artist” and “The Past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  