-- European Energy Exchange Approves New Carbon-Market Subsidiary
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-11T15:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/european-energy-exchange-approves-new-carbon-market-subsidiary.html
European Energy Exchange AG will set
up its carbon exchange, the world’s second-biggest emissions
bourse, as a wholly owned subsidiary, according to an e-mailed
statement from the company.  Shareholders in EEX, based in Leipzig,  Germany , approved
the move at an annual general meeting held June 6, according to
the statement. EEX’s carbon market will be called Global
Environmental Exchange GmbH, or GEEX.  “Collaborations with other trading platforms are much
easier to implement in an independent company,” Peter Reitz,
chief executive officer of EEX, said in the statement. “The
time is now right for us to implement in  emissions trading , what
we have already successfully carried out in the field of power
and natural gas trading.”  More than 250 million metric tons of European Union carbon
permits and United Nations emissions offsets were handled by EEX
in 2012, more than twice the volume in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with more than 6.6 billion
tons traded on London-based ICE Futures  Europe , the market’s
biggest exchange.  EEX was awarded contracts by the European Union and Germany
last year to auction more than 627 million EU permits on their
behalf in 2013. Representatives of EU governments are scheduled
to vote this month on EEX being the permanent platform for
German carbon auctions through 2020, according to a document
obtained June 5 by  Bloomberg News .  “The new company will operate the emissions spot and
derivatives market and will operate the auctions as a service
provider for EEX,” Eileen Heike, a spokeswoman for EEX, said
today by phone from Leipzig. “The contracts regarding the
auctions will not change.”  Heike said there were no specific projects yet planned for
the new subsidiary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  