-- Teva Targets $4 Billion Lupus Market With Laquinimod Test
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-06-12T13:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/teva-targets-4-billion-lupus-market-with-laquinimod-test.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
is planning an advanced study of the experimental drug
laquinimod as a treatment for a kidney inflammation caused by
lupus after the pill showed promise in a smaller trial.  Kidney function improved for lupus nephritis patients who
took laquinimod in combination with the available treatments in
a mid-stage study of 46 people, according to an  abstract posted 
on the European League Against Rheumatism website ahead of the
group’s meeting in Madrid this week.  Teva plans to start a larger study soon, according to a
spokesman for the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company. The drug
may capture sales of $400 million to $800 million in the broader
$4 billion lupus market, said Ronny Gal, a New York-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “The drug is clearly active with results in the ‘ballpark’
for a product which will be added on to current therapy,” Gal
said in a note to investors. “Our impression is that
expectations for laquinimod are minimal and against that
benchmark we believe that the results in lupus nephritis are
decent.”  Swedish partner  Active Biotech AB (ACTI)  gained as much as 9.8
percent, the biggest intraday increase since March 6, and traded
6.4 percent higher at 46.50 kronor as of 2:40 p.m. in  Stockholm .
Teva fell 1 percent to 143.50 shekels at the close in Tel Aviv
after saying it will pay Pfizer Inc. $1.6 billion to settle a
dispute over Protonix.  Teva and Active, now recruiting for an advanced study of
laquinimod in 1,800 multiple sclerosis patients, are exploring
whether the pill can also be effective in fighting other
disorders of the immune system such as lupus and Crohn’s
disease. Success in any of these indications would help Teva
broaden its drug portfolio as its best-selling MS injection
Copaxone faces new oral competitors.  Inflamed Kidneys  Lupus nephritis is a kidney inflammation caused by systemic
lupus erythematosus, or SLE, a disease in which the immune
system attacks the body’s own cells and organs. As many as 60
percent of SLE patients are diagnosed with lupus nephritis,
which can lead to serious illness and even death,  according  to
the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information
Clearinghouse in the U.S.  In the trial to be presented in  Madrid , 16 people received
0.5 milligram of laquinimod a day, 15 people received 1
milligram a day, and 15 got a placebo with the standard
treatment. There were four serious adverse events in each
treatment group, including one patient taking the 1-milligram
dose of laquinimod who died of pneumonia and sepsis, according
to the abstract. The study wasn’t large enough to definitively
establish differences among the treatment groups, the
researchers said in the abstract.  ‘Positive Step’  “This study is a positive step in the right direction in
terms of bringing a much-needed treatment option to this area of
significant unmet medical need,” Teva Chief Scientific Officer
Michael Hayden said in a statement to Bloomberg. “Teva will
work closely with regulatory authorities in defining the next
stages of the clinical development program which we hope to be
able to commence in the near future.”  Teva would face competition from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s
Benlysta, the  first drug  approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration that was developed specifically for lupus.
Benlysta is in a  late-stage clinical trial  for lupus nephritis.  Other companies that have been developing products for this
disease include Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and  Roche Holding AG. (ROG) 
Teva has completed a study of laquinimod in  lupus arthritis ,
which causes pain and swelling in the joints.  “The favorable trends towards laquinimod treatment in the
renal end-points, coupled with the safety and tolerability
profile, provide a rationale for further Phase III clinical
studies,” David Jayne, the researcher who led the trial, said
in a statement.  Elusive  Successful lupus treatments have been elusive, with most
therapies, including steroids to ease inflammation, used for
other disorders when they were cleared for lupus more than a
half-century ago. Teva halted development of Edratide after it
failed to achieve a target of reducing lupus activity over a 26-week treatment period in a 2007 study.  Laquinimod has failed in previous trials to beat competing
products in reducing the rate at which patients experience MS
relapses. The drug was safe in the Bravo trial and the earlier
study, Allegro, with no extra incidence of side effects,
infections or deaths versus a placebo, while reducing both
brain-volume loss and the risk of disability, according to Teva.
The Phase III study for MS, dubbed Concerto, may take as long as
two years to complete, according to Teva.  “The investment community generally looks at laquinimod as
a ’dead drug’ based on the weak initial set of results in MS,”
said Gal. “While there is still much to prove, laquinimod be a
$1 billion a year plus drug.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  