-- Ex-Citadel Credit Chief Boas Cancels Hedge Fund Plans
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-11T15:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ex-citadel-credit-chief-boas-cancels-hedge-fund-plans.html
Chris Boas, a former global head of
credit at Citadel LLC’s securities unit, canceled plans to start
his own hedge fund after failing to raise money from investors.  Boas’s Longwood Credit Partners LLP “has decided not to
pursue investor funds due to fundraising market conditions,”
Andrew Honnor, a spokesman for the London-based firm, said in an
interview today. Boas didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  Longwood was scheduled to start in the first quarter and
follow a strategy that seeks to profit from price differences
between debt securities, two people with knowledge of the matter
said in August.  Boas, 41, struggled to raise money as investors have been
hesitant to invest in hedge funds that lack an established track
record of making profits. Sutesh Sharma, a former Citigroup Inc.
proprietary-trading unit head who left the bank in 2011, scaled
back his London-based Portman Square Capital LLP hedge-fund firm
after failing to raise the $500 million it had originally sought
from investors, two people familiar with the matter said in
March.  A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  survey of 730 hedge-fund
investors released this month found just 38 percent said they
gave money to hedge funds in 2012 that were less than three
months old.  Net demand for hedge funds focused on  Europe  fell to a
negative 2 percent in 2012 after investors concluded that the
region’s sovereign debt crisis would make it difficult for
traders to make money, according to a survey of about 550 hedge-fund clients released in March by  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Lower Demand  Of 13 geographic regions tracked by Credit Suisse, Europe
was the only one to receive a negative figure last year. The
Zurich-based bank derived net demand by subtracting the number
of investors who said they intended to redeem from hedge funds
from those who said they planned to add assets. Net demand for
Europe-focused hedge funds has risen to 24 percent in 2013.  Boas was head of credit at Citadel’s hedge-fund business
before he ran credit markets at the firm’s securities unit,
which was disbanded in 2011. He had previously worked at Morgan
Stanley in that firm’s structured-credit trading business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  