-- Ex-WellCare Executives Found Guilty of Fraud in Florida
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-06-11T15:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ex-wellcare-executives-found-guilty-of-fraud-in-florida.html
WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG) ’s former
chief executive officer and chief financial officer were found
guilty of fraud in a federal crackdown on cheating in
government-funded health programs.  Todd Farha, 45, the former CEO, and Paul Behrens, 51, the
former CFO, were convicted yesterday by a jury in Tampa,
 Florida , of two counts of health-care fraud, the U.S. Justice
Department said in a statement. Behrens was also found guilty of
two counts of making false statements.  The executives were charged in March 2011 with devising a
scheme to defraud the Florida Medicaid program and making false,
fraudulent statements on expenses for behavioral health-care
services. Also convicted were William Kale, 63, a former vice
president of WellCare unit Harmony Behavioral Health, and Peter
Clay, 56, a former WellCare vice president of medical economics.  Companies in Florida are required to spend at least
80 percent of the money given by Medicaid for mental health care
directly on patients. If they spend less, they are supposed to
give the difference to the state. The executives avoided making
the refunds to the state by setting up a unit to hide the money
from regulators, according to prosecutors. They also falsified
information on payments to doctors and mental health centers.  Whistle-Blower Claim  From 2003 through 2007, Tampa-based WellCare failed to pay
the state $40 million in refunds, prosecutors said. A whistle-blower at the company, financial analyst Sean Hellein, told the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  about the plot and cooperated in
its investigation.  WellCare has paid out at least $427 million in settlements
to government agencies and shareholders since 2007.  “The company acted swiftly in October 2007 upon learning
of the wrongdoing and separated the individuals involved,” Jack
Maurer, a spokesman for WellCare, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Over the past five years we have cooperated fully with state
and federal authorities in their investigations, and resolved
all of the issues that directly involved the company.”  WellCare sued its former executives and that action was
stayed pending the outcome of the criminal trial, Maurer said.  “We have made significant changes to the governance of our
company to help ensure that this never happens again,” he said.  The maximum penalty for the health-care fraud is 10 years
in prison for each count. For other charges, the top sentence is
five years. No sentencing date has been set. The jury found the
defendants not guilty of some charges and reached no verdict on
others.  WellCare’s former general counsel, Thaddeus Bereday, will
be tried separately, according to the government.  The case is U.S. v. Farha, 11-00115, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  