-- Facebook Won’t Be Next Addition to S&P 500, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-06-11T20:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/facebook-won-t-be-next-addition-to-s-p-500-credit-suisse-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the operator of the
world’s largest social network, is not the top candidate for
inclusion in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index when the gauge’s
membership is next updated, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Facebook has reported losses in two quarters since it began
trading a year ago and the benchmark U.S. equity index is
overweight technology companies, making it less likely S&P will
add the  Menlo Park , California-based company to the measure,
according to Stephen Casciano, a New York-based analyst at
Credit Suisse.  “A great deal of attention turned toward prospective index
inclusions for” Facebook, Casciano wrote in a note dated
yesterday. “We hold the view that it’s not a top candidate due
to its sector and spotty earnings performance.”  Companies added to the  S&P 500  usually have reported four
straight quarters of profit, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices’
methodology. The firm also considers market capitalization and
the balance of sectors, among other factors.  Facebook reported losses in the second and third quarters
 last year , and technology stocks represent 18 percent of the
index, the most out of 10 groups. Facebook’s $58 billion market
capitalization exceeds that of several Internet companies in the
S&P 500, including Yahoo! Inc. and Priceline.com Inc.  Top Candidates  Real estate, software and capital goods companies are the
most underweight in the index out of 24  groups , Credit Suisse
data show. Casciano says the top candidates to be the next
addition include General Growth Properties Inc. and Delta Air
Lines Inc.  A stock’s inclusion in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  may prompt money
managers to shift holdings to match the index. About $5.58
trillion is benchmarked to the gauge, according to S&P’s
website.  Facebook shares gained 4.5 percent yesterday after an
 analyst  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. speculated the company would be
selected for the index. Its shares fell 1.2 percent today to
$24.03 and have lost 37 percent since the IPO. The stock is
already in other U.S. stock gauges, such as the Russell 1000
Index and the Nasdaq 100 Stock Index.  S&P makes changes to the index when existing members are
deleted, usually following an acquisition. General Motors Co.
was the  last stock  added, joining June 6 as  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Co. completed a purchase of H.J. Heinz & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  