-- Faurecia Bets on Global Projects to Escape European Woes
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-06-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/faurecia-bets-on-global-projects-to-escape-european-woes.html
Faurecia SA (EO) ,  Europe ’s largest maker
of car interiors, is pushing for global supply contracts with
customers such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  as the component manufacturer
weans itself from relying on its recession-strapped home region.  The strategy will be key to Faurecia’s expansion into
growth markets including  China , where it’s planning to open five
factories a year for a total of 60 sites in the country by 2016,
and the U.S., where it will run 43 plants that year compared
with 38 now, Chief Executive Officer Yann Delabriere said.  “The equation now is to have one model launched everywhere
in parallel,” Delabriere said in an interview at Faurecia
headquarters in the Paris suburb of Nanterre. “It’s a very
favorable trend for the equipment industry. Fragmentation of the
supply base is stupid.”  Faurecia forecasts that markets outside Europe will account
for more than 50 percent of its sales in 2013, versus 44 percent
last year, as a sixth consecutive annual drop in auto sales
pushes the company to seek business elsewhere. It’s tapping into
carmakers’ lower-cost procurement strategies, including
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s modular model design and joint purchases by
French producer  Renault SA (RNO)  and Japanese partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)   “It’s a trend that’s been going on over several years now,
even if it’s been accelerating over the last two to three
years,” said Thomas Besson, a Paris-based analyst at Kepler
Cheuvreux who recommends buying the shares. “Carmakers such as
Volkswagen and Renault-Nissan are in the process of implementing
new modular platforms that require a global parts supply, which
generates very large contracts for the chosen suppliers.”  Ford Focus  Faurecia makes instrument and door panels for the  Ford
Focus , which research company R.L. Polk & Co. ranked as the
world’s top-selling car last year. Under the Dearborn, Michigan-based manufacturer’s One Ford strategy to develop a single model
range worldwide, 13 Faurecia factories supply seven of the
carmaker’s assembly lines for the Focus, said Olivier Le Friec,
a Faurecia spokesman.  The French company, which last year bought Ford’s car-interior business in Saline,  Michigan , has a goal of becoming
one of the top five industry suppliers in  North America  with $7
billion in yearly sales there by 2016, Delabriere said. The
Chinese car market, the world’s biggest, will double its
proportion of Faurecia’s revenue to about 20 percent by then, he
said, reiterating a target  outlined  in November.  Faurecia has gained 49 percent this year, valuing the
company at 1.94 billion euros ($2.57 billion). That’s the
second-biggest increase in 2013 on the 15-stock Bloomberg EMEA
Auto Parts & Equipment Index, which has risen 12 percent.  Spending Reductions  Growth plans outside Europe contrast with Faurecia’s
cutbacks in the region, where the company is reducing
expenditures by about 100 million euros, or 6 percent of fixed
costs. Faurecia’s global projects limit the effects of the
European car-market contraction, Delabriere said.  “When we discuss with Volkswagen or Renault-Nissan, we
don’t discuss Europe specifically from the rest of the world,”
Delabriere said. “Our clients know that their first cost driver
is volume, so the more volume they get with global players, the
more they get cost benefits.”  Ford and Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW are Faurecia’s two
biggest customers, while controlling shareholder  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  ranks third. The Paris-based carmaker consumed 3 billion
euros in cash last year amid falling sales. Peugeot’s turnaround
efforts have included reducing capacity, cutting jobs and
selling some businesses.  The largest remaining asset that’s available for sale would
be Peugeot’s 57.5 percent Faurecia stake. The holding isn’t for
sale, Peugeot Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon
said in February. The company is reluctant to sell the stock
because of Faurecia’s contribution to profit, two people
familiar with the situation said in May.  “You need a stable shareholder when you’re not stable,”
Delabriere said when asked about the consequences of a disposal
by Peugeot. “We’re prepared” for the possibility of a sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  