-- Fed Mortgage Stockpile Seen Cushioning Pullback: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-11T13:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/fed-mortgage-stockpile-seen-cushioning-pullback-credit-markets.html
The $1.2 trillion of mortgage-backed
 securities  the Federal Reserve has amassed to stoke economic
growth is creating a potential firewall that dealers say is
shielding the bond market from a rapid decline as policy makers
debate scaling back debt purchases.  The stockpile, which has made the Fed the biggest holder of
government-backed mortgage bonds, is cutting the risk that a
sudden jump in Treasury yields will lead to an even bigger surge
as investors place bearish bets to protect against housing-debt
losses triggered by rising rates, a practice known as convexity
hedging, according to dealers from Deutsche Bank AG to Barclays
Plc. The Fed, which doesn’t hedge, owns about 21 percent of
agency mortgage bonds, up from zero a decade ago. The share
owned by investors that typically hedge has dropped.  The shift is reducing the odds that the bond market relives
2003, when convexity hedging fueled a 1.45 percentage-point
increase in  10-year (USGG10YR)  Treasury  yields  in two months and led to a
4.03 percent loss that July in the Bank of America U.S.
Corporate & Government Index, the biggest monthly decline in
more than two decades. That index lost 2.07 percent in May, the
biggest decline since the 2008 credit crisis, as Treasury yields
increased 0.45 percentage point.  “The actual convexity hedging flows will be less when
rates rise this time than it was in the past,” Dominic Konstam,
the global head of interest-rates research at Deutsche Bank in
New York, said in a May 29 telephone interview. The hedging
“was massive in 2003, and we won’t see a repeat of that. With
the Fed holding so much of the mortgage paper, it really knocks
down the amount of mortgage hedging needed when yields rise.”  Extended Duration  As rates increase, the expected average lives of mortgage
bonds and loan-servicing contracts extend as potential
refinancing drops, leaving holders more vulnerable to losses
from rising rates. Investors then may seek to pare the duration
risk or rebalance existing hedges by selling longer-dated
Treasury securities, mortgage bonds or transacting in  interest-rate swaps  or options on those contracts, sending yields even
higher and spreads wider.  The Fed, domestic banks and overseas investors, none of
which typically hedge their mortgage holdings, together own
almost 65 percent of the outstanding balance of home-loan
securities backed by government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, up from 39 percent in December
2008, according to Nomura Securities International estimates.  Shrinking Portfolios  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s own holdings of agency
mortgage bonds, which they typically hedge in the swaps market,
fell to $374.6 billion in April, from $759.2 billion in 2008 and
$914.3 billion in 2003. The companies are being forced to shrink
their investment portfolios after being seized by the U.S. and
are carrying more  delinquent  and modified whole loans.  While convexity hedging isn’t as large as it once was, it
still has been sufficient to contribute to the market’s move
during the past few weeks and remains a risk, according to
Ohmsatya Ravi, a mortgage-bond analyst in New York at Nomura.
Because Wall Street dealers are more cautious after the 2008
financial crisis, even the reduced trading can be significant,
he said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “The impact is going to be meaningful because no one is
willing to take the other side to the same degree,” Ravi said.
“The dealers’ risk-taking propensity and willingness is
lower.”  Yields Jump  Treasuries yields jumped today on speculation the increase
over the past month had triggered convexity-related selling.
Yields on the 10-year  note  rose as much as 0.08 percentage point
to 2.29 percent, the highest intraday level since April 2012,
and traded at 2.25 percent as of 9:31 a.m. in New York.  It’s the “liquidation of mortgage paper, which needs to be
hedged because of convexity fears,” said Thomas di Galoma,
senior vice president of fixed-income rates trading at ED&F Man
Capital Markets in New York. “That’s where the selling pressure
is coming from” today.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against
losses on corporate bonds in the U.S. rose for the second day,
approaching a two-month high. GM Financial, the unit of  General
Motors Co. (GM)  that finances buyers with blemished credit, leads
companies planning $4.8 billion of asset-backed bonds.  Federal-Mogul Corp. (FDML) , the auto-parts supplier controlled by billionaire
 Carl Icahn , is seeking $3.05 billion of debt to refinance.  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2.8 basis points to
a mid-price of 86.9 basis points as of 9:26 a.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index reached
88.7 on June 6, the highest intraday level since April 5.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, rose 7.7 to 114.  Both indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 4.8 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to data from
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Subprime Bonds  GM Financial plans to sell $1 billion of securities linked
to subprime auto loans, according to people with knowledge of
the transaction who asked not to be identified because terms
aren’t public. Barclays, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank
AG and Morgan Stanley are managing the transaction for the Fort
Worth, Texas-based company.  Sales of bonds linked to subprime vehicle debt are
climbing, accounting for 13.2 percent of asset-backed issuance
this year compared with 10.5 percent in 2012, according to Wells
Fargo & Co. Borrowers have sold about $10 billion of the
securities to date, analysts at the bank led by John McElravey
in  Charlotte , North Carolina, wrote in a June 7 report.  Federal-Mogul  Federal-Mogul’s funding will consist of a $1.75 billion
term loan, a $550 million revolving credit line and $750 million
of senior notes, the company said yesterday in a regulatory
filing.  Federal-Mogul had $2.8 billion outstanding under its
existing credit pact at the end of March, including a $1.9
billion term loan B due next year and a $950 million term loan C
that matures in 2015, according to the filing.  Concern that convexity hedges would accelerate mounted in
May as the yield on 10-year Treasuries jumped 0.45 percentage
point, the biggest monthly increase since December 2010, amid
speculation an improving economy would prompt the Fed to scale
back its $85 billion of monthly mortgage and Treasuries
purchases. The yield reached 2.23 percent on May 29, the highest
since April 2012, before falling back to 2.21 through yesterday.  Yields on one type of mortgage bonds the Fed is buying
soared to a one-year high of 142 basis points more than an
average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates on June 5, from 114
at the start of May, Bloomberg data show.  Mortgage Rates  Rates for a 30-year home loan rose to 3.91 percent in the
week ended June 6, from 3.81 percent, McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac said in a statement. That’s up from 3.35 percent at
the start of May. The 15-year rate has increased to 3.03 percent
from 2.56 percent at the start of last month.  One measure of duration of agency mortgage bonds rose to
4.8 years last week from 3.7 years in April, Barclays index data
show. The duration of  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s 3.5 percent debt, which is
now 6.2 years, would rise to 7.8 years if rates rise 1
percentage point, according to Bloomberg’s prepayment model.  Real estate investment trusts  that buy mortgage bonds were
one of the biggest drivers of the rise in yields in that market,
Ader said. As prices of mortgage bonds fell, eroding a REIT’s
net worth, the companies sold bonds to repay loans to reverse
rising leverage, according to Mahesh Swaminathan, Credit
Suisse’s head of residential mortgage-bond strategy.  “It’s probably the first time we’ve seen this magnitude of
adjustment for the REITs,” he said. “Which is why, depending
on who you talk to, convexity has been either a big deal or not
a big deal.”  REIT Expansion  REIT holdings of agency mortgage securities have almost
quadrupled since 2008 to about $350 billion last year. Their
deleveraging sales are more linked to the performance of the
bonds relative to hedges, rather than their outright prices,
JPMorgan analyst led by Matt Jozoff in New York said in a June 7
report.  Increased volatility in swap spreads during the past month,
a gauge of convexity-related hedging, shows some hedging has
taken place according to Citigroup Inc. and Nomura. When
investors need to reduce duration they sometimes pay fixed rates
in swaps, which helps widen the swap spread, or the gap relative
to similar-maturity Treasury yields.  The U.S. 10-year interest-rate swap spread rose 0.12 basis
points to 20.85 basis points as of 9:25 a.m. in New York,
heading for the highest closing level since June 4, 2012. It has
climbed from 12.6 basis points on May 21, the day before Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in congressional testimony that
the central bank could consider reducing the $85 billion in
monthly Treasury and mortgage debt purchases within “the next
few meetings” if officials see signs of sustainable improvement
in the labor market.  ‘Much Different’  “The convexity-driven demands are much different than they
once were,” with the balance sheets of Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac smaller and the Fed owning many of the most “exceptionally
negatively convex assets,” said Jason Callan, head of
structured products at Minneapolis-based Columbia Management
Investment Advisers LLC, whose firm manages about $167 billion
in fixed-income. “There’s definitely been some of that, but I
don’t think it’s been anywhere near the magnitude of what it
once was,” he said.  The U.S. council of regulators working to strengthen the
financial system wrote in April that despite the changes in the
structure of the mortgage market it was still ”ambiguous” if
the risk of a ”convexity event” was more or less than in 2003.
The danger is that it can create “a vicious circle of fire
sales that can strain market liquidity,” the Financial
Stability Oversight Council wrote in the  report .  Refinancing Peak  Mortgage originators’ smaller pipelines of pending loans
relative to 2003 is also helping to limit the impact of rising
rates, Barclays analysts including Nicholas Strand wrote in a
May 31 report. When rates climb after applications, more of the
potential borrowers are likely to decide to close on
refinancings with the same lenders and no longer shop around,
leading to the need to sell forward more mortgage bonds.  Even as rates hover not far from record lows, weekly
 refinancing applications  this year peaked in May at a level that
was 48 percent lower than the record high reached in 2003,
according to Mortgage Bankers Association data. The difficulty
that some borrowers have faced in qualifying for refinancing has
also left outstanding mortgages with a wider range of rates,
limiting how changes in those available on new loans affect
durations across the market, according to Nomura.  ‘Half’ the Scale  A 0.5 percentage-point rise in 10-year Treasury yields is
likely to trigger mortgage-related hedges that would be the
equivalent of about $100 billion sales of the debt, according to
Deutsche Bank. That’s about a fifth of the amount of hedging
needs in 2003, the Frankfurt-based lender said.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries surged to 4.56 percent in
August 2003 from 3.11 percent two months earlier.  Credit Suisse estimates that convexity hedgers sold the
equivalent of about $37 billion of 10-year Treasuries amid the
past 0.5 percentage-point increase in yields and will sell an
additional $48 billion if it were to climb another 0.5
percentage point.  Taken together, the hedging needs of REITs, servicers and
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac produce “probably much less than
half of the scale of hedging as in 2003,” Swaminathan said.  “The convexity risk is there, but it is really going to be
limited,” said David Ader, head of U.S. government-bond
strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , on
June 6. “However, the flip side of that is what is potentially
driving rates higher is the question if the Fed is going to
normalize rates and move out of QE. And we don’t know what that
Fed change is worth in the market,” said Ader, who was ranked
first by Institutional Investor magazine’s annual survey in
government-debt strategy for the seven years ended 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  