-- Felix Zulauf and 30-Year-Old Son Start Global Macro Hedge Fund
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-06-11T12:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/felix-zulauf-and-30-year-old-son-start-global-macro-hedge-fund.html
Felix Zulauf, a former global
strategist at  UBS AG (UBSN)  who opened his own hedge-fund firm in 1990,
is starting a fund in  Switzerland  with his 30-year-old son that
will bet on global macro-economic trends.  The fund will be managed by a new firm, Zug-based  Vicenda
Asset Management AG , and is expected to start trading in July
with about $50 million in assets, according to a person with
knowledge of the fund. The person asked not to be identified
because the firm is private.  Vicenda marks the 62-year-old investor’s return to managing
money for outside clients after four years. Felix Zulauf, who
declined to comment, will be the firm’s co-chief investment
officer along with his son, Roman Zulauf, a former portfolio
manager at Swiss hedge-fund firm  Magma Capital AG . The global
macro fund will use derivatives including futures and options to
bet on the prices of stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities,
according to a presentation obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Vicenda’s chief executive officer is Micha Blattmann, who
previously worked at UBS and Merrill Lynch & Co., the
presentation said. Felix Zulauf, a contributor to Barron’s
magazine’s Roundtable group of fund managers and strategists,
converted  Zulauf Asset Management AG  into a family office in
early 2009 that manages mostly his own funds.  Money in the new fund will come from Vicenda’s principals
and clients that invested with Zulauf in the past, the person
familiar with the situation said. Vicenda will market the fund
to other family offices and wealthy investors at first, the
person said.  Vicenda will charge a 1.5 percent management fee and 20
percent performance fee, with discounts for early or large
investors, and is targeting returns of 6 percent to 8 percent
annually, according to the marketing presentation. The average
global macro fund climbed 0.6 percent year to date through June
7, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  