-- Fewer Home Alone As Census Sees 39% Drop in Latchkey Kids
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-06-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/fewer-home-alone-as-census-sees-39-drop-in-latchkey-kids.html
The number of grade-school American
children who spend time at home alone has plunged by almost 40
percent since 1997, a result of both federal aid for after-class
programs and parents revamping work schedules, census  data  show.  Only one in nine kids aged 5 to 14 spends after-school
hours in a home without parents, according to a census report.
That compares with about one in five left unsupervised in 1997.
Some 4.5 million children were alone for an average of 6.5 hours
every week in 2011, the latest year for which figures are
available.  The decline in so-called latchkey children, a phenomenon
first described during  World War II , could be stalled in the
face of threatened federal spending reductions, advocates say.  “The funding keeps getting cut,” said Jodi Grant,
executive director of the  Afterschool Alliance , an organization
established in 2000 by the U.S. Department of Education and
private foundations. “There’s just no end in sight.”  Legislation in 1998 directed $1.2 billion in federal money
to states for the creation of after-school programs. The law,
which funds a network of school activities as part of the  21st
Century Community Learning Centers , is targeted for cuts under
the budget-reduction program known as sequestration. One
advocacy group estimates it could shrink available child-care
slots by 3.4 percent, or 56,000 positions.  Stranger Danger  The drop in the ranks of latchkey kids may also be
attributed to different approaches to parenting over the
decades, said Martha Erickson, former director of the University
of Minnesota’s Children, Youth and Family Consortium.  A growing fear of “stranger danger” and other perceived
threats to children’s safety make parents less likely to leave
their kids unsupervised, she said.  Those who pay exceptionally close attention to their
children -- dubbed helicopter parents -- are also increasing and
they’re less likely to allow their kids to be left alone after
school, Erickson said. They believe that “children need an
abundance of adult-directed, enriching activities, so
unstructured time is a waste of time,” she said.  The percentage of latchkey children with single working
parents dropped by 42 percent from 1997 to 2011, a surprising
finding, said Lynda Laughlin, a Census Bureau family demographer
and author of the report. About 14 percent of their children
aren’t supervised after school, down from 24 percent in 1997.  “Our speculation is that working parents, particularly
working single parents, have been able to find jobs that better
mirror the school day,” Laughlin  told C-SPAN  in May. “So
they’re able to take advantage of when their child’s enrolled in
school, that they have a job that matches that schedule.”  Mixed Blessing  The experience of latchkey kids is a mixed blessing,
advocacy groups say. Children left unsupervised after school
hours have been found to have more emotional and social
problems, though they also develop a greater sense of self-reliance at an earlier age, according to the William Gladden
Foundation, a Florida-based nonprofit organization for troubled
young people.  The decrease in latchkey kids has occurred as out-of-pocket
costs for child care have soared in the last 25 years. The
typical American family paid $143 a week for some amount of
child care in 2011, a 70 percent jump over the inflation-adjusted 1985 average payment of $84. Median  household income 
has risen only 7.3 percent to $50,054 during that time.  The child-care tab was steepest for mothers with college
degrees, who paid an average of $178 weekly, according to the
census  report . Moms who dropped out of high school paid an
average of $111 weekly. The typical married mom paid $157
weekly, while single moms ran up an average $112 child-care tab.  Grandparents Help  About one in six parents told the Census Bureau they rely
on multiple arrangements to provide after-school care for kids.
About 15 percent cited enrichment activities as the source of
their child care. Slightly more than one in four had
grandparents or other relatives take care of children.  The percentage of unsupervised kids had been increasing as
more mothers entered the workforce in the 1970s and ’80s. By
1995,  the government said , the ranks of latchkey kids made up
about 18 percent of the grade-school population.  Since the 1998 law setting up the after-school programs was
passed, with an initial budget of $40 million, the number of
children served at more than 11,000 learning centers has grown
to 1.7 million, according to a report by the Afterschool
Alliance. A  2011 study  by Learning Point Associates, a
Washington-based education consulting firm, found 72 percent of
children who attend the centers improve their homework and class
participation. More than one-third had better grades in English
and math.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  