-- Forest Adds Icahn Director in Pact to Avoid Proxy Fight
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-11T20:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/forest-adds-icahn-director-in-pact-to-avoid-proxy-fight.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , the
drugmaker that’s battled billionaire  Carl Icahn  in two proxy
fights, added an Icahn representative to its board to avoid a
third confrontation in as many years.  Vincent Intrieri, 56, will join New York-based Forest’s
board and help oversee succession planning for the retirement of
85-year-old Chief Executive Officer Howard Solomon, the company
said today in a statement. Intrieri has worked with Icahn since
1998 and is on the boards of companies including CVR Energy Inc.
and  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , other Icahn investments.  Icahn succeeded last year in adding one member to Forest’s
board after a proxy fight in which he challenged the company’s
strategy and took issue with the potential for Solomon’s son,
David, to succeed him as CEO. In today’s agreement, Icahn will
vote his shares -- about  12 percent  of the company -- for
Forest’s 11 nominees including Intrieri and not run a proxy
contest. He also agreed to undisclosed standstill restrictions
that will be in effect as long as Intrieri is on the board.  “I have spoken to Howard Solomon several times in the last
month and do not believe that our views concerning Forest are
that far apart,” Icahn said in the statement. “In light of
Forest’s attractive emerging product line, we both believe that
we can work together to bring major changes that will enhance
shareholder value.”  Forest declined 2.9 percent to $39.83 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The shares have gained 13 percent this year.  Howard Solomon is scheduled to retire as CEO at year’s end,
the company said in a statement on May 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  