-- French Flights Hampered on Controller Strike Over EU Role
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-06-11T17:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/french-flights-crippled-as-controllers-strike-to-keep-authority.html
French air traffic controllers began
a two-day strike leading to 1,800 flight cancellations at
carriers spanning  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group to  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  as they
protest against European plans to curtail national oversight.  Employees will return to their posts on the morning of June
13, a day earlier than previously planned, their union said. Air
 France  SA sought to transport all long-haul passengers by
reducing frequencies to key destinations such as  New York , while
travelers on flights within  Europe  were asked to postpone.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  scrapped 171 services today into France.  The strike is a response to plans by European Union
regulators to expand their powers in a bid to lower air-traffic
charges and shorten flight routes in the bloc, challenging
national controllers. Proposed draft legislation would give the
European Commission greater authority to enforce performance
standards for air-traffic-control organizations and would open
up support services such as meteorology to competition.  The protests risk throwing into disarray Airbus SAS’s plans
to run the first test flight of its A350 aircraft this week. The
Toulouse, France-based planemaker has indicated it wants to fly
in coming days, without specifying a date, and is planning to
invite media including television cameras to witness the event.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount airline,
said this evening that 244 flights have been canceled tomorrow.  Pension Protests  Air France said in an update that all inter-continental
services will again operate but that short-haul customers should
seek to avoid travelling. Operations are likely to return to
normal on the morning of June 13, it added.  The protest is the first since 2010, when some flight
controllers joined a campaign against changes in French pension
rules. The last strike triggered by controller complaints came
in February 2008, when union members staged a four-day walk-out
over changed responsibilities for some areas.  During the current dispute, France’s civil aviation
authority has asked airlines to cut by half the number of
scheduled aircraft movements so flights can be managed by fewer
controllers. The strike began this morning and was originally
slated to end on June 14 at 5:59 a.m.  EasyJet said on its  website  that about 128 flights will be
canceled each day. Passengers will be advised by e-mail of any
cancellations and given the option of a refund or a transfer to
another flight. EasyJet cancellations include 17 to and from
Nice, 11 to and from Toulouse, and 22 to and from Paris’s
Charles de Gaulle airport.  Dublin-based Ryanair scrapped more than 200 flights today
and called on French authorities to intervene to end further
disruption, saying the right of air traffic controllers to
strike should be revoked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  