-- GameStop Jumps on Optimism for PlayStation 4 Game Resales
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2013-06-11T20:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/gamestop-jumps-most-in-10-months-after-sony-unveils-new-console.html
GameStop Corp. (GME) , the world’s largest
video-game retailer, rose the most in more than four years after
 Sony Corp. (6758)  said its coming PlayStation 4 will allow unlimited
used-game sales.  The shares  advanced  7.8 percent to $37.72 at the close in
 New York  for the largest jump since March 2009, making GameStop
the biggest gainer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
Grapevine, Texas-based retailer has added 50 percent this year,
while the S&P has advanced 14 percent.  GameStop shares have fluctuated this year on speculation
about potential restrictions on used-game sales in the new
generation of consoles. Sony’s announcement yesterday, following
Microsoft Corp.’s decision last week to allow resales of used
games on the coming Xbox One, means “status quo,” according to
 Peter Moore , chief operating officer of publisher  Electronic
Arts Inc. (EA)   “A lot of people thought Microsoft or Sony would put up a
wall,” Moore said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“That’s not the case.”  Sony said yesterday the PS4 won’t put any limits on
consumers’ ability to freely share and resell used games.  Microsoft, which yesterday announced the Xbox One will
debut in November for $499, said last week that it will let game
publishers decide whether to allow resales of titles for the
console to selected retailers. Games can be given to friends
only once, and shared with restrictions.  ‘Rising Tide’  GameStop helps to spur new-game sales because customers
trade in older titles to purchase newer ones, Julian Raines, the
company’s chief executive officer, said today in a separate
interview with Bloomberg Television. He said GameStop will be
the “dominant” retailer for Xbox One in all of the markets
where it has stores.  “We’ll see a rising tide as people spend more time in all
forms of gaming,” Raines said.  GameStop has  reported  lower or unchanged revenue in the
last six quarters as a consumer switch to mobile devices has
hurt sales of traditional video games. Pre-owned games, which
GameStop customers trade in for new versions, were 31 percent of
first-quarter revenue, while new ones represented more than 37
percent.  Sony’s new PlayStation is the company’s first new console
in 7 years and will cost $399, or 20 percent less than the Xbox
One.  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s Wii U player, introduced last November and
priced at about $300, has sold below company expectations. The
company today announced new titles coming this year and next,
including some of its biggest franchises: “ Super Mario ,”
“Donkey Kong,” “Zelda” and “Super Smash Bros.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  