-- Generali Sells Minority Stakes to Banorte for $857.5 Million
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-06-11T17:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/generali-sells-minority-stakes-to-banorte-for-857-5-million.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  agreed to
sell minority stakes in Mexican businesses to Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB for $857.5 million as Italy’s biggest insurer seeks
to boost capital.  Generali is selling its 49 percent stakes in Seguros
Banorte Generali and Pensiones Banorte Generali to Banorte,
Mexico’s third-largest lender, which holds the remainder, the
Trieste, Italy-based company said in a statement today. Generali
will book a 500 million-euro ($664 million) capital gain,
boosting its Solvency I ratio by four percentage points.  Chief Executive Officer  Mario Greco  wants to boost profit
and increase capital by disposing of certain assets, cutting
costs and focusing on faster-growing  emerging markets . The
company, which set a goal of 4 billion euros of revenue from
asset sales by 2015, exceeded 50 percent of the target with this
sale, Greco said in the statement.  “We seized Banorte’s offer at the best conditions for us
and withdrew from a minority position which was no longer
consistent with Generali’s current strategy,” Greco said.
“ Latin America  remains a very attractive market for Generali;
we therefore are interested in developing our business in the
region, in particular in the Brazilian market.”  Asset Sales  The Italian insurer is also selling its Swiss asset-management unit BSI Group as part of a plan approved in January,
after completing the disposal of its U.S. reinsurance unit last
week. Generali is in an “advanced stage” of selling BSI, Greco
said last month.  Bankinter SA (BKT)  of  Spain  may buy BSI, CEO Maria Dolores
Dancausa said in April. The firm offered 1.5 billion euros in
partnership with U.S.-based Apollo Global Management, Swiss
newspaper L’Agefi reported in March. Generali has said the unit
has a book value of 2.3 billion euros.  Generali said June 4 it expects proceeds from the sale of
its U.S. unit to  Scor SE (SCR) , France’s largest reinsurer, of $920
million, including the $750 million purchase price, $30 million
of estimated profit and $140 million of released collateral. The
company will book a $150 million capital gain from the sale,
boosting its Solvency I ratio by about one percentage point.  The insurer, which expects higher total operating profit
this year, reported first-quarter net income rising 6.3 percent
to 603 million euros as non-life insurance earnings surged.  Generali, which has  gained 55 percent  in the past 12
months, fell 1.4 percent to 13.93 euros in Milan trading today
giving the company a market value of 21.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  