-- European Bonds Slide After BOJ, Draghi Damp Central-Bank Bets
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-06-11T15:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/german-yields-reach-3-month-high-before-inflation-linked-sale.html
European  government bonds  fell,
pushing up borrowing costs for all euro-area sovereigns, as the
Bank of  Japan ’s decision to leave monetary policy unchanged
damped speculation central banks will increase debt purchases.  Spanish 10-year  yields  climbed to the highest level in two
months as European stocks slumped. Portuguese and Irish bonds
slid after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told
German television yesterday that debt buying will only be used
to target prices that are out of line with fundamentals. German
10-year yields rose to the most in more than three months as a
court began hearings on the ECB’s stimulus plan.  “Investors are realizing that very low funding rates
aren’t set in stone and that’s feeding through into the euro
rates market,” said  Michael Leister , an interest-rate
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “We are seeing a lot of
volatility and the jury remains out on exactly what the BOJ will
achieve. European bonds remain under pressure and the picture
looks weak.”  Spain ’s  10-year yield  increased six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.65 percent at 4:39 p.m. London time after
rising to 4.76 percent, the highest level since April 9. The 5.4
percent bond due in January 2023 declined 0.44, or 4.40 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,326) face amount, to 105.68.  Similar-maturity Italian yields gained six basis points to
4.35 percent after rising as much as 18 basis points to 4.47
percent.  Portugal, Ireland  Portugal ’s  10-year yield  climbed as much as 43 basis points
to 6.65 percent, the highest since Feb. 26. Ireland’s 10-year
rate rose 14 basis points to 4.22 percent and similar-maturity
Greek yields jumped 42 basis points to 9.98 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares slid 1.2 percent.  The BOJ ended a two-day meeting in  Tokyo  today leaving its
plans for the annual increase in the monetary base unchanged and
refraining from extending the maturity of loans to banks. Twenty
of 23 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the decision
forecast the BOJ would approve loans of two years or longer or
said such a move was possible.  Traders cut bets the ECB would lower borrowing costs after
Governing Council member Jozef Makuch told reporters in
Bratislava there was no need to discuss rate options now.  The implied yield on Euribor futures expiring in December
2014 climbed four basis points to 0.655 percent.  ‘Full Confidence’  The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions program,
introduced last year amid concern the euro-area would unravel,
is being reviewed by the court in Karlsruhe this week after
plaintiffs including a lawmaker allied to German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  brought a case against it. The OMT allows
potentially unlimited purchases of bonds of debt-stricken
countries that sign up to adjustment programs.  “I have full confidence in the constitutional court’s
independence, also in its ability to examine with thoroughness
and with fairness all the advice it is getting from all sides,”
Draghi said in an interview on German ZDF television.  Draghi said that in the event that OMT was ever used, it
would only target the parts of the yield curve that aren’t in
line with fundamentals.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds widened 24 basis points to 4.86
percentage points. The spread between Irish and German 10-year
rates expanded 14 basis points to 2.62 percentage points.  Draghi’s “statement didn’t help sentiment toward those
credits,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-rate strategy
and Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Taking it into context and
the way he said it, it’s really nothing to get alarmed about. I
don’t think that this bearish spread widening that we’re seeing
at the moment is sustainable.”  Most Volatile  Volatility on Greek bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Portugal and  Belgium ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  “No potential buyer wants to stand in the way of the tide
of selling,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates strategy in
Paris, wrote today in an e-mailed comment. “Should spreads
stabilize over the coming days” we would look to add Portuguese
government securities, he wrote.  Germany ’s  10-year yield  was little changed at 1.60 percent
after rising to 1.66 percent, the highest since Feb. 20.  The nation sold 805 million euros of inflation-linked debt
maturing in 2023 at an average yield of 0.06 percent. The
Netherlands sold 2.65 billion euros of 2016 securities at an
average yield of 0.495 percent, its debt agency said.  Slovenian bonds declined, pushing the yield on the 5.5
percent dollar-denominated security due in October 2022 up eight
basis points to 6.40 percent.  German bunds  handed investors a loss of 1.2 percent this
year through yesterday, according to the  Bloomberg Germany
Sovereign Bond Index. (BGER)  Separate indexes show Greek bonds returned
32 percent, Ireland’s gained 6.1 percent, Spain’s rose 5.8
percent and Italian bonds rose 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  