-- German Stocks Drop, Snapping Two Days of Gains; RWE Falls
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-06-11T07:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/german-stocks-drop-snapping-two-days-of-gains-rwe-falls.html
German stocks  declined, snapping two
days of gains, as a federal court began hearings on the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan.  RWE AG fell 0.9 percent after people familiar with the
matter said the utility is having trouble selling its oil and
gas unit. Daimler AG led automakers lower. Infineon Technologies
AG added 2.3 percent after Citigroup Inc. upgraded the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 0.7 percent to 8,247.18 at 9:43 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . German stocks rose 0.6 percent yesterday as data
showed the Japanese economy grew more than initially forecast.
The broader HDAX Index also fell 0.7 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 15 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany ’s top court will begin a two-day hearing today to
address the ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions program and the
European Stability Mechanism.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe is reviewing
the OMT, which was introduced last year as concerns peaked that
the euro region would break apart, after plaintiffs including a
lawmaker allied to  Chancellor Angela Merkel  brought a case
against it. The as-yet-unused OMT foresees potentially unlimited
purchases of bonds of debt-stricken countries that sign up to
adjustment programs.  The court last year allowed Germany to ratify the 500
billion-euro ($663 billion) ESM bailout facility and the EU
fiscal pact, while ruling the measures must include provisions
that the country won’t be forced to assume higher liabilities
without its consent. The September ruling was preliminary and
didn’t cover the OMT bond program.  RWE Declines  RWE lost 0.9 percent to 25.97 euros. Germany’s second-largest utility is struggling to find buyers for its Dea oil-and-gas unit, three people with knowledge of the matter said.
The company may have to accept a lower price than the 4.5
billion euros to 5 billion euros it initially sought if it
proceeds with a sale of the entire division, the people said.  So far, only BASF SE’s energy unit Wintershall has
expressed serious interest in buying all of Dea, two of the
people said, asking not to be identified because the talks are
private.  Daimler, the world’s third-biggest maker of  luxury
vehicles , fell 1.4 percent to 48.20 euros. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG, the biggest manufacturer of luxury cars, retreated 1.1
percent to 71.73 euros. A gauge of automakers was the second-worst performer on the Stoxx 600  Europe  Index.  Infineon, Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker, advanced 2.3
percent to 6.60 euros. Citigroup raised its recommendation on
the shares to buy from neutral, citing signs of a broad,
consistent improvement in European semiconductor demand.  Rheinmetall AG, the maker of armored military vehicles and
artillery systems, added 4.1 percent to 39.85 euros. HSBC
Holdings Plc upgraded the stock to overweight, the equivalent of
a buy rating, from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  