-- Gillard-Abbott ‘Gender War’ Flares as Sexist Menu Surfaces
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-12T05:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/gillard-accused-of-stoking-gender-war-with-abortion-comments.html
Gender took center stage in
Australia’s election campaign as the opposition accused Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  of politicizing abortion, then had to
address sexism in its own ranks.  Gillard was stoking a “false gender war” by saying a
defeat for her minority Labor government in the Sept. 14 poll
would see abortion become a political plaything for male
politicians, the Liberal-National opposition said. The coalition
in turn found itself under fire as opposition leader Tony Abbott
condemned a party fundraiser where the menu included sexually
derogatory comments about the prime minister.  “It reminds me a bit of a Punch and Judy show,” Eva Cox,
founder of the Women’s Economic Think Tank and author of
“Leading Women,” told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
“Gillard knocks down Abbott, Abbott knocks down Gillard.”  The gender debate in  Australia  has simmered for months,
with Gillard branding Abbott a misogynist and sexist, while
contending with opposition supporters’ taunts that she’s
childless and doesn’t understand family life. The issue erupted
today as Gillard contends with renewed speculation she will be
challenged for the Labor leadership as polls show her government
is on track for a landslide defeat.  Gillard, at a fundraiser yesterday, said the elections will
be a “decision about whether, once again, we will banish
women’s voices from our political life.”  ‘Political Plaything’  “We don’t want to live in an Australia where abortion
again becomes the political plaything of men who think they know
better,” said Gillard, who has previously described the ballot
as a contest between “a strong feisty woman” and a “policy-weak man.”  The abortion comments were a “crude political ploy” from
Gillard, Deputy Opposition leader  Julie Bishop  told ABC radio
today.  “She’s clearly trying to distract attention from her own
self-inflicted political woes,” Bishop said. “We would expect
a PM to seek to unite the country, not divide it through some
false gender war.”  Gillard’s comments were also challenged by women’s groups,
before the debate switched to sexism within the coalition’s
ranks.  The menu, posted on Twitter by a journalist, was from a
fundraiser for Mal Brough, a minister in former Prime Minister
 John Howard ’s government who is seeking to return to parliament
under Abbott after losing his seat in 2007.  Fundraiser Menu  One of the dishes included “Julia Gillard Kentucky Fried
Quail” -- with a description including derogatory sexual
comments about the prime minister’s body.  “I condemn it, as Mal Brough has,” Abbott told
journalists today. “I think we should all be bigger and better
than that. Whether it is a tacky scatological menu out the front
of a Liberal Party event, whether it is squalid jokes told at
union conference dinners with ministers present.”  The wording on the menu was “grossly offensive,” Gillard
told reporters today.  “This is  Tony Abbott ’s Liberals, this is
what they’re like,” she said. “We’d see this lack of respect
for women littered throughout all of his government policy
documents.”  Former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , campaigning in marginal
Labor seats in western Sydney amid speculation he is seeking to
return to the Labor leadership, said Brough “should be doing
more than apologizing.” “Mr. Brough should be taking a long,
hard look at himself because this sort of behavior is not
appropriate in the 21st century,” he told reporters.  Brough’s office said it would release a statement later
today.  Abortion Laws  Abortion is legal in Australia, though guidelines for when
termination may take place vary between states. Bishop
reiterated today the coalition would not make any changes to
abortion laws if it wins government.  Abbott, 55, said in a speech in March 2004, when he was
health minister, that abortion has been “reduced to a question
of the mother’s convenience” and is “a national tragedy.”  He has distanced himself from those comments, saying in
March he accepted “absolutely” that for any woman facing an
unexpected pregnancy “the choices are tough.”  Gillard, 51, faced down her second Labor leadership vote in
a year in March, winning uncontested. Labor hasn’t led in
opinion polls for more than 18 months and was 16 percentage
points behind the opposition on a two-party preferred basis in a
Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper on June 4.  Parliament will sit for a final two weeks starting June 17,
a danger zone for Gillard when her Labor colleagues will all be
in Canberra, enabling a snap challenge.  Workplace Relations Minister  Bill Shorten , a party
powerbroker, reiterated his backing for the prime minister.  “I continue to support her,” he told reporters today.
Responding to a question on whether she would lead Labor to the
next election, Shorten said “yes, I believe so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  