-- Gillard Faces Danger Zone for Challenge as Rudd Hits Risky Seats
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-11T01:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/gillard-faces-danger-zone-for-challenge-as-rudd-hits-risky-seats.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , needing an unprecedented recovery in popularity to win
elections in three months, faces a window in coming weeks where
her leadership could again come under challenge.  With parliament sitting for a final two weeks starting June
17 before the election campaign gets into full swing, Gillard is
approaching a danger zone when her Labor party colleagues will
all be in Canberra, enabling a snap challenge and leadership
vote.  Former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, toppled by Gillard in a
backroom coup three years ago, revived speculation of a contest
after starting campaign appearances for colleagues in marginal
seats, as opinion polls show Labor faces a landslide defeat by
 Tony Abbott ’s Liberal National coalition. The Australian
newspaper this week cited an internal Labor party survey as
showing Gillard’s minority government may lose as many as 40
seats in September.  Consistently rated Labor’s most popular leader in polls,
Rudd failed in a challenge to unseat Gillard in February 2012
and has said he stands by a commitment not to seek the
leadership again.  Recent polling puts “the party under renewed pressure with
talk of leadership challenges,” said  Zareh Ghazarian, a
lecturer in politics at  Monash University  in  Melbourne  who
predicts the loss of 30 to 35 seats. “There’s still plenty of
time for that to happen. If we look back for precedents, we know
that  Bob Hawke  replaced Bill Hayden on the day the election was
called in 1983.”  Swan Polling  Hawke went on to defeat Malcolm Fraser in that election and
become the longest serving Labor prime minister in the country’s
history. Rudd, in his early days as leader, surpassed Hawke in
recording the highest poll rating ever.  The internal polling reported in the Australian showed
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and eight other ministers, including
Education Minister Peter Garrett and Trade Minister Craig Emerson, could lose their seats. Garrett and Emerson may avoid
defeat if Rudd is restored, a separate Fairfax/ReachTel survey
published two days ago by the Sun Herald newspaper said.  Gillard remained defiant today, referring reporters to
Rudd’s own words when they questioned her on the issue.  “I will certainly be leading Labor at the next election,”
she said. “There’s been plenty of speculation and
rumormongering, and if people are wasting their time on that,
that’s time that would be better used out there in the
community.”  2010 Leaks  Gillard’s backers are reluctant to reinstall Rudd because
they blame him for leaks during the 2010 election campaign that
damaged the government and triggered a slide in opinion polls,
resulting in the closest ballot in 70 years. Former Labor leader
Mark Latham said on Australian Broadcasting Corp. television
last night that Rudd is destabilizing the government.  “You’re getting into the realm of evil here with Rudd,”
he said on the ABC’s Q&A show. “This is a program, a jihad of
revenge the like of which we’ve never seen before in the history
of Australian politics, and it goes beyond the normal human
reaction of revenge.”  Gillard has lost “significant support” among the Labor
caucus with Rudd being considered the alternative prime
minister, the ABC  reported  on its website June 9, without saying
where it got the information.  No-Confidence Option  A complication in any transition to Rudd is that Labor
relies on independents for a majority in parliament. Key
lawmaker  Tony Windsor  told ABC radio this week that his 2010
deal to back Labor was made with Gillard and a change of leader
would render it “null and void.” The loss of independent
support would potentially allow Abbott to call a vote of no
confidence that the government could lose. In such a case, the
governor-general, Australia’s head of state, may ask the
opposition leader to form a government.  The Australian reported that the biggest swings against
Labor are predicted in outer-suburban working class and migrant
areas, with the party’s primary vote seen in the 30 percent to
33 percent range.  Rudd last week campaigned in the Victorian industrial
region of Geelong, where Ford Motor Co. has a factory. The
company announced last month it would end production in
 Australia  after nine decades, with the loss of 1,200 jobs. He
plans this week to campaign in the Labor heartland of western
Sydney to help local members facing polling pressure.  The Fairfax/Reachtel survey showed Garrett’s share of the
two-party preferred vote would rise to 53.4 percent with Rudd as
Labor leader from 48.9 percent under Gillard. Emerson would
enjoy an 11.8 percentage point swing, the survey showed.  Poll Drop  Labor fell 2 percentage points to 42 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, while the opposition gained 2 points to 58
percent, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper on June 4. Gillard’s satisfaction rating dropped 3
points to 28 percent.  News Ltd. newspapers reported this week that Workplace
Relations Minister  Bill Shorten , a party powerbroker and key
backer of Gillard, commissioned polling in his Melbourne seat
that showed a 13 percent swing against him, a result that would
make his district marginal.  “Mr Shorten has indicated publicly that he is supporting
me as I get about this important work for the nation,” Gillard
told reporters today. Shorten has come under pressure to urge
her to step aside rather than face another leadership challenge,
Fairfax newspapers reported this week.  The prime minister’s bid to woo voters disaffected by party
infighting and policy reversals by announcing increased
education and health funding failed to boost Labor’s ratings.
Signs of an economic slowdown have given momentum to Abbott’s
conservative coalition, which hasn’t ruled since 2007.  Employment Weakness  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia predicts the labor market
will “remain somewhat subdued” and the government, in its May
budget, projected unemployment would rise to 5.75 percent by
June 30, 2014, from the current 5.5 percent.  The economy expanded at 2.5 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest annual pace in almost two
years.  Infrastructure Minister Anthony Albanese, who supported
Rudd in the 2012 challenge, said today that nothing has changed
in the party room.  “There’s a couple of people obviously didn’t get the
message of what  Kevin Rudd  said earlier on this year and last
year, which is that he would not challenge again for the
leadership,” Albanese told reporters in Sydney. “He made that
clear, he’s made that clear since.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  