-- Health Management Hires Advisers as Investor Seeks Talks
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/glenview-urges-health-management-to-cancel-poison-pill.html
Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) , a
subject of merger speculation, said it hired advisers to
consider strategic alternatives after the largest shareholder
said the hospital company should ease its poison pill defenses
against a hostile takeover.  Health Management said it hired Morgan Stanley and Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP in connection with share purchases by
Glenview Capital Management LLC and the “ongoing consideration
of strategic alternatives and opportunities available.” The
board also formed a committee to find a replacement for Chief
Executive Officer Gary Newsome, the Naples, Florida-based
hospital operator said yesterday in a statement.  Glenview Capital has urged Health Management to cancel the
poison pill or amend it to allow an investor to hold 25 percent
of shares without triggering the takeover provision, an increase
from the current 15 percent. Glenview Capital, based in New
York, holds 37.8 million  shares  of the hospital operator, or
14.6 percent of shares outstanding, according to the filing.  Health Management runs 71 rural hospitals, about a third of
which are located in  Florida , with about 11,100 beds. Newsome’s
announcement on May 28 that he would step down and the moves by
Glenview Capital have spurred speculation the company may be
acquired.  Health Management surged 11 percent, the  most  in almost
four years, to $15.51 at the close yesterday in New York before
the advisers’ announcement. The company has advanced 40 percent
since May 24, when it announced the takeover defense.  Strategic Talks  Glenview Capital said in a June 11 filing that it’s
considering whether to devise plans and proposals that may
change Health Management’s board. It also plans to talk with
potential nominees and may reach out to management, directors,
shareholders, potential investors, financial advisers and
others.  Health Management said in a May 24 filing that it adopted a
takeover defense because Glenview Capital had sought regulatory
approval to purchase as much as $2.2 billion of stock -- at the
time, about a 75 percent stake. The investor responded by saying
it had “no present intention or future plan” to purchase that
much stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  