-- Glencore Said to Study Combining Australian Coal Assets With Rio
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-11T16:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/glencore-said-to-study-combining-australian-coal-assets-with-rio.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the biggest
exporter of power-station coal, is studying a plan to combine
some of its Australian coal operations with mines run by Rio
Tinto Group, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Glencore and Rio own some of the largest thermal-coal mines
in the Hunter Valley region of New South Wales and have held
initial talks on ways to share mines and infrastructure to cut
costs, the people said, asking not to be identified as the
discussions are confidential. There’s no certainty an agreement
will be reached, one of the people said.  Slumping Chinese imports of the fuel and rising output in
 Indonesia  are suppressing demand for Australian coal, prompting
producers to fire workers to reduce costs. Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore Xstrata has interests in about 35 coal mines in
Australia,  Africa  and Colombia, accounting for about 10 percent
of global seaborne supplies of the fuel.  Spokesmen for Glencore and Rio Tinto declined to comment.  “A sharing of infrastructure and some combination of
operations would likely have significant merit given coal
earnings are highly sensitive to any reduction in the unit cost
base,” said Ash Lazenby, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
London.  Glencore acquired Xstrata Plc in a $29 billion all-share
deal last month, adding coal mines north of Sydney to its global
commodities trading empire. The world’s fourth-biggest mining
company is completing an integration plan for Xstrata’s assets
and envisages more than $500 million in cost savings.  Queensland Mines  Rio Tinto’s Coal & Allied unit owns mines in the Hunter
Valley. The second-biggest mining company has hired Deutsche
Bank AG to sell as much as 29 percent of the unit to reduce its
stake to as low as 51 percent, the Wall Street Journal reported
in April, citing unidentified people. Rio is also studying the
sale of its stakes in the Clermont and Blair Athol mines in
Queensland state, it said.  Glencore Xstrata owns the Ravensworth, Mount Owen and
Liddell coal operations in the Hunter Valley. The company halted
work on the Balaclava Island export terminal last month in
Queensland, citing a poor market, overcapacity and concerns that
the medium-term outlook would weigh on demand.  Australia  is the world’s second-biggest exporter of power-station coal. Glencore Xstrata’s Australian operations produced
11 million metric tons of the fuel for shipment overseas in the
first quarter of this year, it said May 13. Prices were 23
percent lower in the quarter than a year earlier, it said.  Lackluster Prices  Prices for thermal coal are likely to remain “lackluster
for the near and medium term as supply continues to grow from
miners trying to optimize production while demand remains
subdued,” Nomura International Plc analysts Sam Catalano and
Patrick Jones wrote in a June 6 report, cutting their price
forecast for the fuel by 9 percent for this year and the next.  Coal from Australia’s Newcastle port, a benchmark for Asia
and the shipment point for the fuel mined in the Hunter Valley,
has traded below $90 a ton for 12 weeks, according to data from
IHS McCloskey, a Petersfield, England-based provider. Prices
averaged $94.29 last year after slipping to a three-year low of
$78.05 on Oct. 19.  Australian mining companies need to sell seaborne energy
coal at $90 a ton to cover the cost of production and shipment,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an April 12 note, cutting its
2013 forecast for the fuel by 6 percent to $93.  China, India  The nation’s coal industry is “struggling to remain
globally competitive,” Darren Yeates, acting managing director
of Coal & Allied, said in a statement on April 22.  Still, Asian coal imports are forecast to increase to 824
million tons by 2018 from 665 million tons in 2012, Australia’s
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said in a March report.
Shipments to  China  are projected to rise 22 percent, while
exports to  India  are predicted to jump 83 percent, the Canberra-based bureau said.  Rio Chief Executive Officer Sam Walsh is seeking to sell
assets and reduce $5 billion of total costs as lower commodity
prices trim revenue.  Rio and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  bought out the minority holders in
Coal & Allied Industries Ltd. in 2011, leaving London-based Rio
with an 80 percent stake, with the remainder held by Mitsubishi.
The unit includes three mining operations with an annual
production capacity of about 27 million tons of mostly thermal
coal, according to its website.  Glencore Xstrata dropped 3.8 percent to close at 302.5
pence in  London  yesterday. Rio declined 1.4 percent to 2,702.5
pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  