-- Greece Cut to Emerging Market at MSCI in World First
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-06-11T21:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/greece-cut-to-emerging-market-at-msci-in-world-first.html
Greece became the first developed
nation to be downgraded to emerging-market status by index
provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  after the country’s stocks plunged 91 percent
since 2007.  The MSCI Greece Index will no longer be classified as a
developed market as it failed to meet criteria regarding
securities borrowing and lending facilities, short selling and
transferability, New York-based MSCI, whose equity indexes are
tracked by investors with about $7 trillion in assets, said in a
statement. The gauge consists of  two companies , Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA, the country’s largest phone
operator, and Opap SA, Greece’s biggest gambling firm.  Locked out of bond markets since April 2010, Greece was
forced to accept two European Union-led bailout packages as
public opposition to pension and wage cuts derailed the pace of
promised economic reforms. The benchmark  ASE Index (ASE) , which has 60
members, sank 83 percent since October 2007.  MSCI put Greece under review for downgrade in June 2012,
saying restrictions on in-kind transfers, off-exchange
transactions,  stock lending  and short-selling stopped Greece
from having a fully functional market. The probability of a
demotion increased after Coca-Cola HBC AG, which previously made
up almost a quarter of the Athens Stock Exchange by weight,
switched its primary listing to  London  in April.  The index provider upgraded Greece to developed-market
status in 2001. Downgrades could lead investors who follow
MSCI’s gauges to sell the nations’ equities. The weight of Greek
companies in the MSCI World Index has tumbled to 0.01 percent
from 0.16 percent in May 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Depa Blow  MSCI’s reclassification of  Greece  follows Russell
Investments, which advises funds with $2.4 trillion in assets.
Russell said in March it will downgrade Greece to an emerging
from a developed market after it failed economic and
operational-risk assessments.  The benchmark ASE has fallen 9.2 percent this week as
Greece failed to win any bids in a sale of the country’s gas
monopoly. The unsuccessful attempt to sell Depa SA dented
Greece’s state-asset sales program, which underpins 240 billion
euros ($318 billion) of bailout loans from the euro area and
 International Monetary Fund .  The ASE has rallied 88 percent since June 5, 2012, as Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s New Democracy party formed a
coalition government after finishing first in repeat elections
and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  vowed to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  