-- Greece First Developed Market Cut to Emerging at MSCI
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-12T10:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/greece-first-developed-market-cut-to-emerging-as-uae-upgraded.html
Greece became the first developed
nation to be cut to emerging-market status by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  after
the local  stock index  plunged 83 percent since 2007.  Greece failed to meet criteria regarding securities
borrowing and lending facilities, short selling and
transferability, said MSCI, whose equity indexes are tracked by
investors with about $7 trillion in assets. Qatar and the  United
Arab Emirates  were raised to emerging markets, while  Morocco  was
cut to a frontier market. New York-based MSCI kept South Korea
and Taiwan as emerging markets, and placed Chinese shares traded
on local exchanges on review for inclusion in the emerging
category, according to a statement yesterday.  The ASE Index fell 1.4 percent to 882.99 at 1:49 p.m. in
 Athens . The gauge has dropped 10 percent this week as Greece
failed to win any bids in a sale of the country’s gas monopoly.
The unsuccessful attempt to sell Depa SA dented Greece’s state-asset sales program, which underpins 240 billion euros ($318
billion) of bailout loans from the euro area and  International
Monetary Fund .  “It is unclear yet what the weight of the MSCI Greece will
be on emerging markets, but in any case it will be significantly
higher than that it has on developed markets,” Constantinos Zouzoulas, an analyst at Axia Ventures Group, a brokerage in
Athens, wrote in a note. “This could be positive news for the
Greek market as it could attract more interest, although there
could be pressure in the short term.”  Bailout Packages  Locked out of bond markets since April 2010, Greece
accepted two European Union-led bailout packages as public
opposition to pension and wage cuts derailed the pace of
promised economic reforms. The ASE was the world’s second-worst
performer since October 2007.  MSCI put Greece under review for downgrade in June 2012,
saying restrictions on in-kind transfers, off-exchange
transactions,  stock lending  and short-selling stopped the
country from having a fully functional market. The probability
of a demotion increased after Coca-Cola HBC AG, the soft-drink
bottler that previously made up almost a quarter of the Athens
Stock Exchange by weight, switched its primary listing to London
in April.  The index provider upgraded Greece to developed-market
status in 2001. The weight of Greek companies in the MSCI World
Index has tumbled to 0.01 percent from 0.16 percent in May 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Safe Havens’  “We’re already seeing money heading back to safe havens
and the MSCI decision may exacerbate that,”  Peter Sorrentino ,
who helps manage about $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a phone interview. “Greece’s
downgrade brings them back to the forefront and it’s a sign that
the crisis in Europe is far from over.”  MSCI’s reclassification of Greece follows Russell
Investments, which advises funds with $2.4 trillion in assets.
Russell said in March it will downgrade Greece to an emerging
from a developed market after it failed economic and
operational-risk assessments.  The ASE has rallied 85 percent since June 5, 2012, as Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s New Democracy party formed a
coalition government after finishing first in repeat elections
and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  vowed to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  Qatar Upgrade  In Qatar, the MSCI upgrade could draw investment of more
than $430 million while the U.A.E., which has bourses in Dubai
and  Abu Dhabi , sees flows of $370 million,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
said in a report dated May 31. Qatar’s benchmark  QE Index (DSM) 
rallied 1.8 percent today, the most since August 2011.  “An upgrade will bring more investors into the equity
markets,” Montasser Khelifi, a Dubai-based senior manager for
global markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd., said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a recognition that the business
conditions and the legislations are good enough and suitable for
investors.”  MSCI cited Qatar’s efforts to increase limits on foreign
ownership in raising its classification for the $141 billion
stock exchange.  The promotion of the U.A.E.’s $152 billion stock markets is
helping extend two of the world’s top-five equity rallies this
year. Abu Dhabi’s benchmark ADX General Index jumped 2.7 percent
today, taking its 2013 advance to  39 percent , the fourth-best
performing gauge globally among 94 tracked by Bloomberg. Dubai’s
 DFM General Index (DFMGI) , the second-best performer this year with a 48
percent jump, rose 1.6 percent.  ‘Growing Realization’  MSCI’s decision on upgrading Qatar and the U.A.E.
“reflects a growing realization of how far these economies and
their financial markets have developed in recent years,” Sam Vecht, who manages the $156 million  BlackRock Frontiers
Investment Trust (BRFI) , said in an e-mailed statement.  In Morocco, MSCI cited a failure to meet minimum liquidity
levels for several years for its downgrade to a frontier market.
The North African country, which was added to the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index in 2001, currently has the smallest weighting on
the measure. Morocco’s MADEX Free Float Index has fallen 7
percent this year and closed at the lowest since November 2006
yesterday. It was little changed today.  A shortage of foreign currency in  Egypt  may require a
consultation with investors about excluding the country from the
emerging-market index, MSCI said. The situation “could trigger
a review of the MSCI Egypt Index for potential reclassification
to frontier markets,” the index provider said. The EGX30 Index
slid 4.1 percent to an 11-month low.  China Review  MSCI said positive regulatory development in  China  prompted
the company to initiate a review of China A-shares for inclusion
in the emerging-market index. The index provider cited an
increase in quota limits for some foreign institutional
investors, increases in caps on foreign ownership and a broader
availability of financial products.  Shortcomings in capital mobility and a lack of clarity on
tax rules are obstacles for China, MSCI said.  The limited convertibility of the South Korean won was a
factor in holding the country back from developed status,
according to MSCI. It will remain on review for an upgrade.  Taiwan’s market falls short of developed-nation
classification because of market accessibility issues, including
the lack of an offshore market for the currency, the index
provider said.  “I don’t think anything has improved since the last
review,” Pearlyn Wong, a Singapore-based investment analyst at
Bank Julius Baer & Co., which oversees about $210 billion
worldwide, said by phone on June 10.  Korea Expectations  Investor expectations for an upgrade had been low for  South
Korea  because the market has underperformed among emerging
markets, according to Heo Pil Seok, the Seoul-based chief
executive officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees about $6.4 billion.  “Other emerging markets like Malaysia, Indonesia and
Thailand have become more attractive to investors, with South
Korea underperforming since 2009 when expectations for an
upgrade was at its highest level,” he said by phone on June 10.  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index has risen 39 percent in the four
years to June 10, compared with gains of at least 65 percent for
benchmark indexes in the three Southeast Asian nations. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index has advanced 39 percent.  MSCI decided against including  Israel  in its Europe Index,
a change that Ester Levanon, the Tel Aviv bourse’s chief
executive officer, said would have lured more foreign capital.  Institutional investors consulted “are not supportive of
an inclusion of the MSCI Israel Index” in the MSCI Europe
Index, the index provider said. Levanon said June 6 the move to
the MSCI Europe gauge would bring an additional flow of $1
billion to $2 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  