-- Greece Won’t Need New Budget Cuts After Depa Blow, Samaras Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s
-- 2013-06-11T13:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/greece-won-t-need-new-budget-cuts-after-depa-blow-samaras-says.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
denied more austerity measures will be needed because of the
government’s failure to attract any bids for its gas monopoly.  A new tender for the sale of Depa will be issued and the
country’s asset-sales program will continue as planned, Samaras
told reporters in Athens today. Any suggestions the government
will introduce budget cuts to compensate for shortfalls in its
revenue target from asset sales are “ridiculous,” he said.  “This is a competition that will restart very soon and
will succeed,” Samaras said after meeting with Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker . “I believe it will succeed
because the climate has changed for the country.”  Greece ’s unsuccessful attempt to sell Depa marked the
latest setback to a state-asset sales program that underpins 240
billion euros ($318 billion) of bailout loans from the euro area
and  International Monetary Fund . Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  was the
most prominent contender to buy the company, and Greece had
pinned hopes on a Russian bid to revive interest in the sales.  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond climbed 95 basis points
to 10.51 percent at 4:40 p.m. in Athens today. Greece’s
benchmark ASE Index fell 4.6 percent, extending yesterday’s 4.7
percent slump.  ‘Disappointing’ Progress  The sale of Depa and  Opap SA (OPAP) , the country’s gambling
company, were central to Greek government plans to raise 2.3
billion euros this year, a target that already has been revised
down. The IMF has described Greece’s progress on selling state
holdings as “extremely disappointing.”  Bidders were invited to express interest in either buying
all of Depa and a 66 percent stake in gas-grid operator Desfa or
just acquiring Depa. The Hellenic Republic Asset Development
Fund said yesterday it had received only one offer for Desfa,
from  Azerbaijan ’s Socar, and no bids for Depa.  Gazprom decided against bidding for Depa because it didn’t
get adequate guarantees on the gas company’s continuing
financial health, according to  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman
for the Moscow-based company. The guarantees related to state
regulation and Gazprom saw the risk of Depa’s finances worsening
by the time the deal closed, while Depa also had problems
collecting from customers, he said.  Mytilineos Holdings SA (MYTIL)  and  Motor Oil Hellas (MOH)  SA, which had
earlier made a non-binding offer for Depa through a joint
venture, between them owed Depa 225 million euros, according to
a written submission to parliament this month. Mytilineos, a
Greek industrial group and energy producer, owed 188 million
euros, while Motor Oil Hellas, the country’s second biggest
refiner, owed 37 million euros, according to the statement.  Locked out of bond markets since April 2010, Greece is the
only nation to receive two bailout packages from the euro area
and IMF as public opposition to pension and wage cuts derailed
the pace of promised economic reforms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  