-- Ibovespa Sinks Into Bear Market on Slow Growth, Inflation
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-11T21:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ibovespa-approaches-bear-market-on-slow-growth-inflation-pickup.html
The Ibovespa plunged into a  bear
market  as faltering growth drove down Brazilian consumer stocks
and raw-material exporters slid with commodities on concern the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back U.S. monetary stimulus.  The benchmark stock gauge fell 21 percent from its Jan. 3
bull market peak to 49,769.93 at the close of trading in Sao
Paulo. Oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA was the
worst performer, with a 76 percent plunge.  Brookfield
Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  led declines by homebuilders, sinking 58
percent. The Ibovespa is the first among the four biggest
emerging-market benchmarks to approach a bear market. The MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index fell 12 percent during the same period.  “You have inflation that’s higher than desired and GDP
growth weaker than people were expecting, so projections for the
year have bogged down,” Andres Calderon, a portfolio manager at
Hansberger Global Investors, which oversees $6.2 billion in
assets, said in a telephone interview. “You just haven’t had
continued positive news.”  Brazil’s retail sales unexpectedly fell in March for the
third time in four months as inflation near the top of the
central bank’s target range sapped consumer demand. Latin
America’s largest economy expanded 0.6 percent in the first
three months of 2013, below the 0.9 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. Policy makers have raised the benchmark rate
0.75 percentage point this year from a 7.25 percent record low
in a bid to curb inflation.  S&P Outlook  The Ibovespa has slumped 5.9 percent in the past three
sessions since  Standard & Poor’s  cut Brazil’s credit rating
outlook to negative. The gauge’s 90-day volatility, a measure of
price swings, rose to a five-month high of 19 today, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index fell 3 percent today as
global stocks slipped after the  Bank of Japan  left a lending
program unchanged, adding to concern central banks are growing
reluctant to add more stimulus. OGX tumbled 9.3 percent as
controller  Eike Batista  sold shares in the company for the first
time since its initial public offering. Iron-ore producer Vale
SA fell 2.9 percent and state-controlled oil company Petroleo
Brasileiro SA slid 1.9 percent as commodities slipped.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of 24 raw materials has
dropped 4.3 percent since Jan. 3, dragging down Brazilian
commodity producers, which  account  for about 39 percent of the
Ibovespa’s weighting. The real rose 0.7 percent to 2.1326 per
dollar today after touching the lowest level on a closing basis
in four years, prompting the central bank to intervene in the
 currency markets .  ‘Worst Moment’  While the MSCI Global Index has gained 9.3 percent in 2013,
the Ibovespa has declined each month. The MSCI BRIC Index of
shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China  has dropped 12 percent
this year. The dollar-denominated RTS Index of Russian stocks
slumped 20 percent from its 2013 peak last week, while the
country’s benchmark  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index has lost 17 percent from its
Jan. 28 high. Turkey’s benchmark stock index approached a bear
market today amid anti-government protests.  “This is the worst economic moment for Brazil in 10
years,” Eduardo Velho, the chief economist at INVX Global
Partners, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The time
of booming demand for commodities, which made emerging
countries’ currencies appreciate and boosted Brazil’s growth,
has passed. That’s very negative for the Ibovespa and might get
worse, considering that the U.S. may raise its  interest rates 
soon.”  Fed Stimulus  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said last month that
the central bank may reduce asset purchases in financial markets
if there’s evidence of a sustained improvement in economic
growth. Those comments helped drive benchmark 10-year U.S. bond
yields up 52 basis points, or 0.52 percentage point, since the
end of April to 2.19 percent.  Speculation that central banks in developed countries will
pare back stimulus has made emerging-market investments
riskier, according to Charles Schwab Corp., which manages $2.11
trillion in client assets.  “The new wrinkle is the currency moves and the impact that
can have on inflation,” Michelle Gibley, Schwab’s director of
international research, said by phone. “I wouldn’t paint them
all with the same brush, but the risks have risen. You’re likely
to see more of them fall into bear markets.”  Brazil ’s inflation held at 6.5 percent in May after
reaching a 16-month high of 6.59 percent in March, breaching the
upper end of policy makers’ target range.  Growth Outlook  “These markets have been reacting to the question, ‘Why
should I hold emerging markets when I can buy Treasuries that
are rising in yield?’ ” Paul Christopher, the St. Louis-based
chief international strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said by
telephone. His firm oversees about $1.3 trillion. “I think
we’ll see some good buying opportunities in emerging markets. In
the case of Brazil, it depends on the policy response. They need
to address the inflation pressure.”  Economists expect Brazil’s gross domestic product to expand
2.5 percent this year, down from 3.2 percent in January,
according to a central bank weekly survey published yesterday.
They predict a year-end rate of 8.75 percent.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 8.4 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.7 billion reais this year
through June 10, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  