-- IG Quarterly Sales Rise as Clients Bet on Cyprus, Japan, Gold
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-06-11T07:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ig-quarterly-sales-rise-as-clients-bet-on-cyprus-japan-gold.html
IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG) , the U.K.’s
biggest spread-betting firm, said fiscal fourth-quarter revenue
rose 8 percent as clients levied wagers on market-moving events
affecting Cyprus and Japan as well as the price of gold.  Revenue climbed to 104.3 million pounds ($163 million) in
the three months to May 31, boosted by growth in Australia and
Japan, the London-based company said today in a statement. While
revenue for the fiscal full-year declined 1 percent to 361.9
million pounds, pretax profit will be more than in the previous
fiscal year, the firm said, without providing a specific figure.  “Clients responded to a number of separate market events
including the Cyprus bail-in, a significant fall in gold prices,
continuing strength in the global equity markets and movements
in the yen and the Nikkei, driven by Bank of  Japan 
intervention,” IG Group said in the statement.  IG Group, founded in 1974 to enable people to bet on the
price of gold without trading the commodity itself, is seeking
to expand in countries such as Norway and  France , which have a
less established spread-betting market than the U.K. Spread-betting  firms  profit through the initial spread, or the
difference between the price offered to clients on opposite
sides of the same trade. They also charge interest on funds
loaned to clients to boost the size of their trades.  Pretax profit for this year will be increased by 4 million
pounds due to the successful defense of a legal case linked to
the insolvency of Echelon Wealth Management, IG Group said in
the statement.  Operating costs will rise in in the next fiscal year as the
company resets employees’ variable pay and invests in expanding
the firm, IG Group said. The company has offices in 15
countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  