-- IMF Says Kenya’s New Tier of Government Adds to Budget Pressure
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-06-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/imf-says-kenya-s-new-tier-of-government-adds-to-budget-pressure.html
Kenya ’s new tier of government is
adding to spending pressures, requiring wage restraint to keep
the fiscal deficit under control, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  The government will tomorrow present the country’s first
budget statement under a devolved system of governance that was
introduced after national elections in March. It enacted a
constitution in 2010 creating 47 county governments that are
largely dependent on national transfers for revenue.  “There will be spending pressures linked to the devolution
process,” Ragnar Gudmundsson, the IMF’s representative in
Kenya, said in an e-mailed response to questions on June 10.
“The process may also create pressures on the wage bill in the
public sector.”  While revenue growth in  East Africa ’s largest economy has
been “stunted” over the past several years amid subdued
economic expansion,  government spending  has steadily risen and
led to increased domestic and external borrowing to plug the
gap, Kenya’s Parliamentary Budget Office said in March.  The  deficit  including grants may reach 6.7 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year ending June 30, from 5.6
percent in 2011-12, according to the  Finance Ministry , which
didn’t provide an estimate for next year.  The East African Community governments of Tanzania, Uganda
and  Rwanda  will also announce 2013-14 budget plans tomorrow.
Burundi plans its budget on a calendar-year basis.  Economy Growing  The government spends about half of its  tax revenue  paying
public workers, which is “very high” and “needs to be
controlled in order to create fiscal space for much-needed
development expenditure,” Gudmundsson said.  The government projects economic growth of 6 percent in
2013 from 4.6 percent last year. Improving economic sentiment
has helped drive down Kenyan bonds yields in the primary market
and boosted share prices. Yields on three-month government debt
dropped to 6.721 percent at the last auction on June 6 from
10.78 percent a year earlier. Kenya’s  NSE All Share index  has
gained 33 percent so far this year, adding to a 39 percent rise
in 2012, when it was sub-Saharan  Africa ’s best performer.  Criticism has grown about the mushrooming wage bill after
members of parliament last month awarded themselves a pay rise
to 851,000 shillings ($10,018) a month, higher than the 532,000
shillings set by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. The
 High Court  has delayed implementation pending a court challenge.
Activists with Kenya’s Occupy Parliament movement gathered
outside parliament in Nairobi yesterday to protest the higher
salaries. Last month, protesters released pigs in front of the
buildings to symbolize greed.  Deficit Challenge  “The call for a higher wage bill may hinder efforts to
reduce the fiscal deficit especially if the government has to
increase its borrowing to meet the new demands,” Judd Murigi,
head of research at Nairobi-based African Alliance Securities
Kenya, said by phone on June 10.  Combined, Kenya’s counties will receive 210 billion
shillings, or 34.5 percent of revenue, for the fiscal year
through June 2014, according to the  Division of Revenue Bill .  County governments can collect property and entertainment
taxes and are responsible for providing basic services including
primary health care and transport.  Kenyatta, elected as president in the March 4 vote, has
promised to boost economic growth to between 7 percent and 10
percent by 2015, create a million new jobs a year, double the
amount of tarmac roads and construct a port in Lamu.  While the limited functions of county governments may cap
immediate spending increases, their needs over time will grow
and add to budget pressures,  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic
research at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said in an e-mailed response to questions on June 10.  Difficult Task  The government should put “much more focus on capital
expenditure, cutting down on recurrent expenditure where
possible,” Khan said. “Of course, given the context of more
devolved government, this will be difficult to achieve.”  Kenya should also review  tax policy , including removing
some exemptions, and strengthen taxpayer compliance to increase
revenue, Gudmundsson said. The state collected 15 percent less
revenue than targeted in the first nine months of 2012-13.  Kenya’s debt may reach 45.9 percent of GDP in 2013-14 from
44.7 percent this year, according to the budget office.  Total expenditure in 2013-14 may reach 1.65 trillion
shillings, according to estimates cited by the budget office.
The government aims to collect 986.2 billion shillings in
revenue and 491 billion shillings in grants, external financing
and domestic borrowing. That leaves a deficit of 163.4 billion
shillings, which may require spending cuts or additional
borrowing to reduce the gap, the budget office said.  “The growing wage bill may continue to be a major setback
as the implementation of devolved system of governance gains
momentum,” according to the budget office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  