-- Tin Exports From Indonesia Gain Most in Eight Months on Prices
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-06-11T08:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/tin-exports-from-indonesia-gain-most-in-eight-months-on-prices.html
Tin shipments from  Indonesia , the
largest supplier, climbed the most in eight months in May when
prices of the metal used in soldering and packaging posted a
monthly gain for the first time since January.  Exports of ingot and solder advanced 18 percent to 9,242
metric tons from 7,853 tons in April, Trade Ministry data showed
today. That’s the biggest gain since September when sales surged
75 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were
7,866 tons in May of last year.  Higher shipments may ease concern that supplies from
Indonesia will fall as the country imposes tighter purity rules
starting next month. Exports may drop 19 percent to 80,000 tons
this year because of the purity limits, according to the median
of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey in April. The new rules
increase the tin content of cargoes and reduce lead and cadmium
levels. Futures in  London  gained 2.6 percent in May.  “Smelters cashed in their production after the gain in
prices,” Hidayat Arsani, president of the Indonesian Tin Mining
Association, said by phone from Jakarta today. “We need more
money for Ramadan and Eid al-Fitr festival,” he said, referring
to the allowance Indonesian companies are obliged to pay to
workers for the Eid festival that marks the end of the Muslim
fasting month of Ramadan, starting in July this year.  Tin for delivery in three months lost 1.8 percent to
$20,555 a ton on the London Metal Exchange by 4:06 p.m. in
Singapore, down 12 percent this year.  The country sold the metal to 10 countries last month, with
 Singapore  buying about 66 percent of the shipments, ministry
data showed. Other destinations included Malaysia, China and
 Thailand . Exports in the first five months of the year rose 16.5
percent to 43,900 tons, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  