-- India Stocks Beat BRIC Peers by Most on Record: Chart
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-11T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/india-stocks-beat-bric-peers-by-most-on-record-chart.html
Indian stocks are outperforming
their BRIC peers by the most ever as investment from abroad
defies outflows from other major  emerging markets .  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the ratio of the S&P BSE Sensex
Index versus the MSCI BRIC Index reached the highest since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in December 1994. The Sensex
rose 0.1 percent this year through June 10, compared with losses
of between 11 percent and 16 percent for the Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index,  Russia ’s Micex Index and  Brazil ’s Ibovespa.
The bottom panel shows India’s net foreign equity inflows of
$15.3 billion are the highest ever for the year-to-June 7 period.  Overseas investors pumped $221 million into Indian shares
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with outflows of $5 billion from emerging equities in
the five days to June 5, the most since August 2011, Morgan
Stanley said, citing EPFR Global. Investors pulled some $1.5
billion from Chinese equities, $530 million from Brazil and $360
million from Russia during the period, Morgan Stanley said.  “I’d attribute this more to the poor performance of Brazil,
China and Russia rather than good performance of  India ,” said
Peter Elston, head of Asia Pacific strategy at Aberdeen Asset
Management in  Singapore . “China has been struggling with
containing a credit-fuelled investment binge, Russia with a weak
oil price, and Brazil with inflation. It should be noted that in
the case of India, inflation has been falling.”  Overseas investors continued to plow funds into Indian
stocks last week even as a plunge in the rupee to a record low
triggered concern that energy prices may rise in a nation that
imports about 80 percent of its oil. Foreign funds sold more
than $1 billion of the nation’s corporate and sovereign bonds in
the same period, the most ever.  Indian wholesale prices increased 4.89 percent in April
from a year earlier, a 41-month low. The Reserve Bank of India
will review monetary policy on June 17 after cutting the
repurchase rate by 75 basis points this year to 7.25 percent.
Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  indicated after the most recent cut on
May 3 that the nation has almost no space to ease further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  