-- India’s Rupee Drops to Record on Concern Fed Will Pare Stimulus
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-11T04:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/india-s-rupee-drops-to-record-on-concern-fed-will-pare-stimulus.html
India ’s rupee dropped to a record
low on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare debt
purchases that have spurred inflows into  emerging markets .  Investors redeemed more than $6 billion from high-yield
bond funds worldwide in the week to June 5, EPFR Global data
show. Global funds bought a net $15.3 billion of Indian stocks
this year through June 7 and a slowdown will leave the rupee
vulnerable to an unprecedented current-account deficit,
according to Westpac Banking Corp. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia
Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-used currencies
excluding the yen, sank to a nine-month low today.  “Asian currencies are in free-fall at the moment and it’s
difficult to pick a bottom for the rupee,” said  Jonathan
Cavenagh , a strategist at Westpac in  Singapore . “We are also
possibly seeing investors who have strong equity positions in
India hedging their foreign-currency exposure, which is putting
pressure on the rupee.”  The rupee was 0.4 percent weaker at 58.3950 per dollar as
of 9:37 a.m. in Mumbai, having earlier touched an all-time low
of 58.4175, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, rose 40 basis points, or 0.40
percentage point, to 10.59 percent.  Economists estimate the Fed will reduce the amount of
monthly bond purchases to $65 billion from the current level of
$85 billion, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke, in testimony to Congress last month, said that
the monetary authority could scale back its bond-buying program
if the employment outlook shows “sustainable improvement.”  The shortfall in India’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, widened to a record of about 5 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ended March 31, the
government estimates.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards slid 0.8 percent today
to 59.34 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 1 percent to 59.47.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  