-- India Said to Plan Higher FDI Caps for Telecom, Defense Firms
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-11T05:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/india-said-to-plan-higher-fdi-caps-for-telecom-defense-firms.html
India  plans to eliminate the cap on
foreign-direct investment in telecommunications and raise the
limit in defense to lure funds and boost the rupee, two Finance
Ministry officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Overseas investors would be able to own all of a telecoms
company, up from 74 percent currently, with the ceiling in
defense rising to 49 percent from 26 percent, the officials said,
asking not to be identified as the information isn’t public. The
changes are expected to be announced late June or early July,
they said.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in March a
review of foreign-direct investment caps had begun, part of a
government push to woo capital, fund a record current-account
deficit and revive economic growth. The imbalance in the
broadest measure of trade has weighed on the rupee, which
plunged to its weakest level on record this week.  Telecoms and defense are the two major areas of the economy
where investment caps are set to be eased, the officials said.
Minor adjustments may be made in other industries, they said,
without giving further details.  The government can announce changes in the foreign
investment caps for defense and telecoms without Cabinet or
Parliament approval, one of the officials said.  Finance Ministry Spokesman D.S. Malik declined to comment
when asked about the plans.  The rupee fell as much as 1 percent to a record low of
58.705 per dollar in Mumbai today. The S&P BSE India  Sensex (SENSEX) 
index dropped 0.6 percent.  Singh’s Efforts  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  began a series of policy
changes in September to spur expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  The steps have included liberalization of foreign
investment limits in the retail and aviation industries, faster
approvals for public works, lower levies on overseas buyers of
local bonds and higher taxes on gold imports.  Etihad Airways PJSC agreed in April to buy a 24 percent
stake in Mumbai-based Jet Airways (India) Ltd. for 20.6 billion
rupees ($351 million), taking advantage of the changes.  Singh’s policy push has foundered in recent weeks as
protests over alleged graft in government disrupted parliament,
impeding bills seeking to allow overseas companies to invest in
the pensions industry for the first time, and hold as much as 49
percent of insurance businesses.  Foreign-direct investment  slid  about 21 percent to $36.9
billion last fiscal year compared with 2011-12, government data
show.  The current-account deficit widened to $32.6 billion in the
last quarter of 2012, equivalent to 6.7 percent of gross
domestic product.  Economic growth  was 5 percent in the year
ended March, the slowest pace in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  