-- Indonesia Consults CME Group on Expanding Commodity Market Trade
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-06-11T16:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/indonesia-consults-cme-group-on-expanding-commodity-market-trade.html
Indonesia , the world’s largest
producer of tin and palm oil and the third-biggest coffee
grower, is seeking the help of futures-exchange owner  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  to expand domestic trading of commodities, according to
Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi.  “Everybody is saying that  Asia  is the agent of growth in
the world, so evolvement of an Indonesian commodity market is
inevitable,” Krisnamurthi said yesterday during an interview in
 Chicago , where the CME is based. “CME is over 100 years old,
and the Indonesian commodity market is 10 to 12 years old. We
would like to grow it, develop it.”  The Indonesia Commodity & Derivatives Exchange in Jakarta
trades palm oil and gold, and added a dollar-traded tin contract
in February 2012. The country needs an expanded market as the
economy grows and production increases, Krisnamurthi said. Gross
domestic product will expand at a better than 6 percent annual
rate over the next three years, according to analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Indonesia boosted palm-oil production almost eightfold in
the past two decades, and expects to expand output to 35 million
metric tons by 2020, Krisnamurthi said. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecast 31 million in the 2013-2014 season.  Krisnamurthi and members of the Indonesian Commodity
Futures Trading Regulatory Agency met yesterday with CME Group
Chief Executive Officer Phupinder Gill, according to Aryana
Utomo, a marketing officer with the Indonesian Trade Promotion
Center in Chicago. Details of the meeting weren’t available,
Utomo said.  Chris Grams, a spokesman for the CME, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  