-- ING U.S. Falls as JPMorgan Analysts Cite Annuity Risk
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-11T17:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ing-u-s-falls-as-jpmorgan-analysts-cite-annuity-risk.html
ING U.S. Inc. (VOYA) , the insurer that had
its initial public offering last month, declined 3 percent in
 New York  trading after JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave the stock a
neutral recommendation, citing risks related to annuities.  The company, majority-owned by  ING Groep NV (INGA) , fell to $27.57
at 1 p.m. after dipping as low as $27.25. Analysts at JPMorgan
led by  Jimmy Bhullar  set a 2014 year-end price target of $28 for
the New York-based insurer. The IPO price was $19.50 a share.  ING U.S. is coping with liabilities from variable
annuities, in which the company ensures minimum returns to
clients on portfolios of stocks and bonds. ING U.S. has scaled
back from selling the retirement products. JPMorgan analysts
said in a research note that they expect return on equity to
“remain sub-par.”  “These factors, along with the prospect of secondary
offerings, justify the stock’s discount valuation,” the
analysts said.  ING Groep is required to sell off its stake in the U.S.
business by the end of 2016. ING U.S., which is changing its
name to Voya Financial, was the fourth-largest seller of
variable annuities in 2007 and had dropped out of the top 20 by
2011, according to data from industry group Limra.  Analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Deutsche Bank AG also rated the shares the equivalent of neutral
in research notes today.  “The ratings are in line with our expectations and confirm
what we’ve been saying all along,” Dana Ripley, an ING U.S.
spokesman, said in a phone interview. “We need to focus on the
execution of our retirement-readiness strategy and our ROE-improvement program, which were two of the key elements of our
investment narrative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  San Francisco  at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  