-- Mining Services Providers Face Crunch Time, HFZ’s Hobart Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-06-11T01:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/mining-services-providers-face-crunch-time-hfz-s-hobart-says.html
Mining services providers’ earnings
will fall as miners facing slower demand and profit growth cut
costs, said Scott Hobart of  HFZ Capital Management Ltd ., which
invests in commodities futures and stocks.  Occupancy of temporary housing operated by third-party
services companies is “crumbling” as mining companies reduce
reliance on outside contractors as a key avenue of cost-cutting,
said Hobart, a Hong Kong-based fund manager. Large mining firms
have built thousands of rooms for workers, sometimes next to
services-company facilities they previously used, he added.  Hobart’s forecast contrasts with U.S. investors including
Jana Partners LLC and Greenlight Capital Inc., which have
invested in mining-housing provider  Oil States International
Inc. (OIS)  Jana has spoken with the management of Oil States about
separating the well-site services unit and creating a real
estate investment trust for the housing business, a federal
 filing  by the New York-based asset manager showed.  Some providers of temporary mining accommodation are
“probably an example of the most extreme mispricing that we can
find in our market today,” Hobart said.  He yesterday declined to say whether HFZ has bets on Oil
States, citing a policy of not specifying investments by its
funds. He initially made the comments during the  Karen Leung
Memorial Investor Conference  on June 6.  Moderating Demand  Australian mining companies are cutting costs after
earnings collapsed in the last 18 months as  China ’s demand for
resources moderates. Mining and energy projects worth
about A$150 billion ($141 billion) have been delayed or canceled
in the past year in  Australia  as investments peaked and
commodity prices declined, the Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics said in a report May 22.  “A number of operators that supply into the mining sector
have yet to fully appreciate the consequences of this change of
strategy,” Hobart said, referring to miners shifting focus on
cost-cutting instead of increasing output.  HFZ manages the Hong Feng Zheng Fund, which invests across
commodity futures and equities using its understanding of the
physical commodity markets. It is part-owned by metals-focused
investment company Red Kite Management Ltd., which manages $3.3
billion, according to the  website  of unit RK Mine Finance.  Shares of Oil States, which provides housing for workers in
the Australian mining regions, Canadian oil-sands projects and
some parts of the U.S., have  risen  20 percent from April 29,
when Jana disclosed a 9.1 percent stake.  Greenlight bought $220.2 million of Oil States shares in
the first quarter, the New York-based manager said in a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission last month.  Capital Spending  Companies brought in large numbers of contractors and non-permanent employees to undertake small tasks within their mines
to help boost near-term output, Hobart said. Most of the capital
expenditure-related construction work was also done by those
temporary workers, he added.  Miners relied on temporary accommodation operated by
services companies because they were unable to provide enough
housing for the workers themselves, Hobart said. The cost of
renting one room in a remote area in Australia’s Queensland
state jumped almost fivefold over seven years to A$120 a night
at the height of the boom last year, said Hobart.  Cost of production in the northern Queensland mines of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, rose almost
fourfold over seven years to $161 per ton in 2012.  “That growth at all costs strategy has failed to deliver
and failed to deliver in a pretty stunning way,” Hobart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  