-- Insurers Shares Beating Banks by Most in 25 Years
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-11T13:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/insurers-shares-beating-banks-by-most-in-25-years.html
Canadian life insurance stocks led
by  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  are outperforming banks by the most
in more than two decades as they gain from business abroad while
lenders face slower consumer borrowing.  The six-company  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Life and Health
Insurance Index  rose 19 percent this year through yesterday
including dividends, while the eight-member S&P/TSX Commercial
Banks Index  rose  1 percent. That’s the most insurers have
commanded over banks year-to-date since at least 1987, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The momentum definitely does tip in favor of the insurers
at present as opposed to the banks,” John Aiken, a Toronto-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a May 30 phone interview.
“If you’re looking to invest in Canadian financials, you’re
looking at a slowing environment for the Canadian banks and
potentially a recovery in earnings” for the insurers.  Consumer lending is a key area of revenue for banks such as
Toronto-based  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , where it
contributed 69 percent to  profit  in the second quarter. Canadian
loan growth is cooling as households carry a record debt-to-income ratio of 165 percent. Meanwhile, Manulife and  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF) , both based in Toronto, are benefiting from joint
ventures, distribution partnerships, and  acquisitions  in
countries including  Vietnam  and China.  Shares of Manulife, Canada’s largest life insurance
company, gained 22 percent this year through yesterday on a
total return basis while  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the largest
lender, rose 2.4 percent. Manulife declined 1.3 percent to
C$16.00 at 9:35 a.m. in Toronto today and Royal slipped 0.4
percent to C$59.50.  ‘Consumer Ceiling’  Spokesmen at Manulife, Sun Life, CIBC, and RBC declined to
comment.  “We’re in the early stages of loan deceleration for the
Canadian banks, who rely so much on Canadian borrowers,” said
Kash Pashootan, portfolio manager with First Avenue Advisory of
Raymond James Ltd. in Ottawa who manages about C$125 million
($123 million) and owns CIBC and Manulife. “The consumer is
pretty much at the ceiling -- they’ve reached maximum capacity.
Insurance companies see the slowdown in domestic markets and are
relying on Asia where interest rates and growth are higher,”
Pashootan said in a May 28 phone interview.  Household credit growth decelerated to 4.1 percent in April
from 4.3 percent in March, the slowest annual pace since
February 1996, according to Bank of  Canada  data. Housing markets
have cooled, with Toronto sales down 9.6 percent on a year-to-date basis to May, after Finance Minister Jim Flaherty tightened
mortgage rules for a fourth time last year.  Asian Business  “We saw this quarter what life without robust Canadian
retail looks like for the banks,” Sumit Malhotra, an analyst
with Macquarie Capital Markets, said in a phone interview from
Toronto June 7. “Conversely, after four years of challenges the
life insurers have -- no pun intended -- come back to life.”
The companies are “getting a lift” partly from their
businesses outside of Canada, he said.  Canadian property and casualty firms are also rallying, led
by E-L Financial Corp., a Toronto-based investment company which
yesterday agreed to sell its Dominion of Canada General
Insurance Co. unit to Travelers Cos. for $1.1 billion. It rose
9.5 percent on the news, bringing its advance for the year to 49
percent.  Last year, Manulife’s Asia unit including  China  and
Cambodia, made up about 33 percent of core earnings, up from
around 20 percent in 2007, according to the insurer. Sun Life,
which operates in seven Asian countries, had 8.6 percent of
income from its Asian business, up from 5.4 percent in 2007.
Both insurers operate in  Indonesia , which has 250 million people
-- about 40 percent of Southeast Asia’s population -- and annual
 economic growth  that hasn’t fallen below 4 percent in a decade.  Rallying Stocks  Manulife, owner of Boston-based John Hancock Financial,
announced June 4 in Toronto that it’s partnering with Ho Chi
Minh City Development Joint Stock Commercial Bank in Vietnam,
which is targeting 6 percent growth in gross domestic product in
2014, to promote its bancassurance business, or selling
insurance through a bank. Sun Life Chief Executive Officer Dean
Connor said in a March interview with Bloomberg that company
acquisitions may be “more likely” in Asia than other regions.  Insurers are also benefiting from rallying stock markets,
which boost the investment income they use to pay out annuities.
Higher interest rates may also fatten margins between income and
payouts to beneficiaries.  Canada is expected to boost its benchmark interest rate in
the third quarter of 2014, according to the weighted average of
25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The yield on the
10-year Government of Canada note has risen to 2.2 percent, the
highest since March 2012, from 1.7 percent on May 2.  Interest Rates  “Rising interest rates are positive operationally for both
banks and insurers but the impact is much more meaningful for
the lifecos,” Malhotra said. “We think the life insurance
companies will have earnings growth in the double-digit range
for the next couple of years, whereas for the banks it’s going
to be more like mid-single digits and we’re crossing our fingers
it doesn’t get worse.”  Manulife’s net income would slip C$600 million if there was
a 100 basis point decline in market interest rates and it  would
gain C$400 million per 100 basis point rise in rates, according
to Manulife’s latest quarterly filing. Last year, Manulife’s
sensitivity was a C$900 million loss with a 100 basis point
decline in rates.  To be sure, insurers are playing catch up to banks. None of
the three largest life insurers in Canada has raised dividends
since 2008 and the global financial crisis. Half of the eight
biggest lenders, including Canadian Imperial, raised dividends
in the second quarter.  ‘Global Presence’  Manulife profit declined 56 percent in the latest quarter
as sales dropped at units in both Canada and Asia, two regions
where the insurer raised prices last year. Sun Life, the third-largest insurance provider, had profit that beat analysts’
estimates, aided by a 76 percent increase in operating income
from its Asia unit.  Banks such as RBC had mixed results from domestic loan
growth. Bank of Montreal reported a 0.7 percent decline in
Canada banking and Royal Bank’s personal and commercial banking
jumped 11 percent.  “Where are these businesses making money and are those
sources growing, staying static or shrinking?” Pashootan said.
“Insurance companies have a global presence. But the risk and
reward of holding the Canadian banks is not as compelling as it
was two to three years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  