-- Ipad-to-Cash Giveaways Impede RBNZ Bid to Tame Housing: Economy
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-12T01:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ipad-to-cash-giveaways-impede-rbnz-bid-to-tame-kiwi-housing-boom.html
Central Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler’s quest to cool  New Zealand ’s housing boom is being
stymied by 50-year low  mortgage rates  and giveaways being
offered by the nation’s banks as they chase new customers.  ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd., the largest lender, is offering
NZ$1,000 ($791) with loans of NZ$100,000 or more, while Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. is handing out NZ$1,000 of fuel and grocery
vouchers.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  is giving iPads and cash, and
ASB Bank Ltd. was giving a Sony 42-inch flat-screen TV.  Surging  home prices  could add pressure on Wheeler, who has
resisted raising the  benchmark interest rate  from a record-low
2.5 percent to avoid fueling a currency that jumped 5.4 percent
in the year through May. The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand, which
meets tomorrow to set rates, is instead seeking to restrain the
developed world’s fourth most-overvalued housing market by
regulating banks’ capital ratios and imposing restrictions on
riskier mortgages, pitting itself against lenders.  “Eventually the housing sector will force the RBNZ’s
hand,” said Robin Clements, New Zealand economist at UBS AG in
Christchurch. “Macro-prudential tools will help, but at the end
of the day only the cash rate will do the job.”  All 15 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast
Wheeler will keep the rate unchanged tomorrow. Clements is one
of four analysts tipping a rate rise this year. Fourteen of the
15 expect an increase by March 2014.  Among major central banks, the RBNZ is the most likely to
raise interest rates in the next 12 months, according to
 interest rate  swaps data compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG. For
the first time in 18 months, the shadow board set up by the New
Zealand Institute of  Economic Research  has more support for a
rate rise than a cut, the institute said today.  Bubble Risk  New Zealand house prices are the fourth most over-priced
among members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, the Paris-based group said last month. The nation
is in a category where prices are too high and still rising --
making the economy most vulnerable to the risk of a correction,
it said.  The RBNZ will need to gradually raise interest rates later
this year or early in 2014 as growth accelerates amid earthquake
rebuilding, the OECD said in its biannual economic survey of the
nation this month.  Home  prices  rose 8.7 percent in May from a year earlier,
the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand Inc. said in a report
today. The annual pace slowed from 9.8 percent in April, which
was the fastest since September 2007.  Variable home-loan interest rates for a new borrower fell
to 5.86 percent in April, the lowest since June 1965, according
to central bank figures. Lenders including ANZ, BNZ and ASB
currently offer mortgages fixed at a record-low 4.95 percent for
one year, based on at least a 20 percent deposit.  Keeping Offers  Lenders are keeping their giveaways in place even as the
central bank warns on the housing market. Westpac’s iPad offer,
which is for new lending of NZ$100,000 or more, is in place for
loans approved before July 6, according to the bank’s website.
ANZ and BNZ don’t have a specified end date for their campaigns,
according to spokespeople.  Wheeler on May 30 said he is resisting raising interest
rates to cool the housing market because of the New Zealand
currency’s recent strength, which weighs on exporters.  “Increasing the cash rate would carry significant risks in
New Zealand in the current environment,” he said. “It would
increase the rate differential between New Zealand and most of
the advanced countries and could lead to a further strengthening
of the  exchange rate .”  The Kiwi had gained as much as 15 percent versus the
greenback from last year’s low. Since Wheeler said on May 8 that
he was intervening in the  currency market  to weaken the local
dollar, it has declined about 6 percent.  Consumer Confidence  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  machine orders  in Japan fell 8.8 percent
in April from March, and South Korea’s  unemployment  rate climbed
to 3.2 percent in May. A measure of  consumer sentiment  in
 Australia  climbed in June, while a report later today may show
industrial production in  India  rose in April.  In Europe, May consumer price index data for Germany,
 France ,  Italy  and  Spain  will be released. In the U.S.,  mortgage
applications  in the week to June 7 will be published.  Unwilling to use interest rates, Wheeler has pushed for
prudential measures. In May, he and Finance Minister  Bill English  agreed on how to implement the tools, giving the
governor authority to impose balance sheet limits and other
restrictions on banks as a condition of their license if there
is a risk to financial stability.  Risky Loans  Wheeler is taking aim at high loan-to-value lending, when
the loan makes up more than 80 percent of the property purchase
price. The central bank estimates the portion of lending above
the 80 percent threshold has climbed to 30 percent of new loans,
from 23 percent in late 2011.  The RBNZ on May 8 said it will increase the amount of
capital that banks need to hold against risky loans. There are
early signs the effort to cool the volume of the riskiest
lending, where deposits are as small as 5 percent, is working.  “The appetite to lend at very low deposits has certainly
diminished,” said Scott Miller, owner of  Advanced Mortgage
Solutions Ltd. , a Christchurch-based mortgage broker. “I don’t
think you’re going to see the 95 percent product removed from
the shelves, but how often it is used will reduce.”  LVR Limits  “The evidence to date suggests that during episodes of
quickly rising real estate prices, LVR limits can help reduce
the incidence of credit booms and decrease the probability of
financial distress and sub-par growth following the boom,”
Wheeler said in a May 30 speech.  Boom and bust cycles in credit and asset prices can pose
real risks for homeowners and destabilize banking systems,
English said when he announced the agreement with the RBNZ on
May 16.  Wheeler joins policy makers from Hong Kong to  Norway  to
 Canada  in tightening lending rules to tame a housing boom rather
than using interest rates. Weak global growth prospects have
prompted central banks in the euro area, the U.S. and  Japan  to
add stimulus, curbing the scope of policy makers to damp their
overheated housing markets without fueling currency gains.  Wheeler also faces a disparity in housing market conditions
across the country that adds to his challenge. Prices in
Auckland, home to a third of New Zealand’s 4.4 million people,
rose 15 percent in May from a year ago, while in earthquake
devastated Christchurch they gained 13 percent, the Real Estate
Institute said today. Yet in some provincial areas prices gained
less than 5 percent.  Fierce Competition  New Zealand’s housing market isn’t over extended by high
loan-to-value ratio lending, according to the  New Zealand
Bankers Association .  “There’s a bit of a myth that all the lending going on is
high LVR,” Wellington-based Chief Executive Officer Kirk Hope
said in an interview. He estimates that banks generally have no
more than 25 percent of their portfolio in the high LVR
category. “Low credit growth has meant that competition is very
fierce. All of the banks are competing for premium customers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  