-- Lira Rebounds on Central Bank Tightening, Surprise Growth Pickup
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-11T15:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/lira-rebounds-on-central-bank-tightening-surprise-growth-pickup.html
Turkey ’s lira strengthened, erasing
earlier losses, as the central bank implemented measures to
shield the currency from volatility triggered by anti-government
protests and after economic growth exceeded estimates.  The lira recovered after initially extending the worst
decline in a year yesterday as police raided Istanbul’s Taksim
Square, the center of protests since May 31. The central bank
withheld funds at its policy rate of 4.5 percent in its daily
repo auctions today for the first time in more than a year and
said the amount may be reduced temporarily. The economy expanded
3 percent in the first quarter annually, beating the 2.3 percent
median estimate of 11 economists on Bloomberg.  “Today’s statement from the central bank shows it is upset
about the recent moves on the Turkish lira,” Ali Cakiroglu, a
strategist at HSBC Asset Management, said in an e-mailed note.
“This will have a positive effect on the central bank and
liquidity management will become much more important in the
coming period.”  The  exchange rate  climbed 0.6 percent to 1.8911 per dollar
at 5:51 p.m. in Istanbul. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds
rose 32 basis points to 6.82 percent, the highest level since
Nov. 7. The  Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index (XU100) 
fell 1.8 percent, bringing its retreat since this year’s peak in
May to 19 percent.  ‘Continued Volatility’  Turkey’s current-account deficit widened to $8.17 billion
in April from $4.55 billion a year earlier, in line with the
median estimate of $8.1 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank said in a statement today it may start
foreign exchange selling auctions with $50 million in each
auction and direct interventions if necessary. It sold $250
million in five auctions today after the announcement.  The bank has sufficient reserves to protect the lira from
further weakness and could “comfortably” sell about $10
billion through unsterilized interventions, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. economists Ahmet Akarli and Kasper Lund-Jensen in  London 
said in an e-mailed report today.  Hundreds of police officers raided Taksim Square, using
water cannons and pepper spray to disperse demonstrators. Some
protesters threw firebombs at the police as they moved in. The
aim of the operation is to clear the area of illegal banners and
not to crack down on protesters in central Gezi Parki, CNN-Turk
television reported, citing the office of Istanbul Governor
Huseyin Avni Mutlu.  “The events may escalate today, especially tonight, as the
protesters may try to fill Taksim Square again,” Ibrahim Aksoy,
an economist at Seker Invest in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed
note. “We may see continued volatility in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  