-- Ex-President Rafsanjani Joins Khatami to Back Rohani in Iran
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-06-12T10:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/iran-ex-president-khatami-urges-reformists-to-vote-for-rohani.html
Former Iranian Presidents Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami endorsed presidential
candidate Hassan Rohani in this week’s election after another
candidate bowed out.  “I will vote for Dr. Rohani, who entered the race after
consulting me,” Rafsanjani said in remarks reported yesterday
by ILNA news agency.  Khatami wrote on his website yesterday that “I will give
my vote” to Rohani. Iranians “seeking a positive evolution in
politics, culture, economy and foreign policy can make a
decision toward a better future for the society,” Khatami said.  Both former leaders are known as open to engagement with
the West and have expressed sympathy with the 2009 opposition
movement, which accused authorities of ballot fraud to deny a
reformist candidate victory.  Rohani’s campaign received a boost yesterday after Mohammad Reza Aref, a candidate who served as a vice president in
Khatami’s administration, stepped down to clear the way for
Rohani. Both men had campaigned as reformists.  Ease Restrictions  Rohani, a cleric who was a chief negotiator in talks on
 Iran ’s nuclear program during Khatami’s presidency, has been
campaigning for more media freedom and an easing of social
restrictions. He also said he will seek to steer the nation away
from the confrontational path with the West taken by President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is ineligible to run for a third
consecutive term in the June 14 election.  Six candidates remain in the race, after ex-parliamentary
speaker Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel dropped out on June 10 in an
effort to prevent the dilution of votes for conservative
contenders. If no candidate gets a majority in the first round,
the top two will compete in a June 21 runoff.  Saeed Jalili, the current chief nuclear negotiator and one
of the main conservative contenders in the race, has called for
“resistance” in the face of foreign powers’ sanctions against
Iran over its nuclear development program. Another conservative
candidate is the former foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati, a
close adviser to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the nation’s supreme
leader.  Khamenei Opposition  Opposition from Khamenei may cause Rohani to fall short in
his presidential bid, said Alireza Nader, a senior analyst in
the Arlington, Virginia, office of the Rand Corporation, a
research group. “It is not clear Khamenei has decided who he
wants to be president,” Nader said. “He doesn’t want Rohani to
win.”  About 51 percent of Iranians are undecided about who to
vote for or said they will not cast ballots at all, said Akbar
Torkan, the deputy head of Rohani’s campaign headquarters,
citing local polls. Torkan said he expected Khatami’s support to
boost participation, according to the report published yesterday
by the state-run  Iranian Students News Agency .  Rohani, who backs Iran’s right to a civilian nuclear
program, has said technological progress shouldn’t come at the
expense of the economy and the well-being of the population.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  