-- Iran Wheat Buying Seen Prompted by Elections by FAO’s Abbassian
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-11T14:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/iran-wheat-buying-seen-prompted-by-elections-by-fao-s-abbassian.html
Iran ’s wheat buying in recent weeks
may have been prompted by concern import costs will rise after
presidential elections this week, said  Abdolreza Abbassian , an
economist at the UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization.  “The worry is that after the election the result may not
be market-friendly, and the currency could come under further
pressure,” Abbassian said in an interview in London. “Anyone
that takes Iran into more isolation would be difficult for the
Iranian economy to handle.”  Iran bought 600,000 to 800,000 metric tons of wheat in the
past two weeks for shipping in July or August, according to
Francois Luguenot, the head of market analysis at French grain
cooperative Union InVivo. The country has been buying “a lot”
from  Germany , Abbassian said.  The  United Nations ’ FAO is forecasting Iran’s wheat imports
will fall to 1.5 million tons in 2013-14 from an estimated 4.7
million tons in the year through June, according to Abbassian.
The estimate for 2012-13 may be raised “a bit” on account of
recent large purchases, he said.  “It’s not been a particularly bad year in terms of
production,” Abbassian said in an interview at an industry
conference in  London . “Production is anywhere between 13
million and 15 million tons. They’re harvesting now.”  Iran’s wheat harvest has been within that range for the
past two seasons, according to the FAO economist. Iran has
invested in grain infrastructure and has sufficient storage
capacity, with wheat stocks that may be as high as 5 million
tons, Abbassian said.  “When it comes to food and especially wheat for bread,
nobody would risk it,” Abbassian said. “The government will
make sure that people get their wheat and rice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  