-- IRS Transcript Release Would Be Too Reckless, Issa Writes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-11T22:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/irs-transcript-release-would-be-reckless-issa-says.html
Releasing the transcripts of
interviews with Internal Revenue Service workers who scrutinized
Tea Party groups would be reckless, the chairman of the U.S.
House Oversight Committee wrote today.  “Your push to release entire transcripts from witness
interviews while the investigation remains active was reckless
and threatened to undermine the integrity of the committee’s
investigation,” chairman  Darrell Issa , a Republican, wrote to
 Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the panel’s top Democrat.  Cummings has said he will release transcripts of interviews
with IRS employees by the end of this week if Issa won’t.
Cummings said that in one interview, a self-identified
“conservative Republican” said the effort to scrutinize Tea
Party groups was done to ensure consistency and that there
wasn’t White House or political involvement.  The committee is one of six congressional panels probing
the IRS. The agency’s inspector general and the  Justice
Department  also are investigating. At least four IRS executives
have left their jobs as a result of the controversy.  Staff members have interviewed IRS workers from Washington
and from the Cincinnati office that processes applications for
tax-exempt status. An inspector general’s report released last
month found that the IRS gave extra scrutiny to groups whose
names included “ Tea Party ” and “patriot.”  Partial Transcripts  Issa and Cummings each have released partial transcripts in
an effort to bolster their arguments, and the tone of the
investigation has become more partisan.  Issa’s excerpts showed that lawyers in Washington were
managing and directing some of the work of the IRS employees in
Cincinnati. On June 2, he said on CNN that targeting of small-government groups was “coordinated in all likelihood” from
Washington.  Cummings’ excerpts  showed that a Republican IRS manager
backed the agency’s explanation -- that the extra scrutiny
wasn’t politically motivated.  “Based upon everything I’ve seen, the case is solved,”
Cummings said on CNN June 9. “And if it were me, I would wrap
this case up and move on.”  Bloomberg News  reviewed transcripts last week that showed
the IRS’s initial effort focused so much on trying to set rules
for the political involvement of Tea Party groups that
Democratic-leaning groups and self-identified “conservative”
groups received less attention.  IRS rules prevent groups applying for tax-exempt status
under section 501(c)(4) of the  tax code  from having politics --
defined as involvement in elections -- as their primary purpose.  ‘Cherry Picking’  Issa said he would release the full transcripts eventually
without being more specific. In  his letter , he defended what
Cummings has called the “cherry picking” of excerpts.  “The release of excerpts from witness interviews can serve
to provide important updates to the public,” Issa wrote.
“Releasing limited portions of transcripts decreases the
likelihood that retaliations will occur -- when agency
management knows the press and Congress are watching, witnesses
tend to be less likely to be demoted or fired.”  In a statement today, Cummings rejected that contention.  “Chairman Issa changes his mind so fast that even when I
agree with him, we’re not on the same page,” he said. “I fully
support responsible oversight, but cherry picking transcript
excerpts to fuel partisan and unsubstantiated claims is not a
credible or effective way to investigate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  