-- Isabel Benham, Woman Who Blazed Path on Wall Street, Dies at 103
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-11T12:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/isabel-benham-woman-who-blazed-path-on-wall-street-dies-at-103.html
Isabel Benham, whose deep knowledge
of the railroad industry made her an influential bond analyst at
a time when few women held positions of authority on Wall
Street, has died. She was 103.  She died May 18 in her New York City apartment, according
to a death notice in the New York Times. No cause was given.  Benham started working on Wall Street during the Great
Depression. In 1964, following almost 30 years with R.W.
Pressprich & Co., she became the first female partner in the
firm’s 55-year history. The  Museum of American Finance  in
 Manhattan , which included Benham in a 2009 “Women of Wall
Street” exhibition, said that also made her the first female
partner at any Wall Street bond house.  Benham made clear she saw herself chiefly as a railroad-finance expert rather than a pioneer for women, making her mark
when trains still dominated inter-city transportation.  “I am a practical railroader, dealing only in finance,”
she told the alumni publication of  Bryn Mawr College , her alma
mater. “What is romantic to me is putting two railroads
together where they can become a more profitable system.”  Still, the woman who at one time signed correspondence as
“I. Hamilton Benham” to pre-empt discrimination recognized her
place in history. “A lot of firms hired women because I was a
success,” she said.  Isabel Hamilton Benham was born on Aug. 4, 1909, in
Buffalo, New York, to Wesley Hamilton Benham, a Presbyterian
minister, and his wife, the former Eva Thorp.  Recommended Course  She studied economics at Bryn Mawr College in  Pennsylvania ,
graduating in 1931. According to the  profile  in the Bryn Mawr
Alumnae Bulletin, she recalled that a dean who learned of her
interest in working on Wall Street urged her to enroll in typing
school, while others told her to “go home to Mother, join the
Junior League, get married and live happily ever after.”  Benham chose a route of her own.  After attending a six-month course on selling bonds, run by
a unit of Guaranty Trust Co., she earned $20 a week selling
subscriptions to the New Yorker magazine while hunting for jobs
on Wall Street. In 1932 she landed a job at the new federal
Reconstruction Finance Corp., created by Congress and President
Herbert Hoover to lend money to banks and railroads in distress
during the Great Depression.  She became a statistician and then an analyst with
 Pressprich , focusing on the railroad industry, rising to lead
the transportation research department in 1940. In 1948 the New
York Times reported her election as president of the Women’s
Bond Club of New York.  ‘Biggest Thrill’  She inspected railroads, studied rail manuals and annual
reports, kept in close contact with institutional investors in
rail securities and kept miniature diesel locomotives and
boxcars on her desk, the Times reported in a 1964  profile .  “The biggest thrill I get is when a rail president calls
up and says, ‘Isabel, I want to raise a million dollars,’” she
said.  She worked closely with the firm’s managing partner,
Charles L. Bergmann, another rail expert. They moved together in
1968 to Shearson Hammill & Co., where they became first vice
presidents and established a railroad department. She left
Shearson (then known as Shearson Hayden Stone Inc.) in 1978 to
join Printon, Kane Research Inc., becoming president before
leaving in 1991.  For a 1985 Forbes article about women on Wall Street,
Benham was asked whether they had to be “one of the boys” to
succeed.  Didn’t Play  “In my day, we wore white gloves and hats,” she was
quoted as saying. “Some women seem to think they can get ahead,
aside from being smart, by being able to swear, drink and tell
dirty stories with the boys. You didn’t play around with the
boys in 1934. And it’s not necessary today, in my opinion. I
have worked with a lot of men and never once have they sworn in
front of me at meetings.”  She was asked whether success on Wall Street required women
to forgo family life.  “We want all the rights and privileges of being a woman
and all the opportunities of being a man,” she said. “We want
the whole ball of wax.”  Benham, then 75, added: “For myself, I haven’t decided
whether to get married yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  