-- Italy Set to Cease Granting Tariffs for New Solar Project
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-06-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/italy-set-to-cease-granting-tariffs-for-new-solar-project.html
Italy, the second-largest market for
solar-power, will cease granting feed-in tariffs for new
installations after July 6 because its subsidy program has
reached its budget cap.  The annual cost of existing or approved photovoltaic plants
reached its limit of 6.7 billion euros ($8.9 billion) on June 6,
the country’s electricity and gas regulator  said  on its website.
The law restricts above-market rates for solar energy a month
after the threshold is reached.  The country is ending the program that has driven a boom in
installations surpassed only by  Germany . It follows Spain and
 Portugal , which stopped granting new subsidies last year to
prevent further rises in annual costs and consumer bills.
Germany, which plans to overhaul its subsidy system after
elections set for Sept. 22, is considering a similar cap.  Italy’s solar subsidy plan, introduced in 2005, has driven
the installation of more than 526,000 solar plants with more
than 17 gigawatts, the latest official data show. In comparison,
Germany had 32 gigawatts and France 3.6 gigawatts at the end of
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Italy’s solar market was the world’s biggest in 2011 and
had already slowed down after a competitive registry was
introduced for most projects. Without tariffs, the Italian solar
market will depend on net metering and income tax deductions to
drive sales. With net metering, consumers can sell power they
generate themselves back to the grid.  Solar projects with about 727 megawatts in combined
capacity qualified for tariffs this year through the country’s
second and last register. All project with 12 kilowatts or more
had to register to opt for the subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  