-- Liverpool to Sign Celta Vigo Striker Iago Aspas: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-11T07:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/liverpool-to-sign-celta-vigo-striker-iago-aspas-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Striker Signing  Liverpool is close to making Celta Vigo striker Iago Aspas
its second offseason signing for 7 million pounds ($11.6
million), the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The 25-year-old Aspas, who was tracked by Reds manager
 Brendan Rodgers  throughout last season, will undergo a medical
exam today after the clubs negotiated a fee and the player
agreed to personal terms, the newspaper added.  Fabregas, Lewandowski  Manchester United  is increasingly confident of signing
Barcelona midfielder Cesc Fabregas and Borussia Dortmund striker
 Robert Lewandowski  this offseason after being given private
encouragement from both players, the  Daily Mail reported .  United manager  David Moyes  would like to bring them to the
club before his squad departs on a tour to Asia and Australia in
the middle of next month, the newspaper added.  Alcantara Bid  Moyes is ready to bid 15 million pounds to sign Barcelona
midfielder Thiago Alcantara and assigned chief scout Jim Lawlor
to set up the deal, the  Daily Mirror reported .  United is said to have made contact with Alcantara’s
advisers and his father, former Brazil defender Mazinho, is open
to the move, the newspaper added. Alcantara is also being linked
with a move to Manchester City, the Mirror said.  Sneijder’s Price  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  has been told it will cost
him 12.7 million pounds to sign Galatasaray midfielder  Wesley Sneijder  for the second time, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The 29-year-old Sneijder, who is also a target for
Tottenham Hotspur, previously played for Mourinho at Inter Milan
and recently said he is interested in working with the
Portuguese coach again, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  