-- Mitsui Fudosan, Developers Drop After BOJ Meeting: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-06-11T08:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/japanese-property-shares-reits-drop-after-boj-meeting.html
Japanese property stocks, including
 Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801)  and  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , fell in  Tokyo 
trading after the Bank of  Japan  refrained from enlarging its
purchase of real estate investment trusts.  Mitsui Fudosan, Japan’s biggest developer by sales, fell
the most in a week, declining 4.1 percent to 2,810 yen at the
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Mitsubishi Estate, the
nation’s largest developer by market value, lost 4.4 percent,
while Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. sank 5.2 percent. The
Topix Real Estate Index slid 4.1 percent, the worst performer
among the 33 industry groups that make up the benchmark.  The central bank, which has acquired 138.4 billion yen
($1.4 billion) of REITs since December 2010, said today in a
statement it won’t expand its purchase of the trusts. The BOJ
said in April it may increase the REIT purchase to 170 billion
yen next fiscal year from a target of 140 billion yen.  “The selling is driven by disappointment from the BOJ’s
decision to maintain the purchase amount,” said Mikio Namiki,
an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The market had
expected some expansion of the 30 billion-yen purchasing limit
next fiscal year.”  The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index that tracks 39 trusts
rose 0.7 percent, after falling as much as 0.5 percent.  ‘Correction Over’  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, after the market
closed, said there may be little room for the central bank’s REIT
purchases because the size of the REIT market is not big. He
was speaking following a two-day monetary-policy meeting.  The drop may not continue amid signs of a recovery in
Japan’s  property market , according to Deutsche Bank AG. Office
vacancies in Tokyo fell for a third straight month in May to the
lowest in more than three years amid a lack of new supply and
more space being taken up as companies expand, according to
broker Miki Shoji Co.  “The J-REIT market will probably recover from now on and
the correction we have seen in J-REITs is pretty much over,”
 Yoji Otani , an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a telephone
interview. The recovery in the property market as vacancies drop
will sustain stock prices, he said.  REITs are expected to sell about 900 billion yen of shares,
a record high, this year as the market picks up, Otani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  