-- Jardine Matheson Drops Most Since August: Singapore Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-06-11T08:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/jardine-matheson-drops-most-since-august-singapore-mover.html
Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd. (JM) , the
owner of hotels and groceries around Asia, dropped by the most
since August, extending its retreat from a record closing high
last month amid concern valuations have become stretched.  Jardine Matheson fell as much as 4.5 percent to $59.75, the
most since Aug. 8, before trading at $59.98 as of 3:23 p.m. in
Singapore. The shares were the  biggest drag  on the benchmark
Straits Times Index, which was down 0.8 percent. The stock has
retreated about 13 percent since closing at an all-time high on
May 16, which triggered a downgrade from Credit Suisse Group AG
four days later.  “We downgraded the stock a few weeks back because we
thought their valuation were looking quite rich,” said Gerald Wong, an analyst at Credit Suisse in  Singapore . “There are
definitely macroeconomic concerns about some Southeast Asian
markets like Indonesia, where the Jardine Group has got
significant exposure to.” The brokerage cut its rating on
Jardine Matheson to neutral from outperform on May 20.  Indonesian stocks declined today. Rupiah forwards touched
the lowest level in more than three years and foreign investors
sold the nation’s stocks for the 12th consecutive day. Jardine
Matheson unit  Jardine Strategic Holdings Ltd. (JS)  owns 72 percent of
 Jardine Cycle & Carriage Ltd. (JCNC)  as of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Jardine Cycle gets about 89 percent of
revenue from Indonesian automotive distributor PT Astra
International.  The conglomerate also has interests in  Dairy Farm
International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) , the owner of Cold Storage, Giant
and Wellcome supermarkets, and hotel operator  Mandarin Oriental
International Ltd. (MAND)   Jardine Cycle dropped 3.9 percent to S$41.92, heading for a
one-year low. Dairy Farm lost 0.8 percent to $12.40, while
Mandarin Oriental slipped 0.6 percent to $1.75.  Hongkong Land
Holdings Ltd. (HKL)  fell 3 percent to $6.52, set for its lowest close
since Dec. 5. Jardine Strategic declined 2.7 percent to $37.16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  