-- Drop in Job Openings Tempers U.S. Hiring Prospects: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-11T20:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/job-openings-in-the-u-s-decreased-in-april-to-3-76-million.html
Job  openings  in the U.S. fell in
April, showing companies were waiting to assess the effects of
higher taxes and reduced  government spending  before committing
to bigger staff increases.  The number of positions waiting to be filled fell by
118,000 to 3.76 million, the fewest since January, from a
revised 3.88 million in March, the Labor Department reported
today in  Washington . The pace of hiring picked up and more
people also left their jobs voluntarily, the figures showed.  Today’s data indicate it will be difficult for the world’s
largest economy to keep adding jobs at May’s 175,000 pace as
government spending cuts, known as sequestration, slow growth
this quarter. Federal Reserve policy makers have said they want
to see a “sustained” pickup in hiring before they begin
dialing back record bond purchases meant to spur the expansion.  “We’re still stuck in this labor market where employers
don’t have a lot of conviction,” said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .
“You’re still talking about levels that are bouncing around in
a range without a whole lot of upward tilt to it.”  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower
for a second day, after  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
said he sees no need to expand monetary stimulus immediately.
The  S&P 500  dropped 1 percent to 1,626.13 at the close in  New
York .  Elsewhere, industrial production in the U.K. rose in April,
boosted by increased output at oil and water companies. It
capped the strongest three-month gain in output in almost three
years, adding to signs the economy is gaining momentum after
stagnating in the first quarter.  Inventories, Confidence  Other reports today showed U.S. wholesalers increased
inventories in April as sales climbed, and confidence among
small companies rose in May to a one-year high as the economic
outlook over the next six months brightened.  Today’s U.S. job openings data put the labor market picture
in sharper focus after last month’s employment report, which
showed the economy weathering the effects of spending cuts and
higher taxes.  The May increase in payrolls reflected broad-based gains at
private employers. The unemployment  rate  climbed to 7.6 percent
from 7.5 percent as the number of people entering the  labor
force  swamped the number of positions available, the Labor
Department reported June 7.  Today’s Jobs Openings and Labor Turnover  Survey , or JOLTS,
showed the number of people hired climbed to 4.43 million in
April from 4.23 million, pushing the hiring rate up to 3.3
percent from 3.1 percent. In 2007, the last year of the previous
expansion, hiring averaged 5.19 million a month.  Openings Breakdown  Job openings at manufacturers, health-care providers and
hotels and restaurants accounted for the biggest decreases in
available employment in April. The category encompassing trade,
transportation and utilities showed the biggest gain, reflecting
gains among retailers.  Angie Rodriguez, 52, quit her job in October when the golf
course she managed in Reno,  Nevada , reduced her hours and pay.
Since then, she’s had no luck finding a position where she can
use her executive experience.  “I’m applying for anything I can find myself a little bit
qualified for,” Rodriguez said. “Let’s just go in and get a
job and get a paycheck.”  A separate survey of U.S. employers released today found
that while more companies plan to hire in the third quarter of
this year, more also intend to reduce staff levels. Seventy
percent said they would maintain their current headcount.  Employment Outlook  A gauge of the employment outlook rose to 12 percent from
11 percent, Milwaukee-based ManpowerGroup Inc. reported. The
share of companies planning to increase staff levels rose to 22
percent, a four-year high, the survey found.  Total firings, which exclude retirements and those who left
their job voluntarily, decreased to 1.65 million from 1.69
million a month before, today’s Labor Department report showed.
Another 2.25 million people quit their jobs in April, up from
2.1 million the prior month.  That drove the separations rate higher to 3.2 percent from
3 percent in March.  In the 12 months ended in April, the economy created a net
1.8 million jobs, representing 52 million hires and about 50.2
million separations.  Today’s figures indicate there are about 3.1 job seekers
for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the recession began in
December 2007.  Fed Policy  The  Federal Open Market Committee  has pledged to press on
with its record $85 billion a month in asset purchases until
members see bigger gains in  job creation .  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has said an increase in the
number of people voluntarily quitting their jobs could be one
sign of improvement. More quits signal that “workers perceive
that their chances of being rehired are good -- in other words,
that labor demand has strengthened,” Yellen said in a March 4
 speech .  The quits rate, at 1.7 percent in April, is little changed
from a year ago, when it was 1.6 percent. It averaged 2 percent
during the previous expansion and went as high as 2.3 percent in
late 2006.  Increased demand for automobiles and the recovery in the
housing market are encouraging those industries to hire.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said on May 22 that it’s taking on more
workers as increased demand prompts the second-largest U.S.
automaker to add capacity to build 200,000 more vehicles
annually in  North America .  Adding Shift  The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker plans to add almost
3,500 hourly workers in the U.S. this year, and all of those
will be new additions at an entry-level wage, said Jim
Tetreault, vice president of North America manufacturing.  Earlier in the month, the second-largest U.S. automaker
said that it will hire a third crew at its Claycomo, Missouri,
plant to boost F-150 output starting in the third quarter. Ford
is adding more than 2,000 workers at the factory for the
expanded production of its most profitable model line and to
begin building the Transit commercial van in mid-2014.  It’s also adding a second shift of 1,200 workers to its
Mustang assembly plant in Flat Rock,  Michigan , to start building
Fusions there in the third quarter.  “The sales and marketing guys are obviously very
confident, because they’ve asked for additional capacity, and
we’re providing it,” Tetreault said in a telephone interview.  Titan Machinery Inc. (TITN)  is recruiting managers and expanding
its sales force to drive revenue in its construction segment,
while Home Depot Inc. is increasing staffing as sales improve.  “Where sales are picking up, our staffing has increased,”
Home Depot Executive Vice President Marvin Ellison said on a May
21 earnings call. “As we forecast events, new product
introductions, we will adjust our staffing to make sure we have
customers served in a most appropriate way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  