-- Johnson Says `No Time for Modesty' in Vision for London
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-11T13:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/johnson-says-no-time-for-modesty-in-vision-for-london.html
Boris Johnson  said there’s “no time
for false modesty” in a  policy document  setting out his vision
for London, as he said he wouldn’t seek a new term as mayor and
declined to rule out running for the Tory party leadership.  Johnson said today Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government should invest in London as the “supercharged motor”
of the U.K.’s recovery, putting spending into infrastructure
projects such as a new hub airport, with further housing needed
to keep the capital “firing on all cylinders.”  The mayor’s blueprint suggests a new four-runway airport
and calls on Cameron to immediately rule out a third runway for
Heathrow, the existing hub, a decision the premier has delayed
until after the next election in 2015.  “After the wretched decades of the mid-20th century --
when investment in transport was stifled -- we are now back in
what some (the optimists) would call a Golden Age,” Johnson
wrote in the document published today. “We are in the throes of
a neo-Victorian surge of investment in mass transit. It is
absolutely vital that we do not stop.”  Buoyed by re-election in May last year and the success of
the London Olympics, the bicycling mayor has increasingly been
touted by Conservative activists as a possible successor to
Cameron, whose poll ratings have fallen. Johnson has repeatedly
refused to rule himself out as a future Conservative leader.  Asked by  Sky News  what he would be doing in 2020, Johnson
replied he would be “productively engaged doing heaven knows
what.”  “This is the beginning of Boris’s long goodbye to London
as his attention turns elsewhere,” the leader of the opposition
Labour group on the  London Assembly , Len Duvall, said in a
statement on his  website  today. “Many of the aims in the report
are laudable, but the mayor’s failure to deliver any of this in
the last five years doesn’t fill us with confidence that he’ll
do them in his last three.”  Johnson repeated a call for London to be allowed more
control over property taxes -- including stamp duty on home
purchases -- to provide the certainty needed for housing
investment. He also said there is no point “bashing or
vindictively regulating” the financial sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  