-- Jones Walker, White, Latham, Willkie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/jones-walker-white-latham-willkie-business-of-law.html
Jones Walker opened a Cincinnati
office with a team of four lawyers from Peck Shaffer & Williams
LLP.  John Weld Peck is leading the team, which also includes
partners Alysse Hollis and Ronald Bell, and special counsel
Robert Bruns.  Peck has been handling affordable housing finance matters
in the U.S. for the past 40 years, the firm said in a statement.
He was involved in the legislative hearings that resulted in the
Section 8 program in the 1970s and helped write the Section 8
financing regulations, the firm said. He has also worked on tax-exempt multifamily housing finance vehicles since that time.  “Expanding our public finance and housing practice is part
of our dynamic growth strategy,” Jones Walker managing partner
William H. Hines said in a statement. “This combination is
really where the equation is two plus two equals eight, or even
ten. We already have a great relationship with John and his
team. Our lawyers have worked on a number of deals together in
the past and share some significant clients.”  Hollis serves as bond and underwriter’s counsel in conduit
bond financings in multifamily housing, with a practice that
focuses on the structuring and documentation of complex public
and private housing finance transactions involving tax-exempt
obligations. She has advised on the $15.5 million  Ohio  Housing
Finance Agency Seton Portfolio project and the $57.5 million
 Louisiana  Housing Finance Agency GMF-Louisiana Chateau projects
among other matters, the firm said.  Bell has structured and advised on municipal finance
transactions and tax credit matters and is involved in tax
credit transactions. He has worked as bond counsel,
underwriter’s counsel and disclosure counsel on multifamily
housing bond financings. His practice focuses on the structuring
and documentation of public and private housing finance
transactions, usually involving tax-exempt obligations, the firm
said.  “This team has an impressive track record in financing and
tax issues of affordable/multifamily housing and John Peck is
one of the most well-respected practitioners in affordable
housing finance in America,” Jones Walker’s  New York  office
head and housing industry team chairman,  Rick Lazio , former U.S.
Representative from New York, said in a statement. “Their
efforts will immediately add tremendous value to the firm’s
strong presence and reputation in housing development and
finance.”  Jones Walker has more than 375 attorneys at offices in
 Alabama ,  Arizona , California, the  District of Columbia , Florida,
 Georgia , Louisiana,  Mississippi , New York, Ohio and Texas.  Moves  Allen & Overy Milan Capital Markets Lawyer Jumps to  White & Case   White & Case LLP strengthened its debt capital markets
practice in  Italy  with the addition of Paola Leocani, formerly
of Allen & Overy LLP, as a partner in the Milan office.  Leocani’s practice has a focus on international and retail
debt and derivatives securities, liability management
transactions and regulatory matters. Her experience covers bank
funding expertise, the firm said.  “At a time when companies are resorting more to the
 capital markets  instead of the traditional bank credit market,
Paola’s excellent reputation and legal skills will be
particularly beneficial to White & Case clients,” Michael
Immordino, executive partner of the White & Case Milan Office
said in a statement.  White & Case has lawyers in 39 offices across 27 countries.  Massachusetts State Representative Rejoins Duane Morris  Daniel B. Winslow, a Massachusetts state representative and
former Chief Legal Counsel to Massachusetts Governor  Mitt
Romney , has rejoined the Boston office of Duane Morris LLP in
the trial practice group.  His practice will resume its focus on business litigation
and corporate strategy, the firm said.  Winslow was a trial court judge for seven years in
Massachusetts, and recently ran an unsuccessful race in the
Republican primary for the  U.S. Senate .  Winslow also was chief legal counsel for  Scott Brown ’s 2010
special election campaign for U.S. Senate. In the Romney
Administration he oversaw policy and was involved in the
Massachusetts budget decisions.  He will continue to serve as a state legislator as he
assumes an of counsel role at Duane Morris. He represents
Norfolk County’s Ninth District and is on the House of
Representatives’ Rules committee, as well as on the Judiciary,
Rules, and State Administration and Regulatory Oversight joint
committees.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in 24 offices in
the U.S., London and  Asia .  News  DLA Piper Top Firm by Lawyer Count, NLJ Survey Says  DLA Piper LLP, which captured the top spot for highest
grossing law firm of the year in a  survey  earlier this year,
again beat out its rival Baker Botts LLP in the National Law
Journal’s annual survey of the biggest U.S. law firms. DLA Piper
had 4,036 lawyers to  Baker & McKenzie ’s 4,004 lawyers, the
 survey  reported.  The number of lawyers overall at the 350 biggest law firms
increased last year by 1.1 percent to 141,056 lawyers at 3,500
offices, according to the newspaper. Forty percent of the firms
surveyed, or 140 firms, lost lawyers.  The gains were largely due to increased partner numbers,
which grew by 1.5 percent, mainly as a result of mergers, the
newspaper said.  DLA Piper and Baker & McKenzie had the greatest increases
by number of lawyers while Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP
and Winston & Strawn LLP saw the greatest decline in the numbers
of lawyers, 97 and 86 fewer at each firm respectively.  Steptoe & Johnson LLP had the greatest increase in
associate growth, both by percentage and by number of lawyers,
with 81 new associates.  Additional firms at the top of the list by number of
lawyers included  Jones Day  in third with 2,363 lawyers, followed
by Hogan Lovells LLP with 2,280 and Latham & Watkins LLP at
2,033, according to the NLJ.  Deals  Latham & Willkie Advise Pearl on Purchase by AstraZeneca  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed to buy Pearl Therapeutics Inc., a
closely held U.S. drug maker, for as much as $1.15 billion to
expand its portfolio of respiratory-disease treatments as
competition for lung medicines increases. Latham & Watkins LLP
and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP advised Pearl. Greenberg
Traurig LLP advised AstraZeneca.  Latham advised Pearl with a Silicon Valley-based team led
by partner Mark Roeder. Advice was provided on employee benefits
and compensation matters by partner James Metz and on
intellectual property matters by partner Judith Hasko.  Willkie partners Gordon Caplan and Rosalind Fahey Kruse
advised Pearl on the deal.  Greenberg’s deal team for AstraZeneca included shareholder
Paul Maher with support in London from shareholder Gary Cooper,
corporate and securities. The U.S.-based team was led by
shareholder Michael Helsel, corporate and securities.  The U.K. company will pay $560 million initially for
 Redwood City , California-based Pearl Therapeutics, AstraZeneca
said yesterday in a  statement . Payments related to development
of Pearl Therapeutics’ products could add as much as $450
million to the price, and sales-related payments could add as
much as $140 million, according to the statement.  It’s the second acquisition in two weeks by London-based
AstraZeneca, which is looking to replenish the pipeline as its
best-selling drugs face generic competition over the next three
years. Pearl Therapeutics has a drug called PT003 for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disorder in late-stage clinical trials,
which would fit with AstraZeneca’s Symbicort portfolio,
AstraZeneca Chief Executive Pascal Soriot said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 