-- JPMorgan’s Credit Outlook Cut by S&P as U.S. Support Wanes
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-11T16:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/jpmorgan-chase-credit-rating-outlook-changed-to-negative-by-s-p.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s credit-rating
outlook was revised to negative by Standard & Poor’s, which said
the likelihood of “extraordinary” government support for the
largest U.S. banks is waning.  The outlook on JPMorgan’s long-term  rating  of A was lowered
from stable, S&P said today in a statement. That brings JPMorgan
in line with the seven other “systemically important” banks
including Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
whose outlooks were held at negative. New York-based JPMorgan is
the biggest U.S. bank, with $2.4 trillion in assets.  S&P may stop giving weight to the implied taxpayer support
that has bolstered credit ratings at eight of the largest U.S.
bank-holding companies. In the wake of the 2008 credit crunch,
investors have assumed the federal government would bail out
lenders in a renewed crisis because their failure would be
catastrophic for the financial system.  “It is becoming increasingly clear that holding company
creditors may not receive extraordinary government support,”
S&P analysts led by Matthew Albrecht wrote in the statement. He
cited the framework regulators are developing that could be used
to dismantle and liquidate distressed banks.  S&P analysts believe that the U.S. government would still
stand by the operating subsidiaries of the largest banks,
Albrecht said on a conference call.  Absorbing Losses  “Regulators are intent on asking holding-company creditors
to absorb losses ahead of operating-company creditors, and
they’re putting mechanisms in place that could make that more
likely,” he said. “We don’t believe the U.S. government is
becoming less supportive, simply less supportive to a certain
class of creditors.”  If S&P entirely removed U.S. support from the credit rating
of the bank-holding companies, it could result in a one- to two-level cut in their grades, he said.  JPMorgan’s shares dropped 0.9 percent to $53.90 at 11:52
a.m. in New York, compared with a 0.7 percent decline in the KBW
Bank Index. Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for the bank, didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  S&P said it will review progress that regulators make on
their new “orderly liquidation authority” as it determines
whether to stop including government support in its bank
ratings.  Lehman Bankruptcy  U.S. and U.K. regulators have been working on plans to
allow large international banks to fail without damaging the
rest of the financial system. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 helped trigger a worldwide economic
meltdown that threatened to destroy other global lenders.  “We may remove the ratings uplift we currently incorporate
if we believe that regulators and lawmakers are increasingly
likely to ask holding-company bondholders to bear losses in the
event of a liquidation of a systemically important bank,” S&P
said. “We currently believe those creditors will be supported
to prevent the contagion of a crisis.”  Both the Bank of England and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. foresee that a wide range of unsecured  creditors  could
face losses during a bank’s failure, according to a paper
released in December. Unsecured senior bondholders and uninsured
depositors are among those who could take a financial hit, the
paper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  