-- Kapsch Says South African Toll-Road Revenue Boost Coming in July
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-06-11T13:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/kapsch-says-south-african-toll-road-revenue-boost-coming-in-july.html
Kapsch TrafficCom AG (KTCG) , the Austrian
maker of toll-road systems, said it would get an annual revenue
boost of more than 50 million euros ($66.4 million) from a
delayed South African project that may start next month.  “All judicial and parliamentary hurdles are out of the
way,” board member Andre Laux said at a press conference in
Vienna today. The system, which has faced opposition from road
users, labor unions and car rental agencies, is expected to go
live by mid-July, he said.  The South African government plans to charge road users in
Gauteng, South Africa’s most populous province, after hundreds
protested against the project in Johannesburg and the capital,
 Pretoria . The South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd., or
SANRAL, borrowed about 20 billion-rand ($2.2 billion) to build
and improve roads in Gauteng without the tolls.  The tolling system “is currently working,” Vusi Mona,
head of communications at SANRAL, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Official toll commencement date has not yet been
communicated, it will be communicated soon.”  Kapsch’s shares  rose  as much as 2 percent in Vienna and
traded 0.6 percent higher at 38.88 euros by 2:46 p.m. The stock
has declined 18 percent this year.  Satisfactory Profit  Kapsch posted three straight quarterly losses in the year
ended March 31 that were partly caused by the delays in  South
Africa , the continent’s biggest economy. Net income for fiscal
year 2012/13 declined 39 percent to 16.7 million euros after a
“satisfactory” fourth-quarter profit, Kapsch said in a
statement today.  The South African system will provide annual revenue of
“significantly more than 50 million euros” for eight years,
Kapsch’s Laux said. Total revenue in the last fiscal year fell
11 percent to 488.9 million euros. The company doesn’t disclose
margins for individual projects, Chief Executive Officer Georg Kapsch said at the press conference.  The company will cut its dividend by 55 percent to 40 cents
per share, compared with 90 cents a year earlier, it said. “We
want to come back at least to an amount where we were three
years ago,” Kapsch said. In 2010, the company paid a dividend
of 75 cents per share, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  