-- Kuroda’s April-Was-Enough Message Faces Investors Wanting More
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-06-11T15:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/kuroda-s-april-was-enough-message-faces-investors-wanting-more.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s conviction his  April plan  to double the nation’s
monetary base will be enough to end deflation is confronting its
biggest test with a sustained sell-off in stocks.  The Topix index fell 1 percent yesterday, extending its
decline to 14 percent from a May 22 high, after the BOJ
refrained from adding stimulus or expanding its toolkit for
tackling volatility in bonds. Kuroda has repeatedly said the BOJ
has taken all “necessary” measures.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe contributed to the retreat in
stocks last week by putting off until autumn a structural
deregulation program he vows will bolster growth. Politically
handicapped from pursuing bolder steps before elections next
month, the risk is that lawmakers will step up pressure on
Kuroda to address market turmoil through monetary measures.  “Apparently the BOJ considers a stock plunge is temporary,
but the central bank would be forced to act if stock prices keep
heading south,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. At the same time, “if a
central bank does everything investors call for, it would be
pushed into a corner and forced to react endlessly,” he said.  The yen surged after the decision, trading 1.8 percent
higher as of 8:52 a.m. in  New York . In Tokyo, 10-year yields
were at 0.880 percent yesterday, compared with a record low of
0.315 percent on April 5 and a high of 1 percent on May 23. Even
after a one-day plunge of 6.9 percent on May 23, the Topix is up
28 percent this year, at 1,101.15. The Nikkei slipped 1.5
percent yesterday to 13,317.62.  Nikkei Limit  “The Nikkei falling to around 12,000 would be the limit
for the government’s patience with the BOJ,” said  Takuji Okubo ,
chief economist at  Japan  Macro Advisors in Tokyo, formerly of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “The central bank would come under
pressure for further measures such as more easing, longer
maturities -- some sort of stronger commitment to easing,” he
said, referring to purchases of longer-dated debt.  Yesterday’s policy statement restated the April pledge to
increase the monetary base by 60 trillion to 70 trillion yen
($720 billion) per year. Policy makers left unaltered a one-year
fixed-rate loan facility the bank has tapped seven times since
April to try to ease  bond market  volatility. Twenty of 23
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey forecast that the BOJ would
approve loans of two years or longer at yesterday’s meeting or
said that such a move was possible.  Not Needed  “We have concluded that we don’t need to have a new tool
for now as volatility has been greatly reduced amid our efforts
for flexible operations,” Kuroda said at a briefing. “We will
discuss when needed” any extension to the funding limit, he
said, adding that “I haven’t seen the need for it so far.”  The BOJ has so far offered 13 trillion yen in the one-year
fixed-rate operations, with banks and financial institutions
taking up a total of 10.4 trillion yen.  Yields matter in Japan because the nation bears the world’s
biggest public debt burden, with the  International Monetary Fund 
last month urging a “concrete and credible” plan for fiscal
consolidation. The IMF said last year that Japan’s borrowings
may amount to 245 percent of its economic output this year.  “Volatility in the bond market is calming down,” said
 Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research
Institute in Tokyo, and one of the economists who expected no
extension of the funding operation.  Price swings in Japan’s government bonds maturing in more
than a year have almost halved in the past two months.
Volatility has declined to 3.79 percent since it reached 6.86
percent on April 16, the highest since September 2003 on a 10-day reading basis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Not ‘Swayed’  The BOJ’s stance “sends a signal that Kuroda won’t be
swayed by short-term swings and volatility in bond yields,”
said  Hideo Kumano , executive chief economist at Dai-ichi Life in
Tokyo and a former BOJ official. According to Hiroshi Shiraishi,
an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo, the central banker also
avoided the mixed message of expanding bond-buying options for
financial institutions while simultaneously trying to push them
into holding riskier assets.  Officials before the meeting were divided over whether to
extend the loans to a two-year horizon, people familiar with the
discussions said last week.  Yesterday, Kuroda said that the central bank has more scope
to increase purchases of exchange-traded funds than of Japanese
real-estate investment trusts, or J-REITs. The BOJ also said
that 3.15 trillion yen of loans will be extended to 70 major and
regional banks on June 20 through a program set up under former
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa.  Exports, Output  The BOJ upgraded its assessment of exports and production,
saying both are “picking up,” and also saw some initial
progress toward pulling the nation out of 15 years of deflation.
Annual consumer-price changes are “likely to gradually turn
positive,” the bank said, a switch from saying on May 22 that
the benchmark gauge was “expected to register smaller declines
for the time being, and thereafter is likely to gradually turn
positive.”  The economy is “picking up,” the central bank said, after
a revised report this week showed annualized growth of 4.1
percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  