-- NE Opco Wins Approval of $60 Million Bankruptcy Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-06-11T20:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ne-opco-wins-approval-of-60-million-bankruptcy-loan.html
NE Opco Inc., the largest closely
held envelope maker in  North America , won court approval to
borrow as much as $60 million of a bankruptcy loan to help fund
operations.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  indicated at a
hearing today in Wilmington, Delaware, that he will approve the
interim bankruptcy financing provided by Salus Capital Partners
LLC, as agent for lenders, after minor changes are made to
language in the agreement.  The funding “gives the company a fair opportunity to sell
the assets, and maximize the value for the estate,” John
Knight, an attorney for NE Opco with Richards Layton & Finger
PA, told Sontchi. The company said in court papers the
bankruptcy loan will allow it “to take out the first lien
lenders’ debt in full.”  The company will seek court approval to borrow the final
$7.5 million of the total $67.5 million package at a hearing set
for July 1.  NE Opco, formerly known as National Envelope, sought
 bankruptcy protection  yesterday for the second time as consumers
increasingly opt for Internet-based communication over
traditional mail.  The Frisco, Texas-based company listed as much as $500
million in both assets and liabilities in Chapter 11 filings.  NE Opco employs about 1,600 people, 600 fewer than in 2012,
according to the filing. The envelope maker has eight
manufacturing facilities and two distribution centers capable of
producing 37 billion envelopes a year, giving it a 15 percent
total share of the U.S envelope market.  The case is In re NE Opco Inc. 13-bk-11483.  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  