-- New Jersey Voter Groups Back Suit Challenging Election
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-11T18:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/new-jersey-voter-groups-back-suit-challenging-election.html
Ten New Jersey organizations filed
court papers backing a challenge to the decision by Republican
Governor  Chris Christie  to hold a special election on Oct. 16 to
replace U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , who died last week.  New Jersey Citizen Action and the New Jersey Black Issues
Convention were among those supporting a June 7 lawsuit claiming
that voting within 20 days of the Nov. 5 general election will
reduce turnout and cost an estimated $12 million. New Jersey’s
attorney general also will file a response today.  “New Jersey’s election laws aim to provide an orderly
process that maximizes participation and minimizes confusion,”
according to a brief by New Jersey Citizen Action and New Jersey
Citizens United. Christie’s writ of election “violates both the
letter and intent of those laws.”  The Appellate Division is weighing an emergency challenge
filed by Somerset County Democratic Chairwoman Peg Schaffer as a
four-way battle for the Democratic nomination begins. U.S.
Representative  Frank Pallone  and state Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver joined Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  and U.S. Representative
Rush Holt in filing papers to enter the Aug. 13 primary.  “This is going to be a campaign for the heart of the
 Democratic Party ,” Pallone, 61, said yesterday at the state
Elections Division offices. “Obviously, I’m in and excited.”  Quick Campaign  The contest took shape after Lautenberg, an 89-year-old
Democrat, died June 3, and Christie called for a quick campaign
to select a successor to fill out the remainder of his fifth
term. The deadline to get on the primary ballot by handing in at
least 1,000 voter signatures was yesterday.  Booker, 44, already had been seeking the seat, as
Lautenberg didn’t plan to run again next year. The others
clarified their intentions more recently.  In the Republican primary, former Bogota Mayor Steven Lonegan is facing Alieta Eck, a physician from Somerset.  Christie appointed his attorney general, Jeffrey Chiesa, to
fill the senate seat until the Oct. 16 special election. John J.
Hoffman is serving as the acting attorney general.  A survey that offered a first glimpse of the Democratic
contest showed 53 percent supported Booker, followed by 10
percent for Holt and 9 percent for Pallone, according to
 Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut .  Oliver, 60, of  East Orange , wasn’t listed in the poll
released yesterday. It showed 23 percent of respondents were
undecided with two months to go before the party primary.  Buono  The four-month Senate campaign has the potential to drain
financial resources for the Democrats and may take “big-name
endorsements” from state Senator Barbara Buono, 59, the party’s
challenger to Christie’s re-election bid, according to  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute in
 West Long Branch , New Jersey. The Republican leads her by 30
percentage points, the Quinnipiac poll showed.  Once informed of the cost of holding a statewide balloting,
at about $12 million, more than three-quarters of respondents
said it was a bad idea not to hold the special vote on the same
day as the general election, the poll from the New Brunswick-based state school showed. Both should take place Nov. 5,
according to 84 percent of Democrats, 79 percent of independents
and 67 percent of Republicans polled.  Schaffer filed the case on behalf of Giuseppe Grillo,
Joseph Danielsen and Marie Corfield.  The case is Grillo v. Christie, A-4648-12T2, Superior Court
of  New Jersey , Appellate Division (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  