-- News Corp. Investors Approve Breakup Plan
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-06-11T18:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/news-corp-holders-to-approve-plan-to-split-off-publishing-unit.html
After years of being criticized by
investors for his love of newspapers,  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman Rupert Murdoch is now a step closer to cleaving off the declining
publishing business.  Shareholders voted to approve the breakup plan at a special
meeting this morning in New York, where the company is based,
Murdoch said today. The publishing group will inherit the News
Corp. name, while the entertainment unit will be called  21st
Century Fox  after the June 28 split. Murdoch holds the plurality
of votes through his family’s trust, with 39 percent of Class B
 voting shares , helping ensure passage of the proposal.  “News Corporation’s size and complexity made it difficult
for investors to understand and properly value our company,”
Murdoch said at the meeting. “We’re confident the separation
will unlock the true value of our assets.”  Murdoch’s sustained commitment to newspapers, a
deteriorating industry, led investors to push for a split so
that the market would recognize the value of entertainment
assets such as the Fox News and FX cable networks. 21st Century
Fox also includes Fox broadcasting and film division 20th
Century Fox, which will keep its name despite the parent
company’s updated moniker.  “We think generally the split can be good for investors,
but we’ll have to see how both stocks are priced,”  Donald Yacktman , founder of Yacktman Asset Management Co., said in an
interview. Yacktman is the fourth-largest holder of News Corp.’s
Class A shares, with 5 percent.  Newspaper Company  The new version of News Corp. will be focused on
newspapers, including the Wall Street Journal and the New York
Post in the U.S.; the Times and Sun newspapers in the U.K.; and
newspapers in  Australia . The company will also include
Australian television business Fox Sports Australia and a 50
percent stake in pay-TV operator Foxtel. HarperCollins book
publishers and Amplify, a digital-education business led by
former New York City schools chancellor Joel Klein, round out
the portfolio of the new News Corp.  Last month the company said it will  write down  the value of
its publishing business by as much as $1.4 billion, blaming
slowing cash flow from its Australian and U.S. newspapers.  ’Cost Cutting’  Robert Thomson, the chief executive officer of the
forthcoming publishing group, said at an investor meeting last
month that the company expects “to be relentless in our cost-cutting and in our pursuit of profits.”  News Corp. cut as much as 10 percent of staff at the New
York Post, according to a recent report  from Capital New York .
The Post loses as much as $110 million annually, Brett Harriss,
an analyst with Gabelli & Co.,  told Bloomberg News last year .
 Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman at Rubenstein Communications who
represents the New York Post, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  The company has written down its publishing assets before,
as an industrywide advertising slump takes a toll on the once-lucrative newspaper business. Its chain of Australian
newspapers, the genesis of Murdoch’s media empire, has been hit
especially hard. News Corp. restructured the business last year
and cut jobs in a bid to improve profitability.  The company’s total publishing business reported a net loss
of $1.89 billion in the last fiscal year, which ended June 30.
The loss reflected $2.6 billion in writedowns, mostly reductions
in the value of newspapers. News Corp. also wrote down the value
of its Dow Jones & Co. division by $2.8 billion in 2009. Murdoch
bought Dow Jones from the Bancroft family for $5.2 billion in
December 2007, acquiring the Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones
Newswires as part of the purchase.  Stock Buybacks  Even so, the new  News Corp. (NWS)  will start with $2.6 billion in
cash and approval to buy back $500 million worth of stock after
the split.  Murdoch will be chairman and CEO of 21st Century Fox and
executive chairman of the new News Corp. His children, James and
Lachlan, will be on both boards.  During the meeting today, News Corp. also told shareholders
it hasn’t entered into any settlement talks with the U.S.
Justice Department related to the agency’s probe over possible
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Executives at
the company’s U.K. newspapers have been charged with bribing
public officials related to a phone-hacking scandal.  “We have an ongoing cooperative relationship with the
Department of Justice, and that is where it stands,” said
 Gerson Zweifach , News Corp.’s general counsel.  News Corp. competes with Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP
in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  