-- No, New York Beats California in Sprint to Last Place
-- B y   E . J .   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-06-11T22:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/no-new-york-beats-california-in-sprint-to-last-place.html
When a government watchdog as
knowledgeable as Steven Greenhut, a Bloomberg View contributor,
writes that  California   deserves  to knock New York out of last
place in rankings of state business climates, it’s tempting to
agree. If only he had a stronger case.  True, the two states are virtually neck and neck by many
 anti-market measures . To take just two of the more important
inputs for manufacturers, in particular, New York ranks just
below California in a nationwide index of workers’ compensation
premiums, and slightly above California on average energy costs.  Both states authorize at least some local imposition of
rent regulation -- a litmus test of economic wrongheadedness.
New York’s minimum wage is currently at the federal level of
$7.25, while California’s is at $8. However, New York has just
legislated a phased-in wage increase to $9 by the end of 2015.  California has high state- and local-government debts --
perhaps as high as $1 trillion, as Greenhut  notes . But on a per-capita basis, casting the same broad net over all government-related liabilities, New York gives California a run for its
money.  When it comes to politics, Greenhut can be excused for
writing that New York Democrats “have more competition.”
Obviously, he has never met a New York Republican. Besides,
thanks to term limits, at least the California Legislature has
regular turnover.  Lifetime Legislators  In New York, lawmakers are almost never dislodged
involuntarily by anything short of death or indictment. New
York’s current assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, has held that
job for almost 20 years and was first elected to the legislature
in 1976, when California Governor Jerry Brown, who is now 75,
was the nation’s youngest governor.  State taxes per $1,000 of personal income are slightly
lower in New York than in California. But through various
mandates controlled out of  Albany , New York shifts much more of
its tax burden to the local level. As a result, New York’s
property taxes are among the highest in the country -- while
California’s, thanks to Proposition 13, are near the bottom.  Even considering the wide array of assessments and fees in
California, local levies in the Golden State are a fraction of
those in the Empire State. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo’s
newly enacted tax-levy cap of 2 percent (give or take some
allowances) will stop the situation from worsening, but it won’t
get better without far-reaching structural reform that the
governor and legislature continue to resist.  California and New York have one important economic
advantage in common: vast  reserves  of oil and gas. Trapped for
eons in deep-underground shale deposits, they can now be freed
by hydraulic fracturing. It is in this area -- energy
development and exploration -- that New York has proved it
really deserves to stand alone on the bottom rung of state
economic policy.  Just last week, California’s famously liberal, green-friendly, Democrat-dominated assembly overwhelmingly rejected a
bill that would have  banned  oil and gas hydrofracking. New York,
by contrast, is now in the fourth year of a state-imposed
moratorium that has prevented fracking of the gas-rich Marcellus
Shale in its economically stagnant upstate region, even as
neighboring rural  Pennsylvania  enjoys a boom. Cuomo continues to
hold up the issuance of gas-drilling regulations, a decision he
may now delay until 2014.  Unleashing a cheap plentiful supply of gas wouldn’t just
create jobs in the drilling business; it could also be a boon to
many manufacturers staggering under high costs in both states.
California officials, at least, are hesitating to squander this
opportunity. New York’s  fracking ban  -- both in its immediate
impact and the signal it sends to investors and entrepreneurs
across the country -- is a decisive mark against the state.  Beyond Fracking  Fracking aside, New York looks worse than California even
when graded on a curve that plays to the strengths of both
states. While some groups have been criticized for basing their
economic report cards too heavily on taxes, the Boston-based
Beacon Hill Institute produces a  State Competitiveness Index 
that also weighs human resources, technology, business
incubation and openness, in addition to taxes and environmental
regulations. On the 2013 index, California ranked a close-to-respectable 24th. New York could manage no better than 34.  In the final analysis, of course, our precise positions on
such scales don’t matter. Obviously, California and New York
both have a lot of work to do before they can compete more
effectively with the U.S.’s growth hot spots. In the meantime,
we can at least console ourselves that we have a downwardly
mobile rival. Memo to  Illinois : Keep it up!  (E.J. McMahon is a senior fellow at the Manhattan
Institute’s Empire Center for New York State Policy.)  To contact the writer of this article:
E.J. McMahon at  ejm@empirecenter.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 