-- Nordea Raises Outlook for Sweden’s Economy as Consumers Spend
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-06-11T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/nordea-raises-outlook-for-sweden-s-economy-as-consumers-spend.html
Sweden’s economy will grow more this
year than previously forecast as consumers spend at the fastest
pace since 2010, according to  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)   Gross domestic product in the largest Nordic economy will
expand 1.5 percent in 2013, compared with a March estimate for
1.3 percent, Stockholm-based Nordea said in a report today. The
rate of expansion will reach 2.5 percent in 2014, the bank said.
Swedish GDP grew 0.7 percent last year.  “The Swedish economy is emerging from the soft patch that
it has been in for the past year or so,” Nordea said in a
report. “Consumer spending is the key driver.”  The Riksbank has signaled its next monetary policy step
will be to raise rates in the second half of next year. The
bank, which kept its benchmark repo rate at 1 percent for a
second meeting in April, says its policy is designed to keep
credit growth in check even as inflation hovers well below its 2
percent target.  “The central bank argues that its monetary policy line is
already expansionary,” Nordea said. “Further rate cuts are
therefore not likely.”  Sweden’s economic strength means the krona is likely to
gain against the euro, according to Scandinavia’s biggest bank.  “A continued comparatively healthy economic performance by
Sweden speaks in favor of the krona maintaining its strength
against the euro,” Nordea said. “The deviation of the real
exchange rate from its long-term average indicates continued
krona appreciation. By contrast, the krona is set to weaken
slightly versus the dollar in step with the recovery of the U.S.
economy.”  Norway Slows  Growth in mainland GDP in neighboring  Norway  -- a measure
that adjusts for income from oil and shipping -- will slow to
2.6 percent this year from 3.4 percent in 2012, Nordea said. A
slowdown in consumer spending and business investment, as well
as a decline in exports, will weigh on growth, the bank said.  Denmark’s economy will return to growth this year,
expanding 0.3 percent after contracting 0.5 percent in 2012,
Nordea estimates. Finnish output will continue to shrink in
2013, declining 0.5 percent after contracting 0.2 percent in
2012, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  