-- North Korea Calls Off Talks, South Korea Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-06-12T07:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/north-korea-calls-off-talks-south-korea-says.html
North Korea  called off the highest-level talks since Kim Jong Un took power in protest at the rank
of  South Korea ’s proposed delegate, risking a renewal of
tensions and leaving economic projects in limbo.  While the totalitarian regime did not issue a statement,
the official newspaper of the ruling Workers’ Party said “it is
important to have a proper attitude towards dialogue,”
according to a Rodong Sinmun commentary carried by the official
Korean Central News Agency. “It is not a true attitude to
antagonize or suspect a dialogue partner first.”  The North insisted that South Korea’s unification minister
meet its “much lower-ranking” official and rejected the
South’s revised proposal for vice minister-level discussions,
Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk said in a televised
briefing last night. The two-day talks were to begin today in
 Seoul  and focus on the reopening of a joint factory park.  North Korea’s initial willingness to meet indicated Kim was
seeking to re-establish economic ties after months of tensions
on the Korean peninsula. The agreed-upon agenda didn’t include
North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, which it has vowed to
maintain in defiance of international sanctions.  North Korea had tried to gain an advantage over South Korea
“through this irrational insistence that a top official face a
working-level bureaucrat,” said Yoo Ho Yeol, a professor of
North Korean studies at Korea University in Seoul.  Defense Shares  South Korea regrets the North’s decision and hopes it will
agree to return to talks, the Unification Ministry’s Kim said.
North Korea didn’t answer a call via a communication hotline at
the Panmunjom border village around 9 a.m., the ministry said
separately in a text message.  Defense-related shares rose with naval ship equipment maker
 Speco Co. (013810)  gaining 6.7 percent, electronic warfare equipment
maker  Victek Co. (065450)  rising 4.9 percent and armored vehicle maker
 Firstec Co. (010820)  adding 0.6 percent in Seoul. The benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI) 
stock index fell 0.6 percent to close at 1,909.91 while the won
was little changed.  Delegates from the two sides were to have discussed
reopening the jointly-run Gaeseong industrial zone and a luxury
resort aimed at luring South Korean tourists to the North.
Marathon working-level meetings on June 9 laid the ground work
for the talks, which would have been the first since Kim took
over from his father  Kim Jong Il  in December 2011.  North Korea’s is demanding the South’s submission and
humiliation, said an official from South Korea’s presidential
office, who asked not be named as per government policy.  Fundamental Dispute  The chances of a breakthrough in any future North-South
talks are slim because the fundamental dispute over North
Korea’s nuclear weapons development remains, the  International
Crisis Group ’s Seoul-based analyst  Daniel Pinkston  said by phone
today.  Kim earlier this year threatened preemptive nuclear strikes
after the  United Nations  tightened sanctions for North Korea’s
rocket launch in December and an atomic bomb test in February.  North Korea on April 3 started blocking South Korean
managers and workers from entering Gaeseong, disturbing
operations which generate about $100 million in annual profits
for the impoverished regime. It recalled all of its 50,000
workers five days later, shuttering the zone for the first time
since it opened in 2005. The park stayed open in the aftermath
of the 2010 deaths of 50 South Koreans in a ship sinking and the
shelling of a South Korean border island by the North.  South Korea’s President Park Geun Hye was elected last year
as the country’s first female leader partly on her pledge to
improve ties with the North through a “trust-building”
process. Park has called a nuclear-armed North Korea
“unacceptable” while saying issues of humanitarian aid remain
independent of politics and that bilateral trust can be
developed through “exchange and cooperation.”  ‘Sunshine Policy’  Park aims to alter the approach of predecessor  Lee Myung Bak , who abandoned previous administrations’ “Sunshine Policy”
of engagement, during which the Gaeseong complex and Mt.
Geumgang resort came to life.  The “Diamond Mountain” resort at Mt. Geumgang, opened in
1998 by the two Koreas as a symbol of hope for reunification,
has been closed since 2008, when North Korean troops shot and
killed a South Korean guest walking on a restricted beach.  Shares of Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., the biggest
shareholder of the resort’s manager Hyundai Asan Corp., slumped
14.7 percent today. Hyundai Merchant had a 66.2% stake in
Hyundai Asan as of March 31.  The U.S. and  China , North Korea’s biggest benefactor, have
called on Kim’s regime to return to disarmament talks to no
avail. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Chinese President Xi Jinping found “quite a bit of alignment” on stopping North
Korea’s nuclear program at their California meeting last week,
White House national security adviser Tom Donilon said.  Timing Significant  The announcement of North Korea’s initial proposal for
talks with the South was significant, coming a day before the
Obama-Xi summit, Korea University’s Yoo said.  “North Korea was trying to create a facade of eased inter-Korean tensions, hoping to relieve the pressure the U.S. and the
Chinese have been levying on Pyongyang,” Yoo said. “Instead,
Obama and Xi reinforced their aligned commitment to continue
pressuring the North, which led to Pyongyang seeing no need for
inter-Korean dialogue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  