-- N.Y. Restaurants Sue Over City’s Health Inspections
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-11T22:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/nyc-health-department-sued-by-restaurants-over-inspections.html
New York City  was sued by the owners
of 40 restaurants in the Bronx accusing health inspectors of
levying excessive fines to raise revenue and driving eateries
out of business.  The restaurant owners say the inspectors haven’t been
properly trained, which causes them to enforce the health code
differently and violates the owners’ right to due process under
the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, according to the
complaint filed today in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan .  Excessive fines have caused restaurants to go out of
business, said the restaurant owners, who are seeking $150
million in damages, according to the suit. The plaintiffs are
also seeking a stay of all fines until the case is resolved and
a reorganization of the appeal process, which they called
“intrinsically unfair.”  “The continued arbitrary, capricious and malicious
enforcement of the health code by improperly trained health
inspectors will cause these restaurant owners to suffer
continued excessive fines and losses and cause some of these
restaurants to go out of business,” the owners said in the
complaint.  The city’s restaurant grading program has led to cleaner
kitchens, with more than 80 percent now earning A grades, said
Jaslee Carayol, a spokeswoman for the city’s Law Department.  “This rambling, scattershot attack on the city’s
regulation of food service establishments lacks merit and should
be quickly rejected by the courts,” Carayol said in an e-mailed
statement.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The case is Board of Health Public Review Committee v. New
York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, 100847/2013,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  