-- Oaktree Said to Test Investor Appetite for Stock Spirits IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-11T10:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/oaktree-said-to-test-investor-appetite-for-stock-spirits-ipo.html
Oaktree Capital Management LLC, the
owner of  Poland  and  Italy ’s largest vodka maker Stock Spirits
Group, is testing investor appetite for an initial public
offering of the company, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. and Nomura Holdings Inc. are speaking
to investors ahead of a possible IPO this year, the people said,
asking not to be named as details aren’t yet public. No final
decision has been made and a sale may not happen, they said.  In early 2011, Oaktree hired Unicredit SpA and Nomura to
help manage an attempted IPO, according to people familiar with
the situation at the time. That came after potential bidders
including Diageo Plc and Bain Capital LLC balked at the asking
price for Stock Spirits, said to be more than 700 million euros
($929 million). Stock Spirits said later that year it would 
continue to be owned by Oaktree.  In February,  Sky News  reported that discussions between
Pamplona Capital Management LLP and Oaktree to acquire Stock
Spirits broke down on a disagreement over the company’s reported
590 million-pound ($918 million) price tag. Stock Spirits’ 
attempt comes as IPO volume in  Europe , the Middle East and 
Africa have risen about 75 percent to $8 billion this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Spokespeople for Oaktree, JPMorgan and Nomura in London
declined to comment on the IPO. A spokesperson at Stock Spirits
couldn’t immediately comment.  Stock Spirits, which was acquired by Oaktree in 2007
according to its website,  reported  revenue of 292.4 million
euros in 2012, slightly below 2011 revenue of 295.1 million
euros. Global sales volume now totals over 140 million liters
annually, the site said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in  London  at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  