-- Obama Hosts Peru’s Humala in Push for Pacific Trade Deal
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-06-11T21:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/obama-hosts-peru-s-humala-in-push-for-trans-pacific-trade-deal.html
President  Barack Obama  called  Peru 
one of the most reliable partners of the U.S. in the Western
Hemisphere and said a Pacific region trade pact being negotiated
will enhance the economic relationship.  Growth for both countries depends on expanding into global
markets and the Trans-Pacific Partnership will create new
opportunities, Obama said following a meeting at the White House
with Peru’s President  Ollanta Humala .  The accord “offers the possibility of opening up markets
throughout the the Pacific region with high standards and
protections for labor and the environment,” Obama said.  The U.S., Peru and nine other nations are negotiating the
trans-Pacific trade agreement. The proposal also played a
leading role in Obama’s June 4 meeting at the White House with
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera.  The 11 nations have a goal of reaching an agreement by the
end of the year. The parties are working to resolve differences
on intellectual property laws and labor and environmental
standards, Pinera said during his visit.  Obama and Humala also discussed climate change and energy
policy, education, technology and Peru’s government efforts
toward social inclusion.  Humala said he wants to move ahead on exchange and
scholarship programs to “provide young people more
opportunities.”  U.S. Engagement  Vice President  Joe Biden  wrote in a June 5 essay in the
Wall Street Journal newspaper that Obama’s meeting with Humala
is part of “the most sustained period of U.S. engagement with
the Americas in a long, long time.” Besides meeting with
Pinera, Obama traveled last month to  Mexico  and  Costa Rica  and
Biden recently visited Colombia, Trinidad and Brazil. In
October, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  is scheduled to make
a state visit to  Washington .  Peru’s fast-growing  economy  is forecast to expand 6.2
percent this year, rising to 6.35 percent in 2014, according to
the median of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Even so, that’s
a slowdown from 7 percent in 2011.  Humala, 50, a career army officer, won the June 2011
presidential election after pledging respect for democracy and
promising to spread the benefits of a decade of economic boom in
a country rich in copper, silver, lead, zinc and oil.  Humala has pledged to accelerate infrastructure investment
and cut red tape to spur growth amid a slump in copper exports.
He held the first of a series of meetings with business leaders
June 4 to discuss government measures to accelerate investment.  Humala’s job approval rating fell to 46 percent last month,
down from 54 percent, partly because 55 percent of those
surveyed said the economy is cooling, according to June 6 poll
by Datum Internacional.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  