-- Obama Calls Immigration ‘Driving Force’ in Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-06-11T14:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/obama-calls-immigration-driving-force-in-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  rallied
business, labor and other supporters of revising U.S.
immigration law behind a bipartisan push to get the legislation
passed before Congress takes its August recess.  The U.S. economy historically has flourished with the
contributions of immigrants, Obama said today at the White
House.  “It’s kept our workforce vibrant and dynamic; It’s kept
our businesses on the cutting edge,” he said. “It’s a driving
force in our economy that creates jobs and prosperity.”  The Senate planned its first procedural votes today on the
measure that leaders plan to pass by July 4 and send to the
House. The package, a critical piece of Obama’s second-term
agenda, includes a path to citizenship for the estimated 11
million undocumented immigrants.  Among those in the audience today were U.S. Chamber of
Commerce President  Tom Donohue  and AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka . The coalition backing a rewrite of the law includes
Carlos Gutierrez, former Commerce secretary under President
 George W. Bush ,  Steve Case , founder of America Online, and
representatives of law enforcement, faith leaders and political
leaders of both parties.  “Rare is there an issue these days with this much unity,”
 David Plouffe , former senior adviser to Obama, said on Bloomberg
Television today. “If you don’t do it now, when are you going
to do it?”  Opposition Remains  Obama said the “moment is now” to get the legislation
passed and called the Senate bill “the best chance in years to
fix the system.”  Still, some opposition remained.  “This bill has serious flaws,” Senate Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell  said in a speech as debate got under way
While he said he won’t block consideration of the measure,
McConnell said it’s going to need “major changes” including
those involving border security, government benefits for
immigrants and taxes.  The last significant congressional effort to revise U.S.
immigration law stalled in 2007. Republicans are trying to
reconnect with Hispanics after President Barack Obama won 71
percent of the constituency’s votes in his re-election in
November.  House Republican leaders are seeking to accelerate the
drafting of a bill in that chamber, where it faces opposition.
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said on ABC’s “Good
Morning America” program that he expects to have legislation
“by the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  