-- Ocado Jumps to Record as Short Sellers Close Costly Positions
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-06-11T10:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ocado-jumps-to-record-as-short-sellers-close-costly-positions.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  rose for a third
straight day to a record in  London  trading as short sellers shut
unprofitable positions in the U.K.’s largest Internet grocer.  The  stock  gained as much as 13 percent to 351.4 pence, the
highest price since the company sold shares in a July 2010
initial public offering at 180 pence apiece. It was up 6.6
percent at 332.7 pence as of 11:34 a.m. and has advanced 21
percent in the past three trading sessions.  Short interest in Ocado has fallen to 7.8 percent of the
stock from 25 percent in the past month, according to the most
recent data from research company Markit. Share prices tend to
rise when short sellers, who bet on a decline by selling
borrowed shares and seeking to replace them at a lower price,
choose to buy stock to cover their positions.  Ocado shares have almost quadrupled this year on optimism
that a new distribution center will help accelerate sales growth
and after the company entered into a 25-year agreement with
 William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  to help the retailer make a
belated entry into the U.K. online grocery market.  That’s squeezed out short sellers, who are buying back
shares at higher prices than they sold them.  Ocado is still the sixth most shorted stock on the FTSE 250
Index, according to Markit’s data.  Analysts downplayed speculation cited in today’s Daily Mail
newspaper that  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  may seek to become
involved in Ocado’s deal with Morrison.  “The speculation surrounding M&S looks unfounded,” said
Andrew Gwynn, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London “To us,
the move in recent days looks to be a short-squeeze.”  Morrison Deal  An Ocado spokeswoman today declined to comment on the share
price movement or on the Marks & Spencer speculation.  Under the agreement with Morrison, the supermarket chain
will acquire the lease of Ocado’s new distribution center in
Dordon, central  England , with Ocado staff and machinery picking
the groceries and the online retailer’s routing technology
installed in Morrison delivery trucks. The agreement still
allows Ocado to do similar deals with other grocers outside of
the U.K. and with non-grocers within the country.  The agreement will allow Ocado to repay an 85 million-pound
($132 million) loan and provide cash for future expansion, the
company said May 17.  Sales growth at Ocado exceeded 15.5 percent in the second
quarter, accelerating from 14 percent in the first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  