-- Local Debt Beating Treasuries for Longest Since ’06: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/local-debt-beating-treasuries-for-longest-since-06-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal market
is at risk of ending its longest streak of gains in 20 years.
It’s still winning when compared with other fixed-income assets.  Local debt has lost 0.1 percent this year through June 7,
and is poised to end a nine-quarter rally, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. Still, munis are surpassing Treasuries
and company securities, which have dropped more than 1 percent.
When adjusted for risk, the historically less-volatile local-government market has beaten U.S. and corporate bonds since the
start of 2011, the longest stretch since 2006.  State and city borrowings have been buoyed this year by
investors avoiding higher federal income-tax rates. Benchmark
10-year munis yield  2.21 percent , about the same as similar-maturity Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For top
earners, that equals a 3.66 percent taxable level.  “The taxable-equivalent yield that muni bonds offer is
extremely attractive relative to what you’re getting anywhere in
the corporate and Treasury market,” said Mark DeMitry, senior
portfolio manager at OppenheimerFunds Inc., who oversees about
$38 billion in local debt from Rochester,  New York . “Munis are
poised to outperform other fixed-income assets.”  Rebound’s Lure  While individuals have favored the relative safety of fixed
income since the financial crisis, signs of a U.S. economic
rebound have lured buyers to riskier assets such as stocks.
Investors pulled $9.1 billion from bond funds in the week ended
June 5, the second-most since 1992, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show. Muni funds lost $1.5 billion, the most this year.  The flows were driven by “sticker-shock” from fixed-income declines in May, Chris Mauro, head of muni strategy at
RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York, said in a report last week.  Bond markets globally posted their biggest monthly losses
in nine years in May on signs the world’s biggest economy is
sustaining a rebound from the longest recession since the 1930s.
The muni market sank 1.3 percent as benchmark 10-year yields
rose 0.42 percentage point, the most since October 2009.  Standard & Poor’s  revised its outlook on the U.S. to stable
from negative yesterday. Payrolls rose 175,000 in April, Labor
Department figures showed June 7, exceeding the median forecast
of 163,000 in a Bloomberg survey.  Money Shift  The economic recovery has helped propel a seven-month rally
in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  of shares, the longest win streak since
2009. It is outperforming federal, corporate and muni debt as
well as commodities in risk-adjusted returns for the first time
since 1996.  “Part of the weakness we’ve seen in municipal bonds and
some of the higher credit-quality asset classes is investors
have begun to shift some assets into equities,” said Jeff Margolin, a closed-end fund analyst in Wheaton,  Illinois , at
First Trust Advisors LP, which oversees about $70 billion.  “For the higher credit quality portion of the portfolio,
municipal bonds remain the most attractive,” he said.  The  ratio  of yields on 10-year munis to those on similar-maturity Treasuries, a measure of relative value, is about 100
percent, the lowest since May. The lower the figure, the more
expensive local debt is in comparison. The ratio has averaged 92
percent since 2001 as investors typically demand less to own
munis for their tax-free income.  Yields on tax-exempt bonds exceed those on taxable
corporate debt. Company borrowings with an average rating of AA
and due in about 30 years yielded  4.21 percent  as of June 7,
Moody’s Investors Service data show. The  interest rate  on
general obligations with a similar rating and maturity was about
 4.28 percent , Bloomberg data show.  New York City Transitional Finance Authority and Illinois
are among issuers bringing $8.3 billion of debt to market this
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest  wave 
since mid-April.  Illinois, which had its general-obligation grade cut last
week by Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings , plans to issue sales-tax-backed bonds. The securities have S&P’s highest credit grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  