-- Monsanto, Merck, Tata, Kraft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-11T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/monsanto-merck-tata-kraft-intellectual-property.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  won’t have to face a
challenge to its patents on genetically modified seeds after a
U.S. appeals court affirmed a decision to throw out a lawsuit
filed by organic farmers and seed sellers.  The world’s largest seed company has made “binding
assurances” that it won’t take patent action against farmers
whose crops inadvertently contain traces of Monsanto’s
biotechnology genes, so there’s no reason for a lawsuit, the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said
in an opinion posted on its website yesterday.  Monsanto has pursued more than 800 patent cases against
farmers who planted its seeds without paying the proper royalty.
The lawsuit, filed in March 2011, was a preemptive action by
farmers, seed sellers and agricultural groups that said they had
no desire to plant Monsanto seeds, took steps to avoid doing so
and yet feared becoming the target of a patent-infringement suit
if Monsanto’s modified traits were found in their soybeans, corn
or other crops.  “Monsanto’s binding representations remove any risk of
suit against the appellants as users or sellers of trace amounts
(less than one percent) of modified seed,” Circuit Judge
Timothy Dyk wrote for the three-judge panel. “The appellants
have alleged no concrete plans or activities to use or sell
greater than trace amounts of modified seed, and accordingly
fail to show any risk of suit on that basis.”  Between 1997 and 2010, Monsanto filed 144 infringement
suits and settled about 700 other cases without litigation,
according to the opinion. The company’s practices have been
upheld by courts, including a May decision from the U.S. Supreme
Court.  The case brought by the farmers is Organic Seed Growers and
Trade v. Monsanto Co., 12-1298, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit.  Merck Loses U.S. Appeal of Apotex Patent Win Over Nasonex  Merck & Co. (MRK)  lost a U.S. appeals court bid to revive a
patent-infringement claim against generic-drug maker Apotex Inc.
over a copy of the allergy medicine Nasonex.  Apotex didn’t infringe the patent, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington said in a notice
posted yesterday on its website. The court, without issuing a
formal opinion, did affirm a lower court ruling that upheld the
validity of the Merck patent.  The cases are Merck Sharp and Dohme Corp. v. Apotex Inc.,
2012-1516,-1543, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  Rovi Loses Ruling in Patent Case Against Netflix and Roku  Rovi Corp. (ROVI)  lost the first round in its patent-infringement
case against  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Roku Inc. over interactive
television program guides at the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  Netflix and Roku didn’t infringe Rovi patents, trade Judge
 David Shaw  said in a notice posted on the Washington agency’s
website today. Rovi claimed Netflix infringes four patents and
Roku one and is seeking an order that would block U.S. imports
of Roku boxes and stop certain Netflix software applications.  The judge’s findings are subject to review by the six-member commission, which has set a target to complete the
investigation by Oct. 7.  Ditto Technologies Used Indiegogo, T-Shirt Sales in Patent Fight  A two-year-old startup e-commerce company based in San
Mateo, California, that is the target of two patent-infringement
suits is offering T-shirts to donors who help fund the
litigation.  Ditto Technologies Inc.  sells eyeglass frames and uses a
novel technology that lets its customers “try on” various
styles at home by creating a video of their faces with their
computer’s webcams.  The company was sued in federal court in Marshall,  Texas ,
March 27, where it was accused of infringing Lennon Image
Technologies LLC’s patent 6,624,843. That patent covers customer
image capture and its use in a retailing system.  That suit is one of a more than 10 cases brought in the
same court by Tyler, Texas-based Lennon. That particular
judicial district has a reputation of being particularly
hospitable to plaintiffs in patent cases.  The second case was brought in federal court in Utah Feb.
26 by  Wellpoint Inc. (WLP) ’s  1-800-Contacts  unit. In that suit, Ditto
is accused of infringing patent 7,016,824, covering an
interactive try-on platform for eyeglasses.  Ditto has turned to Indiegogo Inc.’s Indiegogo.com website,
the crowdfunding platform. In a  letter  posted on the Indiegogo
website, Ditto founders said that the cost of defending the
company against what it calls “patent trolls” could put Ditto
out of business.  The company set a goal to raise $30,000 through Indiegogo,
and is offering “I Beat Trolls” T-shirts to those who donate a
minimum of $30 to the cause.  San Francisco’s Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital-rights organization, has weighed in on Ditto’s behalf. In a
 posting o n the EFF website, the organization said that 1-800-Contacts bought the patent it claims is infringed right after
one of its executive went on Ditto’s website to check out the
competition. That company said its own virtual try-on technology
would be available in May 2013.  According to the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office ’s
 database of changes  in patent ownership. 1-800-Contacts acquired
the patent on Oct. 28, 2012. The suit against Ditto was filed
Feb. 26.  EFF posted  an e-mail  from 1-800-Contacts’ counsel on its
website. In that e-mail, the company said it is offensive and
false to call it a “patent troll,” and claims it does use the
technology covered by the patent it claims Ditto infringes, and
that the technology was in development “long before Ditto was
founded.”  The first case is Lennon Image Technologies LLC v. Ditto
Technologies Inc., 2:13-cv-00236-JRG, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Texas (Marshall). The second case is 1-800-Contacts v. Ditto Technologies 2:13-cv-00145-DN, U.S. District
Court, Central District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tata Goes After Unknown Infringers, Files Complaint in Delhi  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s biggest automaker, filed a
trademark complaint in a Delhi court related to automotive
accessories, India’s Economic Times reported.  Although the complaint didn’t name any specific defendant,
the Mumbai-based company has asked that those producing, storing
or selling the fakes be taken into custody, according to the
newspaper.  In addition to making trademark claims, Tata’s complaint
alleged that the defendants have violated India’s penal code by
cheating, committing forgery and possessing the tools to enable
counterfeiting trademarks, according to the Economic Times.  Tata is arguing that members of the public are cheated when
they aim to buy the company’s legitimate products and instead
receive fakes, the newspaper reported.  Kraft Sued Over ‘Topper’ Trademark by Canadian Dairy Company  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT) , the maker of Velveeta, Miracle Whip
and Tang, was sued for trademark infringement by a unit of
Canada’s  Saputo Inc. (SAP)   According to the complaint filed June 7 in federal court in
 Chicago , Saputo Cheese USA claims Kraft is infringing the
“Toppers” trademark belonging to the Canadian dairy company.
Saputo registered its mark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office in March 2000.  Packaging for a line of Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft’s
Velveeta products began containing the word “ toppers ”
beginning in 2012, Saputo said. The company claims that
consumers are likely to be confused and to assume, mistakenly,
that it is the source of the Kraft product.  The Canadian dairy company said that Kraft responded to a
cease-and-desist letter by saying the company was “looking into
this matter” and promised a substantive response to Saputo’s
concerns. Despite this response, Kraft has continued in its use
of “toppers” on its labels, Saputo claims in its pleadings.  St. Leonard, Quebec-based Saputo asked the court to bar
further unauthorized use of its trademark, together with an
order for recall and destruction of all infringing products,
packaging and promotional materials. Saputo also seeks awards of
attorney fees, litigation costs and money damages, including
extra damages to punish the food company for its “willful and
intentional conduct.”  “We do not comment on pending litigation,” Angela Wiggins,
a Kraft spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Saputo Cheese USA Inc. v. Kraft Foods Group
Inc., 1:13-cv-04245, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  Anheuser-Busch InBev Tells Small U.K. Brewery to Change Its Name  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (BUD)  has demanded a small craft brewery
in the U.K. change the name of its beer or risk being sued for
trademark infringement, the U.K.’s  Daily Mail  newspaper
 reported .  Belleville Brewing Co.  of Wandsworth, which is named after
a primary school attended by children of the company’s two
directors, has been told customers could potentially confuse
their product with the fruit-flavored Belgian-style Belle-Vue
beer produced by Anheuser-Busch, according to the Daily Mail.  Counsel for the Leuven, Belgium-based brewery told
Belleville Brewing that the two names were too similar both in
appearance and sound, the newspaper reported.  The U.K. brewery, which has been given 28 days to change
its name, and to destroy all potentially infringing packaging
and promotional materials, told the Daily Mail the notion that
customers would be confused is “ludicrous” because their
American-style beers are completely different from Anheuser-Busch’s Belle-Vue products.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-AMD Workers at Nvidia Lose Bid to End Trade-Secrets Suit  Former employees of  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  lost a bid
for dismissal of the company’s claims that when they joined
competing chipmaker  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  they disclosed  trade secrets 
and urged ex-colleagues to join them.  Ruling yesterday in Worcester,  Massachusetts ,, U.S.
District Judge Timothy Hillman rejected the motion by the ex-employees to dismiss claims including misappropriation of trade
secrets and breach of contract. The judge granted a request to
throw out a claim of unfair competition.  “Plaintiff has demonstrated a likelihood of success on the
merits with regard to misappropriation,” Hillman said in an
order denying most of the defendants’ motion.  AMD, based in Sunnyvale, California, accused ex-employees
of taking sensitive company documents when they went to work for
Nvidia. The former employees transferred more than 100,000
electronic files pertaining to AMD’s graphics-processor business
in the days before their departure, AMD said in a complaint
filed in January. The employees also allegedly recruited other
AMD workers to leave the company.  Hillman last month granted AMD an injunction barring the
ex-workers from disclosing trade secrets.  The employees all worked at AMD’s site in Boxborough,
Massachusetts, according to the complaint.  Nvidia, based in Santa Clara, California, isn’t a defendant
in the suit.  The case is Advanced Micro Devices v. Feldstein, 13-cv-40007, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Worcester).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 