-- OPEC Boosts Supply to Six-Month High; Demand Forecast Stable
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-11T12:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/opec-boosts-supply-to-six-month-high-keeps-demand-view-stable.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries raised crude output in May to the highest
level in six months while keeping its demand forecast for 2013
unchanged because of risks to the global economy.  OPEC increased production by 106,000 barrels a day to 30.57
million a day last month, led by gains in  Saudi Arabia , the
group said today in its monthly market report, citing secondary
sources. Global oil demand will increase by 780,000 barrels a
day, or 0.9 percent, this year to 89.7 million a day, in line
with estimates in the previous report.  “Existing fundamentals portray a market with ample
supply,” the group’s Vienna-based secretariat said. “Looking
at the second half of the year, the world economy is expected to
experience slightly higher growth. However, risks are skewed to
the downside.”  Consumption climbs at the end of the second quarter because
of peak summer demand for driving fuels in the northern
hemisphere, and higher electricity use in the  Middle East  to
power air conditioning units. Economic stagnation in  Europe  as
well as threats to the recovery in the U.S. and emerging nations
is restraining oil demand growth, OPEC said.  Brent crude  traded at about $102 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange today, having declined about 8
percent this year.  Saudi Increase  Saudi Arabia, the organization’s biggest member and de
facto leader, accounted for most of the group’s increase last
month, compensating for lower output from  Iran , Libya and
 Nigeria . The desert kingdom raised production by 143,400 barrels
a day to 9.4 million a day, a six-month high, data from
secondary sources cited in the report showed. Iranian output
fell most, declining 37,700 barrels a day in May to 2.6 million.
 Libya ’s output dropped 27,300 barrels a day to a two-month low
of 1.4 million barrels a day.  “What’s most telling is that OPEC has been holding
production elevated through all the spring weakness,” Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity analyst at SEB AB, said by phone
from Oslo. “The action of OPEC is creating a bearish picture.”  Daily group production of 30.57 million barrels is
approximately in line with the average amount OPEC estimates it
will need to provide in the second half of the year, at 30.5
million. It’s still higher than the organization’s current
official target of 30 million barrels, ratified for a third time
at OPEC’s most recent meeting on May 31.  In addition to supply estimates based on secondary sources,
OPEC’s monthly report also includes production data submitted
directly to the secretariat by member nations. Saudi Arabia’s
direct submission puts the kingdom’s output in May at 9.66
million barrels a day.  ‘Comfortable Level’  Total inventories of crude and refined products in
developed nations are in line with their five-year average after
expanding for a second month in April, by 19.2 million barrels
to 2.7 billion, the report showed. Crude supplies are at a
“comfortable level,” it said.  The organization left estimates for supplies from outside
the group in 2013 unchanged. Non-OPEC producers, led by the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Brazil  will bolster output by 1 million barrels
a day this year to 53.96 million, according to the report.  OPEC’s members are Algeria,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. They will meet next on Dec. 4 in Vienna.  The  International Energy Agency , an adviser to oil-consuming nations, will publish its monthly estimates of supply
and demand tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  