-- OptionsXpress Buy-Writes Left Shorts Naked, Judge Rules
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2013-06-11T16:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/optionsxpress-buy-writes-left-shorts-naked-judge-rules.html
(Corrects OptionsXpress payment in second paragraph.)  OptionsXpress Inc., a unit of U.S.
brokerage  Charles Schwab  Corp., and its former chief financial
officer helped to facilitate sham transactions that violated
U.S. securities laws, an administrative court ruled.  OptionsXpress and Thomas E. Stern helped a client, Jonathan
I. Feldman, conduct trades designed to fake compliance with laws
prohibiting so-called naked short sales, where investors sell a
stock they don’t possess in hope of profiting from declines,
according to the ruling by Brenda P. Murray, the chief
administrative judge for the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The judge said OptionsXpress should pay $3,574,599 and Feldman
$4,656,377. Stern, who was fired in 2012, was ordered to pay
$75,000 and banned from the securities industry.  Feldman’s use of so-called buy-write transactions, where a
share purchase is immediately offset by selling an in-the-money
 call option , to cover short positions broke rules requiring all
short sales to be backed by deliverable shares, the judge said
in a 105-page initial decision issued June 7. OptionsXpress and
Stern allowed the trades knowing the shares would never be
delivered and knowing other rulings indicated the practice was
illegal, the judge said.  “To put it bluntly, no one had any skin in the game,”
Judge Murray wrote. “By not performing its responsibility and
closing out fail-to-deliver positions, OptionsXpress allowed
Feldman and others to continue what, in effect, was naked short
selling.”  Delivered Securities  Stephen Senderowitz, a lawyer representing OptionsXpress,
disputed Judge Murray’s interpretation of the events, and said
OptionsXpress is reviewing the decision for the purposes of an
appeal.  “We believe the evidence at trial demonstrated that
OptionsXpress at all times acted consistent with all regulations
and bought in the shorts and delivered securities as required,”
said Senderowitz in an e-mailed statement. “The firm was in
touch with regulators regarding the transactions, no one was
harmed, and the transactions were neither novel nor exotic.”  Gregory Lawrence and Daniel McCartin, lawyers for Feldman,
did not return calls seeking comment.  The action was initiated by the SEC. In a short sale, an
investor borrows a stock and sells it, with the goal of
profiting from a price decline. The SEC’s Regulation SHO
requires investors and their brokers to deliver shares within
three days of making a short sale and bars firms from executing
further bets until previous ones are settled.  Regulation SHO  “OptionsXpress believes that Reg SHO did not prohibit the
transactions at issue here, and that the evidence showed there
was no naked short selling as OptionsXpress timely bought in all
shorts and delivered securities as required by regulations,”
added Senderowitz, a lawyer at Winston & Strawn LLP.  The SEC settled related claims against three OptionsXpress
employees: Peter Bottini, Phillip Hoeh and Kevin Strine,
according to a separate administrative order.  Feldman used OptionsXpress to target companies where demand
to sell short was so high that it was difficult or expensive to
borrow shares. To get around that, synthetic short bets were
created by selling bullish options priced far below the level of
the stock, known as deep-in-the-money calls.  Deliberate, Consistent  “Whenever the deep-in-the-money call options that Feldman
wrote were assigned to him, Feldman ended up in a short
position,” Murray said in the judgment. “This would have been
true for any trader. What was different for Feldman and certain
other customers was that it was not an infrequent or unplanned
occurrence, rather it was their deliberate and consistent
trading practice.”  Five customers including Feldman used the strategy between
October 2008 and March 2010 on about 25 stocks, including  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and American International Group Inc., the SEC
said. In 2009, they bought about $5.7 billion of securities and
sold about $4 billion of options, the regulator alleged.  Feldman’s trades, involving at least $2.9 billion of
purchases and $1.7 billion of options, occurred between July
2009 and March 2010, the SEC alleged. Feldman estimated he made
$3 million to $4 million on the trades he did through
OptionsXpress, according to the judgment.  At one point, according to the judgment, Feldman messaged
Dean Kolocouris, a friend who was also alleged to have engaged
in the practice: “read the latest thread on the [Sears] ‘volume
spikes.’ Very entertaining. (Until someone notifies the SEC, and
they shut down the strategy!! Then we’ll need a real job.”  Extra Fees  OptionsXpress didn’t levy extra fees on hard-to-borrow
stock and was alone at the time in allowing the use of buy-writes to cover short positions, according to Judge Murray’s
ruling.  “Feldman’s actions constitute fraud because by writing
calls he represented to the market as a whole and to purchasers
of his deep-in-the-money calls that he was going to make
delivery if his calls were exercised and assigned when he had no
intention of doing so, and, in fact, by entering buy-writes, he
did not cover his short position,” Judge Murray said.  Charles Schwab, the San Francisco-based brokerage, agreed
to buy OptionsXpress for about $1 billion of stock in 2011,
adding the retail options brokerage founded in 2000 to its
equity and mutual fund offerings. The acquisition was completed
in September 2011.  OptionsXpress claimed to have 320,000 customers in 2010,
according to the judgment.  Call Options  The company knew the stocks purporting to cover the short
positions were committed to call options that “would be
exercised and assigned so that no shares were delivered,” the
judge wrote. Stern knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that
the transactions violated securities statutes, Murray said.  Feldman was senior vice president and chief lending officer
at a regional bank until resigning in April 2012 and was one of
OptionsXpress’s biggest customers, according to the judgment. He
maintained that he relied on OptionsXpress to know the rules and
follow them, the judgment said. That argument was inapplicable,
the judge said.  “Sophisticated traders cannot do transactions that they
knew, or were reckless in not knowing, were illegal and then
blame their broker who they knew had a substantial financial
interest in continuing the transactions,” Murray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  