-- Obama Plan B Letter Gets Mixed Praise From Health Groups
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-06-11T17:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/morning-after-pill-to-be-sold-to-all-ages-u-s-says.html
Women’s health groups gave measured
praise to the U.S. government’s proposal to make a branded
version of the morning-after pill available over the counter
without age restrictions, expressing concern that cheaper
generics may still be kept behind the counter.  The U.S. said in a letter filed yesterday in federal court
in Brooklyn, New York, that it granted a petition to make  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Plan B One-Step emergency
contraceptive available without age or point-of-sale
restrictions.  The announcement came as the Obama administration was
appealing U.S District Judge Edward R. Korman’s April ruling
that women of all ages must be allowed to purchase any version
of the pill without a prescription. Susannah Baruch, interim
president and chief executive officer of the  Reproductive Health
Technologies Project , called yesterday’s letter “fantastic
news.”  “There are still a few questions left to answer,” Baruch
said on a conference call today. “We are concerned that the
administration hints they may give exclusivity to the marketing
for Plan B One-Step. This is not a minor issue.” She said the
branded pill costs as much as $50 a dose.  Under the plan outlined in the letter, the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration would approve new labeling for Plan B One-Step, allowing it to be sold over-the-counter. The government
said Teva could be granted exclusive rights to sell the pill,
possibly affecting whether generic equivalents could also be
sold in the same manner.  ‘Government’s Understanding’  “It is the government’s understanding that this course of
action fully complies with the court’s judgment,” lawyers for
the government, F. Franklin Amanat and  Brooklyn  U.S. Attorney
Loretta E. Lynch, said in the letter. The U.S. said it will drop
its appeal “once the court confirms that the government’s
understanding is correct.”  The government said it won’t “at this time” seek to
change the status of older two-pill versions of the emergency
contraceptive or its generic equivalents. On June 5, the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Manhattan agreed to delay part of Korman’s
ruling while it was under appeal. The appeals court didn’t
impose a delay on the two-pill version, saying that the
government failed to meet the requisite standard for a stay.  “The administration finally saw that it had nowhere else
to go,” Baruch said today. In yesterday’s letter, “the
administration sounds a little bit like a kid who knows he’s in
trouble,” and trying to negotiate “to see if he can get a
little bit more.”  Eight Years  Women’s health groups have spent more than eight years in
legal disputes with the government to expand over-the-counter
access to  levonorgestrel -based emergency contraceptives.  The FDA allows women 17 and older to obtain generic and
non-generic one- and two-pill versions of the contraceptive
without a prescription. In April, the agency approved Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva’s application to sell Plan B One-Step
over the counter to girls as young as 15.  The most recent legal challenge arose after  Health and
Human Services  Secretary Kathleen Sebelius overruled the FDA’s
decision in December 2011 to approve sales of Plan B One-Step
without a prescription. The action was the first time an FDA
finding has been reversed by a presidential administration.
Sebelius said at the time that her decision to overrule the
agency was merited by “cognitive and behavioral” differences
in girls of the youngest reproductive age.  Emergency Contraceptive  In his ruling, Korman said the FDA kept restrictions on
obtaining  levonorgestrel -based emergency contraceptives without
a prescription for political rather than scientific reasons.  At a hearing in May, Korman also criticized the
government’s move to sell Plan B One-Step to girls as young as
15, saying that it was unfair to allow younger teens to purchase
only the more expensive branded drug without a prescription.
Korman also said the age restrictions could prevent some women
from obtaining the pills if they lack photo identification.  The contraceptive, which contains a larger dose of the
hormone levonorgestrel than found in other birth-control pills,
prevents pregnancy by inhibiting fertilization. The drugs are
most effective when taken within 24 hours of intercourse.  Korman hasn’t yet responded to the government’s letter.
Women’s health group representatives said today that they
weren’t sure what would happen if Korman doesn’t agree to the
government’s proposal. Amanat, the lawyer for the government,
declined to comment.  ‘Arbitrary Restrictions’  Center for Reproductive Rights Chief Executive Officer
Nancy Northup said in a statement yesterday that the group is
“pleased that women should soon be able to buy Plan B One-Step
without the arbitrary restrictions that kept it locked behind
the pharmacy counter when they needed it most urgently.”  Planned Parenthood Federation of America President Cecile Richards called the proposal “a huge breakthrough” in a
statement yesterday.  “The FDA’s decision will make emergency contraception
available on store shelves, just like condoms, and women of all
ages will be able to get it quickly in order to prevent
unintended pregnancy,” she said.  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 12-cv-00763, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is
Tummino v. Hamburg, 13-1690, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  