-- Morocco Says Subsidy Cuts Dependent on Commodity Prices
-- B y   S o u h a i l   K a r a m
-- 2013-06-11T14:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/morocco-says-subsidy-cuts-dependent-on-commodity-prices.html
     June 11 (Bloomberg) -  Morocco  will find it hard to cut
subsidies as long as  oil prices  stay high, General Affairs and
Governance Minister Najib Boulif said, even as the country comes
under pressure from the  International Monetary Fund .  “If oil prices were to fall drastically, so would the size
of the financial effort we would need to make to dismantle
subsidies for fuels,” Boulif said by phone from Rabat. “As
long as global commodity prices are high, the reform of the
subsidy system will be difficult to implement.”  Any reform would “be gradual and stretch over three to
four years,” the minister said today.  Subsidies accounted for over 80 percent of Morocco’s 7.1
percent budget deficit posted in 2012, higher than the
government’s 5.5 percent projection. The government has raised
wages, pensions and spent more on subsidies every year since
protests over unemployment and living costs inspired by the Arab
Spring revolts swept through the region in 2011.  Morocco’s $100-billion economy was granted a $6.2 billion
liquidity line by the IMF last year. The government pledged to
reform its subsidy, tax and pensions systems and bring the
deficit down to 3 percent by 2017. Morocco imports all its oil,
gas and coal needs, and relies on sugar and wheat imports to
meet domestic needs. Those imports accounted for 60 percent of
the trade deficit in 2012, which stood at 197 billion dirhams or
23 percent of GDP.  A few days after meeting an IMF delegation on a
consultation visit to Morocco, Prime Minister  Abdelilah Benkirane  said Moroccans should brace for “painful measures to
come.”  “They were asking ‘what are you going to do with the
reforms because your situation is shaky as far as the IMF is
concerned’,” Benkirane said of members of the IMF delegation,
in a video posted on his Islamist Justice and Development
Party’s official Website this week.  “Morocco today lives beyond its means,” he said. “You
have to adjust the state consumption to levels you can control,
otherwise creditors will come knocking.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Souhail Karam in Rabat at 
 skaram5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  