-- How Mobile Phones Can Improve Health Care
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/how-mobile-phones-can-improve-health-care.html
Obstetric fistula, an injury that
occurs in unattended childbirth and causes incontinence, is
among the most intractable challenges of extreme poverty.  In Tanzania, however, a pilot program that relies on
mobile-phone communication has brought fistula sufferers in
remote areas to a central hospital for reparative surgery. This
strategy, if duplicated elsewhere, could offer hope of a new
life for many of the estimated  2 million women  afflicted with
fistula worldwide.  A fistula is a hole that opens in the birth canal when a
mother’s labor is prolonged. The pressure of the baby’s head on
the soft tissue creates a gap between the vagina and the bladder
and/or the rectum. After delivery (the baby usually dies), the
hole remains so that urine, feces or both leak through the
woman’s reproductive tract. This chronic incontinence is so
severe, sufferers typically are abandoned by their husbands and
families. They’re unemployable, too, and live as outcasts.  Most fistulas can be  repaired , at a cost of about $300 a
surgery. At least 239 facilities in Africa and Asia offer the
procedure, often free, according to a project called the  Global
Fistula Map . Even so, in 2010, only 14,000 of the estimated
50,000 new fistula cases worldwide were treated. Afflicted women
either weren’t aware of the procedure or couldn’t afford to
travel to the surgical centers. This is why, until recently, the
fistula ward at the Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation
in Tanzania hospital in Dar es Salaam was underused.  In 2009, hospital staff members, with support from the
United Nations Population Fund, decided to find the patients.
They assembled a  countrywide network  of volunteers and armed
them with mobile phones and basic training to identify potential
patients.  Candidates were then diagnosed over the phone; those who
appeared to be suffering from obstetric fistula were sent money
for bus fare ($30 on average) through a mobile-phone money-transfer service, in care of the volunteer. Volunteers, in turn,
received small incentive payments (about $3.50 a referral). This
strategy has more than tripled the hospital’s fistula
operations, from 150 in 2009 to 500 last year.  There’s no reason it can’t work in countries with the
highest rates of fistula -- including Burundi,  Chad , the Central
African Republic, Somalia and South Sudan. Surgery units exist,
although more are needed, and the costs are low enough that,
even where donations are unavailable, the countries’ own
departments of health should be able to foot the bill.  What’s more, private funding isn’t out of the question.
After learning about how its phones and money-transfer system
had made the Tanzanian program possible, Vodafone Group Plc
helped fund the construction of a new fistula ward at the
hospital, which opened in November.  Ultimately, the best answer to obstetric fistula is to
 prevent it . That requires expanding women’s access to birth
control, to trained professionals with midwifery skills and to
emergency obstetric care. In the meantime, the backlog of cases
grows. Tanzania’s model shows how to take it on.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 