-- How to End the Patent Wars
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/how-to-end-the-patent-wars.html
In the fall of 2011, U.S. President
 Barack Obama  signed a sweeping package of patent reforms into
law. He  promised  they would improve patent quality, reduce
excessive litigation, encourage innovation and create jobs. Last
week, the president unveiled another round of sweeping patent
reforms. He  promised  they would improve patent quality, reduce
excessive litigation, encourage innovation and … you get the
idea.  Obviously, the president’s first attempt didn’t work. His
latest legislative proposals and executive orders won’t either.
Although they move in the right direction, they fall short of
the drastic overhaul that the shambolic U.S. patent system
needs.  Too many low-quality patents are being approved.
Applications have increased fivefold in 30 years, meaning
overworked examiners sometimes spend only a few hours to
determine if an invention is novel and nonobvious. Worse, too
many companies have stopped inventing in favor of litigating
over patents.  Patents are supposed to encourage innovation by giving
inventors a 20-year monopoly for commercialization. Today, the
opposite is the case: Patents are stifling innovation.  The problem goes beyond the main targets of Obama’s new
proposals: “ patent assertion entities ,” better known as patent
trolls, whose business model consists of holding many low-quality patents and suing infringers, real or otherwise. The
trolls threatened to sue more than 100,000 companies last year,
the White House  says . Some seem like little more than extortion
rackets. They prey on smaller businesses by claiming, for
example, that a jewelry boutique is violating a patent every
time it scans a document. One  study  concludes that defendants
paid $29 billion in 2011 to trolls, four times what they paid in
2005.  Playing Games  Big technology companies play this game, too. They spend
large sums that could go toward research and development on
lawyers and lawsuits. Witness how Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co., which uses Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, have tied each other in knots with dozens of lawsuits
filed on four continents over smartphone technology.  That brings up another problem: the increasingly pivotal
role of the U.S. International Trade Commission. On June 4, the
ITC ruled against Apple in a dispute with Samsung, which claims
that Apple infringed a patent for data transmission protocols
between mobile phones. After a 60-day review, Apple may be
barred from importing some older iPhone and iPad models into the
U.S.  Judging whether a product violates a patent is hardly the
ITC’s expertise, and it can’t award financial damages. Yet it is
the litigants’ favorite venue, because the standard of proof is
lower than in U.S. courts and because the ITC can impose an
import ban. The mere threat of such a ban often induces
settlements.  The result of all this is an arms race, in which the goal
is to amass patents to use against rivals. A federal judge in
Miami, presiding over a dispute between Google and Apple,  called
the parties  “obstreperous and cantankerous” for being more
interested in litigation as a business strategy than in settling
differences.  Among his dozen proposals, Obama would make patent
enforcers divulge the real party behind any patent, which could
stymie the trolls, whose main weapon is anonymity. He would
provide legal protections for users of common products, and he
would make public the letters that trolls send to demand
royalties. Obama would also tighten the ITC’s rules for import
bans and the patent office’s standards for software patents to
make sure they aren’t overly broad.  These are all perfectly fine, piecemeal changes. But the
quickest path to a more efficient system is to modernize the
patent office itself. And that means -- crazy as it may sound --
hiring more patent examiners and giving them less to do.  Prior Art  Congress should switch the burden of proof so that
applicants instead of examiners must search so-called prior art
to see if a patent has already been awarded. The patent office
should also consider whether software patents should be awarded
at all (they already receive copyright protection).  To reduce frivolous litigation, Obama would make it easier
for judges to decide that the losers cover court costs. A better
course: Require losers to pay.  As we’ve  written , the utility model that  Germany  and other
countries use is worth consideration. Owners would have
exclusive rights to produce, use and market inventions, with
crucial differences: Protection is cheaper to obtain, and the
term is shorter (usually seven to 10 years). The registration
process is faster because the government doesn’t examine
inventions to see if they are new, useful and nonobvious. But
anyone can challenge, for a fee, whether an invention meets
those standards -- with the losing party paying legal costs. The
utility model is weaker than the U.S. patent model, yet it
offers small companies a fast, low-cost way to protect
inventions.  For the big players, we offer this suggestion: Presidents
have the authority to override ITC import bans. They rarely do.
But now that the ITC is about to ban some smartphone imports,
which would limit consumer choice, Obama should step in. That
would send a clear signal that the patent wars must end. It’s
time for disarmament.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 