-- Mozambique Doesn’t Plan to Sell Stake in Rovuma Gas Block
-- B y   W i l l i a m   F e l i m a o
-- 2013-06-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/mozambique-doesn-t-plan-to-sell-stake-in-rovuma-gas-block.html
Mozambique’s state-backed petroleum
company said it’s not interested in selling its stake in the
Rovuma offshore gas field to international producers.  “Is not in our minds to sell,” Chief Executive Officer
Nelson Ocuane said yesterday in an interview in the capital city
of Maputo. “Our mandate is to add value to the natural resource
discoveries in the country.”  Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos, known as ENH, has a 15
percent interest in the  Rovuma-1 block , whose reserves are
larger than those of  Libya , according to  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) , the operator of the block.  The CEO said several international companies that have
expressed an interest in gaining a foothold in the block have
been rebuffed.  “We can only materialize our vision with our participation
in all of the process, including the development of the project
and the investment phase,” Ocuane said. “Our vision is to make
ENH profitable in the next few years and, if possible, to
increase our stakes.”  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  are
among companies weighing bids for a stake in Rovuma owned by
ENH, a person familiar with the matter said last week. ENH was
also reported to be gauging interest from Chinese energy firms,
two people said at the time.  ENH will need to invest close to $1 billion for the
development of the field in the next few years, equivalent to 20
percent to 30 percent of the project, according to Ocuane.  Final Estimates  “We are still talking about preliminary figures, which can
vary according to how many plants will be built,” the CEO said.
The final estimates will be ready next year, he said.  Talks will take place with commercial banks and development
agencies to provide some of the financing, he said.  “The strategy is already approved,” Ocuane said. “We had
a good experience on Sasol’s Pande Temane project where we had
important support from international financial institutions and
we are comfortable in saying money for investment will not be a
problem.”  The company is also hiring an international consultant with
experience in liquefied natural gas to help the state fund its
share of the investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Felimao in Maputo at 
 wfelimao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  