-- Pakistan Seeks to Pare Budget Gap Even as Power Woe Hurts Growth
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-06-12T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/pakistan-targets-4-4-growth-as-budget-seen-fighting-energy-woes.html
Pakistan’s new government pledged to
narrow the widest  budget deficit  in more than two decades, as
Finance Minister Ishaq Dar set a goal of reviving growth in an
economy he said was “shattered” and hampered by energy
shortages.  The fiscal-deficit target for the year starting July 1 is
6.3 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a shortfall
of 8.8 percent in 2012-2013, Dar said in his budget speech in
Islamabad yesterday. He imposed additional levies, such as a
sales-tax increase to 17 percent from 16 percent, to help fund
higher spending on roads and dams.  “Curbing the fiscal deficit is a key aim of the budget
strategy,” Dar said in parliament. “Pakistan will borrow less
from the central bank, introduce new savings plans and end
untargeted subsidies.”  He said the government will unveil an  energy policy  soon as
Pakistan grapples with $5 billion of power-industry dues from
unpaid bills that have choked electricity generation. The
economy’s woes add to other challenges facing Prime Minister
 Nawaz Sharif , ranging from a plunge in foreign reserves that has
boosted the odds of an International Monetary Fund bailout, to a
Taliban insurgency in the northwest and growing insecurity.  “The deficit target is achievable if they keep subsidies
and current expenditure under control,” said Raza Jafri, head
of research at AKD Securities Ltd. in Karachi. “They do realize
the puzzles and I think it’s possible.”  Tax Revenues  Tax revenues are projected to climb 22.3 percent to 2.59
trillion rupees next fiscal year, according to budget documents.
Sharif will cut spending by the Prime Minister’s office by 45
percent. Government expenditure excluding defense, salaries and
debt servicing will be cut by 30 percent.  Sharif is aiming for 4.4 percent  economic growth  next
fiscal year, up from an estimated 3.6 percent this year. Dar
said another objective is to keep inflation in single digits.
Consumer prices rose 5.13 percent in May from a year earlier.  Dar, who has said he intends to curb  tax evasion , imposed
an additional 2 percent sales tax on all supplies made to
unregistered companies, to help promote documentation.  The government set goals for 2016 of 7 percent GDP growth,
a 4 percent budget shortfall and an increase in foreign reserves
to $20 billion. Pakistan’s tax to GDP ratio is 8.9 percent,
according to the government.  The finance minister said June 11 that the government plans
to end energy dues in 60 days to tackle a power crisis that is
reducing GDP growth by 2 percentage points annually.  Rupee Decline  Pakistan’s rupee has declined about 4.3 percent against the
dollar in the past year as concern that the economy may struggle
weighs on the currency.  Foreign reserves slid 43 percent to $6.4 billion in June
from a year earlier, enough to cover about two months of imports,
central bank data shows.  The IMF won’t sign a new loan program without a “deep and
clear” commitment from Pakistan on a set of policy reforms to
curb the budget deficit,  Jeffrey Franks , head of the IMF’s
Pakistan mission, said in January.  Miftah Ismail, an energy adviser to Sharif, said June 5 the
government in the short run “will have to write a cheque to pay
off a big pile of debt that has choked” the  energy industry .
That may be done by selling rupee bonds to local banks, he said.  The $232 billion economy has expanded an average of about 3
percent since the start of 2008, less than half the annual pace
of the previous five years, IMF data shows.  Sharif returned to power more than 13 years after his
second period as premier was cut short by a 1999 army coup.
Having won almost half of the seats contested in the May 11
general election, his  Pakistan  Muslim League-N party can govern
without a major coalition partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  