-- Former Paschi Bankers Face Trial Over Hidden Nomura File
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-06-11T17:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/paschi-s-former-executives-face-expedited-trial-over-hidden-file.html
Three former executives of  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  face an expedited trial for
allegedly obstructing regulators in the first indictments
related to the managers’ use of derivatives to mask losses.  A judge approved the request by Siena prosecutors to try
 Giuseppe Mussari , Gianluca Baldassarri and Antonio Vigni on
charges that they helped hide a document, and scheduled a trial
for Sept. 26 in an accelerated procedure, according to three
people with direct knowledge of the case. They asked not to be
identified because the decision hasn’t been made public.  The expedited trial will demonstrate that Mussari is
innocent, his lawyer Tullio Padovani said by phone today.
Lawyers for Vigni and Baldassarri didn’t answer calls to their
mobile phones. Italian prosecutors use the immediate-trial
procedure, shortening the investigative phase, when they believe
sufficient evidence exists to go to trial.  The three managers colluded to hide a document that showed
how the world’s oldest bank entered into a derivative deal with
Nomura Holdings Inc. in 2009 to conceal losses, prosecutors have
said in previous court filings. As part of the transaction
arranged by Nomura and dubbed Alexandria, Monte Paschi bought
Italian  government bonds  with a loan from the Tokyo-based bank,
swapping the fixed-rate interest payments on the bonds with a
floating rate and guaranteeing the credit risk on the bonds.  The so-called mandate agreement for Nomura to arrange the
financing, dated July 31, 2009, was found on Oct. 10 last year,
court filings show.  Derivatives Deals  Bloomberg News  on Jan. 17 first reported the lender’s use
of derivatives to conceal losses, which had never been fully
disclosed to shareholders, in a similar transaction with
Deutsche Bank AG. As both transactions backfired, Monte Paschi
was forced to post more margin.  The  Bank of Italy  spotted accounting irregularities that
allowed Monte Paschi to mask losses in 2010 and sought daily
liquidity reports from the lender as margin calls drained funds
on the Deutsche Bank deal. The central bank, based in  Rome , in
April fined former managers for lack of risk controls.  Prosecutors in Siena also are investigating whether former
Monte Paschi managers committed false accounting, market
manipulation, criminal association and  money laundering .  Italian news agency Ansa earlier reported that Siena
magistrate Ugo Bellini approved the prosecutors’ request and set
the trial date for the three men.  Monte Paschi filed a suit against former General Manager
Vigni and ex-Chairman Mussari in Florence on March 1, alleging
they used the swaps to hide losses. The bank is seeking 1.2
billion euros ($1.6 billion) in damages from Deutsche Bank and
Nomura, claiming the two colluded with the former managers to
devise the derivatives. Both banks have denied any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  