-- Paulson Gold Fund Fell 13 Percent in May to Steepen Loss
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-06-11T17:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/paulson-gold-fund-fell-13-percent-in-may-to-steepen-loss.html
Billionaire  John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager trying to recover from losses related to bullion
this year, posted a 13 percent decline in his Gold Fund last
month, according to a letter to investors.  The drop brings losses in the strategy to 54 percent since
the start of the year, the firm said in the letter, a copy of
which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . The Gold Fund is the
smallest strategy of the $19 billion  money manager , with about
$360 million, or 2 percent of assets, most of it Paulson’s own
money.  The firm said it has no intention of closing down the Gold
Fund and recommended investors stay invested as valuations
provide a “significant upside.” Paulson & Co. last week told
clients it would start reporting returns for the Gold Fund and
the gold share classes of other strategies separately to avoid
taking away attention from positive performance in other
strategies, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Paulson & Co. will change the Paulson Gold Funds’ name to
the PFR Gold Funds, which stands for the initials of Paulson and
gold specialists Victor Flores and John Reade, according to the
letter.  Gold fell 5.4 percent and  gold equities  declined 3 percent
in May on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will scale back its
bond purchases, reducing the attractiveness of bullion and
related securities as a hedge against inflation.  Funds Gain  The New York-based firm posted gains in the dollar share
classes of its four main strategies last month and since the
start of the year. The firm’s Credit Opportunities Fund, its
largest strategy, is up 16 percent this year, and Paulson
Partners rose 8.5 percent, Advantage Plus climbed 7 percent and
the Recovery Fund surged 28 percent.  Investors can choose between dollar- and gold-denominated
share classes of most of Paulson’s funds.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co. at Walek &
Associates, declined to comment on the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  