-- Penn West Breakup Seen Returning $3.7 Billion: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-06-11T20:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/penn-west-breakup-seen-returning-3-7-billion-real-m-a.html
Penn West  Petroleum Ltd., the
Canadian oil producer that recently overhauled management, is
poised to boost a valuation that’s more depressed than 99
percent of peers by breaking up.  Penn West named a new chief executive officer and board
leadership and last week said it will explore options to
increase returns after a two-year  stock plunge  left the energy
company trading at a 42 percent discount to book value. The
C$5.1 billion ($5 billion) company’s assets should be valued at
as much as C$18.20 a share, 73 percent more than its closing
price yesterday, according to three  analyst  and investor
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To boost its languishing  shares , Calgary-based Penn West
could split into two companies -- one focused on assets with
greater growth potential and another that could entice investors
with its dividend payouts, Stifel Financial Corp. said. Asset
sales or joint ventures may be more likely, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd., while shareholder Leon Frazer & Associates
said the company could even be a takeover target.  “They’re going to have to do something because standing
still is not going to work for them,” Cristina Lopez, a
Calgary-based analyst at Macquarie, said in a telephone
interview. Penn West “has a wide-ranging grouping of assets.
There are so many possible and plausible scenarios.”  New Management  Penn West said last week it would cut staff by 10 percent
and trim its  dividend  as it seeks to reverse stock losses that
wiped out C$5.7 billion in market value in two years. The
company is also replacing retiring CEO Murray Nunns with  David Roberts , the former chief operating officer of  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MPC) , and exploring alternatives including asset sales, joint
ventures and other business combinations.  “Penn West has many high-quality assets, but the company
has yet to unlock their complete value,” Rick George, the
former head of  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  who was named Penn West’s
chairman last month, said in a June 4 statement.  “We’re going to look at every single option,” George said
a day later after the company’s annual meeting, when asked
whether Penn West is for sale.  Clayton Paradis, a spokesman for Penn West, declined
yesterday to comment on the review beyond George’s statements.  Losing Streak  The energy company has reported three consecutive
unprofitable  quarters , the worst streak of losses since at least
1992, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Free cash flow 
has been negative in nine of the last 10 quarters.  Penn West is burdened with almost C$3 billion of debt and
production “is actually declining,” Dirk Lever, a Calgary-based analyst at AltaCorp Capital Inc., said in a phone
interview. “That’s a problem.”  After its stock drop, the company is trading at 0.58 times
its  book value , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among
North American exploration and production companies valued at
more than $1 billion, only  Lightstream Resources Ltd. (LTS)  has a
lower multiple, the data show.  Today, Penn West rose 3.7 percent to C$10.90, the most in
more than a month. It was the biggest gain in the S&P/TSX Energy
Index and the second-biggest advance among stocks in the broader
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index.  Penn West should be valued at as much as C$18.20 a share,
based on the average of three analyst and investor estimates for
net asset value. That would equate to C$8.8 billion, which is
C$3.7 billion ($3.7 billion) more than yesterday’s market
capitalization.  Restructuring the company by selling or spinning off assets
should unlock some of that value for shareholders, said Gordon Tait, a Calgary-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets, a division
of Bank of Montreal.  Refocusing Efforts  “The parts are worth more than the sum at this point,”
Tait said in a phone interview. There are “some assets in the
company that Penn West realistically wouldn’t be able to add a
lot of value to that maybe someone else could. That way, they
can focus their attention and their efforts on the properties
where they have some kind of a comparative advantage.”  Separating Penn West into two businesses, with one focused
on assets with growth potential and the other on properties
whose predictable production would allow for an attractive
dividend “would be a good idea,” according to Michael Zuk of
Stifel.  The dividend-driven division could include stable
developments such as the Viking and Spearfish formations, while
Penn West’s acreage in the Cardium formation, where the company
is using enhanced oil-recovery technology to boost production,
would fit into a growth-oriented business, Zuk said.  “If they did do that type of split, that would be received
well,” the Calgary-based analyst said in a phone interview.  Debt Complication  Still, Penn West’s debt would need to be allocated among
the businesses in a breakup, and that might complicate a split,
said Sam La Bell, a Toronto-based analyst at Veritas Investment
Research Corp. Selling assets or forming a joint venture may
offer simpler ways to boost  shareholder value , he said.  Penn West’s resources in the Cardium region could
potentially be sold, La Bell said in a phone interview.  Acreage in the Duvernay shale development in Alberta also
could be attractive to a buyer, according to  Jim Hall , chief
investment officer at Calgary-based Mawer Investment Management
Ltd., which oversees more than C$16 billion, including Penn West
shares.  “Penn West has a big portfolio, so there are lots of
pieces that might be better off in someone else’s hands,” Hall
wrote in an e-mail. “I don’t think Penn West gets any value for
its Duvernay assets.”  Possible Proceeds  Assets including the Duvernay shale position and half of
Penn West’s acreage in the Cardium region could be valued at
about C$1.2 billion in a sale, Greg Pardy, a Toronto-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, estimated in a June 6 note to
clients.  The company has already been shopping its 155,000 net acres
in the Duvernay, with TD Securities handling the process, said
Paradis, the Penn West spokesman. He declined to comment on
whether the company had received any interest in the asset from
potential buyers.  Penn West could attract bidders for the whole company,
according to Ryan Bushell, who helps oversee C$2.1 billion,
including Penn West shares, at Leon Frazer & Associates.  “It’s not necessarily the strong players that get taken
out,” the Toronto-based  money manager  said in a phone
interview. “Would we be surprised to see someone step in? We
probably wouldn’t be.”  Asset Glut  Still, as energy companies flood the market with assets
following a decline in natural-gas prices to a 10-year low last
year, there may not be sufficient appetite for the entire
company, according to Macquarie’s Lopez. Asset sales or joint
ventures “may actually end up being the only step that they can
undertake,” she said.  Even so, just slimming down the company -- whether by
spinning off units or divesting assets -- should benefit
shareholders, said Tait of BMO.  “There’s more value in selling off some pieces and
concentrating on the areas where you think you really do have
economies of scale or some knowledge that you can bring that
makes you a top-notch operator,” he said. “At the end of the
day, I would like to think that they will leave themselves some
good assets that have lots of upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  