-- Perry Asks Texas Legislators to Approve 20-Week Abortion Ban
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-06-11T20:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/perry-asks-texas-legislators-to-approve-20-week-abortion-ban-1-.html
Governor  Rick Perry  asked the Texas
legislature to ban abortions at 20 weeks of pregnancy after at
least 10 other states approved similar measures in recent years.  The proposal backed by Perry, a 63-year-old Republican,
wouldn’t apply if a woman is facing “substantial and
irreversible” physical harm.  “The horrors of the national late-term abortion industry
are continuing to come to light, one atrocity at a time,”
Perry, who leads the second-most-populous state, said today in a
statement. “We have an obligation to protect unborn children,
and to hold those who peddle these abortions to standards that
would minimize the death, disease and pain they cause.”  In the past three years, Republican-led states increasingly
have restricted when and how women can end their pregnancies.
Twenty-week bans have been among the most popular, passing in at
least 10 states since 2010. Some of the measures are facing
legal challenges and haven’t taken effect.  In May, an  Arizona  law that made it a crime for doctors to
perform abortions after 20 weeks was struck down by a federal
appeals court. The ruling said the measure violated the
precedent set by the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade
decision, which granted the right to an abortion until a fetus
is viable, typically considered to be around 24 weeks.  Disputed Research  Both the Texas House and Senate, which are meeting in a
special session, have anti-abortion Republican majorities, said
Heather Busby, executive director of the Texas chapter of NARAL
Pro-Choice America, a Washington-based group that opposes
restrictions.  Texas law prohibits abortions after 28 weeks, though in
practice there are few after 24 weeks, Busby said.  Republican legislators proposed measures similar to the new
bill that didn’t gain traction during the regular legislative
session that ended May 27.  Supporters cited research suggesting a fetus can feel pain
by 20 weeks. The American Congress of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists says the claim isn’t based on “sound science.”
Women commonly get ultrasounds at 20 weeks to screen for fetal
anomalies.  More than 60 Republican lawmakers signed a letter asking
Perry to add abortion bills to the special-session agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  