-- Pimco Cut Treasuries Holdings in May to Lowest in Two Months
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-06-11T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/pimco-cut-treasuries-holdings-in-may-to-lowest-in-two-months.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  cut the holdings of Treasuries in his flagship fund
even as he says the  Federal Reserve  is unlikely to reduce its
unprecedented asset-purchase program in the near-term.  The proportion of U.S. government securities in the $285.16
billion Total Return Fund declined to 37 percent in May, from 39
percent in April, a level that was the highest since July 2010,
according to data on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s
 website  yesterday. Mortgage holdings were maintained at 34
percent, while municipal holdings were reduced to 4 percent, the
lowest since July 2012, from 5 percent. The company doesn’t
comment directly on monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  Gross, co-founder of Pimco and manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, has been advising investors to sell riskier
assets and buy government debt, including inflation-linked
securities and nominal Treasuries, as central banks pursue
unprecedented stimulus measures.  “We’re sticking with bonds as long as Fed does,” he wrote
in a Twitter post on June 4.  The Fed will reduce its bond purchases to $65 billion a
month at its Oct. 29-30 meeting, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists conducted June 4-5.
The central bank currently buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage securities each month to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs.  Developed Nations  Gross cut his holdings of non-U.S. developed nations’ debt
to 7 percent in May, the lowest level since August, from 10
percent in April. Investment-grade credit holdings fell last
month to 6 percent from 7 percent.  The  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s emerging-market debt holdings were
cut to 7 percent, from 8 percent in April. The fund’s net cash-and-equivalent position was at 0 percent in May, compared with
negative 8 percent the previous month.  Global bonds had their worst month in nine years in May,
led by Treasuries, as investors sold debt in anticipation that
central banks will eventually scale back unprecedented asset
purchases.  The selloff left Gross’s Pimco Total Return Fund trailing
competitors in the past month when it lost investors 2.43
percent, beating just 7 percent of its peers.  Gross’s fund suffered the first client withdrawals since
2011 in May, with clients pulling out $1.3 billion, according to
estimates from Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  Over the past five years, Gross’s fund has advanced 7.8
percent, ahead of 94 percent of competitors.  The fund returned 3.62 percent over the past year, beating
81 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Total Return Fund’s government and Treasury debt
category includes fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds,
futures and inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $2.04 trillion in  assets  as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  