-- Poland Holds ‘Difficult’ European Commission Talks on LOT Aid
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-06-11T09:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/poland-holds-difficult-european-commission-talks-on-lot-aid.html
Poland is in talks with the European
Commission on state aid for LOT Polish Airline SA, as the
national carrier undergoes an overhaul that includes selling
part of its fleet to help return to profitability next year.  “We are in a difficult dialog” on the motion, Treasury
Minister Wlodzimierz Karpinski said in a TVN CNBC interview
today. Polish government provided LOT with a 400 million-zloty
($124 million) loan last year to avert bankruptcy. The airline
needs the executive arm of the European Union to approve the aid
and has to file the motion by June 20.  Karpinski, who must first approve LOT’s request, said the
airline forecasts it will have operating profit in 2014 after
posting a loss for the last five years. One of the ways to
achieve it will be to sell part of its fleet, he said, adding
that the motion to the commission also includes request for
additional aid, declining to give the amount.  LOT applied for a 1 billion-zloty aid package last year.
The company plans to cut 800 jobs and will stop flying to
 Athens , Helsinki, Zurich, Cairo,  Beirut , Barcelona, Berlin and
Dusseldorf from Warsaw as early as fall of 2014, reducing
flights on offer by a quarter,  Gazeta Wyborcza  reported today,
citing a restructuring plan.  Marek Klucinski, a spokesman for the airline, declined to
comment on the plan before it’s submitted with the commission.  The carrier will retire its 15 Embraer planes and will
lease out two its Boeing 787s to other airlines, Wyborcza said.
The company plans to post net income of 68 million zloty in
2015, according to the newspaper.  Poland is waiting for President Bronislaw Komorowski to
sign a law that will allow to end the government’s control over
LOT as it’s looking to sell the airline.  Both the government and the carrier are “actively”
looking for a buyer, Karpinski said. It’s “too early” to talk
about who might be a potential investor, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  