-- Quickie N.J. Senate Race Shapes Up as Challengers Emerge
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/quickie-n-j-senate-race-shapes-up-as-challengers-emerge.html
A four-way battle for the “heart of
the Democratic Party” in New Jersey enters its first full day
today as U.S. Representative  Frank Pallone  and state Assembly
Speaker Sheila Oliver jump into the race to replace U.S. Senator
 Frank Lautenberg , who died last week.  Pallone and Oliver joined Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  and U.S.
Representative Rush Holt in filing papers to enter the Aug. 13
primary for a chance to run in the Oct. 16 special senate
election called by Republican Governor  Chris Christie  last week.  “This is going to be a campaign for the heart of the
Democratic Party,” Pallone, 61, said yesterday at the state
Elections Division offices. “Obviously I’m in and excited.”  The contest took shape quickly after Lautenberg, an 89-year-old Democrat, died June 3, and Christie called for a quick
campaign to select a successor to fill out the remainder of his
fifth term. The deadline to get on the primary ballot by handing
in at least 1,000 voter signatures was yesterday. Booker, 44,
was seeking the seat, as Lautenberg didn’t plan to run again.
The others clarified their intentions more recently.  In a survey that offered a first glimpse of the Democratic
contest, 53 percent supported Booker, followed by 10 percent for
Holt and 9 percent for Pallone, according to  Quinnipiac
University  in Hamden,  Connecticut . Oliver, 60, of  East Orange ,
wasn’t listed in the poll released yesterday. It showed 23
percent of respondents were undecided with two months to go
before the party primary.  Financial Drain  The four-month Senate campaign has the potential to drain
financial resources for the Democrats and may take “big-name
endorsements” from state Senator Barbara Buono, 59, the party’s
challenger to Christie’s re-election bid, according to  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute in
 West Long Branch , New Jersey. The Republican leads her by 30
percentage points, the Quinnipiac poll showed.  “The likelihood is that one of these four will become New
Jersey’s next U.S. senator,” Murray said by telephone. “A lot
of donors who may have been thinking about supporting Buono will
probably throw their money into this race.”  “Donors like to go with winners,” Murray said. Christie,
50, has outraised Buono, a lawyer from Metuchen, by 2-to-1 ahead
of the Nov. 5 general election, state figures show.  Booker Supporters  Booker has received the backing of Democratic power
brokers, including Essex County Executive Joseph DiVincenzo, who
attended his announcement of his formal entry into the race over
the weekend, and Camden County’s George Norcross, an insurance
executive and political fundraiser who endorsed the mayor
yesterday.  Pallone, who has served in Congress for 25 years, declined
to compare his record to Booker’s.  “As Democrats we have to believe we can make a
difference,” Pallone said. He said the governor was wrong not
to set the special election concurrent with his own contest on
Nov. 5, a sentiment widely shared by voters, a Rutgers-Eagleton
Poll showed yesterday.  Once informed of the cost of holding a statewide balloting,
at about $12 million, more than three-quarters of respondents
said it was a bad idea not to hold the special vote on the same
day as the general election, the poll from the New Brunswick-based state school showed. Both should take place Nov. 5,
according to 84 percent of Democrats, 79 percent of independents
and 67 percent of Republicans, the survey showed.  Panned Move  “There is virtually no support for holding a special
election given the price tag,” poll director  David Redlawsk ,
who teaches politics at Rutgers, said in a statement.  Christie has said that the shortened campaign still will
leave the candidates enough time to vet issues. He has declined
to speculate on the outcome.  “We don’t have anybody who’s come out of the woodwork to
run here,” Christie said in his Trenton office yesterday,
before all the would-be candidates had filed their papers. “The
people who’ve announced they’re running thus far are all people
who are pretty well-known quantities in this state. So there’s
plenty of time.”  Booker, announcing his candidacy on June 8, said he won’t
run negative ads against fellow Democrats during the primary.
The mayor, a rising star in the  Democratic party , had said in
December that he was exploring a run for Lautenberg’s seat
instead of challenging Christie’s re-election bid.  Booker Dominates  In a head-to-head matchup posed by Quinnipiac pollsters,
Booker beat Lonegan, who ran for Congress in the 1990s, 54
percent to 27 percent. The June 6-9 telephone survey of 858
voters had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage
points, and 5.6 percentage points for Democrats in the primary.  A second Republican, Alieta Eck, 62, a physician from
Somerset who practices internal medicine, arrived at the
elections office to seek a place on the August primary ballot.
Running on a health-care platform, she said she has a “huge
amount of support from the inner city.”  “The government can be a real burden,” Eck said. She told
reporters that she wasn’t ready to give opinions on issues other
than health care.  Oliver, 60, said she is running on her appeal to women.
“The voters of  New Jersey  are entitled to have choices,” she
said outside the elections office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  