-- Rand Gains 1st Day in 3 as Stocks Rout Turns Investors to Debt
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-11T16:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/rand-falls-to-4-year-low-as-yields-surge-on-foreign-bond-selling.html
The rand gained for the first time
in three days as global stocks tumbled and South African bond
yields at the highest in more than a year lured investors to the
relative safety of debt.  Benchmark bonds due December 2026 are cheap after a surge
of more than 90 basis points in the past week lifted the yield
as high as 8.4 percent, according to Rand Merchant Bank.  South
Africa ’s main stock index fell the most since May 2010. The
rand’s decline to a four-year low today pushed its relative
strength index over the 70 threshold that suggest the currency
had weakened too much too fast and is poised for a rebound.  “We’ve seen a massive move up in bond yields in the past
week, and sooner or later they would get to a level where people
would start saying there is value,” Mohammed Nalla, head of
strategic research at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said
by telephone. “There may be some rotation going on from
equities to bonds.”  South  Africa ’s currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 10.0564
per dollar by 6:15 p.m. in Johannesburg after declining as much
as 1.8 percent to the lowest since March 2009 earlier today.
Yields on 13-year government debt dropped 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 8.17 percent after jumping 10 basis
points earlier to 8.38 percent, the highest since June 2012.  The increase in yields for 2026 bonds to above 8.3 percent
brought the securities to “long-term fair value,” Rand
Merchant Bank analysts including Cape Town-based Carmen Nel said
in a research note today. The FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index
tumbled 3.2 percent in line with losses in emerging-market
stocks tracked by the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Mining, Manufacturing  The rand’s reversal followed a depreciation that came amid
concerns of a reduction in global stimulus and after an
unexpected contraction in domestic mining output outweighed a
rebound in manufacturing.  Mining production in Africa’s largest economy fell 0.4
percent in April from a year earlier, Pretoria-based Statistics
South Africa said today. The median estimate of five economists
in a Bloomberg  survey  was for a 0.1 percent expansion.
Manufacturing rose 7 percent, beating the 2 percent median
estimate, after an ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. steel plant
resumed production.  “Today’s mining and manufacturing production figures
suggest that production and exports remained under pressure into
the second quarter, making any significant improvement in the
current account deficit unlikely and leaving the rand still very
vulnerable,” Nicky Weimar, an economist at Nedbank Group in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mail.  Dumping Debt  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda left stimulus
efforts unchanged today, stoking speculation central banks will
fail to keep the global recovery on track.  Standard & Poor’s 
raised its outlook for the U.S.’s AA+ credit rating to stable
from negative, boosting odds that the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce stimulus that fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  Foreign investors sold a net 1.47 billion rand ($146
million) of South African bonds yesterday, adding to 4.51
billion rand of sales in the previous two trading days,
according to data from JSE Ltd., which operates the country’s
bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  