-- Treasuries Fall on Speculation of Mortgage-Related Hedge Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-06-11T13:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/treasury-yield-is-near-14-month-high-before-note-bond-auctions.html
Treasuries dropped on concern the
biggest monthly surge in yields since December will prompt
investors to sell government debt as a hedge against losses on
mortgage bonds as borrowing costs climb to a 14-month high.  Yields on the 10-year  note , a benchmark for mortgage and
corporate loans, rose for a third day on the risk the increase
will lead to an even bigger surge as investors place bearish
bets to protect against housing-debt losses triggered by rising
rates, a practice known as convexity hedging. San Francisco
Federal Reserve Bank President  John Williams  said last week a
“modest adjustment downward” in the Fed’s bond buying is
possible as “early as this summer.” The U.S. will sell $32
billion of three-year debt today.  It’s the “liquidation of mortgage paper, which needs to be
hedged because of convexity fears,” said Thomas di Galoma,
senior vice president of fixed-income rates trading at ED&F Man
Capital Markets in  New York . “People need to hedge out risk.
That’s where the selling pressure is coming from.”  The 10-year  yield  increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.25 percent at 9:54 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It reached 2.29
percent, the highest since April 4, 2012. The price of the 1.75
percent note due in May 2023 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000
face amount, to 95 19/32.  Treasury Auctions  The Treasury is selling $66 billion of securities this week
in the auctions, starting with the offering of three-year notes
today. The government will auction $21 billion of 10-year notes
tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year debt on June 13.  At the last three-year note sale on May 7, the  bid-to-cover 
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.38, versus 3.24 in April.  The  30-year bond  pared losses today after its yield climbed
to 3.43 percent, the highest since April 2012. The yield trimmed
its increase to 3.38 percent, up one basis point.  “As some of these risk assets are sold, it should aid the
bid in Treasuries,” said Justin Lederer, an  interest-rate 
strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21
primary dealers that are obligated to bid in U.S. debt auctions.
“There’s a little anxiety with 10s and bonds” because the
auctions follow an increase in yields in the past month.  Ten-year yields may climb to 2.40 percent and then 2.75
percent if there’s a “decisive close” above key resistance at
2.23 percent, according to primary dealer Societe Generale SA.  ‘Sharp’ Swings  “The primary uptrend is slowly building, but it will
certainly be marked by sharp up and down swings,” analysts at
the company including Ciaran O’Hagan, head of European rates
strategy in Paris, wrote today in a note to clients.  The market should get used to Treasury 10-year yields
rising toward 4 percent, former Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “If the U.S. is returning to normality, which I have
suspected for a while it is, and the Fed starts to change its
own view about that then at some point we have to get used to
the notion of U.S. bonds being closer to 4 percent than 2,”
O’Neill said.  The Fed buys $85 billion of government and mortgage
securities a month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.
Treasuries fell for the past six weeks, their longest run of
weekly losses since May 2009, amid speculation the central bank
will taper the purchases. Ten-year yields have risen from 1.61
percent on May 1, the lowest this year.  ‘Adds Pressure’  “Some people are probably concerned that Treasury yields
are approaching a level that would trigger convexity hedging,
which will push yields even higher,” said Soeren Moerch, head
of fixed-income trading at Danske Bank S/A in Copenhagen. “That
adds pressure to the market.”  As rates increase, the potential for refinancing mortgage
bonds and loan-servicing drops, extending the average lives of
the securities and leaving holders more vulnerable to losses.  Investors then may seek to pare the duration risk or
rebalance existing hedges by selling longer-dated Treasuries,
mortgage bonds or transacting in  interest-rate swaps  or options
on those contracts, sending yields higher and spreads wider.  Dealers from Deutsche Bank AG to Barclays Plc said the risk
of that happening was reduced by the fact the Fed currently has
$1.2 trillion of mortgage-backed securities in its stockpile,
making it the biggest holder of the securities.  “The actual convexity hedging flows will be less when
rates rise this time than it was in the past,” said Dominic Konstam, global head of interest-rates research at Deutsche
Bank. The hedging “was massive in 2003, and we won’t see a
repeat of that. With the Fed holding so much of the mortgage
paper, it really knocks down the amount of mortgage hedging
needed when yields rise.”  BOJ, ECB  The  Bank of Japan  announced in April a plan to buy more
than 7 trillion yen ($72.3 billion) of government debt a month.
The BOJ finished a meeting today by keeping policy unchanged.  The  European Central Bank  refrained from announcing
additional stimulus measures after its meeting June 6 even as it
held its benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
yesterday inflation below the central bank’s 2 percent target
may warrant prolonging the “aggressive” use of bond buying.
Price gains as measured by the personal consumption expenditures
price index rose 0.7 percent in April from a year earlier.  The yield  difference  between 10-year inflation-linked
Treasuries and comparable non-indexed notes showed investors
have cut expectations for consumer price increases to the lowest
level in almost a year. The gap, known as the 10-year  break-even 
rate, shrank to 2.07 percentage points today, the least since
July 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  