-- Retirement Will Kill You
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-06-11T22:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/retirement-will-kill-you.html
Teddy Roosevelt once said “the best
prize that life has to offer is the chance to work hard at work
worth doing.” Recent research suggests he may have been more
right than he knew: Life’s “best prize” might actually extend
life itself.  Our common perception is that retirement is a time when we
can relax and take better care of ourselves after stressful
careers. But what if work itself is beneficial to our health, as
several recent studies suggest?  One of them, by Jennifer Montez of  Harvard University  and
Anna Zajacova of the University of  Wyoming ,  examined  why the gap
in  life expectancy  between highly educated and less-educated
Americans has been growing so rapidly. (I have explored this
topic in several  previous   columns , and have also agreed to be
co-chairman of a  National Academy of Sciences  panel that will
delve into it in more detail.)  Examining the growing educational gradient in life
expectancy from 1997 to 2006, Montez and Zajacova focused on
white women ages 45 to 84. In addition to differential trends in
smoking by education, they concluded that among these women
“employment was, in and of itself, an important contributor.”
The life expectancy of less-educated women was being shortened
by their lower employment rates compared with those of highly
educated women.  The researchers tried to test whether the problem was that
less-educated people had worse health, and therefore couldn’t
work. But they found that “the contribution of employment to
diverging mortality across education levels is at least partly
due to the health benefits derived from employment.”  Unhealthy Retirement  Researchers at the Institute of Economic Affairs in the
U.K. have also recently identified “negative and substantial
effects on health from retirement.” Their  study  found retirement
to be associated with a significant increase in clinical
depression and a decline in self-assessed health, and that these
effects grew larger as the number of years people spent in
retirement increased.  Similarly, a  study  published in 2008 by the National Bureau
of  Economic Research  found that full retirement increased
difficulties with mobility and daily activities by 5 percent to
16 percent and, by reducing physical exertion and social
interactions, also harmed mental health.  The broader literature on the question of whether
retirement harms health has been more mixed. The big question is
whether the observed physical deterioration after retirement
occurs because it is underlying poor health that leads people to
end their working life. Some studies that try to control for
this reverse causality, such as a 2007  paper  by John Bound of
the  University of Michigan  and Timothy Waidmann of the  Urban
Institute , find that retirement doesn’t harm health -- and may
actually improve it. Another  study , by Esteban Calvo of the
Universidad Diego Portales in  Chile , Natalia Sarkisian of  Boston
College  and Christopher Tamborini of the  Social Security
Administration , finds harm from early retirement but no benefit
from delaying retirement beyond the traditional age.  My own reading of all of these studies is that there is at
least strongly suggestive evidence that not working, in and of
itself, can be harmful to your health. And this raises the
question of what it means for the  puzzling finding  that overall
life expectancy  appears to rise , not fall, during recessions.  Now I’m only speculating, but the answer could lie in the
fact that, even during a recession, most people still work.
Because a larger-than-usual minority don’t, pollution is
reduced, traffic fatalities decline and the quality of staffing
at nursing homes improves -- and these changes boost the health
of the people who are still working. It’s terrible to say, but
the research seems to suggest that being out of work yourself
may hurt your health -- but having other people out of work may
help it.  Which brings us back to Mr. Roosevelt. Most of us seem to
think that we would be in better health if we won the lottery
and spent our days on the beach, rather than struggling with
sometimes stressful jobs. Yet the next time you think your job
is killing you, just remember that the evidence, if anything,
suggests the opposite. Your job may be saving your life.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  