-- Trina Says EU Anti-Dumping Tariff Closes Solar Markets
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-11T16:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/trina-says-eu-anti-dumping-tariff-closes-solar-markets.html
European Union tariffs on solar
panels from  China  will cause uncertainty in the markets for two
months and close access to some of them, said  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) ,
the second biggest module maker.  The EU on June 5 imposed tariffs of 11.8 percent on panels
from China for allegedly selling them in the 27-nation bloc at
below cost, a practice known as dumping. From Aug. 6, that rate
is scheduled to rise to 51.5 percent for Changzhou-based Trina.
The initial lower rate was a compromise designed to give Chinese
and European officials more time to negotiate.  “It’s two months of uncertainty, and there’s a sense of
what happens now?” Ben Hill, president of Trina Europe, said
today in a phone interview. “Even at 11.8 percent, that
probably closes down a few of the markets. In the U.K., the
threshold for where we can install a system has gone south.”  The dispute pitted different parts of the European solar
industry against each other. The European Commission says
producers such as  Germany ’s  Solarworld AG (SWV)  suffered as a result
of dumping, which could cost the 27-nation bloc 25,000 jobs. The
Alliance for Affordable Solar Energy, a coalition of 600
companies, said tariffs of 20 percent could cost 175,500 jobs.  “Within the value chain of making solar from silicon to
installing it on a roof, making a solar module is a very small
part of the whole thing,” Hill said. “The people who still
suffer the most are the installers.”  Trina Shipments  About 48 percent of Trina’s shipments last year were to
Europe, according to a Feb. 26  presentation  posted on the
company website. Germany took a third of shipments, 6.1 percent
went to  Italy , and 3.1 percent to the U.K. Hill said that Trina
employs about 85 people in Europe. He denied the company had
been involved in dumping.  “We don’t agree with the conclusion of dumping,” Hill
said. “We’re absolutely not selling panels at below cost price
in Europe.”  The EU is also threatening to impose a separate set of
duties on Chinese solar panels to counter alleged subsidies.
That’s the focus of a second investigation in which the deadline
for introducing duties is Aug. 8. The commission would imposing
any definitive anti-subsidy measures in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  