-- Royal Bank of Canada Sued by Rakuten Bank Over CDOs
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-11T16:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/royal-bank-of-canada-sued-by-rakuten-bank-over-cdos.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender, and several units were sued by Rakuten Bank Ltd.
over claims it marketed and sold unsuitable securities backed by
deteriorating  mortgage loans  that wiped out a $10 million
investment.  RBC induced Rakuten to invest 1 billion Japanese yen ($10.3
million) in a tranche of notes in a collateralized debt
obligation called Logan CDO III Ltd. in June 2007. The notes
ultimately became worthless when Rakuten sold them in December
2008 “for a nominal sum equivalent to approximately one cent,”
according to a summons filed yesterday in state court in
 Manhattan . The lawsuit, which accuses RBC of fraudulent
misrepresentation, is seeking to recover the U.S. dollar
equivalent of the investment plus interest.  “RBC engaged in wrongful and unjust acts, including
without limitation fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions
of material facts relating to Logan III and its collateral,”
lawyers for Rakuten said in the filing. “But for this and other
misrepresentations and nondisclosures by RBC, plaintiff would
never have invested in the notes.”  Logan III consisted of a diversified portfolio of CDOs and
residential mortgage-backed securities, according to the filing.
Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central part
of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the biggest
recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed, and the
crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the market for
the securities evaporated.  Adequate Warning  Bankers and underwriters being sued have argued that
offering documents for those bonds adequately warned of risks.
They claimed the securities performed as intended and investors
were paid what they were owed from underlying mortgages.  RBC knew the underlying mortgage loans that comprised
collateral securities were deteriorating in quality, safety and
value. The company wrongfully withheld this crucial information
and presented the CDO collateral as “high grade” and stable,
according to the filing. Instead, the collateral pool carried
significant losses of approximately $270 million “rending it
akin to a pool of  junk bonds ,” according to the filing.  “RBC did not select collateral that was safe, stable and
expected to perform,” lawyers for Rakuten said in the filing.
“Instead, for its own benefit, RBC adversely selected
collateral that it expected to fail.”  Rakuten Bank is a unit of  Rakuten Inc. (4755) ,  Japan ’s biggest
online retailer.  Kevin Foster , a spokesman for RBC in  New York , didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment
on the filing.  The case is Rakuten Bank Ltd. v.  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) ,652057/2013, New York state  Supreme Court , New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  