-- Rubber Futures Pare Gain as BOJ Keeps Policy Unchanged
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-06-11T03:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/rubber-futures-pare-gain-as-boj-keeps-policy-unchanged-correct-.html
(Corrects time reference in second paragraph.)  Rubber pared gains in  Tokyo  after
climbing the most in four weeks as the yen snapped a two-day
decline against the dollar after the  Bank of Japan  kept monetary
policy unchanged.  The contract for delivery in November rose as much as 3
percent, the biggest advance since May 10, to 254.4 yen a
kilogram ($2,592 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
and was at 248.7 at 12:25 p.m. local time. Futures have fallen
18 percent this year.  The Japanese currency strengthened against all of its major
peers, reducing the appeal of yen-denominated contracts, as some
investors had expected the central bank to introduce measures to
stem volatility in the nation’s bonds. It refrained from
extending the maturity of loans to banks.  “Investors are disappointed with the result of BOJ
meeting, prompting them to reduce positions,” said Kazunori Kokubo, managing director Yutaka Shoji Singapore Pte.  The BOJ kept unchanged its plan for a 60 trillion yen to 70
trillion yen annual increase in the monetary base, the central
bank said after a two-day meeting today. Twenty of 23 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey either forecast that the BOJ would
approve two-year or longer loan operations at the policy meeting
or said that such a move was possible.  The yen strengthened 0.6 percent to 98.22 per dollar from
yesterday, when it depreciated 1.2 percent.  Thai rubber free-on-board remained unchanged at 87.40 baht
($2.83) a kilogram yesterday, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand .  The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed for a public
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  