-- San Miguel to Complete Bank Stake Sale to CIMB Soon, Ang Says
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-06-11T09:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/san-miguel-to-complete-bank-stake-sale-to-cimb-soon-ang-says.html
San Miguel  Corp., the Philippines’
largest company, expects to complete the sale of a controlling
stake in Bank of Commerce to Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) 
in about month.  “An agreement was reached last night and the deal is
closing in 30 days or so,” San Miguel President Ramon Ang told
reporters today in Manila after the company’s annual meeting.
“It will be under the same terms as the previously agreed.”  CIMB, Malaysia’s second-biggest lender, agreed in May 2012
agreed to buy 60 percent of Bank of Commerce from San Miguel and
other shareholders for 12.2 billion pesos ($283 million). The
deal would bolster the Kuala Lumpur-based lender’s expansion in
Southeast Asia and help San Miguel raise funds for its other
business ventures, including Philippine Airlines Inc. and oil
refiner  Petron Corp. (PCOR)   “Now is a good time to enter the Philippine banking sector
given the robust economic outlook for the country,” Charles Ang, an analyst at  COL Financial Group Inc. (COL) , said by phone. “In
case a deal with CIMB doesn’t happen, a lot of local banks --
especially those who are in the midst of branch expansion --
should be open to acquisitions.”  The Philippines is defying a regional slowdown as President
 Benigno Aquino  boosts investment and state spending. The
nation’s  economy  grew  7.8 percent  in the three months ended
March from a year earlier, the fastest expansion in almost three
years, the government reported on May 30.  San Miguel on May 15 confirmed comments Ang made to the
Philippine Daily Inquirer, saying he would know within a week
whether to proceed or scrap the deal with CIMB. The newspaper
reported a day earlier that the country’s laws restricting
foreign ownership of real estate have become a hurdle for the
deal, citing unidentified people.  San Miguel fell 2.1 percent today as the  Philippine
benchmark (PCOMP)  stock index declined 4.6 percent. CIMB dropped 1
percent.  Bank of Commerce is the  17th-biggest  lender in the
 Philippines  with assets of 92.7 billion pesos at the end of last
year, according to central bank data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  