-- San Francisco Spot Gasoline Premium Surges by Most in 8 Months
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-06-11T21:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/san-francisco-spot-gasoline-premium-surges-by-most-in-8-months.html
California-blend gasoline on the  San
Francisco  spot market jumped the most against futures in eight
months as refineries in the state reported flaring and planned
maintenance.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  said there was flaring from its Rodeo refinery
in Northern California yesterday, according to a filing with
state regulators.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is performing planned maintenance
at the Carson refinery in  Southern California , Tina Barbee, a
San Antonio-based company spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  State-blend gasoline, also known as Carbob, in San
Francisco strengthened by 21.5 cents to a premium of 30.5 cents
a gallon more than futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 4:12 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
the biggest increase since Oct. 9. The premium is at the highest
level since May 13.  Carbob in Los Angeles strengthened by 20.5 cents to 33.5
cents a gallon above futures. Conventional gasoline in  Portland ,
 Oregon , gained 4 cents to a 7.5-cent-a-gallon premium.  Jet fuel in Los Angeles  strengthened by 1.25 cents to a
discount of 10 cents a gallon below ultra-low-sulfur diesel
futures on the Nymex. The Carson plant supplies 50 percent of
the jet fuel to  Los Angeles  International Airport, according to
the website of the refinery’s former owner,  BP Plc. (BP/)   California-blend diesel in San Francisco gained 0.25 cent
to a premium of 1.75 cents a gallon above Nymex futures. The
fuel in Los Angeles was unchanged at 2.5-cent-a-gallon premium.  Low-sulfur diesel in Portland weakened by 0.5 cent to a
discount of 4 cents a gallon below futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  