-- SAP Tergets Middle East Business Amid Expansion Plans
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-11T11:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/sap-tergets-middle-east-business-amid-expansion-plans.html
SAP AG (SAP)  seeks to gain from a surge in
public spending in the Middle East as the largest maker of
business-management software looks for contracts in industries
such as defense, education and health care.  “These are areas where we are investing heavily and trying
to gain more traction,” Sam Alkharrat, managing director for
the Middle East and North Africa, said in an interview in Dubai.
The company plans to open offices in Abu Dhabi, the capital of
the United Arab Emirates, and Libya, and may expand in Algeria
and  Iraq , he said.  Governments in the Middle East, particularly in the Gulf
Cooperation Council, are boosting spending to create jobs and
propel economic growth. The investments are creating
opportunities for Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, which hired 200
people in the Middle East and North Africa last year and plans
to add about 100 jobs in the region in 2013, Alkharrat said.  International companies are targeting  emerging markets  as
the euro zone fights to emerge from recession and the U.S.
economy struggles to pick up. Saudi Arabia’s economy, the Arab
world’s biggest, expanded the most among G-20 nations between
2008 and 2012 after China and  India , according to the
International Monetary Fund.  Saudi Defense  The Saudi government is spending more than $500 billion to
boost non-oil growth and stave off political unrest. SAP counts
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemical
maker by market value, among its clients in the kingdom.  “By any level of statistics that you look at, Saudi Arabia
is half of the Middle East region’s IT spend,” Alkharrat said.
“The central government is spending more money on defense and
information security after the cyber-attacks and due to the
critical situation in the region. There is a lot of money being
spent on things like unemployment.”  In December, Saudi Arabia blamed unidentified people based
outside the kingdom for a cyber-attack against state-owned Saudi
Arabian Oil Co. aimed at disrupting production from the world’s
largest exporter of crude.  SAP is working with “several defense entities” in the
region on systems, Alkharrat said. “In the MENA region, there
hasn’t been a whole lot of automation done.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  