-- Scaramucci Seeks Money for Manhattan Hedge-Fund Hangout
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-06-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/scaramucci-seeks-money-for-manhattan-hedge-fund-hangout.html
Anthony Scaramucci, the investment
entrepreneur known as the “Mooch,” is teaming up with a
restaurant owner and a former Morgan Stanley executive to open a
Manhattan eatery catering to hedge-fund and private-equity
professionals.  The group, which includes restaurateur Eytan Sugarman and
David Barrett, a 22-year veteran of Morgan Stanley, seeks to
raise $4 million for The Hunt and Fish Club, set to open in
December. It will have the feel of an elite “clubhouse” and be
an alternative to bars and eateries surrounding the Grand
Central Terminal in Midtown, which are “not fun” and have
unattractive staff, the team said in marketing documents to
prospective investors.  Scaramucci is known for his SkyBridge Alternatives
Conference in  Las Vegas , the biggest conference in the hedge-fund industry, featuring speakers from former U.S. President
 Bill Clinton  to actor  Al Pacino . Scaramucci, who in 2005 started
SkyBridge Capital LLC and has $5 billion invested for clients in
 hedge funds , played a cameo role as a trader in  Oliver Stone ’s
2010 sequel ‘ Wall Street : Money Never Sleeps.’’ He and his
restaurant partners envision the eatery as a gathering place for
young employees at banks, brokerages and money-management firms.  “Isn’t it nice to walk through the doors of a restaurant
to be greeted with ‘Mr. Scaramucci, so nice to see you again?
Your table is ready for you...Mr. Scaramucci is one of our
partners’,” the group wrote. “In short, all of us want to be
made to feel special and privileged, particularly in front of
our guests, business associates and clients.”  Justin Timberlake  Sugarman, who owns New York restaurants Destino and
Southern Hospitality BBQ, which counts  Justin Timberlake  and
Scaramucci among its investors, said in a telephone interview
that the new restaurant’s name has no connection with the Bergin
Hunt and Fish Club, the former hangout in Queens of organized
crime boss John Gotti.  Barrett, who left Morgan Stanley last year, is a managing
director at Gotham Asset Management LLC. The Hunt and Fish Club
team includes restaurant executive Christian Pascal and attorney
Nelson Braff. Ray Nolte, Skybridge’s chief investment officer,
will also be an owner, Scaramucci said yesterday in an e-mail.  “Dave Barrett and I have said for years that we wanted to
have place where we could gather people from our community,”
Scaramucci said in the e-mail. “Great food and great social
environment.”  The executives are seeking minimum investments of $50,000
by July 15, according to a separate June 3 e-mail sent by
Scaramucci and Barrett to prospective clients. They are holding
meetings for potential investors today, June 18, June 27 and
July 8 in  New York .  Investor Terms  Investors will get 30 percent of the total equity and will
receive 80 percent of all distributions until those payments
equal the amount of the initial investment, according to the
marketing documents. After that, distributions will be made on a
pro-rated basis based on total equity. Investors are expected to
recoup their initial investment in two to three years.  The Hunt and Fish Club would target young professionals
with “high to extremely-high disposable income” and who are
patrons of eateries such as  Rothmann’s Steakhouse & Grill  and
Papillon Bistro & Bar.  The restaurant will occupy a newly renovated 8,000 square-foot building at 125 West 44th Street, between 6th Avenue and
Broadway. The restaurant’s interiors will be designed by artist
Roy Nachum, according to the  document .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  