-- Scotland Grants More Aid to Offshore and Floating Wind Turbines
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/scotland-grants-aid-boost-to-offshore-and-floating-wind-turbines.html
Scotland  will give higher incentives
to test new offshore and floating wind technology than standard
turbines as it seeks to get all its power from renewables.  Projects testing “innovative, new-to-market turbines”
will get 2.5 tradable Renewable Obligation Certificates and
programs testing floating devices and other machines that aren’t
fixed to a foundation will receive 3.5 ROCs, the Scottish
Government said today in an e-mailed statement. The figures
compare with 2 ROCs for standard offshore wind projects.  “These technologies are needed to help decarbonize our
electricity system, increase energy security, and reduce
dependence on expensive and depleting fossil fuels,” Energy
Minister Fergus Ewing said in the statement. The new level of
aid is “available only in Scotland” and “will help bring down
the cost of developing offshore wind in our deeper waters.”  Scotland has powers to set its own support levels for
renewable energy and has charted a faster path to decarbonizing
its economy than the U.K. as a whole. Lawmakers are targeting
enough renewable energy capacity to produce all of Scotland’s
power by 2020. They estimate planned offshore wind projects in
Scotland may total 10 gigawatts by 2020, generating 7 billion
pounds ($11 billion) for the economy.  “By investing in offshore test and demonstration sites
now, we will have a greater chance of leading the global race to
develop next generation offshore wind technologies,”  Lindsay
Leask, policy manager at the Scottish Renewables industry group
said in an e-mailed statement. “Floating offshore wind turbines
are also an exciting new technology which could open up
development in even deeper waters.”  The Renewables Obligation program requires EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE) 
and other power suppliers to hold an annually increasing amount
of ROCs, or pay a buyout price. Each certificate represents a
megawatt-hour of electricity generated from renewable sources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  