-- Senate Panel Approves Removing Commanders’ Prosecution Power
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-11T21:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/senate-panel-approves-removing-commanders-prosecution-powers.html
A Senate subcommittee approved
removing the power of commanding officers in the U.S. military
to decide on prosecution of major crimes such as sexual
assaults, even as some lawmakers vowed to reverse the action.  The Senate Armed Services subcommittee on personnel adopted
the provision by its chairman, Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New
York  Democrat, on a voice vote today. It provides for decisions
on major crime cases to be made by independent military
prosecutors.  Gillibrand’s victory may be short-lived. Republicans on the
subcommittee said they would seek to eliminate the provision
tomorrow when the measure goes to the full committee, where
opponents also include the chairman, Democratic Senator  Carl Levin .  Faced by a surge in sexual assaults that President  Barack Obama  has called “shameful and disgraceful,” victims’ advocacy
groups and lawmakers led by Gillibrand have called for taking
the cases out of the chain of command.  Independent military prosecutors would “provide the
unbiased justice that our victims need,” Gillibrand said in
introducing her proposal last month.  While women in Congress have led a push for stronger action
to curb sexual assaults in the military, they have divided on
party lines over Gillibrand’s proposal, and some Democrats have
expressed a willingness to settle for less.  ‘Bust That Gridlock’  “The important thing is to try to get as many of us to
agree on legislation so we don’t end up with a party-line
vote,” Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said at a
May 23 press conference announcing her own package of changes.
“This is an opportunity where we can bust that gridlock.”  McCaskill’s bill would require troops convicted of rape or
assault to be dishonorably discharged and would eliminate a
five-year statute of limitations for bringing sex-assault
charges.  Military commanders and senior members of the Senate Armed
Services Committee spoke in unison at a hearing last week in
opposition to Gillibrand’s approach.  “Only the chain of command can establish a zero-tolerance
policy for sexual offenses,” Levin of Michigan said at the
hearing.  “The commander’s ability to preserve good order and
discipline remains essential to accomplishing any change within
our profession,” Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, said.  Military Hierarchy  Under centuries-old military practice, commanding officers
decide whether to seek prosecution in cases such as sexual
assaults, choose the court-martial juries and can reduce or
overturn a sentence.  Lawmakers have proposed a number of measures that leaders
of the military hierarchy would accept, including eliminating
the power of commanding officers to overturn verdicts.  “We’ve got a bipartisan solution that would allow the
chain of command to be held accountable,” Senator  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , the personnel subcommittee’s top
Republican, said today without elaborating.  Senator  Tim Kaine  of  Virginia , a Democratic member of
Gillibrand’s subcommittee, also said he has “some concerns”
about her proposal, including that it would apply to major
crimes other than sexual assaults.  The defense authorization measure approved by the
Republican-controlled House Armed Services Committee last week
calls for a study of the role of commanding officers in
administering military justice.  A Pentagon survey of active-duty troops released last month
estimated there were 26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact
last year, compared with 2,949 victims identified in criminal
reports. The findings were issued amid an uproar over alleged
assaults, including by officers working in military sex-assault
prevention programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  