-- Senate Votes to Scale Back Farmers’ Safety Net
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-11T17:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/senate-votes-to-scale-back-farmers-safety-net.html
The U.S. Senate passed a $955
billion rewrite of agriculture law by an even larger margin than
last year, sending it to the House of Representatives, where
disagreements over food stamps and farm subsidies may complicate
passage.  Monday’s vote was 66-27, compared with last year’s 64-35
vote on similar legislation in the Senate. Increased support
came from Republicans who successfully pushed for more subsidies
for rice and peanuts -- crops grown in southern states.  The most expensive non-appropriations legislation to pass
the Senate this year would end a program that makes direct
payments to farmers regardless of crop prices while expanding an
insurance-based safety net.  The measure would reduce government spending by about $2.4
billion annually, though its $4 billion in cuts to food stamps
over a decade are only about one-fifth as deep as proposed in
the House version, which would cost $939 billion over 10 years.  Senators said members of the Republican-led House, which
didn’t consider the five-year measure last year, now have to
show they’re serious about reforming U.S. agriculture subsidies.  “If they don’t do a bill, direct payments continue,”
North Dakota Senator John Hoeven, a Republican, told reporters
as the votes were tallied.  Companies Benefiting  Subsidies benefiting buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM)  and food stamps subsidizing purchases at  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  are
targets for lawmakers seeking deficit cuts, while humanitarian
groups oppose cuts in programs that serve the poor. Crop
insurers including Wells Fargo & Co.,  Ace Ltd (ACE)  and  Deere & Co. (DE) 
will benefit from the legislation’s boost to insurance programs,
Mark McMinimy, an analyst with Guggenheim Washington Research
Group in Washington, said in a note to investors yesterday.  While Senate Agriculture Committee Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, and the panel’s top Republican,
Thad Cochran of  Mississippi , have said they would resist further
cuts to food stamps, House Republicans are saying spending may
need to be lower.  “Unless there are some significant changes and some
significant effort, I don’t think this’ll get across the
floor,” Representative Tim Huelskamp, a  Kansas  Republican, said
in an interview.  “People in Kansas get it -- just because it’s the farm
bill doesn’t mean you have to vote for it,” said Huelskamp,
whose district was the  second-biggest  recipient of agricultural
subsidies last year, according to data compiled by conservation
advocate Environmental Working Group.  Food Stamps  “It’s not just the farm bill, it’s also the food stamp
bill,” Huelskamp said.  Representative Collin Peterson of  Minnesota , the top
Democrat on the Agriculture Committee, said last week that no
more than 150 Republicans will vote for the bill, meaning
roughly 70 Democrats will also have to support it for passage.  Democratic sympathy for food stamps means Peterson needs to
reassure his caucus that the final measure to emerge from
Congress will resemble the Senate plan more than the House
version.  “I don’t see the Senate agreeing to much more than it
already has,” Peterson told reporters.  In the version that probably will go to the full House next
week, food-stamp funding would drop $20.5 billion over 10 years.  More than a dozen smaller-government groups are pressing
House lawmakers to split the subsidy from the farm bill, and
then make deeper cuts to the program.  ‘Unholy’ Alliance  “The urban and rural logrolling deemed necessary to pass
this bill has created an unholy bipartisan alliance that has
long served to thwart fiscally responsible efforts to restrain
spending and limit the growth of government,” the groups,
including Heritage Action, Club for Growth, Americans for
Prosperity and the American Conservative Union, said in a June
10 letter.  One House fight may focus on Peterson’s plan to support
dairy incomes through supply management, under which farmers who
voluntarily enter the system would cut milk production if prices
fall below a set value. Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, is backing an alternative that moves producers to an
insurance program without output controls, which Peterson says
are needed to prevent a plunge in milk prices.  When Congress tried last year to pass a five-year farm
bill, disagreements over dairy policy helped prevent the
legislation from reaching the House floor. Instead, Congress
settled for a one-year extension of existing law that begins to
expire Sept. 30.  Curdling Chances  Without changes in the proposed measure, “It could
potentially cause problems for the farm bill passing, because
you’ll have Republican leadership and a good deal of Republicans
you’ll need to have to pass the farm bill angry at a provision
that’s going to be in there,” Jerry Slominski,  International
Dairy Foods Association  senior vice president for legislative
and economic affairs, said in an interview.  Lobbying expenses by agriculture interests increased to
$138 million last year from $112 million in 2007, the year
before the last farm bill passed, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks spending on lobbying. Agriculture-industry employees
spent $91 million on the 2012 elections, up from $70 million in
2008.  The Senate bill is S. 954. The House bill is H.R. 1947.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Derek Wallbank} in  Washington  at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
{Alan Bjerga} in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  