-- Severn Trent Shareholder Pictet Would Accept 2,300 Pence
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-06-11T14:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/severn-trent-shareholder-pictet-would-accept-2-300-pence.html
Pictet Asset Management SA, a
shareholder in  Severn Trent Plc (SVT) , said it would accept a takeover
offer of 2,300 pence a share for the U.K. water company as the 5
p.m. deadline for the bid approaches.  An offer of “2,300 probably, since we have a fiduciary
duty to our investors, is a price we will not be able to
reject,” Hans Peter Portner, senior investment manager at
Pictet, said today by phone from Geneva. “My expectation is
that there will be an extension of the negotiation period.”  Severn Trent, the U.K.’s second-largest publicly traded
water company, on June 7 rejected a bid of 2,200 pence a share,
its third approach since May 14. The bidding group comprises the
Canadian infrastructure investor Borealis Infrastructure
Management Inc., the Kuwait Investment Office and Britain’s
Universities Superannuation Scheme.  The group has until 5 p.m. today to make a formal offer or
walk away under U.K. takeover rules. The  shares  traded down 0.8
percent to 1,930 pence at 3:45 p.m. London time today, reducing
their gains this year to 23 percent.  Severn Trent can also request an extension of the deadline.
The group said yesterday that the Severn Trent board has shown
no interest in discussing the existing offer and said it won’t
make a new offer without such “engagement.”  “The consortium must be willing to reconsider the bid, and
then if that happens, the board will engage in discussions which
may mean an extension of this negotiation period,” Portner
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  