-- Borealis Group Abandons $8.3 Billion Bid for Severn Trent
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-11T18:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/severn-trent-bid-abandoned-by-borealis-as-deadline-passes.html
Borealis Infrastructure Management
Inc. and its Kuwaiti-British partners walked away from their 5.3
billion-pound ($8.3 billion) offer for the U.K. water utility
 Severn Trent Plc (SVT)  as the bid deadline expired.  The bidding group that included a Kuwait sovereign wealth
fund declined to make an offer for Severn Trent under U.K.
takeover rules at the 5 p.m. cut-off, LongRiver Partners said
today. Britain’s Universities Superannuation Scheme was also
part of the LongRiver group that first approached the U.K.’s
second-largest publicly traded water company on May 14.  The Canadian-led group had announced June 10 “it would not
put forward a further proposal for the company in the absence of
meaningful engagement” with the utility, LongRiver said in a
statement. No such engagement occurred so LongRiver decided
against increasing its pre-conditional offer, it said.  Two attempts to sweeten the offer the past month had been
rejected as too low by Coventry-based Severn Trent, named for
two of Britain’s biggest rivers, which supplies drinking water
to 7.7 million people and sewer services to 8.7 million in the
Midlands and Wales. Seven of the U.K.’s 10 largest water
companies are privately owned.  The utility “consistently made clear to the consortium our
belief that Severn Trent has a value to our shareholders above
the level it indicated it was willing to pay,” Chairman Andrew Duff said in a statement. “This difference in value has been at
the heart of this process and the consortium has either not been
able, or willing, to bridge that value gap.”  Canadian-Led  Severn Trent rejected the Canadian infrastructure investor-led group’s last bid of 2,200 pence a share on June 7 that it
said was 34 percent above Severn Trent’s  average closing price 
for six months to May 13. LongRiver first made a takeover
approach May 14, which Severn Trent rebuffed a day later. It
returned May 31 with an offer 3.5 percent higher.  The utility spurned the bid it said valued the stock at
2,079.49 pence a share because stockholders wouldn’t receive a
45.51 pence dividend. The dividend was included in the last
offer of 2,200 pence. The stock closed today at 1,937 pence.  “I think 2,200p was an improved price. For the management
not to have grabbed this with both hands I found astonishing,”
 Lakis Athanasiou , a utilities analyst at Agency Partners LLP in
 London , said by phone.  “If I were a bidder and willing to pay this sort of
premium, I’d wait until summer 2014, just after the draft
determination,” he said, referring to when the next price
controls by industry regulator Ofwat will set for 2015 to 2020.  Takeover Targets  “The review is going to be severe with a big drop in
allowed returns though still keeping in excess of the cost of
capital,” Athanasiou said. He valued Severn Trent without the
bid at 1,616 pence, a 14 percent premium to the asset base, in a
note yesterday. Severn Trent  fell  9 pence or 0.5 percent today
in London, trimming gains this year to 23 percent.  Severn Trent was the latest U.K. utility to face potential
foreign ownership after buyouts including Thames Water Utilities
Ltd., Yorkshire Water Services Ltd. and Northumbrian Water Group
Plc.  British water utilities, regulated by Ofwat through price
controls, offer steady gains that won over buyers including KKR
& Co., Macquarie Group Ltd. and  Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd. (1038)   Borealis co-owns the U.K.’s largest ports operator,
Associated British Ports. It’s the Toronto-based infrastructure
unit of Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System, or Omers.
Omers is  Canada ’s sixth-biggest pension-fund manager.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  