-- Silicon Valley’s Long History of Government Codependence
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B .   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-11T16:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/silicon-valley-s-long-history-of-government-codependence.html
The revelations that U.S. technology
giants may be assisting the National Security Agency seem to
contradict Silicon Valley’s image as a bastion of libertarian
thinking.  But such cooperation would be nothing new: A century ago,
the federal government signed a lucrative defense contract with
Silicon Valley’s original technology company.  That was  Federal Telegraph Co. , founded in 1909 in Palo
Alto, California. Before 1913, the company had worked on a
wireless system that it hoped would compete with wired network
of Western Union, which once wielded the sort of industry power
later associated with  AT&T Inc. (T)  Federal Telegraph established a
network that included stations in Phoenix; Kansas City,
Missouri; and  Chicago .  Unfortunately, the West Coast’s mild weather had given
Federal Telegraph’s management false optimism about its ability
to expand its network east from San Francisco, Los Angeles and
San Diego. The summer of 1912 brought disaster, as users
experienced dropped connections because of thunderstorms and
accompanying static in the Midwest. The resulting exodus of
customers forced the company to seek other opportunities.  Wireless Stations  The most promising was supplying the government. In 1913,
Federal Telegraph received a contract to build transmission
equipment for the U.S. Navy’s Panama Canal Zone wireless
station. Since its victory over Spain in the 1898 Spanish-American War, the U.S. government had sought a way to safeguard
its overseas possessions. Just before the outbreak of World War
I, Congress authorized the creation of a chain of wireless
stations, including the Canal Zone,  Hawaii , Puerto Rico and the
 Philippines . Each station would become another source of revenue
for the young telecommunications company.  Federal Telegraph began by seeking a private-sector
customer base. Yet only when it became an industrial extension
of U.S. foreign policy did Federal Telegraph grow into a
million-dollar enterprise with a workforce of 300. By the 1920s,
the State Department was supporting Federal Telegraph’s $13
million contract to supply telecommunications equipment to the
Chinese government.  In a pattern that continues  today , the federal government
helped American companies as they pursued a major share of
commercial opportunities in the Far East.  The government’s diplomatic efforts on behalf of Federal
Telegraph failed, however. Subsequently, the company was
acquired by  International Telephone & Telegraph (ITT)  and moved to New
Jersey in the 1930s.  Government support of Silicon Valley soon spread to
industries beyond telecommunications. Defense contracts spurred
the growth of the instrument-maker  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  not long
after its founding in 1939. Semiconductors followed a similar
pattern in the late 1950s. Fairchild Semiconductor -- some of
whose managers later founded  Intel Corp. (INTC)  -- depended on defense
contracts for most of its revenue during the first five years of
its existence. The government provided significant work (and
resources) to these companies before their commercial business
took off.  The same was true for the region as a whole. As markets
developed for computers and work stations, Internet applications
and video games, and venture capital became more available,
Silicon Valley shifted to a model that relied less on
government.  During the northern  California  region’s formative years,
the federal government was what Martin Kenney, a professor at
the University of California, Davis, calls a “price insensitive
lead customer.” In that role, it helped incubate Federal
Telegraph, Hewlett-Packard, and Fairchild Semiconductor, which,
in turn, led to later generations of companies -- including
Apple Inc., Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. -- that were far less
reliant on government contracts.  Nonetheless, if the allegations of the NSA whistle-blower
Edward Snowden are correct, the 21st-century technology giants
have proved that they, too, are entwined with government.  ( Stephen B. Adams  is an associate professor of management
at the Franklin P. Perdue School of Business at Salisbury
University.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Stephen Adams at  SBADAMS@salisbury.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  