-- Soccer Referee Jailed for 6 Months in Match-Fixing Case
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-06-11T03:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/soccer-referee-jailed-for-6-months-in-match-fixing-case.html
Ali Sabbagh, the Lebanese soccer
referee who asked for free sexual services to fix matches, was
sentenced to six months in jail for corruption in  Singapore .  “One wonders how many international football matches you
could have gone on to fix,” Subordinate Courts Judge Low Wee
Ping said today in imposing the sentence. Low yesterday
sentenced Sabbagh’s co-accused assistant referees Ali Eid and
Abdallah Taleb each to three months in jail.  The men were convicted yesterday after pleading guilty, in
a case involving the trading of sexual favors to fix matches
that was uncovered as part of a wider probe into games-rigging.
Europol and police were investigating attempts to fix more than
380 games, including  World Cup  and European Championship
qualifiers, with involvement from a Singapore-based operation,
 Europe ’s law enforcement agency  said  in February.  Singaporean businessman Ding Si Yang provided the men with
women in a bid to induce them to fix matches, according to
prosecutor Asoka Markandu. Sabbagh was more culpable than Eid
and Taleb as he introduced them to Ding, the prosecutor said.  All three had their sentences backdated to April 4,
resulting in Taleb and Eid being released from jail yesterday,
Asoka said.  Sabbagh, a sports teacher in Lebanon, earned $850 a month,
his lawyer Gary Low told the judge yesterday. He didn’t benefit
financially or influence any match from his “single act of
transgression,” the lawyer said.  The corruption charges, filed after Europol’s report, carry
a maximum jail term of five years and a fine of as much as
S$100,000.  Will Testify  Lawyer Low, who represents all three men, said they are
willing to testify against Ding. Sabbagh was told by Ding he
could make more money in a year by fixing matches than as a
referee in 10 years, the prosecutor said.  The men were scheduled to officiate an April 3  Asian
Football Confederation  Cup game in Singapore. They were replaced
before the match between Singapore-based Tampines Rovers and
East Bengal, which won 4-2 in a game that included an own goal
by the Rovers.  FIFA also suspended people in  Italy ,  South Korea  and  China 
in February for allegedly being involved in rigging games.  The criminal cases are Public Prosecutor v Ali Sabbagh,
DAC11104/2013, Public Prosecutor v Ali Eid, DAC11106/2013 and
Public Prosecutor v Abdallah Taleb, DAC11105/2013, Singapore
Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  