-- SoftBank Criticized for Bid Valuing Sprint at Lower Amount
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-11T21:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/softbank-criticized-for-bid-that-values-sprint-at-lower-amount.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s latest offer for
 Sprint (S)  Nextel Corp. gives shareholders more cash but a smaller
stake in the new company, making the valuation $1.1 billion
lower, said Gerard Hallaren, an analyst at Janco Partners Inc.  With SoftBank’s new bid, released this week, the Japanese
wireless carrier is offering to pay $16.6 billion to Sprint
shareholders, plus an injection of $5 billion in new capital, in
return for a 78 percent stake in the U.S. company. While that’s
$1.5 billion above the original offer, Sprint shareholders will
only get 22 percent of the new company, instead of 30 percent.  Sprint’s total valuation is $27.75 billion under the new
agreement, compared with $28.88 billion in the previous bid,
estimates Hallaren, who is based in Greenwood Village, Colorado.
While the Sprint board has endorsed SoftBank’s offer, the idea
of accepting a purportedly higher bid at a lower valuation is
“preposterous,” he said in a report.  “We have little faith this proposal will succeed,” said
Hallaren, who maintains a buy rating on Sprint.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment.  The higher cash infusion probably helped sway some
investors who had opposed the deal or been on the fence,
Hallaren said. Sprint also doesn’t believe  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s
bid for the carrier will lead to a superior offer, he said.  The price being paid to investors per share is rising to
$7.65 from $7.30, SoftBank and Sprint said a joint statement.  “Some investors probably like getting more cash today
rather than owning Sprint tomorrow,” Hallaren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  