-- SoftBank’s Increased Bid Puts Ball Back in Dish’s Court
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-11T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/softbank-s-increased-bid-puts-ball-back-in-dish-s-court.html
It’s your move,  Charlie Ergen .  After SoftBank Corp. raised its offer for Sprint Nextel
Corp. to $21.6 billion last night, the spotlight returns to
Ergen, the  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  chairman who made an unsuccessful
$25.5 billion counterbid in April.  In endorsing SoftBank’s new bid, Sprint said yesterday that
Dish never made an “actionable” counterproposal. After talks
broke down, Sprint asked Dish to destroy the confidential
information it supplied to the company. The onus is on Ergen, a
billionaire and one-time professional blackjack player, to
produce a more compelling offer, said Sprint investor  Leon Cooperman , head of Omega Advisors Inc. in New York.  “Let’s see how Mr. Ergen responds,” said Cooperman, whose
firm held 65.2 million Sprint shares as of March 31.  SoftBank (9984) , the Japanese mobile-phone carrier controlled by
Masayoshi Son, is now offering to pay $16.6 billion to  Sprint
shareholders (S) , plus an injection of $5 billion in new capital, in
return for a 78 percent stake in the U.S. company. If it wants
to counter, Dish has until June 18 to make its “best and
final” proposal, Sprint said.  SoftBank -- which has the backing of Sprint’s board and its
second-largest investor, Paulson & Co. -- plans to use the
carrier to expand into  North America . Ergen, meanwhile, wants to
add Sprint’s wireless services to his company’s satellite-TV
offerings.  SoftBank’s Terms  SoftBank plans to acquire shares from existing Sprint
investors for $7.65 apiece, up from the previous offer of $7.30,
the company said in its statement. The initial SoftBank bid for
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint in October was $20.1 billion
for a 70 percent stake.  Sprint’s stock rose 2.4 percent to $7.35 in New York.
Shares of SoftBank fell 0.4 percent to 5,500 yen at the close of
trading in  Tokyo .  “I am withholding judgment until Ergen responds,”
said Sprint investor Roy Behren, who co-manages the $4.7 billion
Merger Fund at Westchester Capital in Valhalla, New York. “The
party may not be over yet.”  A Sprint  shareholder vote  on the SoftBank proposal was
postponed to June 25 from June 12. The breakup fee for the deal
also increased to $800 million from $600 million. The companies
expect their transaction to close in early July.  Dish Bid  Dish’s April offer included $4.76 cash and 0.05953 Dish
shares for each Sprint share. The bid was worth $7 a share, and
Sprint investors would own 32 percent of the combined company,
Dish said at the time.  Sprint said yesterday that the Dish bid was “not
reasonably likely to lead to a superior offer.” Dish responded
last night that it was considering its strategic options.  “We will analyze the revised SoftBank bid,” Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish said in a statement. “We continue to
believe that Sprint has tremendous value.”  SoftBank has argued that Dish’s offer would burden Sprint
with  too much debt . SoftBank also is a better fit for Sprint,
Paulson & Co. said.  “In addition to the improved financial terms, Paulson
believes SoftBank has exceptional operating expertise in the
wireless area and a strategic vision,” the investment firm said
in a statement. Paulson owns 231 million  Sprint shares .  ISS Backing  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., the biggest
shareholder-advisory firm, recommended SoftBank’s earlier bid in
a report this month, saying the deal would supply Sprint with
the cash it needs to upgrade its network and compete with larger
carriers.  “The amended agreement announced today delivers more
upfront cash to Sprint stockholders, while still achieving our
goal of creating a well-capitalized Sprint,” Son said in
yesterday’s statement.  Sprint’s board initially approved the SoftBank takeover in
October after months of friendly discussions with the Japanese
carrier. Sprint and SoftBank have received national-security
approval for the deal from the U.S. government.  Dish and Sprint also are competing for  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , a
wireless-network operator that is about 50 percent owned by
Sprint. Sprint, which has been attempting to buy the rest of
Clearwire since December, has faced two Dish counteroffers for
the stake. Dish’s current bid values the wireless broadband
provider at $6.5 billion.  The bidding war for Sprint has set up a battle of
billionaires vying to expand into new territory. Son is the 66th
richest person in the world, with a net worth of $13.6 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Ergen is ranked
87th, with a net worth of $11.8 billion.  “You can’t rule out the possibility that Dish will raise
its offer and SoftBank will again counter it,” said Hiroshi Yamashina, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo. “It’s hard to
say this will be final.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  