-- Spanish Banks Probably Won’t Need More Capital Linde Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-11T01:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/spanish-banks-probably-won-t-need-more-capital-linde-says.html
Spanish banks have enough resources
so that they probably won’t require further capital injections,
Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde said.  Spain was granted access to as much as 100 billion euros
($133 billion) in European money last year to support its
lenders following a real estate crash. It’s tapped about 41
billion euros of the facility so far, with about half of the
amount going to  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the country’s fourth-largest banking
group.  “When we think about possible additional needs, we are
thinking about the banks which were under the control” of the
country’s bank rescue fund, Linde said yesterday in an interview
at the International Economic  Forum  of the Americas in Montreal.
“We don’t expect that these banks are going to be in need for
any new injection of capital, but we have to wait until
September to see how the economy is going, the profits for these
banks.”  An economic slump in its sixth year is generating mounting
defaults for Spanish lenders that in some cases refinanced or
restructured more loans to avoid booking losses. Spanish banks
had 208.2 billion euros of refinanced or restructured loans at
the end of last year, the Bank of  Spain  said May 7.  Additional provisions, “which perhaps would be necessary,
are well under the possibilities of these banks,” Linde said,
referring to bailed-out lenders such as Bankia. “We cannot say
that no additional provisions would be needed. Perhaps some
would be needed, but we think that these additional provisions
can be put on the balance sheet of the banks without any
European help.”  New Provisions  Any new provisions would fall short of the 60 billion euros
booked in 2012 by the country’s lenders, Linde said.  “Perhaps some additional needs exist, but nothing compared
with the enormous amount which was put in the last year,” he
said.  Spain and the European authorities may decide in as few as
three months whether to extend the Dec. 31 deadline for the
country to tap more funds for its bailout program, Linde, who is
a member of the ECB’s Governing Council, also said. El Pais
newspaper reported yesterday that the ECB and the IMF have made
the offer to the Spanish government.  “There is a question if this program is going to be
prolonged or not, Linde said. ‘‘This question is not closed.
It’s not closed on the side of the European authorities, and
it’s not closed on the side of the Spanish authorities.”  “The last visit concluded just three weeks ago. There is
going to be a new visit in September or October,” Linde said.
“Then the Spanish authorities will discuss with the European
authorities if this program is prolonged or not.”  Credit Growth ‘Weak’  Credit growth in Spain remains “very weak” due to the
state of the country’s economy, Linde said separately.  Gross domestic product  contracted  for a seventh quarter in
the first three months of the year as the toughest austerity
measures in the nation’s democratic history and a 27 percent
unemployment rate sap domestic demand.  “We don’t think that low or negative credit growth in
Spain is due mainly to lack of capital,” Linde said. “The
proof of that is that this negative growth is recorded all
across the banking system, including banks that don’t have any
problem of capital.”  “This very weak credit growth in part can be explained
because of not very strong demand -- and when there is demand,
not very solvent demand. It’s totally normal in an economy which
is in the second recession in four years. It would be a miracle
for this kind of economy to have a very strong demand of
credit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Montreal at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  