-- Surviving Childhood Cancer Leads to Adult Chronic Illness
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-06-11T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/surviving-childhood-cancer-leads-to-adult-chronic-illness.html
Survivors of childhood cancers are
likely to have chronic ailments such as lower lung function and
heart conditions that require medical attention as they become
adults, researchers said.  The prevalence of these health concerns increased as the
survivors aged, and two-thirds of those treated for childhood
cancer reported a severe, disabling or life-threatening
condition as adults, according to a study released today in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association .  As new therapies allow patients to live longer after a
cancer diagnosis, researchers are beginning to focus on the gap
between successful treatment by oncologists and follow-up by
other doctors. Chemotherapy and radiation, the weapons used to
attack cancer, can carry severe side effects, some of which
emerge years after treatment, the authors wrote. Today’s data,
the first to measure clinical outcomes from older survivors, is
striking for the number of those with declining mental ability,
heart valve disorders and lowered lung function.  “It’s surprising that so many had new health abnormalities
discovered by the testing,”  Melissa Hudson , an oncologist at
St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital in  Memphis , said in a
telephone interview. “Our survivors have grown up and gone out
in the community with primary care physicians who may not be
aware of their risks, since pediatric cancer survivors are
relatively rare.”  Initial Screening  The results underscore the importance of making sure cancer
survivors and their doctors have information about the initial
treatment. That will lead to better screening, Hudson said. Many
of the ailments detected in the cancer survivors were in “mild-to-moderate stages,” she said, allowing the opportunity to
preserve the health of the patients, she said.  The study, of more than 1,700 adult survivors of childhood
cancer, found that 98 percent experienced a chronic health
ailment. The most prevalent issue found was abnormal lung
function, which affected about two-thirds of survivors. Another
62 percent had hearing loss. Endocrine and reproductive
disorders were next-most common, followed by heart conditions
and neurocognitive impairment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  