-- Swaps Clearing, EU Short-Selling, BOE Process: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/swaps-clearing-eu-short-selling-boe-process-compliance.html
Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based hedge
fund firm founded by Kenneth Griffin, cleared the first credit-default swap tied to a company’s debt after the Securities and
Exchange Commission reversed a decision on margin rules.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  acted as the clearing member for the trade,
which was processed at  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s ICE Clear
Credit clearinghouse, the bank said in a statement yesterday.  Hedge funds and asset managers won relief from Dodd-Frank
Act collateral requirements for credit swaps after the SEC
disclosed on June 7 it had revised a policy that called for some
clients to put up double the collateral dealers post for
portfolio margin accounts at clearinghouses.  Ryan Garino, senior portfolio manager at Citadel, making
brief remarks in a Barclays statement, described the event as
“a watershed moment,” and a “critical step forward.”  IntercontinentalExchange, or ICE, said in a separate
statement yesterday that as of June 6 it had cleared more than
$1 trillion in notional value of credit swaps for banks’
clients.  Yesterday was the beginning of the second phase of
mandatory clearing for interest-rate and credit swaps under
Commodity Futures Trading Commission guidelines. Hedge funds,
regional banks and insurers must now clear most of their trades,
while the world’s largest swap-dealing banks and the most-active
traders in the market have been required to clear transactions
since March 11.  Separately, the new collateral rules for hedge funds,
insurers and others in the $633 trillion over-the-counter
derivatives market are poised to boost demand for U.S.
Treasuries, potentially slowing rising  yields  as the Federal
Reserve considers scaling back unprecedented stimulus.  Swaps traders will need to come up with $800 billion to
$4.6 trillion to meet Dodd-Frank Act regulations requiring that
the derivatives be backed by clearinghouses that collect upfront
collateral such as cash or Treasuries, according to estimates
from the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee.  The rush for collateral may be an unintended benefit from
swaps rules designed to protect against a cascade of bank
failures.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Fights EU Short-Selling Powers After Defeat on Bank Pay  The U.K., defeated in a campaign to derail European Union
curbs on banker bonuses, goes to the bloc’s top court today in a
bid to overturn the powers of an EU agency to ban short selling.  Britain will argue at the Luxembourg-based EU Court of
Justice that the  European Securities and Markets Authority ’s
decision-making ability comes at the expense of national
supervisors, in the latest skirmish against the EU’s growing
powers over financial services.  Prime Minister David Cameron has promised to seek a new
settlement with the EU, amid a rising tide of opposition that
saw the U.K. Independence Party, which advocates a divorce from
the bloc, gain seats in local elections last month. While
Cameron has said he plans a referendum on EU membership by the
end of 2017, this has failed to quell calls from members of his
Conservative Party for Britain’s European destiny to be put to
the people sooner.  The U.K. has often found itself on the defensive in EU
discussions on financial regulation. The nation, which lacks a
veto on financial laws, was the sole dissenting voice in March
opposing a deal to ban bonuses more than twice fixed pay.  Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne last
week said that plans being discussed by 11 other EU nations for
a common financial transactions tax were “unlawfully
extraterritorial” and “poorly designed.” The country started
a legal challenge over the draft measures in April.  The U.K. is also suing the European Central Bank over
policies that it says push clearing of some derivatives away
from London and into the euro area.  For more, click here.  ESMA Willing to Take on Rate-Benchmark Oversight, FD Reports  The European Securities and Markets Authority would be
willing to supervise interest-rate benchmarks if asked, Het
Financieele Dagblad reported, citing the authority’s chairman
Steven Maijoor.  The European Commission has to decide, Dagblad cited
Maijoor as saying. Banks should be obliged to participate in
panels.  Compliance Action  Glencore Investigated by Italy on $158 Million Tax-Evasion Claim  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s largest exporter of power
station coal, is being investigated by Italian tax police, which
accused the group of evading more than 120 million euros ($158
million) in taxes.  The authorities are reviewing some transactions between its
Portovesme unit, a zinc and lead smelter on the island of
Sardinia, and the larger group, Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “All transactions were conducted in accordance with
applicable Italian tax laws and on an arm’s length basis between
Portovesme and the Glencore group,” it said. “Portovesme
continues to engage with the tax authorities to ensure a swift
conclusion to the review.”  The company allegedly hid profits by paying other units of
the Swiss company above-market prices for raw materials, the
Rome financial police said in a separate e-mailed statement that
gave the amount under investigation, without naming the company.  Glencore Xstrata is the world’s fourth-biggest mining
company.  Detroit Money Manager Pays $3.1 Million to End SEC Theft Claims  A  Detroit  investment adviser will pay $3.1 million to
settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he
stole money from a police pension fund to finance his purchase
of two California strip malls.  Chauncey C. Mayfield and his firm, MayfieldGentry Realty
Advisors, were accused of siphoning money from the Detroit
Police and Fire Retirement System in 2008, the agency said in a
statement yesterday citing a complaint filed in federal court in
 Michigan . Four other MayfieldGentry executives were accused of
trying to cover up the theft, the agency said in the statement.  The MayfieldGentry executives, who become aware of the
misappropriation by May 2011, covered it up for another year,
the SEC said. The executives informed the pension fund the
evening before the SEC filed a complaint against them in May
2012 for participation in a “pay-to-play” scheme involving
Detroit’s former mayor.  Mayfield, the firm and the other executives resolved the
claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Their attorneys
either declined to comment or couldn’t immediately be reached.  Courts  Ex-Millennium Fund Manager Balboa’s Bond Fraud Trial Starts  Ex-Millennium Global Investments Ltd. portfolio manager
Michael Balboa’s securities-fraud trial, in which he is accused
of participating in a scheme involving Nigerian sovereign debt,
began in federal court in New York.  Balboa, who worked at Millennium from December 2006 to
October 2008, was named in an indictment unsealed in March. He
is charged with five counts including two counts of conspiracy
and one count each of securities fraud, wire fraud and
investment adviser fraud, U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty told
jurors yesterday.  Prosecutors said Balboa, who was based in  London , and two
unnamed co-conspirators participated in a 10-month scheme in
2008 in which he sent “phony mark-to-market quotes” to an
independent valuation agent who inflated month-end market prices
for Nigerian warrants.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related
lawsuit in December.  Balboa faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the securities fraud, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said
at the time of Balboa’s arrest in December.  His fund was liquidated by London-based Millennium Global
after lenders withdrew credit in the wake of the financial
crisis, two people familiar with the situation said in October
2008. His portfolio suffered almost $1 billion in losses, the
SEC said in court papers.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Balboa, 12-cr-00196, and the
civil case is SEC v. Balboa, 11-cv-08731, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Interviews  Nowotny Says ECB Should Supervise Major Banks First  European Central Bank Governing Council Member Ewald
Nowotny spoke at a conference in Vienna about the central bank’s
preparations to assume a supervisory role over the region’s
lenders.  The central bank should start with supervising only a small
group of major lenders to make sure it doesn’t take on more than
it can handle and widen the scope later, Nowotny said.  Taking on bank supervision in the countries sharing the
euro currency and beyond “is fraught with risks” to the
central bank’s reputation, he said.  For the audio, click here, and for more, click here.  Arthur Levitt Says ‘Shell’ Companies Mask Theft  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, said a bill to register shell companies
will help discourage money laundering and other illegal
activity. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and Michael
McKee on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.K. Treasury Committee to Probe Bank of England Appointments  The U.K. Parliament’s Treasury Committee will investigate
the Bank of England’s appointment process and the independence
of the Bank’s Financial Policy Committee.  The committee on June 5 expressed reservations about the
appointment of Clara Furse, the former chief executive officer
of the  London Stock Exchange (LSE) , to the FPC. it questioned her
“awareness of the importance of asserting the independence” of
the body.  The inquiry will look at the different rules governing the
appointment and behavior of members of the FPC, the Monetary
Policy Committee and the Court of the Bank of England. In a
statement, the committee raised “serious inconsistencies and
complexities in the structure of accountability of the Bank of
England.”  “The FPC is still finding its feet,” Andrew Tyrie,
chairman of the Treasury Committee, said in a statement. “It is
crucial that its independence is safeguarded from the start. It
is therefore particularly important that the appointment process
and early exchanges between the Treasury and the FPC don’t give
the appearance that it has been compromised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 