-- Swiss Committee Recommends Rejection of U.S. Tax Bill
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-06-11T12:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/swiss-committee-recommends-rejection-of-u-s-tax-bill.html
Swiss parliament’s full upper house
will tomorrow debate a bill allowing banks to cooperate with the
U.S. on untaxed assets, after committee members recommended its
rejection.  Lawmakers in the upper house’s economics committee early
this morning voted by 7 to 6 encouraging  the plenary to reject
the bill, the parliamentary services office said. The
recommendation, which came after hours of discussion behind
closed doors and included contributions from  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) 
President Thomas Jordan and bank representatives, isn’t binding.  The proposed law, presented by Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf just two weeks ago, would allow banks to
disclose some information to U.S. authorities, though not
clients’ names, and strike a deal for having helped alleged U.S.
tax evaders. It is the result of two years of diplomatic
negotiations as the Swiss try to resolve a U.S. investigation of
at least 14 financial firms, including  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  AG and
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , that allegedly helped Americans evade
taxes.  “The upper house will discuss the Lex USA tomorrow,” said
Brigitte Hauser-Sueess, Widmer-Schlumpf’s spokeswoman. “Should
the upper house reject it, it still will be discussed in the
lower house’s economic committee and then in the plenary.”  Express Procedure  To prevent another bank from being indicted in the U.S.,
the government wants the law to go into effect as early as July
1 after rushing it through both chambers of parliament in the
same three-week session. Wegelin & Co., once Switzerland’s
oldest bank, pleaded guilty in January to conspiring to help
conceal more than $1.2 billion from the U.S.  The debate in Bern is expected to start at 8:15 a.m.
tomorrow. There will be a separate vote by the upper house to
determine the matter’s urgency, allowing it to come into force
next month without a referendum. That will require an absolute
majority of all the chamber’s delegates, rather than just a
simple majority of those present, as is usually required for
laws.  Regardless of whether the upper house supports the bill or
not, the economics committee of the lower house will take it up
on June 13, with the plenary of the larger body debating it on
June 18, the parliamentary services office said.  Should one chamber pass the bill and the other reject it,
there will be another session to resolve the disagreement.  Lawmaker Skepticism  Parliament’s lower house has already voiced skepticism
about the plan and wants the government to provide more details
about it. So far, the government has given no information to
parliamentarians or the public on the terms banks might face,
with Widmer-Schlumpf saying the U.S. wanted them to remain
private.  In the lower house, the proportion of members from the
Social Democrats SP and the Swiss People’s Party SVP is higher
than in the upper, and delegates from both parties have been
particularly critical of the proposal. In a debate there last
week, parliamentarians termed it a “black box” and said the
government was allowing the U.S. to infringe upon Swiss
sovereignty and dictate terms.  Still, the case of the 2010 a law enabling  UBS AG (UBSN)  to hand
over data on 4,450 accounts to the U.S. shows parliamentary
opposition can crumble. That bill was was approved late in
three-week June session after initially being voted down by the
full lower house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  