-- Syria Widens Offensive to Aleppo As Suicide Attackers Strike
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-11T09:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/syria-widens-offensive-to-aleppo-as-suicide-attackers-strike.html
Syrian troops loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad attacked rebel positions in and around Aleppo
province, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said, as the
government seeks to extend its military advance northward.  Among targets today was Minnigh Airport, which is partially
under rebel control, according to a statement on the Coventry,
U.K.-based opposition group’s Facebook page.  The Syrian army started “qualitative operations” on more
than one front, according to a report in the pro-Assad Al-Watan
newspaper, which describes the assaults as “the storm of the
north” offensive. Al-Watan is among pro-government media
outlets to have said over the past few days Assad’s forces were
planning a major attack against rebel hideouts in Aleppo.  Last week, government forces backed by Lebanon’s Shiite
Hezbollah group, took the strategic central town of Al-Qusair,
securing lines of communication from Damascus to the coast. The
victory was described as an important turning point in the two-year war that would enable Assad to move on to Aleppo, by Middle
East analysts including  David Hartwell  at IHS Jane’s.  The northern offensive comes as a twin suicide bombing in
the capital, Damascus, killed 14 people and injured 31. One
bomber blew himself up inside a police station and the other
bomber blew himself up outside it, the Observatory said. Most of
the casualties were members of the police, it said.  The uprising against Assad began with peaceful protests in
March 2011 that have evolved into a civil war. At least 80,000
people have been killed in  Syria  since the uprising began in
2011, Vuk Jeremic, president of the UN General Assembly, said in
May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  