-- U.K. Wheat Area Seen Falling 29% After Rain Prevented Planting
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-06-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/u-k-wheat-area-seen-falling-29-after-rain-prevented-planting.html
The U.K.’s wheat area may be 29
percent smaller than a year earlier after rain prevented farmers
from planting winter crops, the National Farmers Union said.  Wheat production in the country, the European Union’s
third-biggest grower, may be below-average for a second straight
year, the Stoneleigh Park, England-based group said in an e-mailed report today, citing a survey of its crop boards’ members
in  England  and  Wales . In December, the Agriculture &
Horticulture Development Board’s Home-Grown Cereals Authority
said the winter wheat  area  in England and Wales would be 1.39
million hectares (3.43 million acres), 25 percent smaller than a
year earlier.  The U.K. had its second wettest year on record in 2012, the
Met Office says, reducing last year’s harvest by 13 percent,
according to the Department for Environment, Food & Rural
Affairs. The wheat harvest in the U.K. usually starts in July.  “If the experts are to be believed and extreme weather is
to become more frequent over the coming years, we must look at
ways of supporting the industry,” Andrew Watts, the NFU’s
combinable crops chairman, said in the statement. “After lower
volume and quality from the 2012 crop put pressure on cash flow
and profitability, the signals we are getting indicate these
difficulties will continue after 2013.”  In a separate NFU survey, 45 percent of farmers said they
were less confident about the prospects for their businesses in
the next 12 months, compared with the outlook a year earlier.
Short-term confidence was at “a new low,” according to the
report.  The U.K. will get the lowest share of EU funds of all
members for rural development programs on a per hectare basis,
the NFU said in a separate statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  