-- U.S. Seen Moving Closer to Move on Arming Syrian Rebels
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-11T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/u-s-seen-edging-closer-to-move-on-arming-syrian-rebels.html
The Obama administration is weighing
more seriously whether to provide Syrian rebels with arms and
ammunition as momentum in the conflict shifts toward the Assad
regime, according to a former U.S. official.  “I believe there is now a sense of urgency in
administration deliberations on whether or not to participate in
the desperately needed resupply of rebels with arms and
ammunition,” Fred Hof, a former State Department liaison to the
Syrian opposition, said yesterday in an interview. “I would not
be at all surprised were a decision arrived at very soon, and I
would be surprised if the decision is negative.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is under pressure
to provide lethal aid to the Syrian opposition, which has said
it won’t participate in talks arranged by the U.S. and  Russia  to
end the conflict until such deliveries begin. Domestic critics
such as Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, have called
the administration “delusional” to believe that Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad would be willing to negotiate while he
has the military upper hand.  State Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said yesterday
that administration officials were concerned by what they heard
in recent conversations with General Salim Idris, the head of
the Syrian opposition’s military wing.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  postponed a trip to the
Mideast this week and will instead attend White House meetings,
some of which will be about  Syria , according to Psaki, who
described the sessions as “routine.”  Conditions Worsened  “As we’ve heard firsthand from General Idris over the
weekend, conditions on the ground have worsened, and that is
greatly concerning,” Psaki said. “The bloodshed, and the loss
of innocent lives has grown worse. The increase of foreign
fighters has led to a greater concern about sectarian violence.
So we are taking a closer look at what we can continue to do, to
help the opposition.”  Rebels lost the strategic city of al-Qusair last week.
Government control of the town, about 30 kilometers (19 miles)
southwest of Homs, secures the road from Damascus to Lebanon,
cuts cross-border weapons supplies for the rebels and provides a
staging ground for further offensives.  Obama has been reluctant to get the U.S. more deeply
involved even though U.S. intelligence officials have concluded
that Assad’s regime has probably used small amounts of chemical
weapons three times, according to three U.S. officials with
knowledge of the administration’s deliberations.  At least until now, Obama has concluded that the potential
benefits of a muscular intervention are outweighed by the
negatives, beginning with the installation of a regime in
Damascus that may no longer keep Syria’s cold peace with  Israel .  Channeling Aid  The U.S. has let other countries, such as  Saudi Arabia  and
Qatar, supply weapons to the rebels and recently began an effort
to channel all lethal aid through Idris in an effort to ensure
that fewer weapons get into the hands of extremists. At the same
time, the administration has pushed a plan to hold negotiations
between rebels and the regime about a negotiated political
transition that would have Assad step down.  In a May press conference with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , Obama acknowledged that his push with Russia for a
peace conference -- dubbed Geneva 2 -- might not work.  “I’m not promising that it’s going to be successful,” the
president said. “Frankly, sometimes once sort of the furies
have been unleashed in a situation like we’re seeing in Syria,
it’s very hard to put things back together.”  U.S.-Russia Meeting  Hof, now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, a
Washington policy group, said that he would be “shocked if arms
and ammunition, whether from U.S. stocks or elsewhere, were not
ready to move instantly to and through Idris.”  Psaki said U.S. and Russian officials will meet on June 25
to discuss arrangements for the Geneva 2 talks, which are
expected to be held in July. In the meantime, she said that the
administration has had continuing talks about how to strengthen
their position on the ground.  “The political process can’t happen in a vacuum, so we are
taking a closer look at what we can do on the ground to help the
opposition,” she said. “Many of these options have been
discussed and they will continue to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  