-- Lufthansa’s Brussels Air Feels Turkish Squeeze in Africa
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-12T09:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/lufthansa-s-brussels-air-feels-turkish-squeeze-in-africa.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Brussels
Airlines unit said ticket prices and revenue on the African
routes in which it specializes face a squeeze as rivals
including  Turkish Airlines  pour capacity into the continent.  The carrier had forecast 5 percent sales growth in  Africa 
this year and now faces a decline, while yields, a measure of
revenue-per-seat equating to fares, are also under pressure,
Chief Executive Officer Bernard Gustin said in an interview.  “Africa is still very strong, but not as strong as we had
expected,” Gustin said. “Everyone is talking about the new
competitors, especially Turkish. We suffer a lot from them.”  Brussels, in which Lufthansa has a 45 percent stake, serves
19 African cities after doubling the number in the decade to
2012. The carrier also has an arm in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo, a market predecessor Sabena first tapped 90 years ago.  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  is among a clutch of high-growth operators
led by Dubai-based Emirates that are adding African routes to
feed their hubs. Like Lufthansa, other major European carriers
are also tapping historic ties to win custom as a commodities
boom boosts demand in the least-developed travel market.  Local companies are likewise seeking a bigger traffic
share, with Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise, the No. 2 sub-Saharan
carrier, saying last week it plans a transfer hub in the Congo.  Middle Class  Gustin said passenger numbers on African routes this year
should still exceed 2012’s total of 716,000 -- which represented
an 11 percent increase -- and that Brussels is defending its
market, albeit at a cost of lower average fares all round.  “We are keeping our market share, so they must also
suffer,” the CEO said by telephone from the Belgian capital.  With people sometimes going via Brussels even between major
cities such as Nairobi and Dakar, there’s huge pent-up demand,
he said. Economic growth should also spur the opening up of
secondary routes and connections to mining and industrial areas.  “Africa is about growth,” Gustin said. “There is a middle
class developing and people want to travel -- have to travel --
for business. If we don’t invest the others will eat us up.”  The African network offered by Brussels Air was one of the
attractions of the company to Cologne-based Lufthansa,  Europe ’s
second-biggest carrier, and it’s vital that those routes be
“integrated in a general Africa strategy,” he said.  Lufthansa’s overall African seating accounts for only 5
percent of the company’s total offering, versus 12 percent at
European No. 1  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , according to Goldman Sachs.  Mounting Losses  Africa failed to contribute growth at Lufthansa last year,
with sales down 7.2 percent to 605 million euros ($803 million)
-- making the region the smallest of the six for which the
company breaks out figures and the only one to show a decline.  Brussels has posted cumulative operating losses of more
than 170 million euros since Lufthansa’s 65 million-euro
investment in 2009, and the German company has so far failed to
take up an option of buying the remaining 55 percent of stock.  The Belgian business aims to lift overall sales 3 percent
this year, less than half the pace of the 7.4 percent gain to
1.11 billion euros in 2012. It projects an annual operating loss
as high as 20 million euros, before a net profit in 2014.  Still, Lufthansa CEO Christoph Franz said March 15 that
progress at Brussels has been “decidedly gratifying” and that
the unit had the potential to become a “new pearl” in the group.  U.S. Links  Brussels will add about one long-haul aircraft per year to
its eight leased Airbus SAS A330s, with the fleet potentially
reaching 12 over time, according to Gustin. Extra jets will help
direct trans-Atlantic traffic into  Belgium , swelling numbers on
onward African services, he said. Flights to  Washington  begin on
June 18 following a first U.S. route to  New York  last year.  “Being in Africa only, with just four aircraft like we did
five years ago, isn’t sufficient,” Gustin said. “To keep our
African competitiveness we need a better balance between
European and long-haul traffic.”  The overall fleet could increase from 39 planes to 50, with
12 BAE Systems Plc Avro RJ100 regional jets replaced either by
more regional aircraft or a choice of larger Airbus A320-family
jets -- of which Brussels already has 19 -- or the  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  CSeries model that Lufthansa is buying for its Swiss unit.  Brussels has drawn 45 million euros of a 100 million euro
Lufthansa loan, and may not need the rest, with restructuring
ahead of plan thanks to lower fuel costs and a more favorable
dollar-euro exchange rate. First-quarter productivity improved
15 percent on a new labor agreement and fleet streamlining.  Lufthansa shares were trading 2.1 percent lower at 16.13
euros as of 11:51 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  