-- Ukraine Plans to Triple Tax on Beer to Boost Budget Revenue
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-06-11T13:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/ukraine-cabinet-seeks-to-triple-beer-tax-to-boost-budget-revenue.html
Ukraine  plans to almost triple the
excise tax on beer in a bid to boost annual budget revenue by as
much as 1.7 billion hryvnia ($209 million).  The tax will rise to 2.43 hryvnia per liter from 0.87
hryvnia, according to a draft law published on the Revenue and
Fees Ministry’s  website  today. The government is in talks with
producers about increasing the tax and plans to submit the
proposal to parliament this autumn, Revenue and Fees Minister
Oleksandr Klymenko said June 7.  “As of today, in Ukraine, beer is not an alcoholic drink
and that’s why its production and distribution are not subject
to licensing,” the ministry said. “Lack of control of beer
production and sales, which is accompanied by low taxes, led to
low beer prices, while the price of water, milk or juice is much
higher.”  Ukraine, which is in talks with the  International Monetary
Fund  over a third bailout in four years, had a budget deficit of
5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the year through April,
 Dragon Capital (VIETENI)  said June 3.  Carlsberg A/S (CARLB) ,  Anadolu Efes Biracilik Malt Sanayi AS (AEFES)  and
Sun Interbrew Plc are among the biggest beermakers in the
eastern European nation. Beer production fell 1.5 percent in
Ukraine last year after a 1.3 percent drop in 2011, according to
the country’s statistics office.  “This is a very strong blow for beer producers,” said
Valentin Boinitsky, the head of corporate relations for Efes-Ukraine, in a phone interview. “We entered Ukraine as investor
last year only and have either not reached the profitability
levels or recovered our initial investments. We are now
calculating what to do.”  Analysts anticipate that the tax increase may cause the
beer market to contract by as much as 25 percent and lead to an
overall decline in taxes paid by the industry, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  