-- UN Says 8,000 Flee Nigeria’s Crackdown on Islamists in Northeast
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-06-11T15:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/un-says-8-000-flee-nigeria-s-crackdown-on-islamists-in-northeast.html
More than 8,000 people have fled
Nigeria’s northeast to neighboring countries after the military
started an air and ground offensive against Islamist militants
in the region, the  United Nations  said.  The military of  Africa ’s largest oil producer began the
operation against militants loyal to the Boko Haram group on May
16, two days after President Goodluck Jonathan imposed emergency
rule in the northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa. The
insurgents, who have fought a violent campaign to impose Shariah
law in Nigeria, were taking over parts of Borno, according to
Jonathan.  Civilians who have fled “say they escaped for fear of
being caught in the government-led crackdown on insurgents
linked to the Boko Haram sect,” Adrian Edwards, a spokesman for
the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said today in an e-mailed
statement.  They included civilians “particularly in the Baga area of
northern  Nigeria , close to the Niger border,” according to the
statement.  As many as 228 people were killed and more than 2,000
houses were burned down in Baga, a fishing town on the shores of
Lake Chad, after security forces responded to an attack by
militants on April 16, according to local officials.  “Refugees report that air strikes by government forces are
continuing from time to time,” Edwards said.  The offensive forced 6,240 Nigerians, nationals of Niger
and Chadians, mostly women, children and elderly, to cross into
Niger, according to the statement. About 716 Chadian citizens
returned to their land-locked country, while 155 Nigerians are
seeking asylum there. Cameroon received 1,200 returning
citizens, UNHCR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  