-- Hungary Inflation Rate Rises Less Than Forecast in May
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-11T08:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/hungary-inflation-rate-rises-less-than-forecast-in-may.html
Hungary’s inflation rate rose less
than economists forecast because of government-mandated
reductions in household energy costs, bolstering the case for
policy makers to cut record-low interest rates further.  Consumer prices  advanced 1.8 percent from a year earlier in
May after rising 1.7 percent the previous month, the slowest
pace since June 1974, the Budapest-based statistics office said
today. The median estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 1.9 percent increase. Prices fell 0.1 percent
from April.  “The slow pace of annual price growth was principally
caused by the significant reduction of household energy
prices,” the statistics office said in a statement.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the benchmark two-week
deposit rate to a record low 4.5 percent last month from 4.75
percent, the 10th quarter-point reduction in as many months.
Policy makers said they may cut the rate further after the
inflation rate plunged and as policy makers seek to boost bank
lending and economic growth.  The central bank “is considering ways to signal to the
market the principles for ending the rate-cut cycle,” MNB Vice
President Adam Balog said on May 31, MTI state news service
reported. The bank has an internal study on a “neutral  interest
rate ,” which doesn’t necessarily limit an easing or tightening
cycle, Balog said.  Forint Declines  The forint, the top performer against the euro in the last
three months among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg with a 0.5 percent gain, fell 0.5 percent to 300.37
against the common currency as of 10:03 a.m. in Budapest.  Household energy prices dropped 8.5 percent from a year
earlier in May, while the cost of consumer durable goods fell
1.8 percent. Prices in the services industry rose 4.1 percent
while alcohol and tobacco costs jumped 9.8 percent.  From April, prices of “other goods including motor fuels
and other lubricants” dropped 1.6 percent, while food costs
rose 0.6 percent, according to the statistics office.  Core inflation rate, which strips out volatile energy
costs, was 3.2 percent from a year earlier in May and 0.2
percent from April, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  