-- UnitedHealth Switches Leaders of $21 Billion Pentagon Contract
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-11T20:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/unitedhealth-switches-leaders-of-21-billion-pentagon-contract.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
nation’s biggest health insurer, has changed the leadership of a
division in charge a $20.5 billion Pentagon contract.  The switch follows complaints from the Defense Department
and beneficiaries that UnitedHealth’s poor performance had led
to delays in obtaining medical care. The complaints came almost
immediately after the company assumed responsibility for the
contract on April 1.  Lori McDougal, who served as chief executive officer for
UnitedHealth’s military and veterans unit, accepted a new
position with the company, said Matt Stearns, a spokesman for
the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer.  Tina Jonas, a former Pentagon comptroller, has been
appointed as the unit’s president and has “all operational
responsibilities” for the division, Stearns said. The company
didn’t name a CEO of the division, he said.  Jonas previously served as president of a separate unit of
UnitedHealth.  Stearns declined to comment on whether McDougal was removed
from the position overseeing the contract for the military’s
health program, known as Tricare, which serves active-duty
military, retirees and their families. The delays affected
members of the program’s Tricare Prime plan, which has 1.6
million beneficiaries in the 21 states served by UnitedHealth.  UnitedHealth “continues to be unable to comply with the
requirements of their contract,” Jonathan Woodson, assistant
secretary of defense for health affairs, said in a memo dated
May 16. The result is that beneficiaries are prevented “from
obtaining timely access to specialty care and potentially
causing them to suffer harm,” he said.  -- Editor: Stephanie Stoughton, David Ellis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  