-- Turkey Stocks Reach 2013 Low as Protests Trigger Bank Tightening
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-11T15:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/turkey-stocks-reach-2013-low-as-protests-trigger-bank-tightening.html
Turkey   stocks  slumped to their
lowest level this year as protesters clashed with riot police
and the central bank implemented additional tightening measures
to curb currency volatility.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 index fell 1.8 percent to
75,041.03 at the close, the lowest level since December 2012.
The gauge dropped to 74,306.98 in intraday trading, 20 percent
below its high reached on May 22, a threshold that signals  bear
market  to some investors. Yields on the government’s two-year
benchmark notes surged to the highest level since November.  Turkey’s stocks slid as Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
accused protesters of being pawns of financial speculators
seeking to drive borrowing costs higher. “This is over, from
now on these incidents won’t be tolerated,” he said in an
address to his deputies in Parliament today. “This Tayyip won’t
change.”  “Since May 31, political risks that weren’t priced in
before started being realized,” Cuneyt Paksoy, an investment
committee member at Rhea Asset Management in Istanbul, said in a
phone interview. “We also have the rise in benchmark two-year
yields, which creates a negative sentiment for banks.”  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , lender co-owned by Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, led the index’s decline,  dropping  2.8
percent.  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) , second-biggest industrial
group,  fell  3 percent, while  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, the nation’s
biggest lender by assets,  declined  2.7 percent.  Bear Market  The benchmark index plummeted more than 10 percent on June
3, the first business day after the protests erupted. It
advanced 4.9 percent the next day. The high volatility in the
market creates an “anomaly,” Paksoy said. “We’re seeing a
market reaction against uncalculated risks. We are practically
in bear market territory anyway.”  Riot police retook Taksim Square in central Istanbul from
protesters who refused to leave the area since an
environmentalist protest against the government rapidly turned
into nationwide demonstrations on May 31.  The lira gained 0.6 percent to 1.8904 per dollar, after
depreciating as much as 0.4 percent. Turkey’s central bank
introduced additional measures today to tighten liquidity and
curb volatility. The bank said it may start direct interventions
in the  currency market  today to protect the lira, which has
weakened 4.8 percent in the past month.  Lenders led the slump in stocks, with the 16-member banking
 index  sliding 2.1 percent to its lowest level since November.  Yields on two-year benchmark notes jumped 32 basis points,
or 0.32 percentage point, to 6.82 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  