-- Mursi’s Ethiopia Dam Stance Draws Fire From Egypt’s Opposition
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-11T10:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/mursi-s-ethiopia-dam-stance-draws-fire-from-egypt-s-opposition.html
A large Egyptian opposition movement
accused President Mohamed Mursi of having no plan for dealing
with  Ethiopia ’s plan to build a dam that could siphon off vital
Nile River water.  Ethopia’s decision last month to go forward with the dam
has added to the many pressures facing the Islamist leader,
three weeks before he ends his first year in office.  Egypt 
already faces a water shortage, and some Egyptians worry the dam
would make the situation worse.  “As usual, all talk,” the April 6 youth movement said on
its Facebook page, shortly after Mursi said in a televised
speech that “all options” were on the table regarding the
Ethiopian project. Mursi did not clarify how the dam would
affect Egypt or how the government planned to deal with it, the
group said. “Are we really able to face it or are we just going
to stop at speeches?” it asked.  The Ethiopian project, known as the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam, will be  Africa ’s largest hydropower plant,
generating 6,000 megawatts once built. Ethiopia says it needs
the dam to produce power for its development. In Egypt, it has
become the latest piece of ammunition in an arsenal of
grievances against Mursi’s stewardship of the Arab world’s most
populous nation, more than two years after a mass uprising
ousted his predecessor,  Hosni Mubarak .  Anti-Government Rallies  Opposition groups are planning mass rallies on June 30, a
year after Mursi was sworn in as Egypt’s first democratically
elected civilian president, in a bid to push him from office and
move up presidential elections. Some of his detractors say the
dam controversy, which has mushroomed in the local media over
the past two weeks, is an attempt by the president and his
Islamist backers to distract Egyptians from the economic and
security challenges and political polarization that have
escalated over the past year.  “Mursi is trying to use the Nile water crisis to deflect
attention away from internal problems; the popular anger against
him” the Tamarod, or “Rebel” movement, which is amassing
signatures in a bid to force Mursi from office, said on its
official website, citing member of the group’s central committee
Mohamed Abdel-Aziz.  The group said on June 9 that it has so far gathered 13
million signatures and has targeted gathering a total of 15
million, exceeding the votes Mursi secured to squeeze by his
rival to win the presidency last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  