-- Venezuela’s New Diesel-Fired Power Plants May Reduce Oil Exports
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-06-11T21:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/venezuela-s-new-diesel-fired-power-plants-may-reduce-oil-exports.html
Venezuela,  South America ’s biggest
oil exporter, is boosting power generation from petroleum
products by about 10 percent as it seeks to end blackouts,
potentially reducing shipments abroad.  Venezuela is adding about 1.2 gigawatt of diesel-fueled
electricity capacity in 2013 to avoid another recession caused
by drought, Electricity Minister Jesse Chacon said in an
interview in Caracas today.  “Diesel is a short-term solution before we develop clean
sources of energy and move thermal plants to natural gas,” said
Chacon, who took office in April.  Falling oil production and rising sales to the local power
sector are likely to reduce state-run  Petroleos de Venezuela ’s
oil exports by about 200,000 barrels a day, Alejandro Grisanti
and Alejandro Arreaza, New York-based analysts with Barclays Plc
said in a note to clients yesterday. Oil provides 96 percent of
 Venezuela ’s foreign earnings, which are used to import the
majority of goods consumed in the South American nation.  In addition to thermal plants, the state power company
known as Corpoelec is adding about 800 megawatts of new capacity
from hydropower and wind, to bring total national installed
capacity to around 30 gigawatts by the end of this year, Chacon
added. The first turbine of the 2.2-gigawatt Tacoma hydropower
plant will begin operations in July.  The ministry is complementing new generation projects with
measures to moderate demand.  “No amount of new capacity will be enough if we don’t
become efficient consumers,” he said.  Venezuela has the world’s cheapest electricity and  Latin
America ’s highest per-capita electricity consumption, according
to the ministry.  The government wants to reduce demand growth by about a
third to 3 to 4 percent a year by overhauling prices and
installing more meters, the minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  