-- Dung Passes Confidence Vote as Vietnam’s Growth Stagnates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-11T08:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/vietnam-s-dung-passes-confidence-vote-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Vietnam ’s prime minister secured
enough support from parliament during the communist country’s
first confidence vote to keep his job, with almost a third of
lawmakers rating him poorly as economic growth stagnates.  Nguyen Tan Dung had support from 67 percent of National
Assembly members, the legislature announced in Hanoi today.
Thirty-two percent of lawmakers gave him a “low-confidence”
ranking. Central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh received the
worst report card, with a “low-confidence” vote from 42
percent of lawmakers.  The secret ballots on premier Dung, the country’s president
and 45 other senior officials are a bid to boost government
accountability. The ruling  Communist Party  faces pressure for
not curtailing corruption as the economy grew at the slowest
pace in 13 years in 2012. Earlier this year, a group including
former government officials distributed an alternative draft
constitution calling for “political competition.”  Yesterday’s confidence vote allowed Dung and Binh to be
“chastised” for mismanaging the  economy , while legislators
avoided triggering a political crisis by leaving them in office,
said Roberto Herrera-Lim, New York-based Asia Director at the
Eurasia Group. Dung, 63, will probably complete his second term
as prime minister, Herrera-Lim said. Dung was re-elected in 2011
for a five-year term.  ‘Step Forward’  “They are sending a message,” Herrera-Lim said by phone.
“In a system in which the party has dominated so long, to see
some of its most powerful politicians being publicly held to
account for the mismanaging of the economy is a step forward. If
they did not deal with the problems of perceived mismanagement,
it would not be socially acceptable to the population and that
could ultimately erode their legitimacy.”  The benchmark VN Index dropped 0.5 percent at the close in
 Ho Chi Minh City . The gauge has surged 26 percent this year, at
least 11 percentage points more than any other Southeast Asian
benchmark gauge tracked by Bloomberg.  Under the system, a low confidence outcome from more than
two-thirds of delegates will bring a no-confidence vote, with a
majority required for the dismissal of an official. Officials
who receive two consecutive “low confidence” ratings by more
than half of lawmakers will face a no-confidence vote, which
could lead to their dismissal from office.  Dung received “low-confidence” votes from 160 of the 492
National Assembly members who cast ballots, the third-worst
performance among the 47 senior officials under scrutiny.
Central bank chief Binh earned a total confidence vote of 57
percent, according to the results announced by the assembly.  Debt Burden  Vietnam targets 5.5 percent economic growth this year,
which would be its first period of three straight years of
growth below 6 percent since 1988, according to International
Monetary Fund data. The government is trying to reform a banking
sector burdened with bad debt, which the central bank estimated
at 7.8 percent of outstanding loans at the end of last year, and
force state-owned companies to become more efficient.  Jonathan  London , assistant professor at the  City University 
of  Hong Kong ’s Department of Asian and International Studies,
said the vote results were similar to those that would be found
in a “pluralistic political system.”  “It demonstrates that though Vietnam remains an
authoritarian polity, its political system is evolving in an
encouraging if indeterminate manner,” London said in an e-mail.  Vote Shortcomings  President Truong Tan Sang had a total confidence ranking of
93 percent, with 66 percent of lawmakers expressing “high-confidence” and 27 percent signaling “confidence” in Dung’s
political rival. Of the 498 National Assembly members, 492
voted, according to the body’s chairman, Nguyen Sinh Hung, who
told legislators that the calculations were based on 498
members. The total votes didn’t add up to 100 percent.  “We still have some shortcomings but as we can see the
results have pretty well reflected the situation of the
country,” Hung said. “The results showed that delegates have
done it objectively.”  Dung faced a call for a confidence vote in the assembly in
late 2010 for his handling of Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry
Group, or Vinashin, the state-run firm that he championed and
that almost collapsed under $4 billion of debt that year. The
vote was never held and Dung apologized to the nation in a
televised broadcast in October 2012.  Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong also apologized in
October last year for “big mistakes” made by the Politburo.
The following month, lawmaker Duong Trung Quoc suggested to Dung
in a televised legislative session that he start a “culture of
resignation.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  