-- Vodafone Approaches Kabel Deutschland to Discuss Bid
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-12T15:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/vodafone-said-to-approach-kabel-deutschland-about-possible-bid.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  approached  Kabel
Deutschland  Holding AG to discuss acquiring the German cable
operator, a target worth at least $9.5 billion that would help
the wireless carrier expand in the broadband and TV market.  Vodafone’s informal offer values Kabel Deutschland at
between 81 euros and 82 euros a share, said people familiar with
the matter. Kabel Deutschland shares jumped as much as 11
percent to 83.05 euros after Vodafone, confirmed the 
“preliminary” approach in a statement today.   Vodafone contacted Kabel Deutschland to discuss an offer in 
the past week,  Bloomberg News  reported yesterday, citing people 
with knowledge of the matter. By moving in on  Germany ’s biggest 
cable provider, with 8.5 million connected households, Vodafone 
would add fast fixed-line services to its mobile offerings and 
prevent the asset from being purchased by  John Malone ’s Liberty 
Global Inc., which is also interested.   “If Vodafone doesn’t act now then Liberty will be there,”
said Andrew Hogley, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank
in  London . “It’s become clear that triple-play operators can
win market share in mobile very quickly.”  Kabel Deutschland  advanced  as high as 83.05 euros and
traded at 80.93 euros at 5:21 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the
company at 7.2 billion euros ($9.6 billion). Vodafone fell 0.2
percent to 184.65 pence in London. Kabel Deutschland shares have 
risen 27 percent since Vodafone’s interest first surfaced four 
months ago.  No Certainty  The two haven’t begun talks because Kabel Deutschland
determined that the price Vodafone indicated it was willing to
pay was too low, said the people familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be named because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. Discussions with the company could start as soon as
Vodafone comes back with a higher price, the people said.  There is no certainty that an offer will ultimately be
made, Vodafone said today. Munich, Germany-based Kabel
Deutschland confirmed an approach by Vodafone in a statement.
Spokeswoman Insa Calsow declined to comment beyond the release.  Telecommunications companies have commanded a 27 percent
takeover premium in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based on the average of 27 acquisitions
valued at more than $1 billion.  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s pending deal
for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  would be the largest this year. The
Japanese company’s latest offer for Sprint is $21.6 billion for
a 78 percent stake.  The telecommunications industry has been involved in $83.8
billion in transactions this year, according to data from 244
deals compiled by Bloomberg. It’s followed by the real-estate
industry, which has accounted for $64.1 billion spent.  Verizon Deal  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , has said it would be
willing to take a hit to its  credit rating  for the right deal.
In a meeting with analysts in March, Chief Financial Officer
Andy Halford said he’d accept a BBB+ rating, one step below its
A- ranking by  Standard & Poor’s , should the opportunity for an
acquisition arise.  The amount of additional debt required to push the
company’s credit rating down a level is approximately the value
of Kabel Deutschland,  Robin Bienenstock , a Sanford C. Bernstein
analyst, has estimated.  The willingness to take on debt indicates that Vodafone
wouldn’t have to sell its 45 percent stake in U.S. mobile
company  Verizon Wireless  in order to finance expansion, analysts
have said. Its partner, Verizon Communications Inc., wants to
resolve the partnership this year to win full control over the
biggest U.S. wireless provider. Verizon has told analysts it
would be willing to pay $100 billion for the stake, people
familiar with the matter have said.  Liberty Threat  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  is pursuing
deals across Europe to offer customers more services, increasing
monthly bills and subscriber loyalty as revenue from mobile
phones declines. Revenue for the fiscal year ending in March
fell 4.2 percent to 44.4 billion pounds ($70 billion) as Colao
cut jobs and expenses on the continent to support profit.  “Wireless services in Europe are under tremendous
pressure,”  Chetan Sharma , an independent wireless analyst in
Issaquah,  Washington , said in a telephone interview. “They need
to offer quad play to keep their customers for a longer period
of time. As you start to bundle, you typically see the lifetime
value of a customer increase by 50 percent. It’s harder for the
customer to leave.”  The company is also facing a threat of  Liberty Global 
increasing its footprint in Europe. The Englewood, Colorado-based company completed its $24 billion purchase of  Virgin Media 
Inc. last week, allowing the cable operator to expand in the
U.K. Liberty Global is considering a takeover bid for Kabel
Deutschland, people familiar with the matter said in April.  Marcus Smith, a spokesman for Liberty Global, declined to
comment.  Network Sharing  Vodafone last month signed a deal with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
to purchase access to the German carrier’s Internet lines across
the country. Deutsche Telekom plans to supply 24 million
households with speeds up to 100 megabits by 2016, a velocity
already offered by the cable companies in many areas.  Kabel Deutschland doesn’t serve heavily populated areas in
western Germany, in which Liberty Global’s Unitymedia KabelBW
dominates. The operator’s attempt to buy smaller peer Tele
Columbus Group was foiled by regulators in February.  Vodafone’s approach to Kabel Deutschland “raises the
question what it will do in other parts of Europe,” Hogley
said. The company may also make an approach to Spanish broadband
provider Grupo Corporativo ONO SA or take a look at the Dutch
market after missing out on Virgin Media in the U.K., he said.  Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Vodafone, declined to comment
on the potential for another deal. Colao has said in the past
that he will consider a number of options, including
partnerships like the one struck with Deutsche Telekom, as he
expands services in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  