-- VTB Trumps Baring Vostok in Russia Buyouts Without Raising Funds
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-06-11T11:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/vtb-trumps-baring-vostok-in-russia-buyouts-without-raising-funds.html
VTB Capital , a unit of  Russia ’s
second-largest bank, overtook Baring Vostok  Capital Partners  as
the country’s largest private-equity investor without ever
raising money from a third party.  VTB Capital acquired Tele2 Russia, the fourth-largest
wireless operator in Russia, for $3.6 billion this quarter,
pushing its private-equity total to about $5 billion since VTB
Group Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin created the unit
five years ago. That surpasses the $1.8 billion that Baring
Vostok has spent of the $3.7 billion raised for five funds since
1994, according to the company’s  website .  “It’s not a standard business model in the marketplace and
there’s no denying it’s not for everyone,” Tim Demchenko, head
of private equity at Moscow-based VTB Capital, said in an
interview on June 3. The Russian state owns a majority stake in
VTB Group.  Regulations similar to the U.S.’s Volcker rule will
eventually be applied in Russia, making VTB’s current model
unsustainable, according to Demchenko. The rule, named after
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , would ban
proprietary trading at banks and limit how much of their own
money they can invest in private equity and hedge funds.  VTB Capital is considering moving away from its ‘captive’
model, under which most of the equity for buyouts comes from the
firm itself, by raising as much as $1 billion from outside
investors, according to Demchenko.  ‘Captive Banking’  Captive private-equity firms can encounter conflicts of
interest because they have to please their corporate parents as
well as their limited partners, said Oleg Jelezko, managing
partner and CEO of Da Vinci Capital in Moscow. The practice is
prevalent in  China  and  South Korea  and becoming less so in
 India , where banks have started selling their private-equity
units, Jelezko said by phone.  VTB may seek to raise a private-equity fund from some of
the companies and institutions it has already worked with. Those
include  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG Capital, the  European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development  and the Chinese and Norwegian
sovereign wealth funds, which bought shares in VTB Group’s $3
billion secondary share sale in April.  “The captive banking model for private equity has
admittedly had a mixed track record,” Demchenko said. “Our
intent is to start attracting more external capital into our
activities through deal-by-deal and fund-like structures rather
than trying to deploy more money from the balance sheet.”  The acquisition of Tele2 from Stockholm-based  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) 
would have set off alarm bells in other countries, Michael Calvey, founder and senior partner of Baring Vostok, said in an
interview in Moscow.  ‘Unusual’ Deal  Equity investments by lenders create competition with their
own clients, which usually means regulators are forced to have a
very high-risk weighting against such deals, according to
Calvey. Baring Vostok earned a 500-fold return in 2011 on its
investment a decade earlier in Yandex NV, Russia’s biggest
search engine.  “It is highly unusual that a regulated bank would make a
multibillion-plus acquisition like that,” Calvey said. “There
aren’t many countries in the world where regulators would allow
this,” Calvey said. “There are also not many countries where
banks are involved in private equity from their own balance
sheet as a long-term proposition.”  Goldman, Deutsche         Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among
banks that have raised third-party capital for private-equity
deals in Russia while also investing on behalf of the company,
their clients and their employees.  So, too, has the Kremlin’s private-equity fund, the Russian
Direct Investment Fund, which has acquired more than $2 billion
of assets since it was set up in 2011, according to its website.
Each of those deals was done with co-investors, including China
Investment Corp., the $480 billion sovereign wealth fund, and
 Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , the biggest asset manager.  “Tele2 is indeed a remarkable deal,” Yuri Soloviev, head
of VTB Capital and first deputy CEO of VTB Group, said in e-mailed comments. Sweden’s Tele2 sold its entire Russian unit to
VTB even as operators VimpelCom Ltd. and OAO Mobile TeleSystems
were offering higher prices.  VTB invests $50 million to $100 million on average in
private equity and expects to make three- to four-and-a-half
times its money, said Demchenko, who’s not allowed to comment on
the Tele2 purchase. VTB has bought stakes in Burger King Corp.’s
Russian franchisee, satellite television operator Tricolor TV,
commercial real estate and agriculture projects.  Lenta IPO  The bank has sold just four of the stakes it’s acquired to
date, including software developer EPAM, which raised $72
million in an IPO in  New York  last year.  “Our cost base is $400 million and our portfolio has been
growing heavily,” Demchenko said.  VTB’s most profitable investment may be Lenta LLC, a
supermarket chain based in  St. Petersburg . VTB and TPG Capital
bought a combined 31 percent stake in Lenta in 2009 for $100
million, leading to a conflict over strategy with August Meyer,
the founder of the company.  After lawsuits and a violent brawl at Lenta’s offices, VTB
and TPG agreed in 2011 to pay $1.1 billion for the 41 percent
held by Meyer, a U.S.-born lawyer. TPG now has more than 50
percent of Lenta, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, or EBRD, has 21 percent and VTB has 12 percent,
according to Demchenko.  Lenta may hold an IPO in  London  this year that could value
the company at as much as $5 billion, Marat Ibragimov, an
analyst at UralSib Capital, a Moscow-based brokerage, said by e-mail on May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  