-- Warren Resources Postpones Bond Sale With Yields at 9-Month High
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-06-11T15:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/warren-resources-postpones-bond-sale-with-yields-at-9-month-high.html
Warren Resources Inc. (WRES) , the oil and
natural gas company, postponed its debut issue of $200 million
of eight-year bonds with dollar-denominated corporate bond
yields at the highest level in nine months.  The senior notes, rated Caa1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
the fifth-lowest level of speculative grade, were marketed
beginning May 30, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction who asked not to be identified, citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly. The bonds were marketed to
yield 8.25 percent to 8.5 percent on June 6.  Proceeds from the issue, which Bank of Montreal was
managing, were expected to be used to repay revolving debt, for
 capital expenditures  and general corporate purposes, the person
said.  “The conditions in the debt capital markets have led us to
conclude that we should delay our offering,” Philip A. Epstein,
Warren’s chairman and chief executive officer, wrote in a
statement yesterday. The New York-based company can be
“opportunistic about timing,” he added.  Warren joins London-based  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) , ZAO Russian
Standard Bank and  China International Marine Containers Co. (2039)  that
have pulled deals from the U.S. market in the last month,
according to people with knowledge of the offerings. The
cancellations come even as dollar-denominated sales reach a
record pace, with $760.2 billion issued this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields Surge  Yields on dollar-denominated bonds from the most
creditworthy to the riskiest borrowers reached 3.84 percent
yesterday, the most since September and up 49 basis points from
a record-low 3.35 percent on May 2, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield index. Yields
are climbing for a seventh-straight week, the longest stretch
since October 2008, as investor concern deepens that the  Federal
Reserve  will curtail its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  Petrofac canceled its offering of five- and 10-year bonds,
provisionally rated Baa1 by Moody’s, on June 3, citing market
conditions, according to a person with knowledge of that
transaction, who asked not to be identified, citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly. Russian Standard postponed its
offering on May 24 also citing market conditions and China
International shelved its planned sale of five-year debt on May
16, people with knowledge of the transactions said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  