-- Wet Merion Course Makes for Possible Birdie Barrage, Golfers Say
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-12T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/wet-merion-course-makes-for-possible-birdie-barrage-golfers-say.html
Merion Golf Club ’s fifth U.S. Open
might be another record-setting event.  Rory McIlroy’s record 16-under-par score of 268 set two
years ago at Congressional Country Club might be in danger of
falling after torrential rains softened the greens at Merion, a
117-year-old layout in Ardmore, Pennsylvania.  “It’s a real shame,”  England ’s Luke Donald, the world’s
No. 6-ranked player, told reporters. “It just makes everything
a little bit more attackable. As a top player you want the place
to play as tough as it possibly can.”  The U.S. Golf Association’s decision to return after a 32-year absence to Merion, where Bobby Jones in 1930 became the
only golfer to win four majors in the same season, was
considered by some golf enthusiasts and players to be risky.  At 6,996 yards, Merion is the shortest U.S. Open venue
since New York’s Shinnecock Hills played at the same yardage in
2004. And with rain-softened greens in the mix, the number of
birdie chances might rise and the list of contenders will get
longer.  “You could see a lot of different names in the mix come
the weekend,” said Curtis Strange, who in 1988 and 1989 became
the only player to win consecutive U.S. Opens.  Nine years ago, Retief Goosen won at Shinnecock with a 4-under total on a dry course that teetered on the edge of being
unplayable. Two-time U.S. Open winner Ernie Els shot 80 in the
final round. While the total yardage of Merion and Shinnecock
are the same, that’s where the similarities end this week,
players said.  Strange, 58, is among those who applauded the decision to
return to Merion, a course that has hosted 17 previous USGA
championships, the most of any course.  “I commend the USGA, I really do,” Strange said. “Are
they going out on a limb? Possibly. It’s going to be
interesting.”  Nine Wedges  Through the course’s opening 13 holes, players could hit as
many as nine wedge shots into the greens, defending champion
 Webb Simpson  said. He said he plans to hit 4- or 5-iron shots
off the tee on the 360-yard 7th and 8th holes.  “It’s so different from what we’re used to,” Simpson
said.  With the first two days of practice rounds affected by the
rain and soggy surfaces, many players, including three-time U.S.
Open champion Tiger Woods, said it has been difficult to
understand how the course will play when the first round is
scheduled to begin tomorrow.  “I don’t think we have an exact feel for it yet,” said
Woods, who last won the U.S. Open in a 2008 playoff at Torrey
Pines. “The conditions keep changing.”  Putting Challenge  Putting could prove to be the most difficult task to master
on slow, wet greens.  “The mindset coming into a U.S. Open is they’re going to
be hard and fast and crusty,” the 37-year-old Woods said. “But
that’s obviously not going to materialize this week.”  Woods and 2010 U.S. Open winner Graeme McDowell of Northern
Ireland are among the few players who have visited the course in
the past. While McDowell said his previous rounds were played
under sunny, calm conditions, Woods was greeted with rain and
wet fairways and greens when he came to Merion on May 28, two
days before the start of the Memorial Tournament.  “I’m hitting the ball in the same spots now,” Woods said
when comparing his scouting trip to current conditions. “I
thought it might be totally different, that the ball would be
running out and we would hit different clubs and different
shapes. But it’s going to be the same as what we played.”  25-1 Odds  The lowest score shot for a round in one of golf’s four
majors is Johnny Miller’s 63 at the 1973 U.S. Open in Oakmont,
 Pennsylvania . Online sports book Bovada.lv has 25-1 odds that a
player will break Miller’s mark.  McDowell, who had yet to hit any practice shots before
speaking in a news conference yesterday, was among the few
players not yet willing to declare this year’s event an
impending birdie barrage.  “There’s 10 or 11 of these golf holes on this course that
are as tough as any U.S. Open I’ve seen,” said McDowell, who
won the 2010 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach with an even-par score.
“I’m hoping it’s not going to be a score-fest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  