-- Wheat Market Seen Facing ‘Bearish Summer’ by InVivo on Black Sea
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-11T14:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/wheat-market-seen-facing-bearish-summer-by-invivo-on-black-sea.html
Wheat faces a “bearish” summer and
autumn on increased supply from the  Black Sea  region and
uncertainty about imports, said Francois Luguenot, head of
market analysis at French grain cooperative Union InVivo.  “The start of the export campaign risks being really tough
for the European Union on competition from the Black Sea,”
Luguenot said in an interview today. “There’ll be more to
export in the Black Sea and demand will be less dynamic.”  On the import side, questions remain about how much  Egypt 
will buy, while Morocco will delay tenders on bigger domestic
production, the analyst said.  Iran  is an uncertain factor after
the country surprised the market by purchasing 600,000 to
800,000 metric tons of wheat in the past two weeks, he said.  EU wheat exports may drop to 18.6 million tons in 2013-14
from 21 million tons in the previous season, while  Russia ’s
shipments may advance to 13.9 million tons from 10.8 million
tons, the International Grains Council has forecast.  Russian exporters are already selling cargoes of wheat from
the 2013 harvest for July 25 shipping, Luguenot said at an
industry conference in London organized by the IGC. InVivo is
the largest exporter of French wheat.  “There will really be major Russian pressure,” he said.
“We’ll have difficulty exporting at the start of the season.”  Production in the former  Soviet Union  will jump to 99.9
million tons in 2013 from 77.2 million tons last year, the IGC
predicts. Russia’s harvest may climb to 52 million tons from
37.7 million tons.  Indian Exports  India  is expected to export less wheat in 2013-14 due to a
smaller harvest and high domestic prices, Luguenot said.  Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat importer, will be buying
“hand to mouth” due to economic difficulties, according to the
InVivo analyst. The country is “essential” to Black Sea
exporters, and its imports could range anywhere from 8 million
tons to 12 million tons, he said.  Morocco, the second-biggest buyer of French wheat outside
the EU, may start buying wheat in international markets in
December, while normally the country starts buying in October,
or as early as September “in a bad year,” Luguenot said.  “Egypt is on a razor’s edge, both politically and
economically,” the InVivo analyst said. “ Morocco  will
definitely buy less, and the competition will be a bit tougher
between  Europe  and the Black Sea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  