-- Wheeler’s Peashooter Finds Its Mark as Kiwi Slumps: Currencies
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-06-11T13:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/wheeler-s-peashooter-finds-its-mark-as-kiwi-slumps-currencies.html
For a central banker armed with what
government officials call a peashooter, New Zealand’s Graeme Wheeler is proving to be a good shot.  Since the Reserve Bank governor said on May 8 that he was
intervening in the currency market to weaken the local dollar,
after it gained as much as 15 percent versus the greenback from
last year’s low, it has declined about 7 percent. That’s the
second-biggest drop among Group of 10 currencies after the 8.1
percent slide in  Australia ’s dollar. Speculators have pared
 bullish bets  on the kiwi to the least since July as analysts cut
their year-end forecasts to the lowest in four months.  The central bank has resorted to manipulating the kiwi to
buoy the economy as the risks of inflation and a housing bubble
prevent it from reducing interest rates, which are already at a
record low. Wheeler’s talk of intervention came just as an
improvement in the world’s largest economy fueled a broad rally
in the U.S. dollar.  “His timing was impeccable, you’ve got to give him credit
for that,” said Sam Tuck, a senior foreign-exchange manager at
ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Auckland. Wheeler’s comments
“reinforced the idea that the New Zealand dollar is not a one-way bet,” Tuck said.  ‘Peashooter’ Firepower  Finance Minister Bill English said in February the South
Pacific nation of 4.4 million people and a $160 billion economy
can’t expect to take on the $4 trillion-a-day currency market
because it has the firepower of a “peashooter” by
international comparison.  Wheeler’s May 30 statement that he’s prepared to step up
efforts to devalue the kiwi after selling a net NZ$256 million
($200.6 million) in April nevertheless weakened the currency,
whose strength has hampered New Zealand’s economic recovery.  A May 24 government report showed that the April 12-month
 trade deficit  was NZ$694 million, wider than the median estimate
of NZ$346 million among economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The New Zealand dollar fell as much as 1.8 percent today to
an 11-month low of 77.61 U.S. cents, and was 1.3 percent down at
78.00 U.S. cents as of 9:29 a.m. in New York. Even with the
drop, it’s up from 48.95 in March 2009 and is the best performer
since then among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Cutting Estimates  Analysts are having a hard time keeping up with the
declines. They now see the kiwi at 81 U.S. cents by the end of
2013, down from 84 last month, according to median estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. In a report last week, strategists at
Morgan Stanley said they expect it to fall to 76 U.S. cents.  Wheeler’s commentary is “jawboning by the central bank to
talk the kiwi down, and it’s a reasonably inexpensive way of
influencing it,” said  Imre Speizer , a markets strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland. “You could say the RBNZ’s
communication has increased since Wheeler arrived.”  Wheeler, who took the helm of the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand in September, delivers his next quarterly Monetary
Policy Statement on June 13. He’ll leave the  official cash rate 
at a record low of 2.5 percent, according to all 15 economists
in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Unlike counterparts in the U.K., Europe, U.S. and  Japan ,
Wheeler hasn’t been able to cut his benchmark toward zero
because of concern that  house-price inflation  will accelerate.
Prices rose 7.1 percent in May from a year earlier.  ‘Limited Tools’  “While he lacks the ability to really influence the
currency through interest rates, he’s certainly making the best
use of the limited tools at his disposal,” said  Nick Tuffley ,
the chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “He’s trying
to change perceptions, and on several occasions has been able to
knock the kiwi back.”  The kiwi fell 0.7 percent when Wheeler first spoke of
intervention on May 8, and it weakened again when he said May 30
that he could step up selling of the currency.  Under previous Governor Alan Bollard, the RBNZ sold NZ$2.36
billion in June, July and August of 2007 in an attempt to weaken
the kiwi. While it slumped on the intervention, it regained most
of that by October.  Wheeler’s NZ$256 million in currency sales in April
compares with the NZ$10.1 billion of average daily trading in
New Zealand’s foreign-exchange market that month, according to
central bank data.  U.S. Resurgence  “What he’s doing is not really intervention, it’s too
small, but by calling it that he’s sending a powerful message,”
said ANZ’s Tuck. “He’s been very smart on the communication
front.”  Wheeler’s efforts to weaken the currency coincided with
gains in the U.S. dollar on speculation the Federal Reserve will
reduce its monetary stimulus as the economy gathers pace.  The U.S. Dollar Index has risen 3.4 percent since reaching
78.601 in September, its weakest level in the past 12 months.
The kiwi fell 1.7 percent after payrolls data on June 7 showed
the U.S. labor market is improving.  “I think the RBNZ’s influence has been pretty marginal,”
said Darren Gibbs, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Auckland. “It’s very much a U.S. dollar move. But the kiwi
might have been stronger in the absence of Wheeler’s commentary.
It’s a smart game.”  Prime Minister John Key, a former head of global foreign
exchange at Merrill Lynch, has expressed skepticism over central
bank intervention, saying it can only assist a move already
underway and can’t reverse a market direction.  ‘Still Overvalued’  He said at a press conference in Wellington yesterday he’d
be surprised if the RBNZ’s recent activity had made a big
difference to the kiwi’s exchange rate. “It is still
overvalued,” he said. “But we’re happy with the decline.”  Futures traders have curbed bullish bets on the kiwi for
five straight weeks, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a gain in New Zealand’s dollar
against the greenback compared with those on a loss -- so-called
 net longs  -- totaled 6,013 contracts on June 4, the least since
July and down from a record 30,808 in mid-April.  While a firm New Zealand dollar helps the RBNZ keep
inflation under control, Wheeler and the government have
bemoaned its strength because of the damping effect it has on
exports, which account for about 30 percent of economic output.  New Zealand is the world’s largest exporter of dairy
products. Revenue from dairy shipments will grow 8.1 percent to
NZ$13.9 billion in the year through June 2014 after dropping 5.5
percent in the previous 12-month period, the Ministry for
Primary Industries said in its semi-annual forecasts published
in Wellington yesterday.  With international forces still exerting downward pressure
on the kiwi and the central bank likely to reiterate its concern
this week, analysts indicated scope for further declines.  “We see the kiwi reaching 78 U.S. cents in a matter of
weeks,” Westpac’s Speizer said. “That’s a pivotal level and
the whole market will be watching.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  