-- Wife of Russian Ex-Spy Litvinenko Loses Confidence in U.K. Probe
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-06-11T12:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/wife-of-russian-ex-spy-litvinenko-loses-confidence-in-u-k-probe.html
The wife of former Russian spy
 Alexander Litvinenko  has lost confidence in a coroner’s inquest
as the British government said it is considering whether to
allow a public inquiry into his death.  Marina Litvinenko has had a “near complete collapse in
confidence,” Ben Emmerson, her lawyer, said at a hearing in
London today. She has “been shoved and shunted and pushed
around by all the resources,” of the British government in a
bid to derail the investigation, he said.  She will reconsider taking any further part in the inquest,
set up to investigate her husband’s death by poisoning, if the
government does not come to a decision soon on whether it will
be heard in public, he said.  Alexander Litvinenko, a critic of the Kremlin who lived in
London, died in November 2006 about three weeks after being
exposed to radioactive polonium hidden in a pot of tea. British
prosecutors said in 2007 that another former Russian
intelligence officer,  Andrei Lugovoi , should be charged with
murder.  The U.K. is considering a request from the coroner in
charge of the inquest to hold a public inquiry into the death
“at a very high level of government,” Neil Garnham, a lawyer
for the  Home Office , said at the hearing.  Judge Robert Owen wrote to Justice Secretary Chris Grayling
on June 4, asking that the inquest become a public inquiry. He
made the request after ruling in May that information relating
to the Russian state’s possible involvement and what U.K.
authorities knew about the risk to Litvinenko’s life couldn’t be
discussed at public hearings.  U.K. inquests can’t be held in private without all parties
present, while parts of public inquiries can be held in secret
where matters of national security are at stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  