-- Won Falls to 2-Month Low as Global Funds Sell Shares; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-11T06:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/won-falls-to-2-month-low-as-global-funds-sell-shares-bonds-gain.html
The won fell to a two-month low on
speculation global investors selling South Korean equities will
repatriate proceeds.  Government bonds  rose.  Foreign funds sold local shares for a third day as Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok said today the  Federal Reserve ’s possible
exit from monetary stimulus adds to uncertainties facing South
Korea’s economy. The dollar rose versus most Asian currencies as
 Standard & Poor’s  increased the U.S.’s AA+ credit-rating outlook
to stable from negative yesterday.  “Foreign investors have sold South Korean shares and they
may repatriate their proceeds,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an analyst
at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “The dollar rose after S&P
boosted the U.S.’s rating.”  The won fell 0.6 percent to 1,134 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,137.75,
the weakest level since April 10. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, rose 62 basis points, or 0.62 percentage point, to
10.73 percent.  Foreign funds sold $1 billion more South Korean shares than
they bought this month through June 10, exchange data show.
 South Korea  will continue policy efforts to support growth in
the second half of the year as the country’s economic outlook
remains uncertain amid stimulus measures undertaken by major
economies, including Japan, Hyun said before a meeting with
economists in Seoul today.  Bearish Sentiment  The government unveiled a 17.3 trillion won ($15.3 billion)
supplementary budget to support exporters pressured by a weaker
Japanese currency and spur an economy that expanded last year at
the slowest pace since 2009. South Korea’s low-growth phase may
continue with declines in consumption and investment, the
 Finance Ministry  said in a statement today.  South Korea’s exports unexpectedly gained 3.2 percent in
May from a year earlier and the trade surplus climbed to the
highest in more than 2 1/2 years, the trade ministry said June 1.
While shipments were better than what the government had
estimated, the momentum of exports is “not strong,” Choi Sang
Mok, the ministry’s director general, told reporters today.  Sentiment on Asian currencies is turning bearish and the
expectation that the won will outperform has diminished,
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore, wrote in a research note today. The
Korean  bond market  also remains under pressure but the risk of
outflows is less than other Asian countries, he wrote.  The yield on the 2.75 percent notes due March 2018 fell two
basis points to 2.95 percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  