-- Yahoo’s Mayer Auctions Lunch Meeting for School Donation
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-11/yahoo-s-mayer-auctions-lunch-meeting-for-school-donation.html
Yahoo! Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  is auctioning a private lunch to raise money for a
California school, following a bidding war for a similar
opportunity in April to meet with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  CEO Tim Cook.  Mayer is donating proceeds of the auction to the Aspire
East Palo Alto Charter School, according to fundraising website
 Charitybuzz.com , which also handled Cook’s auction. After 18
bids for lunch with Mayer, the highest was at $57,500 as of 9:30
p.m. yesterday in New York, with 16 days remaining.  Auctions for meetings are becoming a popular way for
business luminaries to raise money for charities. Cook’s meeting
over coffee eventually fetched $610,000 for the Robert F.
Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights after 86 bids,
according to press reports. An auction on  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  for lunch
with billionaire investor  Warren Buffett   sold  for about $1
million last week, with proceeds going to the Glide Foundation.  The lunch with Mayer, who became CEO almost a year ago,
will take place at Yahoo’s headquarters in Sunnyvale,
California, according to the auction site. Mayer serves on the
boards of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the San
Francisco Ballet and the New York City Ballet.  While Cook allowed the winner of his coffee meeting to
bring a guest, the lunch with Mayer is only for one person, who
will be allowed to take a picture with her. Travel and
accommodations aren’t included.  The  Aspire East Palo Alto Charter School  is one of 34
public schools run by Aspire Public Schools, founded in 1998 to
prepare low-income students for college.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  