-- ABC Tells Judge Aereo Violates Copyrights, Should Be Shut
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-30T17:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/abc-tells-judge-aereo-violates-copyrights-should-be-shut.html
Broadcasters including  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC told a judge the Barry Diller-backed online television
service Aereo Inc. should be shut down because it lets users
view programs through the Web in violation of copyrights.  The networks sued New York-based Aereo in March, saying
that it hadn’t paid to offer their programming through the
 Internet service , which was set to begin that month. Aero
collects over-the-air signals that subscribers can tap from a
video recorder for $12 a month. The broadcasters said Aereo
could reduce their advertising revenue.  Aereo, during opening statements today in  Manhattan  before
U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan, countered that consumers have
a right to watch TV shows using an antenna without infringing
copyrights. The trial is scheduled for two days.  “Aereo is taking the plaintiffs’ broadcast signals and
reprocessing them so they can be streamed over the Internet,”
Steven Fabrizio, a lawyer for the networks, told the judge.
“That is a violation of copyright law.”  The broadcast networks also argued that Aereo, by
transmitting programs live, is engaging in a public performance,
which under copyright law requires a license. Aereo said that
what it does is not a public performance.  ‘Unique Copy’  “What the consumer is doing is playing back one unique
copy solely to himself,” John Englander, a lawyer for Aereo,
told the judge. “This is a quintessentially private
performance.”  The broadcasters said Aereo could reduce their revenue
because its audience wouldn’t be measured for ratings. Companies
such as ABC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  charge advertisers rates based on the
number of viewers who watch the programs where the ads appear.
 Nielsen Media Research  measures the number of viewers.  “Our fear is that if this product takes off and moves
beyond  New York City , a substantial number of viewers will
switch to it and we will lose ad revenue precisely because it is
an unmeasured platform,” Martin Franks, a CBS executive, said
in his testimony today as the first witness in the trial.  Aereo said in February that Diller’s digital media company,
IAC/InterActive Corp., led a $20.5 million round of financing
for the company. Diller, who is on Aereo’s board, once ran  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting Co.  Chet Kanojia is the founder and chief executive officer of
Aereo. He is also chairman of Navic Systems Inc., a provider of
computer-programming services based in Waltham,  Massachusetts .
He is scheduled to testify in the trial.  The cases are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-1540,
and WNET v. Aereo, 12-1543, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  