-- Miller’s ‘Achilles’ Wins $46,600 Orange Fiction Prize
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/madeline-miller-s-achilles-wins-46-600-orange-fiction-prize.html
Madeline Miller  has won the  Orange
Prize for Fiction  for “The Song of Achilles,” a novel set
during the Trojan War which casts the Homeric hero’s
relationship with his friend Patroclus as a love story.  The American writer received 30,000 pounds ($46,600) and a
bronze statuette called “the Bessie” at a ceremony last night
at  London ’s Royal Festival Hall. She overcame competition from
Cynthia Ozick and four other novelists vying for the U.K.
literary award for women.  Joanna Trollope, the head of the judging panel, praised the
novel as being “interesting, passionate, uplifting and
different.”  Ten years in the writing -- as long as the siege of Troy
itself -- “ The Song of Achilles ” is narrated by Patroclus, a
relatively minor character in “The Iliad” whose fate
nonetheless alters the course of the Trojan War. It’s a
lyrically told tale of adventure and tragedy that contrives to
humanize the demigod of its title.  Miller, a debut novelist who teaches Latin to high-school
students, is the fourth consecutive American to capture the
award. Her mother began reading the Greek myths to her when she
was five, and her childhood was partly spent within walking
distance of the  Metropolitan Museum of Art , whose ancient Greek
exhibits captivated her.  What’s Next?  “One of the characters I most loved writing about was
Odysseus,” Miller said in an interview after the ceremony. “I
would love the chance to finish his story, and in particular
I’ve always been so moved by the women of the Odyssey. They’re
really strong characters -- very interesting.”  First awarded in 1996, the Orange Prize was founded to
celebrate fiction in English by women worldwide. This year’s
shortlist “should put paid to the idea that women can’t write
the big stuff,” Trollope said.  The bookies ranked Miller’s novel (published by Bloomsbury
in the U.K. and Ecco in the U.S.) the dark horse in the race.
The favorite to win was Ozick’s “Foreign Bodies,” a complex
story of Americans in 1950s Paris, based on  Henry James ’s “The
Ambassadors.”  The other finalists were Esi Edugyan’s Man Booker Prize
finalist, “Half Blood Blues” (Serpent’s Tail); “The Forgotten
Waltz” (Cape) by Anne Enright; Georgina Harding’s “Painter of
Silence” (Bloomsbury); and “State of Wonder” (Bloomsbury) by
 Ann Patchett , who won the Orange Prize in 2002.  Present in Spirit  Patchett wasn’t at the ceremony, but she loaned Miller a
white A-line dress with an orange swirl pattern for the event.  This will be the final year the award bears the name it has
gone by since it began. Orange, a telecommunications company,
announced earlier in the month that it would not be renewing its
title sponsorship beyond 2012, ending one of the U.K.’s most
enduring cultural partnerships.  The award will search for a new sponsor. Its purse and the
bronze statuette remain safe, both having been funded since the
beginning by an anonymous bequest. Until now, Orange has met all
other running costs, including promotion, administration and the
ceremony itself.  In a second prize granted this evening, Jennifer Cullen was
named the winner of the Orange/Grazia First Chapter Competition
for unpublished writers.  Previous Orange Prize recipients have included Tea Obreht
for “The Tiger’s Wife,”  Barbara Kingsolver  for “The Lacuna”
and  Marilynne Robinson  for “Home.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 