-- Aetna CEO Says Supreme Court Won’t Drop Entire Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-05-30T20:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/aetna-ceo-says-supreme-court-won-t-drop-entire-health-law.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  probably won’t
overturn President  Barack Obama ’s entire health-care law, and
provisions forcing insurers to cover more medical care may
survive no matter who wins the November elections,  Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s
chief executive officer said.  The health-care overhaul’s future hinges on the outcome of
this year’s races for Congress and the White House and, beyond
that, discussions over how to trim the U.S. debt and budget
deficit, Mark Bertolini, head of the nation’s third-biggest
health insurer, said today during an investor  conference .  The 2010 law will extend health coverage to about 32
million Americans by 2016, at a net cost of $1 trillion, the
Congressional Budget Office  estimates . If the law survives the
court decision expected next month, Republicans are likely to go
after its funding next year, especially if they keep control of
the House while retaking the  U.S. Senate , Bertolini said.  “You’ll see a battle through the budget process” with
Republicans vying “to defund the Affordable Care Act,” he said
at a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. conference in  New York .  The court is considering a challenge to the law’s
requirement that all Americans get health insurance or pay a
penalty. If that’s found unconstitutional, the justices might
strike down the entire legislation. Bertolini said he expected a
more limited ruling.  No Republican in Congress voted for the health-care act in
2010 and many of the lawmakers have introduced bills that would
repeal part or all of it. The party’s presumptive presidential
nominee, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , has said he
intends to eliminate the health overhaul should he defeat Obama.  Law’s Future  Even if Republicans control Congress and win the White
House in November, many of the law’s regulations will survive in
some form, Bertolini said. That includes provisions allowing
parents to keep children on their health plan until age 26 as
well as a ban on benefit limits.  “You’ll see this big movement for repeal but you’ll very
quickly hear ‘replace’” he said. “Nobody on either side of the
aisle is willing to tell families, ‘you know that 26-year-old
you got covered under your policy? You can’t do that anymore.’
Or ‘You know that kid that’s survived cancer and is hitting his
limits on health-care costs? We’re going to put the limits back
on the kid.’”  Aetna, based in Hartford,  Connecticut , fell 1.1 percent to
$41.36 at the close of New York trading. Health insurance stocks
declined less than 1 percent for the day, as measured by the
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Managed Care Index (S15MANH) , which
follows the 12 biggest for-profit health plans.  Long Debate  The law’s impact will remain unsettled for years to come,
the CEO of the biggest U.S. insurer, UnitedHealth Group Inc.,
said in a later presentation.  The debate over funding will be “an element of every
budget going forward forever,” UnitedHealth’s Stephen Hemsley
said at the  conference . “There’ll be opportunities to shape
this in ways that will work well within the marketplace.”  If the law is struck down, he said, “the underlying
currents that have driven that legislation will still be there:
the need for coverage, the need to deal with costs, the need to
make the health-care system more effective.”  UnitedHealth (UNH)  rose less than 1 percent to $56.17 in New York
trading. The company is based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  