-- Google Slams Thai Law as Webmaster Found Guilty of Royal Insults
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-30T17:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/thai-webmaster-gets-suspended-jail-term-over-royal-insults-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  criticized a Thai court
ruling that penalized a webmaster for insults to the royal
family posted to a Bangkok-based website, saying it threatens
the growth potential for Internet businesses in Thailand.  Chiranuch Premchaiporn, who manages web content for
 Prachatai , violated the Computer Crimes Act because she failed
to quickly erase content deemed insulting to the monarchy,
Bangkok’s  Criminal Court  said yesterday. The court gave her an
eight-month jail sentence that it suspended for one year.  The ruling “is a serious threat to the future of the
Internet in Thailand,” Ross LaJeunesse, Google’s head of public
policy in the Asia-Pacific region, said in a statement. The
precedent “is bad for Thai businesses, users and the innovative
potential of  Thailand ’s Internet economy,” he said.  The sentence is the latest in a growing number of
convictions for royal insults that has prompted academics to
call for revisions to the lese-majeste law, a move the country’s
major political parties have denounced. The U.S., European Union
and  United Nations   asked  Thailand to respect freedom of speech
following convictions last year.  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 84, took the throne in 1946 and
serves as head of state. Thailand’s constitution says the king
“shall be enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall
not be violated.”  Computer Crimes Act  “Telephone companies are not penalized for things people
say on the phone and responsible website owners should not be
punished for comments users post on their sites,” LaJeunesse
said in yesterday’s statement. “But Thailand’s Computer Crimes
Act is being used to do just that.”  The  Asia Internet Coalition , an industry group founded by
Google,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Skype,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Yahoo! Inc., said last
year that Thailand’s Computer Crimes law may deny Thais access
to online services such as social networks and web forums. A
draft bill to replace the legislation uses vague language and
fails to meet international standards, the Washington-based
Center for Democracy & Technology said in a March report.  Police charged Chiranuch in 2009 under a crackdown on royal
insults appearing on the Internet that was initiated by former
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , according to Human Rights
Watch. She faced as many as 20 years in prison.  ‘Stifle Free Expression’  “By convicting the manager of a news website of a crime,
the Thai authorities are showing the extreme lengths they are
willing to go to stifle free expression,” Brad Adams, Asia
director at  Human Rights Watch , said in a statement yesterday.
“More and more web moderators and Internet service providers
will censor discussions about the monarchy out of fear they too
may be prosecuted for other people’s comments.”  The Computer Crimes Act is related to Thailand’s lese-
majeste law, which falls under Article 112 of the criminal code
and mandates jail sentences as long as 15 years for defaming,
insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir apparent or
regent. This week the Campaign Committee for the Amendment of
Article 112  submitted  almost 30,000 signatures supporting a
proposal to change the law, including reducing the maximum
penalty to three years for insulting the king and two years for
other family members, the Bangkok Post reported.  Prachatai is a non-profit daily web newspaper established
in June 2004 that often includes articles about the monarchy. It
has received $50,000 the past three years from the U.S.-taxpayer
funded National Endowment for Democracy, according to its
 website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  