-- AIG Could Happen Again Without Dodd-Frank Fix
-- B y   M a t t h e w   S c h o e n f e l d
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/aig-could-happen-again-without-dodd-frank-fix.html
The near-failure of insurance firm
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2008 was arguably the most
perilous moment of the global financial crisis. Unfortunately,
something similar could easily happen again.  The  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act  contains ample measures aimed at preventing a repeat of the
AIG debacle. It gives regulators new powers to oversee insurance
companies and other nonbank financial institutions. It sheds
more light on the  credit derivatives  that got AIG in trouble, so
regulators can see if any company is taking on too much risk. It
requires that parties to derivatives contracts put up adequate
collateral -- cash that would cover debts if one or more of them
went bust.  Problem is, Dodd-Frank ignores the crucial element that
ultimately brought AIG to the brink and threatened to topple its
counterparties: the way demands for collateral can come all at
once, particularly when market turmoil turns seemingly safe bets
into big risks.  Consider  what happened to AIG . The company had sold a form
of insurance, known as credit-default swaps, on pools of
securities -- largely subprime mortgage bonds -- with a total
face value of about $55 billion. The deals, struck in 2004 and
2005, required AIG to make big payments if losses to defaults in
the bond pools exceeded a certain threshold,  often more than 30
percent  of the face value of the underlying bonds. The threshold
was so high, and AIG’s credit so strong, that the banks buying
the insurance -- including Societe Generale SA, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG -- initially demanded very
little collateral.  Loss Position  By 2007, the housing market was in free fall, and defaults
were accelerating on a trajectory that could breach AIG’s
threshold. As a result, AIG’s swaps were in a loss position:
Even if the insurance payments weren’t triggered, the company
would have to pay to get out of the contracts. At this point,
AIG’s counterparties should have demanded a lot more collateral
to make sure the company would make good on its obligations.  Some tried. Goldman Sachs, for example,  demanded  $1.8
billion in July 2007. AIG disputed the call on the grounds that
Goldman had improperly calculated its losses -- an easy claim to
make because the swaps were rarely traded and hence lacked an
objective market value. For such an illiquid position, AIG’s and
Goldman’s valuation models could provide different answers.  Others didn’t ask for more collateral, either because they
maintained a lazy faith in AIG’s creditworthiness or because
they had significant mortgage bets of their own and didn’t want
to roil markets by exposing AIG’s predicament.  The counterparties’ collateral deficiency left them in a
tough spot in 2008, when further deterioration in markets hit
AIG’s credit rating and sharply increased the company’s
unrealized losses. In a matter of a few months, AIG’s swap
counterparties demanded roughly $21 billion in added payments,
more than in the previous 13 months combined.  The sudden rush turned the collateral calls into a crisis
for everyone involved. AIG didn’t have enough cash on hand to
make the payments, a situation tantamount to bankruptcy. If AIG
failed, its counterparties -- including several systemically
important banks -- would suffer billions of dollars in losses on
the unpaid collateral. In some cases, those losses could be big
enough to trigger more failures. Only the government bailout of
AIG prevented a disaster.  Collateral Calls  A couple of modest tweaks could prevent such a situation
from arising in the future.  First, regulators should impose a limit on the amount of
collateral that can be demanded on illiquid positions. The
limit, for example, could be 10 percent of the notional value of
the contract in any two-week period. This constraint would force
complacent or conflicted parties to be more vigilant because
they would no longer be able to wait until the eleventh hour to
request collateral. It would also help prevent collateral calls
from overwhelming a company’s available cash, as happened with
AIG.  Second, regulators must provide counterparties with an
impartial mechanism to resolve valuation disputes. The dispute
between Goldman and AIG demonstrates that Dodd-Frank cannot --
as it does -- rely on financial modeling to define adequate
collateral levels.  Here’s how it could work. Goldman would submit its disputed
collateral request to a regulator (possibly the Securities and
Exchange Commission) and immediately cancel its swap contract
with AIG. Within 24 hours, Goldman would purchase a new,
identical contract to establish an objective market price.
Whichever side’s valuation proved wrong would then have to pay
the other side twice the difference.  The mechanism could help the entire market by providing a
benchmark for hard-to-value contracts. The potential penalty
might also help avert disputes by giving counterparties an
incentive to be honest with their valuations in the first place.  These changes alone, of course, would not have prevented
AIG’s troubles, which were the result of poor risk controls,
negligent oversight by regulators, bad assessments by ratings
companies and reckless internal management. But together with
the other measures in Dodd-Frank, they could make the system
much more resilient next time around.  (Matthew Schoenfeld is a third-year student in the JD
program at  Harvard Law School . Prior to Harvard, he was a member
of the macro trading team at 3G Capital, a New York-based hedge
fund. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Spain ’s banking crisis
and  turmoil at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  intervening in Syria ; Haresh Sapra on  stress-test
results ;  Amity Shlaes  on  corporate sexual harassment ;  Luigi
Zingales  on  competition and inequality ;  Steven Greenhut  on
 California referendums .  To contact the writer of this article:
 mschoenfeld@jd12.law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  