-- Mail-Order Chickens Trigger Salmonella Outbreak, CDC Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/mail-order-chickens-trigger-salmonella-outbreak-cdc-says.html
The urban chicken movement has
unleashed an unwanted development: salmonella poisoning.  Baby chickens from a mail-order hatchery that supplies
backyard flocks sickened at least 316 people in 43 states over
eight years, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
said in  a report  in the New England Journal of Medicine.   The poultry were contaminated with  salmonella , which is
linked to about 1 million illnesses, 19,000 hospitalizations 
and 370 deaths yearly int the U.S. Health officials are 
concerned as the mail-order hatching industry reported 
record sales “due to increased interest in raising backyard 
flocks and urban chickens,” in the first half of 2009, 
the CDC's researchers wrote.  “Consumers are often unaware of the risk” of salmonella 
from live poultry, the investigators wrote.  The outbreak lasted from 2004 through 2011, and cases were
probably higher than the laboratory-confirmed number published,
the researchers said. Those sickened ranged in age from 1 month
to 86 years, according to the report.  Chickens can carry salmonella in their intestines and shed
the bacteria in their droppings. The bug can spread across the
bird when the animal cleans itself, as well as through the
bird’s environment. It’s possible to accidentally ingest
salmonella and become ill by eating or touching one’s mouth
after touching chickens, according to the Atlanta-based CDC.  Diarrhea, Fever  Symptoms of salmonella infection include diarrhea, fever,
and abdominal cramps as soon as 12 hours after exposure, and
lasting 4 to 7 days,  according to  the CDC. Most people don’t
need treatment, though for some, the infection can spread from
the intestines to other parts of the body and cause death. The
very old, the very young, and people with compromised immune
systems are likeliest to be severely ill.  Infected birds may look healthy. There’s no good way to
determine which chicks are sick at any given time, according to
the CDC.  “While urban/backyard poultry may help teach people about
agriculture, biosecurity and the threat of poultry disease is a
major concern,” Gwen Venable, a spokeswoman for the  U.S.
Poultry and Egg Association , which represents the commercial
poultry industry, said in an e-mail. Backyard chickens have
greater exposure to wild animals and birds, and thus may be more
disease-prone, she said.  Cleanup Required  The CDC report didn’t name the hatchery, though it noted
the hatchery produces and ships about 4 million birds annually.
After receiving recommendations from experts, the owners of the
hatchery replaced and updated equipment, cleaned the eggs and
improved biosecurity, the agency said. A veterinary consultant
also visited the hatchery, to suggest additional improvements.  People  raising their own chickens  should wash their hands
frequently and encourage this behavior in their children as
well, the authors of the report wrote. Live poultry shouldn’t be
allowed in homes or anywhere near food or drink. The CDC report
also recommended banning practices that market chicks to
children, such as dyeing them, since half the illnesses were in
children ages 5 and younger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 