-- Thaksin Opponents Rally Against Thai Amnesty, Testing Yingluck
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-05-30T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/thaksin-opponents-rally-against-thai-amnesty-testing-yingluck.html
Thai opponents of exiled former
leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  rallied outside Parliament overnight
to thwart efforts to exonerate him in one of the biggest
challenges to his sister’s nine-month-old government.  The  People’s Alliance  for Democracy, whose yellow-shirted
royalist members helped remove two Thaksin-linked governments,
will gather about 7,000 people outside Parliament House,
organizer Tul Sitthisomwong said by phone. Lawmakers plan to
debate several drafts of a law providing amnesty for certain
charges since the military ousted Thaksin in 2006, including one
proposed by former coup leader Sonthi Boonyaratglin.  “This is only to give a pardon to Thaksin Shinawatra,”
Tul said. “Everybody who wants to protect the justice system of
the country will join us.”  The protests occur as Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra,
Thaksin’s sister, hosts business executives and politicians
including Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi this week
at the  World Economic Forum . Renewed discord may pose a threat
to growth in Southeast  Asia ’s second-biggest economy, central
bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said yesterday.  “If the political disputes turn violent, that will be
negative” for the economy, he told reporters in Bangkok. “We
have to see whether the protests will be contained.”  Stocks Slip  Thailand ’s benchmark  SET Index (SET)  fell 1.3 percent yesterday,
tracking declines in markets across Asia. The baht, which has
lost 0.9 percent over the past five days, gained 0.1 percent.  “We can’t let this law pass, whichever version it is,
because it will cause the most serious damage to the nation that
we’ve ever seen,” protest leader Chamlong Srimuang said on May
29. Sonthi, who led the Thai military’s 10th successful power
seizure since absolute monarchy ended in 1932, was “the worst
coup leader ever,” Chamlong added.  The Yellow Shirts rallied thousands of supporters before
the coup and occupied Bangkok’s international airport for eight
days in 2008 to oust allies of Thaksin who won an election that
restored democracy.  Thaksin’s supporters responded by forming a group called
the  Red Shirts , whose two-month occupation of the capital’s main
shopping and tourist districts in 2010 led to a military
crackdown that killed more than 90 people.  About 700 police officers are ready to handle the protests,
deputy police spokesman Jak Jittham told reporters on May 29.
Police expect 3,000 Thaksin opponents and 2,000 supporters to
rally near Parliament, he said.  “We will accommodate them and won’t obstruct them,”
Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung told reporters on May
29. “Society will decide who is right, who is wrong. We have
rules in place here. We will definitely not use violence.”  No Amnesty  The main opposition Democrat party opposes the
reconciliation bill and supports lawful protests against it,
former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said yesterday.  “The nation’s justice system and righteousness are about
to be destroyed if the reconciliation law enters the parliament
and gets approved,” he said on Blue Sky Channel, a broadcaster
backed by his party. “We shouldn’t call it a reconciliation law
because it is a law to erase wrongdoings.”  Yingluck’s ruling Pheu Thai party, which controls a
majority in the 500-member  House of Representatives , is
submitting three variations of the bill in addition to the
former coup leader’s proposal, spokesman Prompong Nopparit said.  Those bills are largely similar, he said by phone. One
proposed by a group of Red Shirt protesters wouldn’t allow
amnesty for the 2008 airport seizure or 2010 military crackdown
against Thaksin’s supporters.  “There are people who oppose the reconciliation because
they will be disadvantaged in politics,” Deputy Agriculture
Minister  Nattawut Saikuar , who led Red Shirt protests in 2010,
told reporters. “If we are afraid to lead the nation ahead, we
will be in the dark and the damage will be more severe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  