-- Alcatel-Lucent Says Europe Risks Becoming Digital Desert
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-05-30T07:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/alcatel-lucent-says-europe-risks-becoming-digital-desert.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  Chief Executive
Officer Ben Verwaayen said  Europe ’s phone companies risk turning
the region into a “digital desert” by shying away from
investing in networks, widening the gap with the U.S.  “Five years ago in the U.S., you knew that leaving L.A.
meant going into the desert, meanwhile Europe was ahead,”
Verwaayen, who took over almost four years ago as CEO of
 France ’s largest phone network equipment maker, said in an
interview in Bloomberg’s offices in London yesterday. “Five
years later that has reversed. The creation of value has come
back to the U.S.”  Telecommunications companies in the U.K.,  Germany , Italy
and France have been reluctant to invest as much as their
counterparts in the U.S. and  Asia  in faster mobile-phone and
fixed-line networks because of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
and regulatory decisions deemed unfavorable by Verwaayen. As a
result, Europe is falling behind and Alcatel-Lucent is looking
to the U.S., Latin America and Asia for growth, he said.  Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent, which competes with  Ericsson AB (ERICB) 
and Nokia Siemens Networks in Europe, as well as Chinese vendor
Huawei Technologies Co., yesterday announced a 100 million-euro
contract ($125 million) with  China Telecom Corp. (728)  to build a
fiber-optics wireline network. About 30 percent of Alcatel-
Lucent’s revenue came from Europe last year, while the U.S.
accounted for 36 percent of sales and most of Asia for the rest.  Falling Behind  In October,  Neelie Kroes , the European Union commissioner
for digital affairs, said the 27-member bloc would review
whether companies charge rivals too much for access to old
copper-line networks. The EU said this month it will cut roaming
fees for mobile Internet services and reduce charges for making
mobile-phone calls from outside a user’s home country from July.
The legislation sets a price limit for data roaming for the
first time and extends a cap on call charges imposed in 2007.  European politicians, keen to boost the use of faster Web
services, aid economic growth and catch up with Asia, argue that
profits from existing networks may make the phone incumbents
less willing to invest in new technologies. The former
monopolies, faced with falling revenue in their home markets
from traditional voice calls, say the reverse is true as they
need copper profits to invest in faster fiber networks.  “There is no incentive for our customers in Europe to make
the necessary investments,” Verwaayen said. “We run the risk
of a digital desert in Europe.”  Justifying Investments  Alcatel Lucent slipped 1.4 percent to 1.33 euros at 9:21
a.m. in Paris. The stock slumped 66 percent over the past year
through yesterday and gained 12 percent since the start of 2012.  Most European operators are seeing profits stagnate or
decline in their home markets because of competition and
mounting investment needs. While former monopolies are calling
for less state regulation, they’re also complaining about unfair
treatment from U.S. technology companies such as Apple Inc. and
 Google Inc., (GOOG)  whose bandwidth-hungry video services have
supplanted phone companies’ own online offerings.  “My customers are saying ’How can I justify to my
shareholders the investments that I am making?’” Verwaayen said
yesterday. “If their ability to make money is reduced, then
appetite to invest is also reduced.”  Speed Race  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao
said in February that regulators “should stop having this
continuous intervention on prices” to allow companies to invest
in new technology.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  will lose about 1 billion
euros of revenue in 2012 as a result of a “very heavy burden
coming from regulation and tax policies” including roaming
rules, CEO Stephane Richard said this year.  Europe has already fallen behind the U.S. in the speed of
mobile-phone networks. While the fourth-generation LTE
technology, which offers higher up- and download speeds and
latency, or response time, is already widely available in the
U.S., most European consumers are still surfing the Web on the
previous technology.  The fast mobile-phone networks in the U.S. also create
demand in  Latin America , Alcatel-Lucent Chief Technology Officer
Marcus Weldon said.  “People from Latin America try 4G in the U.S. and then
they want to bring it home,” he said. “We’ve got the U.S.
influencing Latin America,  China  influencing the rest of Asia
and a strong trend in the Middle-East.”  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMX)  selected Alcatel-Lucent in
February as one of its suppliers to upgrade its wireless network
in Latin America to 4G. Telefonica SA,  Spain ’s largest telephone
company, has said it plans to bid for airwaves in Brazil and
Chile this year for building faster networks as it prepares for
a boom in demand for mobile data in Latin America.  Sluggish Spending  The  European debt crisis  has made it difficult for
Verwaayen to keep the company profitable after Alcatel-Lucent in
February reported its first annual net income in six years,
marking the end of his three-year turnaround plan.  The company -- formed by the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and
Lucent Technologies -- last month reported a first-quarter loss
as sales missed estimates because European clients withheld
spending. Alcatel-Lucent said first-quarter margins would be “a
low point” of the year, after its operating loss, adjusted for
some items, was 221 million euros.  “The shareholders see a company that has not made positive
 cash flow ,” said Verwaayen, a former CEO of British phone
company BT Group Plc who took over in 2008. “Clearly, investors
have been voting with conviction price wise. And the message has
been received.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  