-- Taleb Says Euro Breakup ‘Not a Big Deal’ as U.S. Scariest
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/taleb-says-euro-breakup-not-a-big-deal-as-u-s-scariest.html
Nassim Taleb , author of “The  Black
Swan ,” said he favors investing in Europe over the U.S. even
with the possible breakup of the single European currency in
part because of the euro area’s superior deficit situation.  Europe’s lack of a centralized government is another reason
it’s preferable to invest in the region, said Taleb, a professor
of risk engineering at  New York  University whose 2007  best-
selling book  argued that history is littered with rare events
that can’t be predicted by trends.  A breakup of the euro “is not a big deal,” Taleb said
yesterday at an event in Montreal hosted by the Alternative
Investment Management Association. “When they break it up,
there will be a lot of fun currencies. This is why I am not
afraid of  Europe , or investing in Europe. I’m afraid of the
 United States .”  The budget  deficit  as a proportion of gross domestic
product in the U.S. amounted to 8.2 percent at the end of 2011,
government figures show. That’s twice the 4.1 percent  ratio  for
euro-region countries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Of course Europe has its problems, but it’s in much
better shape than the United States,” Taleb said. He voiced
similar concerns about U.S. prospects at a conference in  Tokyo 
in September.  Yields on two-year Treasury notes were little changed at
0.285 percent at 9:19 p.m. New York time yesterday, while yields
on five-year notes dropped more than one basis point to 0.761
percent.  Interest Rates  Rising interest rates would make things worse for the U.S.,
said Taleb, a principal at hedge fund Universa Investments LP
who also serves as an adviser to the  International Monetary
Fund .  “We have zero interest rates,” Taleb said. “If interest
rates go up in the United States, you can imagine what the
deficit would be. Europe is like someone who is ill but is
conscious of it. In the United States we are ill, but we don’t
know it. We don’t talk about it.”  Europe’s lack of a centralized government works in its
favor, he said.  “The best thing Europe ever did is managing to have
members bickering with each other, so you don’t have the big
government,” Taleb said. “Centralized government doesn’t work.
In Europe they tried to have a powerful Brussels, but what
happens when you have a powerful Brussels? You have lobbies
hijacking Brussels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  