-- Allstate Leads Insurers to Best Start Since 2003
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/allstate-leads-insurers-to-best-start-since-2003-on-storm-costs.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL)  is leading property
and casualty insurers to the best start since 2003 amid a
decline in tornadoes and forecasts for fewer major hurricanes.  Twisters killed six people from April 1 to May 28, compared
with 541 deaths in the two months last year, the U.S. National
Weather Service  said . Insured losses from severe weather in the
U.S. were about $1 billion last month, lagging behind losses of
roughly $16 billion from tornadoes and other severe weather in
April and May of last year, broker Aon Plc  estimated .  Insurers that raised prices after last year’s disasters are
gaining as claims costs drop. Allstate’s net income jumped to
the highest since 2007 in the first quarter and operating profit
at New York-based  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  beat analysts’ estimates.
Companies may benefit further as forecasters predict a below
average Atlantic hurricane season, which officially begins June
1.  “Companies are enjoying pretty good rate increases, which
is a byproduct of the amount of losses that they took last
year,”  Mark Dwelle , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in
an interview from Richmond, Virginia. “Combine relatively
higher rates with at least so far modest to manageable losses,
it leads to a reasonable expectation” of better results.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Property & Casualty (S5PROP)  Insurance
Index advanced 6.6 percent since Dec. 31 after declining in the
same period five of the last nine years. Northbrook, Illinois-
based Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, jumped 25 percent this year and Travelers climbed 6.3
percent, compared with a 6 percent gain in the  S&P 500 .  Higher Rates  The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
projects one to three major hurricanes in the six-month Atlantic
season, according to a  May 24 statement . An average year has
three major hurricanes, defined as those with top wind speeds of
111 miles (179 kilometers) per hour or more.  Four major hurricanes formed last year, including Irene,
which lashed the U.S. East Coast in August and caused flooding
in  Vermont  and western  Massachusetts . The storm resulted in
about $15.8 billion in damages, including $4.3 billion incurred
by private insurers, according to U.S. government  estimates .  Allstate boosted homeowners’ rates after the insurer faced
$3.8 billion in claims costs tied to natural disasters in 2011.
It booked $259 million in catastrophe costs in the first
quarter, compared with $333 million a year earlier. April
catastrophe losses were about $280 million, down from $1.4
billion a year earlier. Rates rose an average of 7.9 percent in
the 13 states where Allstate received permission to boost
premiums, Robert Block, vice president of  investor relations ,
said on a May 3 conference call.  Joplin Twister  Travelers, the lone insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , said it raised prices after last year’s disasters by
about 10 percent for homeowners’ coverage and has requested
further increases from regulators. Catastrophes cost the firm
$168 million in the first quarter, 9.7 percent less than a year
earlier.  “Given the potential for continued unusual weather
patterns, we are going to continue to take the actions we
believe are necessary to improve returns,” President Brian MacLean said in an April 19 statement.  Last year’s natural disasters included a May 22 tornado
that tore through Joplin, Missouri, killing more than 125
people, as well as deadly twisters in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and
Springfield, Massachusetts. The 2011 tornado season was the
third most active since 1980 with more than 1,550 confirmed
storms, according to CoreLogic Inc., a Santa Ana, California-
based data provider. The storms contributed to second-quarter
losses in 2011 for Allstate and Travelers.  ‘Do Some Damage’  The Tuscaloosa and Joplin twisters caused the two worst
losses ever for  Cincinnati Financial Corp. (CINF) , Chief Executive
Officer Steven Johnston said in an interview. While tornado
activity subsided, the Fairfield, Ohio-based company’s
catastrophe losses were about three times the normal level in
this year’s first quarter as hail storms damaged homes.  “If you get hail that’s the size of golf balls, it can
really do some damage,” he said.  It’s too soon to say how second-quarter storm losses will
compare to last year, when catastrophes cost the firm $290
million,  Johnston said.  “You haven’t seen anything to the
extent of a Joplin or a Tuscaloosa,” he said.  Cincinnati Financial raised homeowners’ premiums by about 8
percent each of the last three years and increased some
deductibles, he said. The stock gained 18 percent this year.  Tropical Storm Beryl  United Services Automobile Association, the policyholder-
owned insurer that caters to military families, received about
20,000 claims for property and car damage through April compared
with about 40,000 a year earlier, Rebecca Hirsch, a spokeswoman
for the San Antonio-based firm, said by phone.  Beryl, the second named storm of the 2012  Atlantic
hurricane season , made landfall as a tropical storm near
Jacksonville Beach,  Florida , the U.S. reported on May 28. Beryl
weakened to a tropical depression and no major damage has been
reported, according to Risk Management Solutions Inc., a
modeling firm.  Forecasters at  Colorado State University  in  Fort Collins 
say there’s a  42 percent chance  of a major hurricane making
landfall in the U.S., below the 52 percent average over the past
century. Wind patterns and cooler water in the Atlantic
contributed to the projection.  One Big Storm  “These forecasts bode well for a better than average
summer, but it’s hard enough to pick stocks without having to
forecast the weather on top of it,”  RBC’s Dwelle said. “If we
don’t get any bad landfall in hurricanes, then the earnings
ought to be very strong right across the group. If we do, then
it’ll depend on the specifics.”  Still, it may only take one big storm to create major
losses for insurers.  Colorado State’s Philip Klotzbach said 1992’s forecast as
“a very quiet  hurricane season ” proved accurate until August
of that year, when  Hurricane Andrew  hit Florida. Andrew caused
about $46 billion in damage, according to an inflation-adjusted
National Hurricane Center  estimate . That makes it the second-
most costly U.S. hurricane after Katrina, which did more than
$100 billion in damage in 2005.  “I’m sure the  insurance industry  remembers Hurricane
Andrew,” Klotzbach, lead author of Colorado State’s 2012
forecast, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  