-- Anwar Says Divisions Won’t Threaten Malaysian Opposition
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-05-30T11:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/anwar-says-divisions-won-t-threaten-opposition-if-it-wins-vote.html
Malaysian opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim , who is aiming to end the National Front’s 55-year hold
on power, said the divisions within his coalition won’t prevent
it from ruling effectively should it win in national polls.  “There is intense debate and differences, but never to the
extent that the coalition will break,” Anwar said yesterday in
an interview in which he also discussed issues including
subsidies and the budget deficit.  The Anwar-led People’s Alliance opposition, which shares
the goal of ousting Prime Minister Najib Razak, hopes to build
on gains it made in 2008 when it held the ruling coalition to
its slimmest election victory since independence in 1957. Should
the opposition emerge victorious, ideological fissures will make
it difficult for the various parties to remain united, said
Clive Kessler, emeritus professor at the University of New South
Wales in Sydney.  “Within a week of getting the numbers and setting up the
government they would be at one another’s throats,” Kessler
said in a phone interview. “There is no way they could work out
a common policy that they would implement.”  Within the coalition, the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party wants
to impose hudud, a class of punishments under Shariah, or
Islamic law, that allows for stoning of adulterers, while the
Democratic Action Party, pointing to the almost 40 percent of
the population who are Christians, Buddhists and Hindus, opposes
the proposal. The Islamic party criticized Anwar earlier this
year for remarks supportive of  Israel .  Hudud Law  Hudud law is unlikely to be implemented in Malaysia as a
consensus would be needed, Anwar said during the interview. He
said he expects elections may be held in July.  Although Anwar didn’t run in the March 2008 general
elections, he still led the opposition coalition to win control
of five of Malaysia’s 13 states and denied the ruling National
Front coalition a two-thirds majority in parliament for the
first time since 1969.  While an election isn’t due until 2013, Najib announced a
budget in October that stoked speculation that he would call an
earlier vote. The plan gives cash to low-income families, raises
civil servants’ pay and boosts spending on railways to spur
growth at a time when global economic risks cloud the outlook
for Malaysian exports.  Malaysia ’s budget deficit is forecast to narrow to 43
billion ringgit, or 4.7 percent of gross domestic product in
2012, from an estimated 5.4 percent last year, the  finance
ministry  said Oct. 7. The deficit will be reduced to 4.4 percent
of GDP, according to the People’s Alliance coalition’s budget
for 2012.  Growth Slows  Malaysia is “well-placed” to achieve a medium-term
deficit target of about 3 percent of GDP by 2015, Najib said
yesterday.  Economic growth  slowed last quarter as the protracted
 European debt crisis  sapped demand for its exports. GDP rose 4.7
percent in the three months through March from a year earlier,
after expanding 5.2 percent in the previous quarter, the central
bank said on May 23.  Najib, 58, has sought to broaden the appeal of the ruling
party, rolling back decades-old protectionist policies, opening
up  service industries  to foreign investors and easing rules on
ethnic-Malay ownership in companies. He has also replaced
security laws which allowed for detention without trial for up
to two years, and revamped media legislation.  Budget Deficit  If it wins power, Anwar’s coalition would trim the budget
deficit, curb corruption and reduce state subsidies to
corporates, transferring savings to the people, he said.  It plans to renegotiate contracts with independent power
producers who he claims get up to 20 billion ringgit in gas
subsidies. It may also review sugar subsidies and plans by
Australian miner’s  Lynas Corp. (LYC)  to start rare-earth refining in
the country, Anwar said.  “It is not the business of a new government to go and
dismantle all agreements,” said Anwar. “But if we find, take
Lynas for example, if you can’t convince us of the safety of the
citizens, then of course we have to review.”  Once the designated successor of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who ruled from 1981 to 2003, Anwar was removed from
office and tried in 1998 for abuse of power and having sex with
a man, which is an offense in Malaysia. He was imprisoned for
six years before the sodomy charge was overturned.  Corruption Conviction  The corruption conviction barred him from holding office
until April 2008, after which he won a by-election in August.
His wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, vacated the Permatang Pauh
constituency in the northern state of Penang so he could compete.  “We want to restate our commitments, in so far as the
market economy is concerned, to be more competitive, to
dismantle obsolete policies based on race, including the New
Economic Policy,” said Anwar, speaking in his office in the
headquarters of the People’s Justice Party in  Petaling Jaya ,
near Kuala Lumpur.  The New Economic Policy, initiated in 1971 by Najib’s
father, Malaysia’s second Prime Minister Abdul Razak Hussein,
has provided Bumiputeras, or ethnic Malays and indigenous people,
with cheap housing and priority for university places,
government contracts and shares of publicly traded companies.
About 55 percent of Malaysia’s 29 million people are Malay.  “At the same time we want to be quite clear that the
positions and problems of the poor and marginalized, mainly
among the Malays and indigenous tribes and pockets of Chinese
and Indians particularly in the estate sector, must be
recognized, which means affirmative action policies must
continue based on need, not on race,” Anwar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  