-- Apple CEO Says TV Is ‘Intense Focus,’ Sees Closer Facebook Ties
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-30T05:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/apple-ceo-sees-scope-for-more-u-s-manufacturing-of-products.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  said that television is an area of “intense focus”
for the company as it seeks to add products that can build on
the success of Macs, iPhones and iPads.  “This is an area of intense focus for us,” Cook said of
TV in an on-stage interview yesterday at the D10 conference in
 Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California . “We’re going to keep pulling
this string and see where it takes us.”  Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs , before he died last year, told
his biographer that he had “finally cracked” how to build a TV
with a simple user interface that would wirelessly synchronize
content with Apple’s other devices. The company is working on a
television that may be unveiled this year and released in 2013,
according to  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  Apple turned to Jeff Robin, the software engineer who built
the iTunes media store and helped create the iPod, to lead its
development of a TV set, people with knowledge of the product
said last year.  The company sells a set-top box called Apple TV that lets
customers stream video from Apple products or the Internet to
their TVs. Still, that device has yet to gain wide acceptance,
and Apple executives have called it a “hobby.”  During the conference, put on by the AllThingsD technology
blog, Cook said that Apple has “great appreciation” for
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , the largest social-networking service.  “The relationship is very solid,” he said. “We have
great respect for them. I think we can do more with them. Stay
tuned on this one.”  Takeovers, Transparency  In the wide-ranging interview, Cook also said that Apple
remains on the lookout for acquisitions, though it’s not
currently seeking a large-sized deal. He also said that it’s
possible that more manufacturing of his company’s products will
happen in the U.S. The iPhone, Apple’s best-selling device,
might one day be assembled in the U.S., he said.  Much of the manufacturing and assembly of Apple products
takes place in factories in  Asia , which have come under
criticism for treatment of workers. Cook said yesterday that the
company is moving toward greater transparency in areas such as
supplier responsibility and environmental sustainability.  Even as the company discloses more in those areas, it will
redouble efforts to keep products under wraps while they are
still under development, Cook said.  Responding to criticism that Apple’s Siri voice-
recognition service has functioned improperly for some users,
Cook said Apple is working to improve the technology.  Siri, IAd  “There’s more that it can do, and we have a lot of people
working on this, and I think you’ll be really pleased with some
of the things that you’ll see over the coming months,” Cook
said.  Cook also said that the company’s iAd online advertising
effort wasn’t essential to Apple’s future, which would remain
centered on hardware.  “When I was talking about the things at Apple that make up
the four legs of the stool, I didn’t mention that one,” Cook
said, referring to Macs, iPods, iPhones and iPads.  Before becoming CEO last year, Cook was Apple’s chief
operating officer, leading the company’s vast supply chain. He
joined the company in 1998 from Compaq Computer Corp. and was
instrumental in managing the operational side of Apple’s
business while long-time CEO Jobs concentrated on product
development and marketing.  The company’s gross margins of 47 percent last quarter are
more than double those of rivals  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell
Inc. (DELL)   Jobs Woos Cook  The interview comes ahead of Apple’s annual Worldwide
Developers Conference. The company is slated to unveil a new
line-up of Mac laptops, as well as show off new features for the
latest mobile operating system that powers the iPad and iPhone,
people with knowledge of the matter have said.  A new iPhone, which accounts for more than half the
company’s sales, is expected to be unveiled by October,
according to analysts, includingMunster.  Cook also spent part of the interview reflecting on Jobs,
who recruited him from Compaq when he had no intention of
leaving the rival computer maker. After ignoring numerous calls
from executive recruiters working on behalf of Apple, Cook
agreed to meet with Jobs on a Saturday morning, he said.  Jobs discussed his vision for iMac computers and sold him
on the company’s ambitious plans to sell to consumers, he said.  “Five minutes into the conversation, I wanted to join
Apple,” Cook said. “He painted a story, a strategy, that he
was taking Apple deep into consumer at a time when I knew that
other people were doing the exact opposite. And I’ve never
thought following the herd was a good strategy.”  “I went back and resigned immediately,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  