-- Marubeni Follows Glencore to Boost Grain Trading
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h ,   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-05-30T21:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/marubeni-follows-glencore-to-boost-grain-trading-commodities.html
  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ’s proposed $3.6
billion acquisition of U.S. grain merchandiser Gavilon Group LLC
underscores the growing interest in agricultural traders as
rising food demand puts pressure on global supplies.  The Marubeni deal, announced yesterday, will boost the
Japanese company’s access to the U.S., the biggest corn grower
and exporter. Marubeni prevailed after rival traders including
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , Mitsui & Co. and
Mitsubishi Corp. also expressed an interest in Omaha, Nebraska-
based Gavilon. Shareholders of Canadian grain-handler  Viterra
Inc. (VT)  voted yesterday to accept a C$6.1 billion ($5.9 billion)
takeover by Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier.  “It’s a trend that’s been developing over the last five
years that’s been accelerating,”  Farha Aslam , a New York-based
agricultural analyst for investment bank Stephens Inc., said in
an interview. “The desire is to broaden the supply, broaden the
reach and increase the depth across the globe.”  The agricultural-trading industry is being redrawn by the
rising demand for food and animal-feed in  developing countries 
including China, which went from being a net exporter of corn to
a net importer two years ago. Corn futures have more than
tripled in the decade through 2011 while inventories of the
grain measured as percentage of consumption fell to a 38 year-
low last year. Glencore said in March that global grain and
oilseed demand will increase as much as 3.5 percent a year.  Supply Disruptions  At the same time, unforeseen disruptions to supplies have
tripped up some trading companies. A drought has hurt  South
America ’s soybean crop this year, helping soybean futures in
Chicago to advance 14 percent. The last two U.S. grain harvests
have disappointed initial government forecasts.  The long-term trend of  population growth  and rising
prosperity in developing countries is continuing despite short-
term economic concerns, said Kelly Wiesbrock, a San Francisco-
based managing director at Harvest Capital Strategies, which has
$1.2 billion under management. Geographic expansion helps
suppliers meet demand in China when the harvest falls short in
Brazil or Argentina, he said.  “If you have a base in  North America , South America and
the Ukraine from which to originate product, you have a lot of
options,” Harold Reed, chief operating officer of Maumee, Ohio-
based grain processor Andersons Inc. said in a telephone
interview. “Everyone is broadening their base.”  Louis-Dreyfus Merger?  There may be further acquisitions in the trading industry.
Margarita Louis-Dreyfus, the chairman of Louis Dreyfus Holding
BV, was cited by  Les Echos  on May 15 as saying that the trader
is being prepared for a possible initial public offering. She
also isn’t ruling out a merger, the newspaper reported. The
Amsterdam-based company said May 1 it agreed to acquire  Sugar
Land , Texas-based Imperial Sugar Co. for $77.6 million to expand
into refining and distribution of the sweetener.  A takeover of Australia’s  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , which operates
seven of the eight ports that ship grain in bulk from the
country’s east coast, is “inevitable,” Tim Mitchell, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a March 12 note. GrainCorp
climbed 1.7 percent to A$9.43, compared with the 0.5 percent
decline in the local benchmark index.  Closely held Gavilon drew interest from Singapore-based
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s largest palm-oil
processor, as well as Bunge of the U.S., Switzerland’s Glencore,
and Japan’s Mitsui and Mitsubishi, people familiar with the
matter said in March and April.  Food Prices  Cargill Inc., the agricultural supplier that’s the largest
closely held U.S. company according to Forbes, was interested in
buying Viterra, the Wall Street Journal said March 11. Cargill
Vice Chairman Paul Conway said in a March 22 interview that a
“new player” in the U.S. agricultural industry was likely to
purchase Gavilon as traders connect surpluses in the Western
Hemisphere with demand in Asia.  Global food prices more than doubled in the past 10 years,
according to an  index  of 55 food items tracked by the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization. The measure reached a
record 237.9 points in February 2011 and was at 213.9 in April.
The global food-import bill is expected to fall only slightly
from the record set in 2011 amid “strong demand” even as world
grain production rises to a record 2.37 billion metric tons in
2012, according to the FAO.  “When you look at the bigger-picture, secular story that
says we have to double our  food production  in the next 40 years,
that’s a big deal,” Wiesbrock said. “The biggest glaring issue
is  China .”  ‘Safer Return’  The world’s most populous country became a  net corn
importer  in 2010 for the first time in 14 years. It will
continue that streak for the fourth straight year in the
marketing year that begins on Oct. 1, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecast on May 10.  World stockpiles of seven oilseeds are forecast to slump 25
percent to a three-year low by the end of the 2011-12 crop year
on the combination of rising demand and falling production of
soybeans, according to German research company Oil World.  “In the period of uncertainties, like the one we are in
today, agriculture is one of the sectors that offers
opportunities, which are a bit more predictable than other
investments,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the
FAO, said in a telephone interview. “For a long-term investment
it’s going to be a safer return.”  Still, while grain demand is continuing to expand, prices
have fallen back in the past year, and that may be a
contributing factor to recent acquisitions because it lowered
companies’ valuations, Wiesbrock said.  Price Volatility  “Some of the froth is out of the market,” Wiesbrock said.
“If you’ve been waiting and waiting, now you are saying, this
is a good time.”  Corn imports by China may advance 35 percent as a rapid
increase in meat demand boosts consumption of grains to feed
chickens and pigs, the UN said May 3. Corn consumption jumped 53
percent in the past decade while demand grew 41 percent for
poultry and 27 percent for pork, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.  Corn prices averaged $6.785 a bushel in  Chicago  trading in
2011. It has declined 15 percent this year to $5.595 a bushel at
the close today and may average $6.05 a bushel in 2012,
according to the median of four analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Wheat prices in Chicago averaged $7.235 a bushel last
year after more than doubling in the past decade. They may
average $6.29 a bushel in 2012 and $6.90 a bushel in 2013,
according to estimates.  Price Volatility  Given such price volatility, buying assets such as grain
elevators and ports that connect farmers with consumers provides
a more consistent return on investment,  Jason Zandberg , a
Vancouver-based analyst for PI Financial Corp., said in an
interview.  “You are seeing consolidation of the supply chain of
global commodities,” said Greg Pearlman, managing director and
sector head of the food, consumer and retail group in Chicago
for BMO Capital Markets. “Scale matters. Local market access
matters. Part of it is physical assets and market access in both
of these deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  