-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Reaches Record Low as Stocks Slump
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-30T20:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/asian-stocks-drop-as-euro-approaches-two-year-low.html
The U.S. Treasury 10-year yield slid
to a record while  stocks  tumbled and the euro weakened to a two-
year low as Spain struggled to recapitalize its banks, concern
grew about Greece’s future in the euro and American home sales
declined. Italian and Spanish bonds tumbled.  Ten-year U.S. note yields lost as much as 13 basis points
to 1.6153 percent. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  plunged 1.8
percent, the most since April. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slid 1.4 percent to close at 1,313.32 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The
euro sank 1.1 percent to $1.2368. The 10-year Italian yield
jumped 17 basis points and Spanish 10-year rates rose to a euro-
era record relative to German bunds. Two-year German yields
touched zero for the first time. The S&P GSCI commodities gauge
fell 2.3 percent as oil sank below $88 a barrel.  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis deepened after  Italy 
failed to meet its maximum target at a debt sale, costs to
protect Spanish  government bonds  with default swaps climbed to
an all-time high and a Greek poll showed support for anti-
austerity parties. The National Association of Realtors said the
index of pending U.S. home resales dropped 5.5 percent in April
from the prior month.  “You have a market that’s largely being driven by fear,”
said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New York at
Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors.
“The U.S. will continue to be the primary recipient of the
safe-haven bid. People are clearly more confident in Treasuries.
We still have the most liquid,  capital markets .”  Treasury Yields  The 10-year Treasury yield, which is a benchmark for
everything from mortgages to corporate bonds, fell in each of
the nine weeks through May 18, the longest stretch since 1998.
The 30-year U.S. bond yield dropped 14 basis points to 2.71
percent today, the lowest level since October. Seven-year notes
reached a record low 1.05 percent.  The  S&P 500  slid the most since May 17 and erased
yesterday’s 1.1 percent rally as energy, financial and
industrial companies led losses in all 10 main industry groups.
Caterpillar Inc., Chevron Corp., Alcoa Inc., Exxon Mobil Corp.
and Bank of America Corp. lost more than 2.5 percent for the
biggest declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which sank
160.83 points to 12,419.86.  A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes tumbled 4.9 percent
after rallying for six straight days, its longest streak in
almost a year.  Research In Motion Ltd. slid 7.1 percent to lead Canadian
stocks lower as the maker of the BlackBerry smartphone forecast
a surprise operating loss for the first quarter and hired banks
to advise on strategic options.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 1.5 percent as Spain’s
IBEX 35 Index plunged 2.6 percent to a nine-year low and Italy’s
FTSE MIB Index tumbled to the lowest since March 2009.  BASF SE, the world’s biggest chemical maker, declined 2
percent as  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  reported the company
isn’t seeing the kind of dynamism it expected in Asia. BHP
Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Plc fell at least 2.5 percent as
copper declined. Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s biggest oil
company, retreated with the price of oil.  The  European Central Bank  rejected a Spanish plan to
recapitalize the state-owned lender Bankia group, the Financial
Times reported. The ECB said today it hasn’t been consulted by
 Spain  on any plans to recapitalize a “major Spanish bank” and
that it has “not expressed a position on plans by the Spanish
authorities” for such a move.  The European Commission called for direct euro-area aid for
troubled banks, touted common bond issuance and sided with Spain
in proposing that the euro’s permanent bailout fund inject cash
to banks, according to policy recommendations released today in
Brussels.  Euro Weakens  The euro fell to as low as $1.2362, the weakest since July
1, 2010, and slid 1.6 percent versus the yen for its seventh
consecutive decline. The shared currency weakened against 10 of
16 major peers, while the dollar strengthened against all 16
except the yen.  Most Greeks want to see the terms of an international
financial rescue revised even as they acknowledge that failing
to abide by them may lead to the country exiting the euro, an
opinion poll showed. Seventy-seven percent of the 1,600 Greeks
surveyed by GPO SA said the terms of the bailout should be
revised. A VPRC opinion poll for Epikaira magazine showed that
anti-austerity party Syriza had the support of 30 percent of
voters, compared with 26.5 percent for  New Democracy , which
backs the terms of a European Union bailout.  Spanish Debt  Credit-default swaps on Spain climbed 27 basis points to a
record 588, according to prices from CMA. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments 5.6 basis points
higher to a mid-price of 320.25.  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed 21 basis points to 6.66
percent, with the spread over bunds widening to as much as 541
basis points, or 5.41 percentage points, a euro-era record. The
yield on the German 10-year security fell as much as 10 basis
points to 1.26 percent, the lowest on record.  Spanish unemployment probably will rise above its current
record level as the country grapples with budget challenges and
the threat of further costly bank bailouts, the European
Commission said. Spanish banks may have to set aside even more
capital to brace themselves against the impact of a weaker
economy, the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, said in a
staff report today.  Spain’s gross domestic product is forecast to fall 1.8
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013, with the strongest
economic contraction in the second half of 2012. The jobless
rate is projected to increase to 25.1 percent next year.  ‘Need for Burden Sharing’  “Spain looks to have gotten to the point where it cannot
bear the burden alone,” David Mackie, chief economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, wrote in a report. “The Spanish
government recognizes the need for burden sharing, but it does
not want the kind of burden sharing that was made available to
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal.”  Among the 24 materials tracked by the S&P GSCI index, 20
retreated, with energy commodities and cotton leading declines.  Crude for July delivery decreased 3.2 percent to $87.84 a
barrel and touched a seven-month low of $87.82, the lowest
settlement since Oct. 21. Prices are down 16 percent this month,
the biggest drop since December 2008. A report tomorrow may show
U.S. stockpiles climbed to the highest level since 1990.  Brent
crude  dropped below $105 a barrel in London for the first time
this year. Copper slipped 2.1 percent to $3.39 a pound in New
York, its lowest settlement price of the year.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 1.7 percent as
benchmark gauges in Russia, Hungary, Taiwan and Thailand fell
more than 1 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  dropped 1.7 percent after
Xinhua News Agency said yesterday that  China  has no plans to
introduce stimulus measures on the scale seen during the global
financial crisis. India’s Sensex Index declined as  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) , the country’s largest automaker, sank 12 percent after its
main Jaguar Land Rover unit posted earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  