-- Tata Motors Shares Fall as Jaguar Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-05-30T10:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/tata-motors-shares-fall-as-jaguar-earnings-miss-estimates.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest
automaker, declined the most in three years in Mumbai trading,
after its main Jaguar Land Rover unit posted earnings that
missed some analysts’ estimates.  Tata Motors fell 12 percent to 243.05 rupees at the close,
the most since April 2009. It was the  biggest loser  on the 30-
member BSE India Sensitive Index, which dropped 0.8 percent.  The results damped optimism over Jaguar, which had helped
Tata Motors become the  third-best performer  this year among the
world’s biggest carmakers, and prompted  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
to cut its investment rating on the stock to the equivalent of
hold. Jaguar’s fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 605.4 million pounds ($945
million), missed estimates at Deutsche Bank AG and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)   “Many analysts were upbeat about the huge volumes,
especially in  China , and therefore expected a big increase in
 margins ,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst at Fortune Equity
Brokers India Ltd. The shares are responding to the lower
margins, he said.  Jaguar Land Rover Ebitda margins narrowed to 14.6 percent
in the quarter ended March 31, from 17 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31, according to investor presentations on the
Mumbai-based company’s website.  Slack Demand  When a gain booked for deferred tax assets is stripped out,
profit would be 422 million pounds, Kapil Singh, a Mumbai-based
analyst with Nomura, wrote in a report. That missed the
brokerage’s estimate by about 16 percent.  Tata Motor’s decline today in  Mumbai  reduced its market
capitalization by 94.7 billion rupees ($1.7 billion) to 714.7
billion rupees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jaguar Land Rover in April posted its biggest month-on-
month decline in sales since Tata Motors started reporting data
in November 2009 amid slackening demand in China and  Europe .  “Nobody knows how deep, how long or whether anything will
happen in Europe,” Jaguar Chief Executive Officer Ralf Speth
said at a news conference in Mumbai yesterday. “We still see
very strong demand for our vehicles in continental Europe.”  Tata has jumped 36 percent this year in Mumbai trading,
making it the best performer on the BSE India Sensitive Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  