-- Late CMBS Loan Payments Exceed 11%, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-30T18:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/late-cmbs-loan-payments-exceed-11-morgan-stanley-says.html
The delinquency rate on U.S.
commercial mortgages packaged and sold as bonds surpassed 11
percent in May as borrowers struggle to pay off maturing loans,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Payments on the debt at least 30 days late jumped 0.22
percentage point to 11.91 percent, Morgan Stanley analysts said
in a report today. The surge marks “the third sizable
consecutive month-over-month increase,” said the analysts led
by Richard Parkus in  New York .  Borrowers are falling behind on payments as debt taken out
at the market’s peak matures, with loans from the commercial
property boom in 2006 and 2007 deteriorating the most, the
analysts said. Of $3.63 billion in shopping mall, hotel and
skyscraper mortgages that came due last month, 61 percent didn’t
pay off at their maturity date, they said.  U.S. commercial-property price gains slowed in the past
three months as concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis reduced
available financing for real-estate transactions, according to a
May 24 report from Moody’s Investors Service. Valuations are
still 34.5 percent below the 2007 peak, CoStar Group Inc. said
in a note this month.  More than $59 billion in commercial mortgages contained in
bonds are classified as delinquent, data provider Trepp LLC said
in a report today.  ‘Could Be Bumpy’  “A big driver of the recent surge in the delinquency rate
has come from loans that were originated in 2007 that are coming
due now,” Manus Clancy of Trepp said in the note. “The next
two or three months could be bumpy, but the second half of the
year should bring a leveling off of the rate.”  Wall Street  has arranged about $10 billion in CMBS sales
this year, compared with $28 billion in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance dropped to $2.9 billion in the
fourth quarter from $8.3 billion in the previous three months as
the risk of  Greece  defaulting soared and credit markets swooned,
pushing Wall Street to the sidelines.  Lenders hold commercial mortgages for several months before
selling them as securities, which means swings in values as they
accumulate debt can reduce profit margins and thwart efforts to
boost sales. A lack of sales chokes off funding to borrowers
with debt coming due. A record $232 billion was sold in 2007.  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries climbed 13
basis points to 1.99 basis points this month in the biggest
increase since August as the  European debt crisis  rattles
markets, according to a Barclays Plc index. The spread reached a
monthly high of 203 basis points on May 17. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Wells Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
marketing about $864.9 million of bonds tied to commercial
mortgages, according to a person familiar with the offering who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Forecasts for 2012 issuance range from Wells Fargo’s $25
billion to Credit Suisse Group AG’s projection of as much as $45
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  