-- Australian Bonds Gain; Local Dollar Falls to 6-Month Low
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-31T06:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/aussie-bonds-gain-local-dollar-is-set-for-monthly-drop.html
Australia’s bonds rose and its
currency touched a six-month low as concern Spain will struggle
to rescue its banks curbed demand for assets linked to growth.  Yields on Australian government debt maturing in two years
or longer fell to records as a report showed home-building
approvals unexpectedly dropped in April, boosting speculation
the  Reserve Bank  will cut borrowing costs.  New Zealand ’s
currency, nicknamed the kiwi, headed for its worst monthly loss
since September against the  U.S. dollar  as Asian stocks slid.
The drop in both South Pacific dollars was limited as technical
indicators signaled recent declines were too rapid.  “Spain is becoming a huge problem,” said Derek Mumford, a
director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency risk
management company. “A lot of money is going to be needed to
bail them out. The Aussie will inevitably be dragged down to a
very important support area at 94.50 to 95 cents.” Support is
an area on a chart where orders to buy may be clustered.  The 10-year Australian yield slid below 3 percent for the
first time, to as low as 2.856 percent, the least in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1969. The rate on two-year
notes fell to 2.108 percent, also an all-time low.  Australia ’s dollar was at 97.21 U.S. cents as of 4:28 p.m.
in Sydney from 97.04 cents yesterday. The Aussie earlier touched
96.74 cents, the weakest since Nov. 25. It declined 0.1 percent
to 76.69 yen. New Zealand’s currency traded at 75.48 U.S. cents
from 75.31. It bought 59.52 yen, 0.1 percent below yesterday’s
close in  New York .  Monthly Losses  The Aussie has slid 6.8 percent versus the dollar this
month, set for its biggest decline since September. The kiwi has
fallen 7.8 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares declined 0.7 percent
after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.4 percent
yesterday.  The  European Central Bank  denied it has rejected a plan
floated by the Spanish government to recapitalize Bankia group,
the nation’s third-largest lender, saying it hasn’t been
approached. The Spanish government itself has backtracked on an
idea to recapitalize Bankia by injecting sovereign debt into its
parent company that, according to the Financial Times, could
then be used as collateral to borrow from the ECB.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield rose as high as 6.70 percent
yesterday, approaching the 7 percent level that led to bailouts
in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Australia’s dollar has fallen 2.6 percent this year, the
worst performer after Sweden’s krona among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The kiwi has dropped 0.4 percent.  Building Permits  The number of  permits  granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in Australia fell 8.7 percent in April from a
month ago, the statistics bureau in Sydney said today. That
compares with a revised 6 percent increase in March and
economist forecasts for a 0.3 percent gain.  The Aussie “is probably due for a bounce soon, but fresh
falls in regional equities should keep the Australian dollar
under pressure,”  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  wrote in a report today.  The 14-day relative strength index for the Australian
dollar versus the greenback was at 30.8, near the 30 level that
some traders see as an indication that an asset may rebound
after falling too quickly. The kiwi’s RSI against the U.S.
currency was 33.1.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
are certain RBA policy makers will reduce the overnight  cash
rate  from 3.75 percent on June 5, with about a 50 percent chance
they will lower it to 3.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  