-- Aussie Dollar Drops Versus Peers After Retail Sales Fall
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-30T06:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/aussie-dollar-drops-versus-peers-after-retail-sales-fell.html
Australia ’s dollar slid versus all of
its 16 major peers after retail sales in the nation unexpectedly
dropped, boosting the case for the  Reserve Bank  to lower
borrowing costs to support growth.  The so-called Aussie headed for its biggest monthly decline
since September against the greenback as Australia’s 10- and
three-year yields tumbled to records. New Zealand’s dollar,
known as the kiwi, fell versus its U.S. and Japanese peers after
building permits in the country dropped in April. Both South
Pacific currencies also slid as Asian stocks retreated.  The retail data were “certainly worse than expected,”
said Callum Henderson, global head of currency research at
Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “The market is in risk-off
mode and, as such, is continuing to look to sell into rallies in
the higher-yielding currencies including the Aussie.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to 98.01 U.S. cents as
of 4:56 p.m. in Sydney. It lost 0.6 percent to 77.85 yen.  New
Zealand ’s currency declined 0.3 percent to 76.07 cents. It
dropped 0.4 percent to 60.43 yen.  The kiwi has dropped 7.1 percent versus the greenback since
April 30, the worst performance among 16 major counterparts of
the  U.S. dollar , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Aussie has fallen 6.1 percent, poised for its biggest slide in
eight months.  Bonds Rally  Australian bonds rose, pushing the  10-year yield  down by as
much as eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to a
record 3.057 percent. The three-year yield touched 2.273
percent, the least in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
1990. New Zealand’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, climbed three basis points to 2.52
percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares lost 0.8 percent,
snapping a two-day advance.  Retail sales  in Australia declined 0.2 percent in April
from a month earlier, after a revised 1.1 percent advance in
March, the Bureau of Statistics said today. The median
prediction in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent
climb.  Twenty five of 28 economists in a separate poll predict RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will hold the overnight  cash rate  target
at 3.75 percent at the next central bank meeting on June 5.
 Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders are
certain policy makers will reduce the benchmark next week, with
a better than 30 percent chance they will lower it to 3.25
percent.  ‘Overpriced for Easing’  “Upside lies ahead as the markets are overpriced for
easing,”  Annette Beacher , Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities, wrote in a note today. “We believe
the Australian dollar is oversold and we favor our parity to
$1.04 trading range.”  The Aussie’s relative strength index versus the dollar was
at 33, near the 30-level that some traders see as an indication
that an asset may be oversold and has fallen too quickly. The
kiwi’s RSI against the greenback was at 35.3.  In New Zealand, home building  approvals  declined 7.2
percent in April from a month earlier after a revised 19.6
percent gain in March. Forecasters in a Bloomberg poll predicted
a 10 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  