-- Australia Housing Escapes Peril on Undersupply: Mortgages
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-05-31T06:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/australia-housing-escapes-peril-on-undersupply-mortgages.html
 Bureaucratic obstacles are helping
prop up  Australia ’s A$4.5 trillion ($4.4 trillion) housing
market and neutralizing the biggest risk to the country’s
mortgage bonds.  While affordability measures such as  household debt  and
home cost-to-income multiples exceed peaks seen in the U.S.,
U.K. and Spain, prices in Australia are showing signs of
stabilizing after  dropping  7.6 percent from their November 2010
high. That’s because there’s one missing ingredient for a
property collapse: oversupply.  Limited land availability, caps on density and higher
levies on developers along with scarce financing have driven the
median  capital city price  for houses and apartments to A$462,500
and created a housing shortage that’s set to exceed  600,000
dwellings  in 20 years. That’s reducing the likelihood of a price
rout, which Fitch Ratings analyst James Zanesi sees as the only
threat to mortgages in an otherwise stable economy.  “Australia has had a decade of severe underbuilding,”
said  Matthew Hassan , senior economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
Australia’s second-biggest lender with A$287 billion in housing
loans. “Without the accumulated severe shortage of stock, there
wouldn’t be the substantial latent demand for dwellings that has
been a strong support for prices.”  Prime Australian home loans that were more than 90 days
late fell to 0.61 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, the
latest data available from Fitch, from 0.63 percent in the
previous three months. That compares with 5.32 percent in the
U.S., according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg and 10.2 percent
in Ireland.  Approvals to build private houses fell 11.1 percent in
April from the previous month, according to statistics bureau
data today.  Home Ownership Rates  Australia has one of the highest rates of  home ownership  in
the world, with more than 60 percent of people owning a home in
a market valued at A$4.5 trillion, according to Brisbane-based
research company RP Data. In the U.S., the  rate  is 65.4 percent,
after declining from a high of 69.2 percent in 2004.  In Sydney, Australia’s biggest city with a population of
about 4.5 million, direct and indirect taxes add 42 percent to
the cost of the average new house, according to an April  study 
commissioned by Canberra-based Housing Industry Association. A
new home costing A$639,533 will incur federal, state and local
government levies of A$75,422; indirect taxes on land, labor and
capital of A$86,180; and zoning, infrastructure and planning
costs of A$106,276, the study found.  The median price of a  plot of land  in Sydney, Australia’s
most expensive market, rose 3.6 percent in the three months to
December to A$285,000, according to the HIA. The average  plot  in
Australian capital cities cost A$219,001, up 1.5 percent from a
year earlier, HIA data shows.  ‘Only Threat’  With  interest rates , living costs and unemployment
remaining stable, a softening in  home prices  is “the only
threat” to Australian mortgage performance, Fitch said in a
March report. Home price declines and values are “well within”
the rating company’s modeled scenarios, which include the
possibility of a sharp fall, it said.  “If your current house is worth more than when you bought
it, before becoming delinquent or going into default, you’ll
probably be able to sell your property and get a gain,” Zanesi,
associate director for structured finance at Fitch in Sydney,
said in an interview.  Only 6.4 percent of homes across Australia were valued at
less than their owners paid for them as at Dec. 31, while 41.7
percent were worth at least double their purchase price,
according to RP Data.  Price Declines  Almost a third of U.S. homeowners with a mortgage owed more
than their homes are worth in the first quarter of 2012,
according to real estate data provider Zillow Inc.’s, after
property prices dropped more than 35 percent below their 2006
peak. In  Spain , prices have decreased about 22 percent from the
high in the third quarter of 2007 according to the National
Statistics Institute in  Madrid  and in Ireland, values have
plunged about 60 percent since the height of its property boom.  In the few areas where new developments in Australia have
outpaced demand, such as in Queensland state’s  Gold Coast , price
declines have outstripped the national average. The median house
price on the Gold Coast fell 7.7 percent as of Feb. 29 from a
year earlier, according to RP Data, compared with a drop of 4.5
percent across the nation’s eight state capitals in the same
period.  Debt markets are also signaling investors don’t foresee a
collapse in the nation’s $1.1 trillion mortgage market.  Bondholder Confidence  Investor confidence in Australian mortgage debt has
improved this year with relative yields declining 20 basis
points to 165 basis points more than lending benchmarks,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Credit-default swaps on the four biggest banks which
account for 86 percent of outstanding mortgages cost an average
190 basis points, according to data provider CMA. An index of
contracts on global lenders costs 358 basis points, U.S. banks
244, and Europe’s 463.  The four banks --  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , Westpac,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  -- hold a combined A$945 billion of  housing
loans , according to data from the banking regulator.  Westpac, AMP Bank Ltd. and Pepper Homeloans Pty this month
sold A$2.1 billion of bonds backed by Australian mortgages, the
most since October, after the central bank made its biggest
interest-rate cut in three years. Resimac Ltd. is marketing the
sale of about $447 million of residential mortgage-backed
securities in both U.S. and Australian currencies, a person
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Credit Quality  Mortgage bond sales reached a four-year high of A$22
billion in 2011 as the market recovered from the U.S. subprime
collapse, according to Standard & Poor’s data.  “The credit quality of underlying pools of recent
mortgage-backed securities has been strong,” said Gavin Goodhand, a Sydney-based senior portfolio manager at Altius
Asset Management Pty Ltd. “These deals prove the market is
reopening and that people are getting more comfortable with
mortgage-backed credit.”  Moody’s Investors Service today said it is reviewing its
ratings of QBE Lenders Mortgage Insurance Ltd. and Westpac
Lenders Mortgage Insurance Ltd. for possible downgrade, citing
potential losses in some regions.  Still, “risk scenarios involving a sharp correction in the
housing market are unlikely to eventuate,” the group said.
“Moody’s does not expect the review of the mortgage insurance
sector to broadly affect its ratings of Australian banks and
building societies.”  Rate Cuts  Australia’s central bank, which reduced its key rate by a
half-percentage point to 3.75 percent on May 1, will cut the
benchmark to a record low 2.75 percent by September to bolster
growth amid stagnant consumer sentiment, debt markets expect.
About 90 percent of mortgage-holders have variable rate loans.  In its  statement on monetary policy  three days after this
month’s rate cut, the RBA said the near-term outlook for
residential building activity had been revised lower.  “Liaison contacts cite three main reasons for subdued
housing activity: poor sentiment regarding  job security ,
notwithstanding recent low levels of unemployment; softness in
established housing markets, consistent with expectations of
flat or declining  house prices ; and relatively tight credit
conditions for developers,” the RBA said.  Residential Construction  The value of  residential construction  in the first quarter
fell 8.3 percent from a year earlier, according to statistics
bureau data yesterday.  Even as building activity remains subdued, recent data
shows prices are stabilizing. Across Australia’s eight state
capitals,  home prices  rose 0.3 percent in the three months to
April 30 and sales of  newly-built homes  in April rose 6.9
percent from a month earlier, the most in more than two years.  Australia has had a cumulative shortfall of 186,800 homes
since 2001, with the number expected to widen to 640,200
dwellings by 2030, the government’s National Housing Supply
Council said in its  State of Supply report  in December.  Planning hurdles, such as height restrictions, high taxes
and requirements that developers pay for community facilities
have pushed companies including  Stockland (SGP)  and  Australand
Property Group (ALZ)  away from higher-density developments.  Least Affordable  “You can be up to four years trying to get a parcel of
land rezoned even though it’s been designated for a growth
area,” said Melbourne-based Julie Katz, national president for
the  Urban Development Institute of Australia , a developers’
industry body based in Canberra. “The other issue is trying to
get the approvals through a very complex system, which needs to
be much more streamlined.”  The nation of 22 million people has the second-least
affordable homes behind Hong Kong’s, with dwellings in its
cities costing 6.7 times the median  household income , according
to a  Demographia  study of prices in Australia,  New Zealand ,
Ireland, the U.K., the U.S.,  Canada  and Hong Kong. Homes in the
U.S. cost 3.1 times income, and 5 times in the U.K., it said.  Australian households’ gross debt accounted for 184 percent
of disposable income in the third quarter of 2011, compared with
141 percent in Spain, 118 percent in the U.S. and 98 percent in
 Greece , according to an Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development report this month. Australia’s level exceeds the
2007 peaks in those countries and the U.K., though remains below
Ireland’s 229 percent.  Classic Hallmarks  “We see overvalued Australian house prices as primarily a
medium-term risk to housing credit growth rather than to housing
credit losses,” Sydney-based Credit Suisse Group AG analyst
Jarrod Martin wrote in a report this month. “Many of the
classic hallmarks of an approaching mortgage arrears crisis are
currently not present,” including an acceleration in the
turnover of housing, an increase in the pace of home building,
and a credit boom and related price boom, Martin wrote.  The annual pace of owner-occupied home loan growth in
Australia declined to 5.4 percent in April, the slowest pace on
records dating back to 1977, according to  central bank data .  Paul Bloxham, chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Sydney, said he doesn’t expect a sharp fall in home prices.  “Housing undersupply is likely to keep Australia from
having the sorts of destructive feedback loop that affected the
U.S. and Spain,” he wrote in a report on May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 