-- Australia Renewable Energy Fund Set to Invest in Solar, Biofuels
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-05-30T03:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/australia-renewable-energy-fund-set-to-invest-in-solar-biofuels.html
Australia ’s A$200 million ($196
million) renewable energy  venture capital  fund is set to unveil
its first two investments in the solar and biofuels industries
by the end of September.  Southern Cross  Venture Partners, named manager of the fund
by the Australian government in December, plans to invest in
three or four companies by the end of 2012, Mark Bonnar,
investment director of the company, said in an interview
yesterday in Sydney.  Southern Cross , with funds from Australia
and a Chinese venture capital fund, expects to put as much as
A$20 million into each investment, he said.  The fund is part of Australia’s plan to drive investment in
wind, solar, geothermal and other clean-energy technologies.
Australia, the developed world’s biggest per-capita polluter
according to the government, has set a target of generating 20
percent of its power from renewable energy sources by the end of
the decade. The nation also will start charging polluters for
their  carbon emissions  in July to reduce dependence on fossil
fuels and fight climate change.  “We’ve got to put this money to work and start to prove to
people that there’s a solid pipeline of companies in this
market,” Bonnar said, declining to identify the first
investments because they haven’t been completed. “This market
is capital constrained, not opportunity constrained.”  The market value of the 74 stocks in the  ACT Australian
CleanTech Index , which measures the performance of the country’s
listed renewable energy companies, plunged to A$7.8 billion in
April from a peak of A$16.3 billion in 2007.  China Access  “One reason people have tended not to invest heavily in
Australia is because it’s a small market and it’s hard to build
a business as compared to the U.S. or  China  or even  Europe ,”
said Bonnar, former investment director at Cleantech Ventures, a
Victoria-based  fund manager . “When you are taking on management
risk, technology risk, execution risk, you don’t want market
risk too, and that’s what we’ve had here.”  The venture capital fund, an initial price of A$23 a metric
ton on Australian carbon emissions and further government
initiatives to spur investment should aid the industry, helping
to demonstrate it can deliver consistent returns, he said. The
government’s A$10 billion Clean Energy Finance Corp. is set to
start in July 2013.  Softbank Investment  Softbank China Venture Capital provided half of the
investment in the fund managed by Bonnar, matching Australia’s
A$100 million commitment, Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson 
said in December.  Southern Cross, which has offices in Sydney and Silicon
Valley and manages more than A$400 million in assets, is
interested in investing in biomass plants and power projects
located at mines, Bonnar said.  Southern Cross’s previous investments have included Mantara
Inc., a New Jersey-based developer of technology for the hedge
fund industry, Mocana Corp., a  software company  in  San
Francisco , and Pygg, which allows users to send and receive
money through their Twitter accounts, according to its website.  “How do you build a A$200 million, A$300 million business
in Australia?” Bonnar said. “It’s very hard, but if we can
access overseas markets, the U.S. and China predominantly, we
can start to build those sizes of companies.”  Ferguson, the energy minister, said in December that the
venture capital fund will help companies reduce the costs of
renewable energy in Australia and overcome reluctance among
investors who perceive the technologies as too risky.  Driven by hydro and wind projects, renewable energy
contributed 9.6 percent of Australia’s electricity production in
the year ended in October, up from 8.7 percent the prior year,
according to the  Clean Energy Council , an industry group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  