-- Australia Retail Sales Unexpectedly Drop, Boosting Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-30T02:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/australia-retail-sales-unexpectedly-drop-sending-currency-lower.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
fell for the first time in 10 months, sending the nation’s
currency, stocks and bond yields lower as bets increased on the
central bank’s fourth interest-rate cut since November.  Sales dropped 0.2 percent to A$21.2 billion ($20.7 billion)
from March, when they gained a revised 1.1 percent to a record,
the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The result
compares with the median  forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of
20 economists for a 0.2 percent gain.  The data span a period before  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  slashed the overnight cash rate target by
half a percentage point to a two-year low as inflation cooled
and the economy struggled to gain traction. The RBA is trying to
boost a housing market in which prices have fallen for five
straight quarters, support employment and help confidence that
has weakened among consumers who are saving more.  Today’s report “reflects consumers remaining stubbornly
cautious despite rate cuts and the possibility of further
easing,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney. “Unless rate cuts can help consumers get their mojo
back in coming months, retail trade is condemned to be below
trend through 2012.”  Traders are pricing in at least a quarter-point reduction
in the RBA’s benchmark rate to 3.5 percent at its June 5 meeting
and see a 38 percent chance of a 50 basis-point cut, swaps data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. The local dollar traded at 97.85 
U.S. cents at 12:30 p.m. in Sydney, compared with 98.11 cents 
before the data.  Record-Low Yields  The three-year bond yield dropped to 2.313 percent, a
record, and 6 basis points below yesterday’s close; and the 10-
year bond yield fell as low as 3.102 percent, 4 basis points
below yesterday’s close.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1
percent.  Spending at department stores fell 1 percent, and consumers
spent 0.8 percent less on household goods, today’s report
showed. They spent 0.4 percent more at cafes and restaurants, it
showed.  Consumer-price growth in Australia was subdued last quarter
as the cost of food and non-alcoholic drinks fell 2.1 percent,
paving the way for this month’s rate cut. Fruit plunged 30
percent as the breaking of nearly a decade of drought and a
historically mild summer caused a glut of fruit and vegetables,
the April 24 inflation data showed.  Slower Growth  The central bank, in its quarterly monetary policy
statement released this month, cut growth and inflation
forecasts.  The RBA sees average growth of 3 percent in 2012, down from
its February estimate of 3.5 percent. Consumer prices will rise
2.5 percent in the year to December, from a previous prediction
of 3 percent; underlying inflation is predicted at 2.25 percent
from a previous 2.75 percent, the central bank said.  “Labor market conditions have continued to be on the soft
side to date, with large increases in employment in mining and
some  service industries  roughly offset by declines in the
manufacturing, hospitality and retail sectors,” the central
bank said in the May 4 statement. “A recovery in housing
construction is unlikely in the near term.”  A separate report today showed construction work done rose
5.5 percent last quarter from the final three months of 2011,
led by engineering as the nation’s mining investment boom
intensifies.  Mining Investment  The RBA, in its May 4 statement, raised its outlook for
mining investment, saying its liaison suggested some projects
previously seen as “only possible now look more likely to go
ahead.”  The RBA’s benchmark rate, at 3.75 percent, is the highest
among major developed economies.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s second-largest department
store chain, forecast its smallest profit in six years as rising
costs, falling sales, overseas competition and the strong
Australian dollar crimp earnings.  David Jones  said March 21 that net income will fall 35
percent to 40 percent in the year through July. The forecast
implies earnings of A$101 million to A$109 million, as much as
28 percent below the average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pacific Brands Ltd. (PBG)  said its first-half loss widened 72
percent after it wrote down the value of its underwear division
and said the retail outlook remained “challenging.”  The loss in the six months ended Dec. 31 widened to A$353.9
million, from A$206.1 million a year earlier, Melbourne-based
Pacific Brands said in a Feb. 17 statement. The apparel company
said it will write down the goodwill on its underwear unit by
A$388.7 million and that restructuring costs totaled A$13.4
million. Sales declined 19.6 percent to A$684.7 million.  “The writedown of goodwill in the underwear business is
disappointing, but a necessary step to reflect the impact of
trading conditions,” Pacific Brands Chief Executive Officer Sue Morphet said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  