-- Axa Could Resist Euro Break-Up Without Added Capital
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-05-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/axa-could-resist-euro-break-up-without-added-capital.html
Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
insurer, said it has taken steps that would let it withstand the
effect of a disorderly Greek euro exit without boosting capital.  “We think that the euro will survive, but we need to be
prepared for the extreme,” Chief Executive Officer Henri de
Castries told journalists at a media seminar near  Bordeaux 
yesterday. Axa would “of course” be able to withstand a
disorderly Greek euro exit without needing a capital increase,
he said.  Axa in late 2011 took “concrete” steps to defend against
a possible euro break up, Chief Risk Officer Jean-Christophe
Menioux said in a separate presentation. To protect its balance
sheet, Axa several months ago stopped buying Italian and Spanish
public debt, he said. The insurer also shifted several billion
euros of sovereign-debt holdings within its European units so
that each country’s balance sheet holds sovereign debt mostly
issued locally, Menioux added.  “We can sustain it in each country,” Menioux said,
declining to provide more details of the financial cost of a
possible euro break-up. “We would be severely wounded, not
killed,” he said.  Axa’s exposure to Greek banks is minimal and the insurer no
longer has Greek sovereign-debt holdings as it sold the rest
after a 78 percent writedown booked last year, Menioux said.
While the direct impact of a Greek euro exit are “already in
the accounts,” Menioux declined to elaborate on costs from a
contagion to other European countries.  Corporate Investments  Axa which has “very diversified” corporate investments,
is monitoring closely “exposures to each and every name,” he
said. Maximum losses from a bank failure would be 300 million
euros ($371 million) to 500 million euros, Menioux added.  Axa’s risk-management office in 2009 started studying how
the insurer will be able to weather severe stress situations
including a bank failure, a worldwide pandemic, hyperinflation,
a European storm, a terrorist attack and a euro break-up,
Menioux said. While in 2009 a euro break-up “was a pure
intellectual scenario,” last year Axa refined “in a more
concrete way” the scenario of a Greek euro exit, including
contagion effects that could lead to a break-up of the  euro
zone , he said.  Axa’s contingency plans include ensuring that information-
technology systems can sustain a conversion from the euro to
another currency, analyzing legal implications stemming from
debt denominated under U.K. law or local law and continuity of
service to clients, Menioux said.  Euro Exit  Axa repeated yesterday that a Greek euro exit is not the
insurer’s main scenario.  “Is the euro going to break up? I think the political
price will be huge,” de Castries said. “There are no immediate
good solutions,” the CEO said, adding that for  Greece  a
possible mixed solution would be to stay in the euro with a
default on debt owned by public institutions.  “It’s going to be a continuation of the transfers. It’s
not a very virtuous model because the countries which are making
real efforts, like  Spain ,  Portugal ,  Italy  will look at it and
say: ‘Well, two standards,” de Castries said. “It’s a choice
between a non-satisfactory continuation of the bleeding and the
Pandora box” of unknown consequences stemming from a Greek
exit, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  