-- Bain Capital Said to Seek $6 Billion for Next Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-05-30T20:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/bain-capital-said-to-seek-6-billion-for-next-buyout-fund.html
Bain Capital  LLC, the private-equity
firm co-founded by U.S. presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , will
target $6 billion for its next buyout fund, according to a
person familiar with the offering.  Bain Capital Fund XI will also have a co-investment pool in
which clients can take part in certain deals alongside the main
fund, which may bring the total capital to $9 billion to $10
billion, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
information isn’t public. The firm’s prior fund, Bain Capital
Fund X, gathered about $10 billion in 2008.  A spokesman for Boston-based Bain Capital declined to
comment.  The firm will offer three fee options to entice investors,
including reduced carried interest and management charges,
according to the person familiar with the matter. Under one
choice, clients will be able to pay a 1.5 percent management
fee; and 20 percent carry, or the share of profit kept by
private-equity managers, once a 7 percent preferred return is
achieved. The second option comprises a 1 percent management
fee, 30 percent carry and the same preferred return hurdle. The
third variation is a 0.5 percent management fee, 30 percent
carried interest and no preferred return.  Buyout firms are devising new ways to trim fees in a
crowded fundraising market. New York-based  KKR & Co. (KKR)  is offering
clients in its KKR Asian Fund II the option of paying a lower
management fee or receiving a greater share of commissions
levied on its portfolio companies, according to marketing
documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  Firms such as BC Partners Ltd. and Permira Advisors LLC
have offered fee discounts to investors that join before the
first close of fundraising.  Fortune reported on the Bain fundraising earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  