-- Bank Foreclosures Loom for Tanker Owners Hauling Iranian Crude
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-05-30T05:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/bank-foreclosures-loom-for-tanker-owners-hauling-iranian-crude.html
With a month to go before the start
of a full European embargo on Iranian oil, ship owners seeking
to keep hauling the crude by switching insurance provider risk
having their tankers seized by lenders.  Most loans to buy vessels require insurance against risks
including spills and collisions, and banks will normally only
accept cover provided by members of the International Group of
P&I Clubs, according to Harry Theochari, a London-based shipping
and asset-finance lawyer at Norton Rose LLP. The group’s members
insure about 95 percent of the tanker fleet and follow  European
Union law , which will prohibit all such cargoes from July 1 as
part of international efforts to curb  Iran’s nuclear program .  Oil shipments from Iran, the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ second-largest producer, already declined
23 percent this year, Barclays Plc estimates. While ship owners
in China, Japan and  India , the biggest buyers of the crude, have
said they will seek alternative insurance, switching cover would
require the assent of lenders. European banks finance about 80
percent of the world’s fleet, according to Petrofin Research, an
Athens-based industry consultant.  “If the insurances are not in a form that’s acceptable to
the bank, that’s an immediate event of default and the bank
would have the right to foreclose,” Theochari said by phone.
“It’s sort of the atomic-device option. The insurances are just
so fundamental there’s never any grace period.”  Tankers taking Iranian cargoes will face legal proceedings
from banks, said Iris Schrecker, the head of compliance at  DVB
Bank SE (DVB)  in  Frankfurt , which finances 1,500 vessels through 450
loan accords. A ship losing its insurance would be an event of
default, said Thomas Midteide, an Oslo-based spokesman for  DNB
ASA (DNB) , the second-biggest shipping lender.  Shipping Loans  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , which has about 13.6 billion euros ($17.7
billion) of shipping, offshore and oil loans, follows
regulations and takes “appropriate” measures in the event of
breached loan accords, said Stephan Ghisler-Solvang, a spokesman
for the bank. Rune Hoffmann, a spokesman for HSH Nordbank AG,
the largest shipping lender, declined to comment.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
accounts for sanctions and embargoes, the industry’s third-
biggest financier said in an e-mailed statement.  At least 62 non-Iranian tankers have loaded at Kharg
Island, the nation’s largest oil terminal, since EU ministers
agreed to the embargo on Jan. 23, according to ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg. The EU ban covers the purchase,
transportation, financing and insuring of Iranian oil, with pre-
existing contracts and third-party liability insurance exempt
until July 1.  “The banking is a separate issue that we don’t think was
at all foreseen and is potentially more far-reaching,” said
Andrew Bardot, London-based secretary and executive officer of
the  International Group  of P&I Clubs.  Biggest Buyer  With four weeks to go, ship charters are already being
curbed because of the time it takes the vessels to deploy, load
and deliver cargoes. A journey to China, the biggest buyer of
Iranian crude, takes about 20 days and tankers are normally
hired about three weeks in advance.  Iran and Western negotiators agreed to hold another round
of talks about the country’s nuclear program next month after
failing to reach a deal at a summit in  Baghdad  last week. The
government in Tehran faces four set of United Nations sanctions
urging the country to stop enriching uranium.  UN inspectors found Iran almost doubled its stockpile of 20
percent medium-enriched uranium since February and some
particles at the nation’s Fordo facility were enriched to 27
percent, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said May 25.
That’s closer to the 90 percent level needed for atomic weapons.
 Iran  says it’s only enriching uranium to that grade to fuel a
research reactor producing medical isotopes for cancer
treatment.  Declining Supply  Iran’s oil exports of 1.7 million barrels a day may fall by
another 300,000 to 500,000 barrels from July, Barclays analysts
led by Helima Croft in  New York  said in a May 15 report. Crude
traded in  London  rose as much as 25 percent from mid-December to
early March on concern about declining supply. It has since
retreated 17 percent to $106.32 a barrel on speculation that
slowing global growth will curb demand for energy.  Japan is considering sovereign guarantees for tankers
carrying Iranian crude, two government officials familiar with
proposed legislation said this month. Indian vessel owners have
also asked the state to provide cover. The government in  China 
has already underwritten some Iranian cargoes, the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  said in March.  Banks that allow ships to change to an insurer who’ll cover
Iranian shipments would potentially violate U.S. sanctions
because it might be interpreted as facilitating trade with the
Persian Gulf nation, according to Clare Hatcher, a London-based
consultant at Clyde & Co., an international trade law firm. The
U.S. has restricted dealings with Iran since 1979, when
militants took 52 hostages at the American embassy in Tehran.  Sanctions Violations  An executive order signed May 1 penalizes people outside
the U.S. who facilitate sanctions violations, for instance by
using the U.S. financial system to access dollars. About 90
percent of the fleet is financed in the currency, Petrofin
estimates.  Under a U.S. law signed Dec. 31, countries that fail to
show they are reducing their oil imports from Iran by June 28
will have their banks’ access to the U.S. financial system
blocked.  Japan  and 10 European nations received exemptions in
March for a renewable period of 180 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Weeks at 
 dweeks1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  