-- Repo Rates Show European Bank Stresses as Short-Term Levels Soar
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-05-30T13:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/banks-dollar-funding-costs-decline-in-european-money-markets.html
The market for borrowing and lending
European  government bonds , the so-called repo market, is
highlighting the stress created by  Europe ’s debt crisis as
short-term bank funding rates exceed longer-term costs.  The rate for a one-day euro repurchase agreement, in which
a bank or investor borrows money while putting up collateral, is
15 basis points, compared with 11 basis points on three-month
contracts, according to the European Banking Federation. The so-
called  inverted curve  signals strain in bank funding.  Short-term financing rates are being driven higher as banks
seek AAA rated securities for collateral as Europe’s debt crisis
roils bond markets. Spanish five-year note yields jumped to more
than 6 percent for the first time since November after Bank of
 Spain  Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez quit amid
criticism over the nationalization of Bankia group.  “The curve is inverted,” said Achilleas Georgolopoulos, a
fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London.
“The market tensions about recapitalizing Spain’s banks and its
effects on the sovereign are making it more expensive for short-
term repos. Within a year the banks could be in a better state,
but at the moment there are a lot of market tensions.”  The difference between the one-day and three-month repo
rates is 3.7 basis points, near the  widest  in three months and
up from one basis point on May 1, Brussels-based EBF data show.  Basis Swaps  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars rose to
the highest in a week. The three-month cross-currency  basis
swap , the rate banks pay to convert euro interest payments into
dollars, was 50 basis points below the euro interbank offered
rate at 2:50 p.m. in London from minus 47 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The one-year basis swap was 65 basis points below Euribor
from minus 63 yesterday. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Prices in the forward market for three-month Euribor
relative to overnight indexed swaps -- known as the FRA/OIS
spread -- fell to 32 basis points from 33.5 yesterday. A
decrease signals banks are more willing to lend.  The measure was as high as 70.5 basis points in November
before the  European Central Bank  started its program of
providing banks with cheap loans to buoy credit markets.  “We have massive liquidity from the ECB which keeps these
measures down and on the other side there is banking stress
coming into the market,” said Georgolopoulos. “There’s a
battle over which will win.”  Lenders increased  overnight deposits  at the Frankfurt-based
ECB yesterday, placing 760 billion euros ($947 billion) from 742
billion euros the day before.  Three-month Euribor, the rate banks say they pay for loans
over that period in euros, fell to 0.671 percent from 0.673
percent, while one-week Euribor was 0.317 percent from 0.319
percent. The  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans was unchanged at 0.467 percent.  Three-month Euribor USD, a gauge of dollar funding costs
from the Brussels-based EBF, rose to 0.922 percent from 0.919
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  