-- BASF Said to Consider Bid RWE Oil and Gas Operations
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-30T14:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/basf-said-to-consider-bid-rwe-oil-and-gas-operations.html
BASF SE (BAS)  is considering a bid for the
oil-and-gas exploration assets put up for sale by German utility
 RWE AG (RWE) , according to people with knowledge of the situation.  Wintershall, BASF’s oil and gas production unit, discussed
the potential deal to buy part of RWE Dea with investment banks,
said the people, who declined to be identified because talks are
private. The BASF unit may be interested in sites in Norway and
the North Sea, including ones on which it already cooperates
with RWE Dea, three of the people said. German sites may also be
considered, two of the people said said.  A bid for the RWE assets would mark the first sizeable
acquisition under Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock, who took
the helm just over a year ago. For BASF, it would highlight a
commitment to the Verbund and its integrated approach to energy
and chemicals with oil and gas earnings providing a buffer when
higher crude costs inflate chemical raw-material costs.  BASF’s recent acquisition history shows a drive to expand
into specialty chemicals and additives that are less affected by
economic cycles. Among its most  recent larger acquisitions  is
cosmetics ingredient maker Cognis, which BASF purchased in 2010
for $3.8 billion.  RWE is raising as much as 11 billion euros ($14 billion) to
reduce debt and help finance new projects after  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  ordered German utilities to close their nuclear
plants by 2022 in response to  Japan ’s Fukushima accident. RWE
mandated  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  last year to prepare a sale of Dea
assets from  Egypt  to Norway, people familiar said at the time.
Potential bidders for the assets face a bid-submission deadline
at the end of June, one of the people said.  Egypt Option  RWE has opted to sell Egyptian energy assets that may cost
as much as $3 billion including substantial investments, people
familiar with the process said in November. Wintershall may also
look at some of the northern African assets, one of the people
said.  Through its Norwegian subsidiary, RWE Dea has holdings in
six major offshore oil fields and in various exploratory
projects and is also the operator in two license areas in the
Norwegian  North Sea , according to RWE Dea’s website.  Wintershall and RWE Dea already cooperate on several
projects, with the utility earlier this year agreeing to acquire
a 10 percent stake in a North Sea licensed area.  “The question is how much the selling of assets will hurt
their growth, although the immediate problem is their balance
sheet” said Benita Barretto, a London-based analyst at
Berenberg Bank, who covers RWE and other utilities. “If they
were offered the right price, they would probably agree to sell
assets that are generating cash. Their immediate priority is to
keep their  credit rating .”  Joint Ventures  In  Germany , RWE Dea and Wintershall each have a 50 percent
stake in the offshore field called Mittelplate, according to
Wintershall’s website. The field is on the southern edge of the
German state of Schleswig-Holstein’s Wadden Sea National Park.
The companies have been producing crude oil there since 1987.  Wintershall is Germany’s largest crude oil and natural gas
producer, operating at sites in  Europe , North Africa, South
America,  Russia , the Caspian Sea and  Middle East .  BASF spokeswoman Jennifer Moore-Braun declined to comment.
Stefan Leunig, a spokesman for Kassel-based Wintershall, said
the company would look into any opportunities that come up. He
declined to comment on Wintershall’s interest in RWE Dea’s
assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  