-- Bilateral Carbon Trade Surged Last Year, World Bank Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-30T07:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/bilateral-carbon-trade-surged-last-year-world-bank-says.html
The value of bilateral carbon trading
surged 15 percent last year after thefts of European Union
emission allowances suspended prompt trading on exchanges, the
 World Bank  said.  EU greenhouse-gas trades that didn’t involve exchanges or
brokers surged to $17.3 billion, the bank said today in its
yearly report on CO2 markets. ICE Futures Europe suspended
prompt trading in January last year after thefts of allowances
roiled buyers. BlueNext SA, the Paris spot exchange that also
temporarily halted transactions, reopened for trading Feb. 4.  The shift to bilateral trading “occurred as exchanges
exercised increased scrutiny, which certain market participants
viewed as cumbersome,” the bank said in its report. “Some
players reported favoring long-term relationships with
trustworthy commercial partners.”  Security measures introduced by regulators since last year
will probably curb prompt trading even after the opening of an
EU-wide registry next month, according to STX Services BV, an
Amsterdam-based environmental brokerage. Competition from
futures markets, where most trades are now carried out, also
will soften any  spot-market  resurgence, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance said.  Slowing Down Trade  New security rules such as a 26-hour delay in transactions
will probably make the market less attractive, said Guido Levie,
head of the emissions-trading desk at STX.  “The 26-hour delay slows down the spot market and doesn’t
necessarily protect all market participants,” he said by phone
yesterday. “Some factories only check their carbon accounts a
few times a year, so they would not necessarily know within 26
hours if they have been robbed.”  Reviving the prompt market is one of the topics being
discussed during the next three days at the Carbon Expo
conference in Cologne,  Germany . The expo has attracted 2,800
delegates including Christiana Figueres, executive secretary of
the United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change .  ICE, the biggest exchange for carbon trading, said May 24
it might extend a 16-month suspension of its prompt market as it
waits for a software upgrade at the new EU registry, which the
European Commission said will open on June 20.  Tracking Ownership  The upgrade will allow traders to set up so-called trusted
accounts in the registry, which tracks ownership of emission
allowances. Without those accounts, which will allow for
streamlined trading, transactions may take as long as seven days
to settle, said David Peniket, the exchange’s president.  “I think it’s right to be cautious,” Peniket said in a
phone interview. “Delay in the identification of a theft:
that’s the risk.”  The commission has said it will publish a timetable for the
upgrade by July 20.  About 89 percent of the $148 billion in EU carbon
transactions last year was on exchanges and via brokers, the
World Bank estimated. The spot market fell to 2 percent last
year from 7 percent in 2008, the bank said. Prompt trading was
also tainted by value-added  tax fraud  in the period.  Futures trading may limit that market’s recovery, said
Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst in  London  for New Energy Finance.
Many companies don’t need spot because they only have to comply
with emission rules once each year and holding spot ties up
capital, he said.  “For those reasons, futures will likely remain the
preferred compliance option for many,” Hanschmidt said. “The
share of spot trading will probably rise from current levels
compared with futures, but it will most likely not overtake the
futures market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  