-- Billionaire Lee Fights Back Relatives Over Samsung Shares
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-30T10:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/billionaire-lee-fights-back-relatives-over-samsung-shares-tech.html
During his long and controversial
career,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Chairman Lee Kun Hee has
transformed his family’s dried-fish and produce company into the
world’s biggest maker of TVs and mobile phones, challenging
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  in the process. Now he must contend
with feuding siblings.  Billionaire Lee, 70 years old and South Korea’s wealthiest
citizen, is facing down lawsuits that his older brother and
sister are waging in an attempt to win a slice of the family
wealth. Lee Byung Chul founded what is today South Korea’s
biggest business group in 1938 and died in 1987 without leaving
a will, casting a shadow over the $153 billion electronics
company’s future.  The siblings’ demand for at least an $850 million stake in
the group that generates about 20 percent of  South Korea ’s gross
domestic product threatens to be a costly distraction at a time
of intense industry competition. The civil trial started today.  “He has grown Samsung to the point where Korea is called
‘Republic of Samsung,’” said Park Hyun Goon, author of “Lee
Kun Hee’s Agony,” a book about Samsung succession published
this year. “How would it make him feel if a share of that is
taken away by his siblings or if his company goes down?”  Samsung vs. Apple  The rancor comes as Samsung Electronics challenges
Cupertino, California-based Apple, its biggest  customer  and its
adversary in patent lawsuits on four continents, after selling
one of almost every four mobile phones in the first quarter.
Samsung earned 7.64 percent of its revenue from selling chips,
displays and other products to the iPhone maker.  At the same time, more than 30 cases concerning patents and
design are pending from Paris to  San Francisco  between the two
companies, which traded leadership positions in the $219 billion
global smartphone market in the past three quarters.  Samsung ended Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s 14-year run
as the global leader in mobile phones last quarter. Samsung
shipped 93.5 million handsets of all kinds, compared with 82.7
million for Nokia, researcher  Strategy Analytics  said last
month. Apple ranked third.  “The risk of losing your edge during these times is
real,” Matt Walker, senior analyst at market researcher Ovum,
said in an e-mail. “Companies that are driven by innovation, as
Samsung should be, can’t afford much downtime to deal with this
kind of turbulence.”  Family Feud  The family feud drags Lee, a lung cancer survivor, back
into a courtroom following a series of run-ins with the law. He
was convicted of paying bribes to former Presidents Chun Doo Hwan and Roh Tae Woo in 1996 before receiving a pardon from
then-President Kim Young Sam a year later.  Lee quit as chairman of the group and electronics company
in 2008 after being charged with  tax evasion . He received
another presidential pardon in 2009 and reassumed his post
running Samsung Electronics in 2010.  “Ironically, the biggest risk to Samsung’s corporate
governance is Lee Kun Hee himself,” said Chae Yi Bai, a
researcher at the  Center for Good Corporate Governance , a Seoul-
based private institute monitoring South Korean conglomerates.
“The family dispute again highlights this inherent problem of
Samsung.”  The feud became public in February when brother Lee Maeng Hee, 80, and sister Lee Sook Hee, 76, filed suits at the Seoul
Central District Court demanding shares held in  Samsung Life
Insurance Co. (032830)  by their younger sibling. Samsung Life is the
second-largest shareholder of Samsung Electronics after the
company itself, so whoever controls the insurance company
controls  Asia ’s biggest consumer-electronics maker.  Not A ‘Dime’  Neither the brother nor sister has any role in the group.
At today’s hearing in Seoul, their lawyer said the siblings were
trying to regain wealth “they unfairly lost.”  “They aren’t unethical people who are only after money,”
Kim Nam Geun said.  The chairman’s lawyer said the family patriarch repeatedly
expressed his desire for Lee Kun Hee to take over the group.  “If not, how could there have been no dispute over the
last 25 years?” Kang Yong Hyeon said. “It doesn’t make
sense.”  The Lees didn’t attend. The next hearing is June 27.  Chairman Lee said he wouldn’t give a “dime” to his
brother because inheritance matters had been settled by his
father, according to media reports on April 17. He later
apologized for publicly making the comments.  Richest Man  Chairman Lee holds 41.5 million shares, or about 21
percent, of Samsung Life, making him the largest shareholder,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The elder brother wants
8.24 million of those shares and the sister wants 2.23 million
shares, according to  Yoon & Yang , the  Seoul  law firm
representing them, valued at a combined $850 million.  The public holdings of South Korea’s richest man are valued
at $8.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
family conglomerate, Samsung Group, controls more than 80
companies making armored vehicles and artillery guns for South
Korea’s military, oil tankers, amusement parks and apartment
complexes.  Handing over the 10.47 million shares to his siblings would
mean the chairman no longer would be the largest investor in
Samsung Life. In South Korea’s complex world of cross-holding of
shares in companies, that could trigger a dispute over control
of Samsung Electronics, Chae said.  “This could be a big problem for their overall
governance,” he said.  ‘So Much Name-Calling’  To avoid the battle, the chairman may opt to pay his
siblings in cash or with other assets, Chae said.  Until now, the  stock  market hasn’t shown any concern.
Samsung shares have advanced 16 percent this year and reached a
record high 1.41 million won earlier this month. The shares have
jumped more than 100-fold since Lee became chairman in 1987.  Samsung Electronics accounted for 44 percent of  Samsung
Group ’s total revenue in 2011.  Chairman Lee hasn’t hinted of letting the family discord
disrupt the business, telling local media May 2 he “won’t be
involved in the issues related to the suits from now on and I
will only focus on growing Samsung Group.”  “All these chaebol families try to maintain as much
privacy as possible,” said Tom Coyner, Seoul-based president at
Soft Landing Consulting, a business-advisory firm.  “Chaebol” is the Korean word for family-controlled
conglomerate, such as Samsung and  Hyundai Group .  “It’s remarkable that so much name-calling has been made
in public,” Coyner said. “It shows that there’s a great amount
of tension in the family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  