-- BofA Chief Sees Europe Crisis’s Indirect Impact as Bigger Threat
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-05-30T14:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/bofa-chief-sees-europe-crisis-s-indirect-impact-as-bigger-threat.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the main risk of Europe’s
financial crisis will be the indirect effects on the rest of the
global economy.  Concern that European nations may not be able to pay their
debts has already slowed the world’s economy, Moynihan said
today at a Manhattan investor conference. His  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company is ranked second by assets among lenders
in the U.S., where Moynihan said consumer spending is being
aided by lower gasoline prices and corporations keep finding
ways to adjust their models to bolster profits.  Consumers are “feeling and getting in better shape” as
the jobless rate steadies, Moynihan said. “Europe and
everything colors the viewpoint of the people around the  capital
markets . But if you look out in general America,  consumer
spending  is consistently up month after month after month.”
Some of the bank’s business teams need to do a better job to
increase commercial lending, Moynihan said.  Bank of America and its rivals are under pressure as new
regulations pinch revenue and Europe’s debt crisis roils
financial markets. Moynihan’s goals include trimming as much as
$8 billion from expenses with a plan that includes 30,000 job
cuts in retail and support operations. More than 300 jobs may be
eliminated from corporate and investment banking and trading
units, a person familiar with the matter has said.  Bank of America gained 34 percent this year through
yesterday’s close, the best showing in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average. (INDU)  The shares were still down about 36 percent from year-
earlier levels.  Trading Operations  Moynihan, 52, has said he’s counting on trading units to
help revive income at the lender, whose consumer operations have
been hobbled by more than $42 billion of expenses tied to faulty
mortgages and foreclosures.  While Moynihan has said he’s striving to put those problems
behind the company, Bank of America had to meet a new demand
this month from  Freddie Mac , the mortgage buyer controlled by
the U.S. government, for refunds on $330 million of defective
home loans. Most of the mortgage pools affected were drawn up as
recently as 2010 and 2011, according to analysts at Barclays
Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  