-- BofA Sees Euro Breakup Drag on Global Ecnonomy as Threat
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-30T17:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/bofa-sees-euro-breakup-drag-on-global-ecnonomy-as-threat.html
Bank of America Corp.  sees damage to
the world’s economy from a euro breakup as a greater threat to
the lender than any loss it may suffer on direct European
holdings, said Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  The continent’s debt crisis is already a drag on global
business, and the firm has been preparing for upheaval if the
euro falls apart, Moynihan said today at an investor conference
in New York. The CEO of the second-largest  U.S. bank  spoke as
speculation swirled that  Greece  will abandon the euro and the
currency slumped to a two-year low against the dollar.  “It’d be not a very pleasant day and hopefully it never
happens,” Moynihan said. “It would have a pretty good knock-on
effect in terms of slowing down the world for a while, until the
world figured out what this meant and what would happen.”  Bank of America and its rivals are under pressure as new
regulations pinch revenue and Europe’s debt crisis roils
financial markets. The turmoil intensified as  Italy  failed to
meet its maximum target at a debt sale,  Spain  struggled to
bolster its banks and a Greek poll showed gains for parties
opposed to austerity that came with an international bailout.  “We worry about it a lot, and the only thing you can do is
continue to position your direct position as well as you can,”
said Moynihan, whose bank is based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  European Assets  The firm reported $15.1 billion in loans, counterparty risk
and investments in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain as
of the first quarter, before hedges meant to minimize risk.
That’s down from $15.3 billion in the fourth quarter, and a
small fraction of the bank’s $2.2 trillion in total assets. Much
of the European exposure is with large firms that operate around
the world, Moynihan said.  In the U.S., Moynihan said  consumer spending  is being
helped by lower gasoline prices and corporations keep finding
ways to adjust their models to bolster profit.  “Europe and everything colors the viewpoint of the people
around the  capital markets ,” Moynihan said. “But if you look
out in general America, consumer spending is consistently up
month after month after month.” Some of the bank’s business
teams need to do a better job to increase commercial lending,
Moynihan said.  Bank of America gained 34 percent this year through
yesterday’s close, the best showing in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average. (INDU)  The shares were still down about 36 percent from year-
earlier levels, and dropped another 4.3 percent to $7.11 as of
12:27 p.m. in New York.  Expense Targets  Moynihan’s goals include trimming as much as $8 billion in
expenses, including 30,000 job cuts in retail and support
operations. More than 300 jobs may be eliminated from corporate
and investment banking and trading units, a person familiar with
the matter has said.  Moynihan, 52, has said he’s counting on trading to help
revive income at the lender, whose consumer operations have been
hobbled by more than $42 billion of expenses tied to faulty
mortgages and foreclosures.  While Moynihan said he’s striving to put those problems
behind the company, Bank of America had to meet a new demand
this month from  Freddie Mac , the mortgage buyer controlled by
the U.S., for refunds on $330 million of defective home loans.
Most of the mortgage pools affected were drawn up as recently as
2010 and 2011, according to analysts at Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net 
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  