-- BP Russian JV Must Change Owner Structure, Partner Says
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-05-30T23:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/bp-russian-venture-must-change-ownership-structure-partners-say.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s billionaire partners in
Russia’s third-biggest oil producer are ready to dissolve the
equal ownership structure of TNK-BP as tensions mount between
the shareholders.  “One thing that’s clear is that the 50-50 arrangement has
run its course and it’s time to realign the ownership
structure,”  Stan Polovets , the Chief Executive Officer of AAR,
which represents the billionaires, said in a phone interview
broadcast on Russian state television channel RT. AAR is open to
buying out BP from venture or could swap its shares for a stake
in the London-based company, he said.  Instability at TNK-BP threatens a venture that provides
about 25 percent of BP’s output and contributed $3.7 billion to
the U.K. oil producer’s cash flow last year. Polovets’s comments
come after  Mikhail Fridman , one of the Russian investors, quit
as CEO this week. TNK-BP’s board hasn’t met this year because
shareholders can’t agree on an independent director.  “Perhaps the Russian oligarchs want to get a seat on the
board of BP and buy a place in the global elite,”  Alexei Kokin ,
an oil analyst at Uralsib Capital, said by phone. “Any major
change in the shareholder structure doesn’t sound doable unless
there is a high level agreement” involving Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , he said.  The AAR partners want to remain investors in the oil
industry, either becoming controlling owners in TNK-BP or
“significant shareholders” in BP itself, Polovets said.  Bid Rejected  BP sought to buy out AAR last year in a $32 billion deal
with state-run OAO Rosneft to overcome the billionaires’
challenge to their planned share swap and Arctic exploration
deal. AAR rejected the bid, and the BP-Rosneft alliance
collapsed. TNK-BP’s management provided a report on seeking
damages from BP in relation to the alliance to the board of
directors in December. The board hasn’t met since then.  BP will discuss any proposals from AAR directly with them,
 Toby Odone , a spokesman for BP in London, said in an e-mail.  Fitch Ratings said yesterday TNK-BP faces a crisis as
management paralysis prevents strategic decision making.  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the venture’s traded unit, fell 2.6 percent
to close at 81.80 rubles yesterday in Moscow, the biggest drop
in a week, cutting its market value to about $37 billion. BP
fell 2.1 percent in London.  AAR’s supervisory board consists of Fridman,  Viktor Vekselberg  and German Khan, who are management board members at
the oil venture,; and Len Blavatnik, the founder of Access
Industries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  