-- Brazil Signals More Cuts After Reducing Rate to Record Low
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-05-31T13:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/brazil-cuts-rate-to-record-low-8-5-as-euro-crisis-deepens-1-.html
Brazil  cut its benchmark interest
rate to a record low and signaled it will lower borrowing costs
further as a fragile world economy contains inflation risks.  Policy makers led by bank President Alexandre Tombini voted
unanimously to lower the Selic rate by a half-point to 8.5
percent last night, as forecast by 61 of 70 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Policy makers, in a statement, said that inflation
risks are “limited” and that “fragility” abroad is having a
“disinflationary” impact in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Brazil has cut borrowing costs by four percentage points
since August, the most in the Group of 20, to try and revive
growth. The monetary stimulus and efforts to prop up spending
through tax cuts have yet to kick in as the economy  unexpectedly
contracted  in March after shrinking in January and February. A
report today showed industrial output shrank in April for the
ninth time in 10 months.  “The statement increases the chances that interest rates
will be cut to below 8 percent,” said  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Votorantim Ctvm Ltda.  While Padovani isn’t changing for now his call for two more
quarter point cuts before the easing cycle ends, he said the
bank left the door open for a half-point cut at its next meeting
in July and more after that.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell seven
basis points at 9:55 a.m. Brasilia time. The real weakened 0.1
percent to 2.0187 per U.S. dollar.  Traders’ Bets  Traders are already wagering the Selic will fall to at
least 8 percent by August, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on rate futures contracts.  “There is no reference in the statement to suggest the
potential near-term ending of the current easing cycle,”
 Alberto Ramos , chief Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said in an emailed statement.  World stock markets have lost about  $3.9 trillion  since the
start of May as investors speculate that  Greece  could leave the
17-nation  euro zone  this year.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  Spain ’s 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German notes yesterday soared
to 5.37 percentage points, up from 4.01 percentage points on
April 12. The spread of Brazil’s  U.S. dollar  bonds over
Treasuries has risen 55 basis points to 2.38 percentage points
over the same period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The turmoil in  Europe  and a slowdown in  China , the biggest
buyer of South America’s commodities, has been hobbling growth.
The central bank’s seasonally adjusted  economic activity  index,
a proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.35 percent in March,
surprising all 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey whose median
forecast was for 0.49 percent growth.  Slow Recovery  The economy’s recovery from a  contraction  in the third
quarter has been slower than expected, Tombini said May 21. GDP
likely expanded 0.5 percent in the first three months of the
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 46 analysts ahead of
tomorrow’s first quarter growth report. Factory output fell in
13 of 27 sectors.  While low  unemployment  and increased credit have sustained
demand, industrial output fell 0.2 percent in April and 2.9
percent from a year, the national statistics agency reported
today.  Policy makers last week redoubled their efforts to spur
spending, freeing up 18 billion reais ($8.9 billion) in  reserve
requirements  held at the central bank so that lenders can boost
credit to car buyers. Auto sales fell 10.8 percent in April from
the year before, leading  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz unit and
Volvo AB to temporarily halt assembly lines in Brazil.  Economists are doubtful Brazil can spend its way back to
faster growth, and in a central bank survey this week cut their
forecast for 2012 growth to below 3 percent for the first time
this year.  Savings Rules Triggered  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has also abandoned the
government’s goal of 4.5 percent growth this year. Brazil will
grow more slowly this year than Russia, India and China,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Yesterday’s rate cut aids President  Dilma Rousseff ’s drive
to reduce interest rates that less than a decade ago stood at
26.5 percent and are still the second-highest in the G-20. It
also triggers the end of government-guaranteed returns on
 savings accounts  that could’ve led investors to dump fixed-
income assets as borrowing costs fall to unseen lows. Under the
new rules announced this month, the accounts will pay 70 percent
of the Selic when the key rate falls to 8.5 percent or lower.  Interest rates  charged on Brazilian consumer loans fell
close to record lows this month, as the government stepped up
pressure on private banks to reduce what Rousseff called
“unacceptable” spreads.  Inflation Concern  Even as manufacturing is weak, inflation remains a concern.
The pace of price increases slowed for a seventh month in April,
to 5.1 percent, and economists forecast inflation will stay
above the bank’s 4.5 percent target through 2013.  A 14 percent decline by the real over the past three
months, the most of 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, is
also raising the cost of imports. The IGP-M  price index , which
is heavily weighted in wholesale goods that reflect the
currency’s slide impact on imported materials, rose in May at
the fastest pace in 18 months.  Still, the tax cuts and a seasonal decline in clothing and
food purchases should restrain price pressures in the near term
and  inflation  is likely to end the year at 5 percent or lower,
said Flavio Serrano, a senior economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank.  “We may see inflation by the end of this year quite close
to the target,” Serrano said before the rate decision, adding
that he expects the central bank to raise the Selic to 9.5
percent next year as inflation accelerates to 6 percent. “The
problem is next year, as the lagged effects of monetary policy
and these measures to boost consumption take effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  