-- Bristol-Myers Tests Sprycel in Lung Cancer in New Study
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-05-30T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/bristol-myers-tests-sprycel-in-lung-cancer-in-new-study.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  started a
new trial of leukemia drug Sprycel in patients with  lung cancer 
after the medicine appeared to help cure one man.  Among 34 patients given Sprycel in an earlier study, one
man has remained cancer-free for four and a half years,
according to research published today in the journal Science
Translational Medicine. Only 2 percent of patients survive that
long with advanced lung cancer. An analysis showed the man was
the only one from the trial they could find that had a type of
mutation, called BRAF-Y472C, that Sprycel targets.  Bristol-Myers now plans to test Sprycel in patients with
non-small cell lung cancer who have the same mutation as well as
another susceptible to the drug called DDR2. About 4 percent of
lung cancer patients have the BRAF mutation, which is more
common in melanoma and thyroid cancer, said Faye Johnson at the
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston and primary investigator
for the new Bristol-Myers trial.  “We’ve got to figure out how this happened and do it
again,” Johnson said in a telephone interview. “We’re not
looking for subtle responses; we’re looking for profound
responses.”  The findings show how medicines designed to target gene
mutations in one cancer can be applied to other malignancies
with the same abnormality. These results have spurred drugmakers
such as Bristol-Myers to focus their  cancer research  on so-
called targeted therapies.  Patient Subsets  “Treating lung cancer the same way doesn’t work for
everybody,” said Johnson. “Now that the molecular biology is
really catching up with the disease, you’re going to see more
and more treatments that are geared to specific subsets of
patients.”  Lung cancer is the top killer among cancers in the U.S.,
according to the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
in Atlanta.  Bristol-Myers’ new  study  will examine 73 lung cancer
patients and follow them for 24 months to see how their tumors
respond. It should have early results within six months, Johnson
said.  Sprycel is approved to treat the blood cancers chronic
myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It generated
$803 million in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  