-- Brooklyn Botanic, Lush Governors Island Ease City Life: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/brooklyn-botanic-lush-governors-island-ease-city-life-review.html
Posing as a sleek glass-and-aluminum
folly, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden’s new 20,000-square-foot, $28
million visitor center was built as an environmentally themed
lesson plan. The educational mission goes down easy.  Luckily for  New Yorkers , the city’s park-building
renaissance continues, with inventive design going well beyond
trees and grass.  Governors Island, a 172-acre former Army and Coast Guard
base, broke ground May 24 on a miniature forest and a welcoming
ferry-boat landing. Elements in the $75 million first phase
suggest the heavily built-up island will be transformed into a
world-class park.  Manhattan’s  High Line  has spurred travel-writer hosannas
and billions of dollars of residential development -- an
economic bounce arguably greater than the “Bilbao effect,”
attributed to the Guggenheim Bilbao art museum that  Frank Gehry 
wrapped in coils of titanium.  Developers aren’t the only happy park advocates. When
wallets are too light for nights on the town or beach vacations,
parks can make the city highly livable.  Manhattan  architects  Marion Weiss and Michael Manfredi
advertise the long-hidden presence of the Brooklyn Botanic
Garden with a butterfly-roofed entrance facing Washington
Avenue, behind the limestone grandeur of the Brooklyn Museum of
Art.  A plaza featuring a storm-water-retaining garden draws the
visitor into a curving path roofed by glass. It wanders between
a shop and a pavilion with interpretive exhibits and an event
space that frames a garden panorama.  Away From Asphalt  A second path leads from the Eastern Parkway entrance and
overlooks the entire garden before it curves around the mounded
form of the center’s planted roof. Then it slips through the
building and drops down a stairway to meet the Washington Street
path at a pleasant terrace dotted with tables and chairs.  The serpentine pathways take you away from the brick and
asphalt of the city as they open to wisteria-draped lawns and
azalea-dappled forests.  The roof helps anchor the center into a slope. It should
turn into a thigh-high field of waving grasses -- the very
essence of garden romance.  Though little changed from the military base it was for 200
years, it’s no wonder Governor’s Island attracted 450,000
visitors last summer. Tree-lined streets convey you past elegant
19th-century residences facing an undulating meadow from which
erupts the stone ramparts of the 1809 Fort Jay. A shoreline bike
path unfolds stunning vistas of the city, the bay and the Statue
of Liberty.  Mazelike Ovals  New construction will transform the neglected southern end
of the island. The Trust for  Governors Island  will install a
curving network of intertwined paths planted with flower beds
and mazelike ovals of trimmed hedges designed by the Rotterdam-
based landscape architect West 8. The paths lie within the wings
of a vast Georgian-style regimental building erected in 1924.  With wide curbs that rise sensuously to form benches, the
paths wander into a dense grove of trees hung with dozens of
hammocks. By next summer the trees will open to a broad meadow
filled with playing fields backdropped by the Statue of Liberty.  It’s another addition to the new waterfront parks that
deftly poke through city shorelines long walled off by roads,
rails, factories and wharfs.  Funding all these parks -- usually through a combination of
government sources and private giving -- has not been easy.
Finding the dollars to maintain them has become more
challenging. Yet as the days warm, I join the millions rejoicing
in this extraordinary legacy.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 