-- BTG Adding to $2.3 Billion Bet on Retail: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-30T22:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/btg-adds-to-2-3-billion-bet-on-retail-demand-corporate-brazil.html
BTG Pactual Participations Ltd (BBTG11) ’s
acquisition of Leader Participacoes SA,  Brazil ’s fourth
consumer-related deal in a week, represents a bet that record
low unemployment and rising incomes will reignite the  economy .  BTG, the Brazilian investment bank that went public last
month, said yesterday its private-equity arm will buy 40 percent
of Leader with an option to take 30 percent more of the
furniture and clothing retailer in 90 days. The plan brings the
total for announced acquisitions in Brazil’s consumer industry
since May 24 to $2.3 billion, including  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s purchase of
cachaca brand Ypioca,  Thomas H. Lee Partners  LP’s agreement to
buy Fogo de Chao Churrascaria LLC, a barbecue chain, and General
Mills Inc.’s takeover of Yoki Alimentos SA.  The acquisitions are taking place as growth in the world’s
second-largest emerging economy falters, contributing to the 15
percent drop in the Bovespa index this quarter. While economic
activity contracted in each of the first three months of 2012,
the nation’s  unemployment rate  fell in April, workers’ average
incomes rose and the central bank is forecast by analysts to cut
 interest rates  for a seventh straight meeting today.  “We have a very positive view of the domestic demand and
economic growth,” Carlos Fonseca, BTG’s merchant banking chief,
told reporters on a conference call yesterday. “We are very
optimistic, especially taking into consideration this tendency
of the reduction in interest rates.”  Economists surveyed by the central bank cut their forecasts
for Brazil’s economic growth this year for a third week. Gross
domestic product will expand 2.99 percent in 2012, according to
the weekly survey published May 28, after posting growth of 2.7
percent last year.  Discount Widens  The slump in the benchmark Bovespa index has made consumer-
related stocks in Brazil cheap relative to global peers. The
price-to-book ratio for shares in the MSCI Brazil/Consumer
Discretionary Index fell to 1.62 on May 23, an 18 percent
 discount  to the MSCI World/Consumer Discretionary Index, the
widest gap in seven years. The ratio has since climbed to 1.70.  Three consumer stocks are among the  10 best performers  in
the 68-share  Bovespa (IBOV)  since the beginning of the year. Sao Paulo-
based Hypermarcas SA jumped 24 percent since the beginning of
2012, while  Cia Hering (HGTX3) , located in Blumenau, rose 27 percent.
Lojas Renner SA, based in  Porto Alegre , climbed 21 percent.  BTG declined 2 percent to 26.38 reais in Sao Paulo. It has
fallen 16 percent since its IPO on April 24.  BTG Strategy  The Leader acquisition is in line with Sao Paulo-based
BTG’s strategy of focusing on companies with potential to grow
in the expanding economy, Fonseca said on the conference call.  BTG’s private equity unit said it bought a minority stake
in Brazilian physical-fitness chain Bodytech on April 30,
without disclosing the amount of the acquisition. It also has a
minority stake at  Brazil Pharma SA (BPHA3) , a retail pharmacies chain.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  announced on May 21 a
stimulus package worth 18 billion reais that included reduced
 reserve requirements  so lenders can boost credit for car
purchases, cuts on vehicles tax and more subsidized funding from
the state development bank to companies that invest in
equipment. The economic activity index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, unexpectedly declined in March, after falling
in January and February.  Government Stimulus  While the government’s stimulus has focused on higher
priced items, such as vehicles, Brazilians continue to buy lower
priced goods, driving  retail sales  to a 12.5 percent increase in
March from a year earlier, the largest jump since March 2010.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said last week
that record low unemployment and wage increases, along with
credit growth, are helping sustain domestic demand even as
economic growth slowed.  Brazil’s  unemployment rate  declined in April to 6 percent
from 6.2 percent the month before, while workers’ average income
rose 6.2 percent from a year ago to 1,719.50 reais a month, the
national statistics agency said on May 24.  “Aside from Brazil’s economic performance, some sectors
are more attractive than others, and the consumer sector is one
of these,” Silvio Laban, professor of marketing at Insper
business school in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview.
“What moves consumption is income and employment, two variables
that so far are giving positive signs.”  Diageo, based in  London , said in a May 28 statement it will
pay 900 million reais for the brand and some production assets
from  Ypioca Agroindustrial Ltda. , located in Fortaleza, as it
expands in faster-growing  emerging markets .  “Brazil is an attractive, fast-growing market for Diageo
with favorable demographics and increasing disposable incomes,”
Diageo Chief Executive Officer  Paul Walsh  said in the statement.  Falling Rates  GP Investments Ltd., a Brazilian private equity fund,
agreed to sell the restaurant chain Fogo de Chao to Thomas H.
Lee Partners, a Boston-based private equity firm, according to a
Brazilian regulatory filing May 29.  General Mills (GIS) , the maker of Cheerios cereal and Yoplait
yogurt, agreed to buy food maker Yoki Alimentos, located in Sao
Bernardo do Campo, for about 1.75 billion reais to more than
double its Latin American sales, according to a company filing.
The acquisition will give Minneapolis-based General Mills nine
brands with more than 600 items, including popcorn, soups and
seasonings, and boost its Latin American sales to more than $1
billion.  While interest rates are falling and the government is
encouraging more borrowing, Brazilians’ debt load is climbing.
Debt totaled a record 43 percent of earnings in the 12 months to
March. Households in  Latin America ’s largest economy spend 22.3
percent of their income paying debt, up from 19.8 percent a year
ago and compared with 10.9 percent in the U.S., the latest data
from the nations’ central banks show.  Growth Platform  Traders expect the Brazilian central bank to reduce the
benchmark Selic rate to a record low of 8.5 percent today,
according to the median estimate of 63 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Brazil has cut borrowing costs 350 basis points, or
3.5 percentage points, to 9 percent, since August.  With Rio de Janeiro-based Leader, BTG’s private equity unit
is taking on 72 stores, with plans to open about 19 more,
Fonseca said.  BTG sees some “strategic acquisitions” for
Leader, and wants to expand the company beyond the eight states
where it is located now, Fonseca said.  “This company brings into our portfolio a growth
platform” in the retail sector, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  