-- California Note Sale May Top $10 Billion, Chiang Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/california-note-sale-may-top-10-billion-chiang-says.html
California , the most indebted state,
may need to sell more than $10 billion in short-term securities
in order to pay bills through the fiscal year that begins in
July, Controller John Chiang said.  The size of the revenue-anticipation note sale may exceed
previous estimates as tax collections have trailed projections
and the state exhausted most of its internal borrowing ability,
Chiang said in an interview yesterday in Bloomberg’s San
Francisco office.  “It could be more,” said Chiang, a 49-year-old Democrat.
“The question is whether there is market capacity.”  A $10 billion sale would be the largest since 2010.
California lost more than 1 million jobs in the recession that
started in 2007, reducing revenue by 24 percent. This year, the
largest state by population borrowed $5.4 billion in September
and had to seek another $1 billion in February after tax
collections fell short and spending exceeded expectations.  State and local governments commonly sell short-term notes
-- usually payable in one year -- to bolster  cash flow  until tax
receipts increase later in the year. The amount of the issue in
the coming fiscal year will be determined by cash-flow
projections compiled by Chiang and Governor  Jerry Brown ’s budget
office, and the final budget due July 1.  Brown, a Democrat, announced May 14 that California’s
deficit had swollen to $15.7 billion from $9.2 billion in
January, after income-tax collections came in 20 percent below
what he had estimated in his spending plan.  The state’s chief financial officer, Chiang is also
responsible for auditing state agencies, school districts and
other elements of local government.  Audits Planned  Chiang, whose staff is investigating the financial
practices of near-bankrupt Stockton, said his office’s planned
audit of about 400 recently abolished redevelopment agencies in
California will help identify other troubled municipalities.  “That is really going to unmask the financial wherewithal
of a lot of these jurisdictions,” Chiang said. “Have they been
spending properly? Have they been borrowing properly? If they
have not, it’s going to expose quite a bit.”  The redevelopment agency audits are a requirement of the
law the California Legislature approved last year to eliminate
them. Audits of Hercules, a city of 24,000 in the San Francisco
Bay Area, found “glaring holes” in accounting and management
of state and federal funds, according to a May 10 news release.  “The staff at Hercules, finance staff, said their
redevelopment agencies were operated horribly,” Chiang said
yesterday. “But we already know Hercules is troubled. The
question is: What’s happening with other jurisdictions?”  California Bankruptcies  California is home to two of the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcies: Orange County, which filed in 1994 after losing
$1.7 billion on investments; and Vallejo, in 2008, after failing
to win union concessions.  Chiang, who serves on the governing board of the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest public pension
in the U.S., said the fund is likely to lower its assumed rate
of return again after dropping it to 7.5 percent in March from
7.75 percent.  The rate is used to calculate how much money the plan will
need to cover promised benefits, and what employers must
contribute. While the fund’s actuary recommended lowering the
rate to 7.25 percent, the Calpers board resisted, saying it
would burden local governments when they were already facing
financial strains.  “I thing we are going to have to continue to drop the
discount rate,” Chiang said. “The reality is that you drop it
too quickly, you put a world of hurt on the state’s finances.
You would have jurisdictions face even greater financial
difficulties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  