-- Canadian Dollar Loses Most in a Month Since September on Europe
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-31T21:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/canadian-dollar-depreciates-along-with-euro-on-safety-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar had the biggest
monthly loss since September against its U.S. counterpart as
risk appetite faded on  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing growth
in America, the nation’s biggest trading partner.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, touched the weakest level this year
against the U.S. dollar. Canada’s current-account deficit
widened in the first quarter, data showed, adding to signs the
slackening pace of global economic expansion will cut demand for
its exports. Yields on 10- and 30-year government bonds dropped
to record lows.  “The loonie has been swept up in concerns over Europe and
its potential impact on global growth,” said Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, said in a
phone interview from Toronto. “There is a lot of  risk aversion 
in the market, and that suggests that the Canadian dollar has
scope to fall even further against the greenback.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0328 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0366, the weakest level since Dec. 20, after gaining 0.4
percent earlier. The loonie lost 4.4 percent in May. One
Canadian dollar buys 96.82 U.S. cents.  Canada’s currency pared losses as U.S. stocks fluctuated
after erasing declines.  Current Account  The nation’s current-account  deficit  widened to C$10.3
billion ($10 billion) in the first quarter from a revised C$9.7
billion in the fourth quarter of 2011, as exports of industrial
goods declined, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The
current account is the broadest measure of international trade,
encompassing goods, services and investment.  Exports make up a third of Canada’s economy, with three-
quarters destined for the U.S. Raw materials including oil
account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  Government bonds  climbed for a second day, pushing yields
on Canada’s benchmark  10-year security  down to 1.713 percent,
the lowest level in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
1989. Yields on the country’s 30-year debt reached a record low
2.278 percent.  Canada will sell $2.6 billion of 10-year notes on June 6,
according to a statement today on a central-bank website. The
2.75 percent securities are due in June 2022.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback approached the highest level since
January. It touched 10.34 percent, from a close of 10 percent
yesterday. It reached 10.45 percent on May 21, the most since
Jan. 6, after falling to 6.59 percent on April 30. The 10-year
average is 10 percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Volatility, Weakness  “Volatility typically equates to Canadian dollar
weakness,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto, said in a phone interview.
He said the currency could trade in a range of C$1.04 to
C$1.0425 if turmoil in Europe continues to roil markets.  Spanish bond yields traded at almost the highest since
November amid concern the nation’s banks will seek bailouts, and
 Greece  prepared for elections on June 17.  “The European situation has gone from bad to worse, and
that has meant horrible performance for the loonie, as global
growth concerns remain heightened,” said  Steve Butler , managing
director in Toronto at Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital
unit. “The more you look at the problem, it’s clear this is
something that isn’t going to be fixed for a long time.”  Greek Poll  U.S. stocks fluctuated after reversing losses as a Greek
opinion poll showed support for the largest pro-bailout party
and a Wall Street Journal report indicated the  International
Monetary Fund  has started discussing contingency plans for a
rescue of  Spain . The IMF is not preparing financial aid for
Spain, nor has the country sought a loan, a fund spokesman said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down 0.2 percent at
closing after losing as much as 1.1 percent and gaining 0.5
percent. It fell 6.3 percent in May. Crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, slid to the lowest since October. Crude for July
delivery dropped to $85.86 a barrel in  New York , compared with a
closing on May 1 of $106.16.  The loonie gained 1 percent over the past month versus nine
developed-nation counterparts monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  was up 6.2
percent, and the yen climbed 8.4 percent, as investors sought
refuge from Europe’s debt crisis. The euro weakened 1.6 percent.  Relative Strength  The greenback rose to 70.3 on the 14-day relative strength
index against the Canadian dollar, its first day this week above
70 in a move that signals a currency may be poised to reverse
direction. It touched 73.6 on May 25, the highest since October.  The Canadian currency will strengthen to parity with the
U.S. dollar by the end of September before gaining to 99 cents
by March 2013, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 42 economists.  The loonie erased early gains after the U.S. Commerce
Department reported gross domestic product increased at a 1.9
percent annual rate from January through March, down from a 2.2
percent prior estimate, revised Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington .  Employment data in the U.S. and Canadian  gross domestic
product  figures, both due tomorrow, may increase investor demand
for North American currencies, Butler said. U.S. payrolls added
150,000 jobs in May, after an increase of 115,000 in April, and
the Canadian economy grew 1.9 percent from January through March
in its third quarterly gain, Bloomberg surveys forecast.  Canada’s retail sales rose more than forecast in March,
gaining 0.4 percent,  Statistics Canada  reported last week. Other
data in this month have also suggested domestic demand will
boost the nation’s economic growth, including the biggest two-
month job gain in three decades and gains in wholesale trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  