-- Canada Senate to Consider Bill Ending Railroad Strike
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-30T12:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/canadian-lawmakers-pass-legislation-to-end-cp-rail-strike.html
Canada’s House of Commons passed
legislation forcing an end to the weeklong strike at  Canadian
Pacific  Railway Ltd. that clogged industry supply chains and
hampered traffic at the country’s two biggest ports.  The law, which would send all unresolved issues between
Canadian Pacific and its workers to binding arbitration, will
now be debated in the Senate where ruling Conservatives may use
their majority to pass the bill in one day. Labor Minister Lisa Raitt, who introduced the proposal, has said rail service may
resume as early as tomorrow.  Freight traffic on the Canadian lines of the country’s
second-largest railroad has been halted since Teamsters union
members struck on May 23. Under Raitt’s bill, Canadian Pacific
and the union would have 90 days to settle on a new contract or
have a new labor agreement created by an arbitrator.  The  Teamsters Canada Rail Conference , representing more
than 4,000 engineers, conductors and rail-traffic controllers,
is at odds with Calgary-based Canadian Pacific over matters
including pension payments and work rules.  The railroad sought to cut costs after contributing C$1.9
billion ($1.85 billion) to its retirement programs in the past
three years to reduce funding shortfalls, while union members
resisted what they said was a 40 percent cut in post-retirement
benefits.  The pensions helped push Canadian Pacific’s operating
expenses as a percentage of sales above those of its peers.
Those costs were criticized by activist investor  William Ackman 
during a months-long proxy fight that led to the departure of
CEO  Fred Green  and five other board members on May 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  