-- Canada’s Banks Miss Profits Overlooking Women, Group Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-30T17:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/canada-s-banks-miss-profits-overlooking-women-group-says.html
Canada ’s capital markets firms could
boost earnings and gain new perspectives by promoting women to
management, according to a report released today.  Women represent about 10 percent of managing directors and
higher ranks at such companies, and the industry made
“virtually no gains” in the past decade in promoting women to
senior positions, according to the  study  commissioned by
nonprofits  Catalyst  and Women In Capital Markets. A more diverse
workplace would lower turnover and improve profitability, said
the groups, which surveyed about 100 people at Canadian banks
and other firms from Oct. 5 to Oct. 19.  “Leaders, talent managers and professionals need to renew
action plans to close the gaps,” said Deborah Gillis, a senior
vice president at Catalyst. “It is costing the Canadian  capital
markets  the ability to genuinely attract, advance and hold on to
the most talented women.”  Catalyst, an organization founded in 1962 that advances and
supports female leaders in business, and Toronto-based  Women In
Capital Markets  said that investment banks, brokerages and other
companies should adopt plans that include establishing program
sponsorships and greater networking.  “To be most effective, this plan must inject extra
scrutiny to ensure fairness in decision-making, zero-tolerance
for poor management and accountability for leadership
behavior,” Martha Fell, chief executive officer of Women In
Capital Markets, said in a statement.  ‘Vital Link’  Robert Dorrance, CEO of TD Securities Inc., the top
arranger of Canadian stock sales in 2011, said his firm is
taking steps to recruit women.  “We agree more has to be done to hire and promote women
leaders,” Dorrance said in an e-mail. “In addition, we have a
three-year plan in place inside the dealer aimed at recruitment,
retention and advancement of women and will be leveraging the
findings in the report released today.”  Toronto, Canada’s most populous city, is the second-largest
financial-services center in  North America  behind New York,
according to the  Toronto Financial Services Alliance . It is home
to Canada’s five biggest banks, including  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and Bank of  Nova Scotia .  Men at all levels of firms should help to develop the
strategies, and companies should “promote the vital link
between gender diversity and business results amongst all
employees,” the nonprofits said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 