-- Capital Gains Fault Line as Obama-Romney Tax Plans Differ
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-30T15:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/capital-gains-fault-line-as-obama-romney-tax-plans-differ.html
President  Barack Obama  and Republican
opponent  Mitt Romney  want to move the top capital gains tax rate
in opposite directions, with a single number emphasizing their
divisions on economic and fiscal policy.  Romney proposes keeping the current 15 percent capital
gains rate for the estimated 2 percent of households making more
than $200,000 a year and eliminating investment taxes for
everyone else. Obama wants the rate to rise to 23.8 percent as
scheduled in 2013.  Their differences on capital gains reflect the presidential
candidates’ broader disputes over the  tax code  and how much of
the tax burden should rest on the nation’s highest earners.
Obama says he’s seeking fairness through higher levies while
Romney maintains that tax increases would impede economic
growth. Because of that divide, investors deciding when to sell
their assets will have billions of dollars riding on the
election’s outcome.  “It’s significant to go from 15 to 20,” said Tim Speiss,
a partner in charge of the personal wealth group at EisnerAmper
LLP in  New York  who said in cases where asset prices are at
certain levels, his clients are considering selling late in 2012
before the scheduled rate increase. “It makes it much more
significant if you’re going to take it to 23.8.”  Scheduled Increases  The current 15 percent top capital gains rate compares with
a 35 percent top tax rate for ordinary income. Unless Congress
acts, the top capital gains rate will increase to 20 percent in
2013, raising  $36 billion  over 10 years, according to the
administration. An additional 3.8 percentage point increase for
the highest-earning taxpayers is set to take effect in 2013, to
help pay for the 2010 health-care law.  Romney and Obama would narrow the current 20 percentage-
point gap between the top ordinary income and capital gains
rates. Obama’s most recent budget called for a 39.6 percent top
tax rate and a 23.8 percent capital gains rate, for a 15.8
percentage point difference. Romney wants to cut the top
ordinary tax rate to 28 percent, yielding a 13-point gap with
the 15 percent capital gains rate.  Congress set capital gains and regular income tax rates at
28 percent in the bipartisan 1986 tax code overhaul signed by
President  Ronald Reagan . Subsequent cuts in the capital gains
rates and increases in ordinary income rates led to today’s
margin between the two.  Taxing the Top Earners  The preferential rate on long-term capital gains provides
benefits that accrue mostly to taxpayers at the top of the
income scale, making the issue a crucible for political
differences over how to tax the highest U.S. earners. The debate
over one of the most significant tax breaks enjoyed by the top
0.1 percent of earners centers on whether lower capital gains
rates are a boon to investment or an unfair advantage for the
wealthy.  Eliminating preferential rates on capital gains and
dividends would reduce by 5.8 percent the  after-tax income  of
households making more than $1 million a year, compared with a
drop of 0.9 percent for all U.S. households, according to the
 Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in Washington.
Romney had $12.1 million in long-term capital gains in 2010, or
more than half his income, according to his  tax return . Some of
that money came from the carried interest, or profit share,
stemming from Bain Capital LLC, the private-equity firm he led.  When to Sell Assets  “If you want to tax the rich, a really effective way to do
it is to tax capital gains,” said  Leonard Burman , a professor
at  Syracuse University  who said the lower rate drives taxpayers
to search for ways to make regular income look like capital
gains.  Because taxpayers can choose when to sell assets and
realize capital gains, this kind of income is more sensitive to
tax rate changes than wages.  “The magnitude of the response of capital gains
realizations to changes in tax rates has been a topic of
considerable debate,” the nonpartisan congressional  Joint
Committee on Taxation  wrote in 2011.  Obama describes his proposal to raise capital gains taxes
for high earners as a matter of fairness. In addition to the
higher base rates, Obama wants to impose a so-called Buffett
rule that would require the highest earners to pay a minimum tax
of 30 percent, effectively raising the top capital gains rate
higher.  ‘Richer You Are’  “Capital gains are taxed at 15 percent,” Obama said in
August 2011 at a town hall meeting in Illinois. “Now, your
income taxes, you’re not being taxed at 15 percent, most of you.
And as a consequence, these days the richer you are, the lower
your tax rate.”  Romney and his backers say higher tax rates risk damaging
the economy.  “The president wants to raise the capital gains tax
rate,” Romney said in a Jan. 24 interview on the Fox News
Channel. “If he does so he will kill  job creation  in this
country to some degree, depending on how much he raises it.”  In 2010, the most recent year for which preliminary data
are available, U.S. taxpayers reported $320 billion in capital
gains, most of which are taxed at preferential rates, according
to the  Internal Revenue Service . The congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation estimates that lower rates for capital
gains and dividends are costing the Treasury $93.1 billion this
year in forgone revenue.  For and Against  Underlying the Obama-Romney debate are arguments for and
against having a preferential tax rate for capital gains.  Advocates of a lower rate contend that capital gains taxes
reduce the after-tax rate of return on new investment,
discourage people from putting their capital at risk and impose
taxes on savings.  “It will decrease investment,” said  Peter Schiff , chief
executive officer of Euro Pacific Capital Inc. “It will raise
the hurdle rate.”  Capital gains rates have fluctuated over time, and there’s
no clear correlation between lower taxes and economic growth or
investment, said  Laura Tyson , an economics professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley who was an adviser to
President  Bill Clinton .  “The evidence actually that a lower rate on capital gains
actually changed the amount of investment that occurred over
time was actually pretty weak,” said Tyson, who advocates
raising capital gains rates to help pay for reductions in the
corporate rate. “The evidence is divided. The effect isn’t
large.”  1987 Through 1989  For example, in 1987, 1988 and 1989, the three years after
the capital gains rate was raised to 28 percent while the
individual tax rate was lowered to 28 percent, the  U.S. economy 
grew by 3.2 percent, 4.1 percent and 3.6 percent. That was
slower growth than in the three previous years and faster growth
than in most of the period since 2003, when the most recent
capital-gains rate cut happened.  Looking at past economic performance after rate changes
obscures important developments in the global economy, said Jim McCrery, the former top Republican on the House Ways and Means
Committee. Capital is more mobile now, he said, and higher taxes
in the U.S. will drive investment out of the country.  “There are a lot of places around the world that are more
attractive for capital today than there were back in the ’90s
and certainly the ’80s and ’70s,” said McCrery, who is lobbying
for a coalition of companies that wants to keep the current tax
rate for capital gains and dividends. “Our tax system didn’t
matter that much. Today is different.”  Double Taxation  Besides the debate about investment and fairness, the back-
and-forth arguments on the importance of preferential rates
revolve around whether they mitigate the double taxation of
income that already has been subject to the 35 percent corporate
tax.  “You have to look at both levels of taxation to understand
why we have a 15 percent capital gains tax rate,” Romney said
in the Fox interview.  There are many cases in which the double-taxation argument
is untrue or only partially true, Burman said. Taxpayers can
earn capital gains from assets such as real estate that aren’t
subject to corporate taxation, and many companies don’t pay the
full 35 percent tax. Investors receive the benefits of tax
deferral, because capital gains taxes aren’t due until assets
are sold.  Furthermore, assets that aren’t sold when someone dies can
pass to heirs with the cost basis set at the value of the time
of death. When heirs sell the assets, they owe capital gains
taxes only on the difference between the sale price and the
value at death.  Separating out different kinds of capital gains is tough if
not impossible, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former director of
the  Congressional Budget Office  who was an adviser to 2008
Republican presidential candidate  John McCain .  “Have one rate, and then just fight about how high it
should be,” Holtz-Eakin said. “Which we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  