-- McCartney, 1,000 Boats, Jet Flypast Join Jubilee Weekend
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-01T15:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/mccartney-1-000-boats-jet-flypast-join-jubilee-weekend.html
London  is getting ready for a four-
day weekend of concerts, ceremony, pomp and street parties to
mark Queen Elizabeth’s Diamond Jubilee.  “Much Ado About Nothing” is at the Globe, the home of the
bard’s work. Theater group Hypermobile has taken over the
riverside venue with a quirky French take on the comedy, set in
a restaurant.  “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” comes to Regent’s Park with
Matthew Dunster directing a contemporary production.  Shakespeare’s Globe, 21 New Globe Walk, Bankside, SE1 9DT,
from today. Information:  http://www.shakespearesglobe.com , +44-
20-7902-1400. Open Air Theatre, Inner Circle, Regent’s Park, NW1
4NU, from tomorrow. Information:  http://openairtheatre.org  or
+844-826-4242.  Many Regent’s Park theatergoers start their evening with a
Champagne picnic. Fortnum & Mason is offering a Jubilee Picnic
for 40 pounds ($62), or you might prefer the Wicker for 200
pounds, which includes English sparkling wine and English rose.
Delivery is free on orders of 100 pounds or more. Information:
 http://bit.ly/KNt1Yp   Saturday  The Queen will be in the Royal Box at Epsom for this year’s
Derby tomorrow before her Jubilee celebrations move to London.
Bunting, street parties and traffic jams will be taking over the
center of town while she enjoys the races.  Many city restaurants are offering Jubilee menus and events
for the weekend. One of the best will be at the York &  Albany ,
which is planning a party on June 2 from midday to late,
featuring a barbecue and live music. Information:
 http://bit.ly/JJCbmA  or +44-20-7388-3344.  The Berkeley is offering a special afternoon treat, “Pret-
a Portea -- The Diamond Collection.” Biscuits, fancies and
choux buns have been transformed to resemble the most memorable
hats worn by the Royal Family. These include a praline
profiterole inspired by the Philip Treacy fascinator worn by
Princess Beatrice at the Royal Wedding last year, as well as
Angela Kelly’s Canadian maple leaf hat, worn by the Duchess of Cambridge in  Canada .  The price is 36.50 pounds a person and booking is
recommended. Information:  http://tinyurl.com/8yjvnma  or +44-20-
7107-8866.  Those wanting to celebrate a pop Queen rather than
Britain’s monarch may do well to head to the Design Museum.  The French shoemaker  Christian Louboutin  has his own
tribute to Tina Turner in his exhibition: a pair of fringed
high-heel boots called “Tina Forever.” It’s one of the more
wearable models on show; other pairs have sharp steel studs and
bondage handcuffs.  The display features footwear crafted with beer cans, palm
bark, and salmon-and-mackerel skin.  “Christian Louboutin” is at the Design Museum, Shad
Thames, London SE1 2YD, through July 9. Information:
 http://designmuseum.org  or +44-20-7940-8790.  Saturday Night  A geisha girl falls madly in love with a U.S. navy
lieutenant, only to watch him sail off and marry someone else.  Saturday night is your last chance to see “Madam
Butterfly” -- in the English National Opera production by the
late director Anthony Minghella. Kimonos, paper lanterns and
cherry-blossom branches add up to a visually rich and very
Japanese-looking spectacle.  Mary Plazas sings Butterfly.  English National Opera, London Coliseum, St. Martin’s Lane,
WC2N 4ES. Information:  http://www.eno.org , +44-20-7845-9300.  Sunday  More than 1,000 vessels, from the Royal Barge to tiny
rowboats, make their way down the  River Thames  on Sunday. They
will leave Albert Bridge and head to Tower Bridge.  There are plenty of places to see the all-afternoon
pageant, with family events in Battersea Park.  The Blue Elephant, London’s grandest Thai restaurant, has
relocated to beside the Thames, at Imperial Wharf. It’s an ideal
spot to view the flotilla. Chef Nooror Somany Steppe has created
a menu for 45 pounds ($70.50). Information:
 http://www.blueelephant.com/london/  or +44-20-7751-3111.  Skylon is another restaurant with great river views.
Information:  http://bit.ly/K7UMwC  or +44-20-7654-7800.  Monday  The June 4 diamond jubilee concert organized by Gary Barlow
is headlined by pop knights such as  Paul McCartney ,  Elton John 
and Cliff Richard; veterans such as  Stevie Wonder  and Dame Shirley Bassey;  Robbie Williams ,  Kylie Minogue  and Ed Sheeran.  Expect mass karaoke to songs such as “Hey Jude” and
“Angels.”  The show in front of Buckingham Palace will be watched by
20,000 fans, with tickets already allocated by a public ballot.
Those with invites also can join a Jubilee picnic in Buckingham
Palace Gardens before the evening event.  About 500,000 more people will watch via screens in The
Mall, Green Park and St. James’s Park. The show will also be
broadcast live by the  BBC .  Tuesday  A thanksgiving service at  St. Paul’s Cathedral  will be
followed by a carriage procession to  Buckingham Palace .  Crowds along the route will see brass bands, marching
soldiers and of course the Royal Family. There will be a Royal
Air Force flypast over The Mall at 3:30 p.m.  If you’d like to get out of town, chef  Heston Blumenthal ’s
Hinds Head pub in the village of Bray is recreating a jubilee-
style menu first served on April 23, 1963. On that day, the
queen hosted a luncheon in the private room, where the guests
included the king of  Norway  and the queens of Denmark and
 Sweden .  Information:  http://www.hindsheadbray.com/  or +44-1628-
626151. Blumenthal’s neighboring Crown at Bray will be serving a
special Jubilee Ale called “Diamond Reign,” with a floral
aroma.  To contact the writers on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net ;  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech ;
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 