-- Central Bank Sells Most Dollars in Year to Boost Sol: Lima Mover
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-30T20:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/central-bank-sells-most-dollars-in-year-to-boost-sol-lima-mover.html
Peru ’s central bank sold the most
dollars in a year as concern the euro zone’s fiscal crisis is
deepening curbed demand for soles.  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru sold $282 million in the
 spot market , the biggest sale since April 27 last year, when it
sold $492 million. The central bank also issued 200 million
soles ($74 million) in dollar-indexed certificates of deposit.  The central bank  sold dollars  last week for the first time
in seven months, dipping into a record $58 billion of
international reserves to stem a 2.4 percent slide in the sol
this month. The euro-zone crisis and domestic social unrest have
dimmed Peru’s growth outlook, central bank President Julio Velarde said yesterday. The bank intervenes in the spot market
to keep the sol near its “fundamental” value, he said.  “There’s a lot of demand from foreigners in response to
the drop in global markets,” said Gonzalo Navarro, head trader
at  Banco Santander  in  Lima . Investors in the forwards market are
betting the sol will weaken “in the coming days,” he said.  The sol fell 0.2 percent to 2.7050 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. The
currency touched 2.7065 on May 28, a six-month low.  U.S. and European stocks dropped today and the euro
weakened after  Italy  failed to meet its maximum target at a debt
sale and costs to protect Spanish government debt with default
swaps climbed to a record while a Greek poll showed support for
anti-austerity parties.  Peru declared a state of emergency in the southern Andean
community of Espinar May 28 after community protests against
 Xstrata Plc’s (XTA)  Tintaya copper mine led to four deaths.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 5.29 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.21 centimo to 116.70
centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  