-- Chelsea’s Deal to Sign Hulk 90 Percent Complete: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-30T07:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/chelsea-s-deal-to-sign-hulk-90-percent-complete-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Hulk Nears  Chelsea is nearing a 40 million-pound deal ($62.4 million)
to sign Porto striker Hulk with the transfer “90 percent
complete,” the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Personal terms with the Brazilian are said to have been
agreed, although the Portuguese club still wants a fee of 60
million pounds, which Chelsea will not pay, the Telegraph added.  Face-to-Face  Josep Guardiola wants a face-to-face meeting with Chelsea
owner  Roman Abramovich  before deciding whether or not to become
the club’s next manager, the  Sun reported .  The European champion is chasing the former Barcelona
coach, who met with Blues officials in  Spain  two days ago, with
an offer of 11 million pounds a year, the newspaper added.  Kagawa Close  Manchester United  is close to signing Borussia Dortmund’s
Shinji Kagawa for as much as 22 million euros ($27.4 million)
and also may acquire Crewe Alexandra’s attacking midfielder Nick
Powell, the  Guardian reported .  Kagawa, who is back in  Japan  and is said to have discussed
the move with his agent, is yet to agree on personal terms with
United, the Guardian added. Powell, 18, will decide whether he
will join the Red Devils in a prospective 4 million-pound
transfer when he returns from vacation, the paper said.  Liverpool Appointments  Liverpool may unveil Swansea’s Brendan Rodgers as its new
manager and Louis van Gaal as the club’s director of football
within days, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Rodgers is set to hold talks with Liverpool’s principal
owner John W. Henry, who has cooled his interest in hiring
Wigan’s  Roberto Martinez , the newspaper said. Martinez will
consider the manager’s job at  Aston Villa , the Mirror added.  Van Der Vaart Wanted  German club Schalke will bid 12 million pounds for
Tottenham Hotspur’s attacking midfielder Rafael van der Vaart,
who has become disillusioned at the London club, the  Sun
reported .  Schalke striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar asked for the signing
of his fellow Dutchman and the club is prepared to pay Van der
Vaart more than 100,000 pounds a week, the Sun added.  King Contract  Tottenham will offer defender  Ledley King , who will become
a free agent at the end of June, a new 12-month contract with an
option for a further year, the  Daily Mail reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  