-- Chesapeake Energy Investors Must Wait on Bid to Delay Meeting
-- B y   C a r o l   C r o w e - F r o w e   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/chesapeake-energy-investors-bid-to-delay-meeting-on-hold-1-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  investors
must wait until June 5 to have a judge consider requests to
delay the company’s annual meeting so shareholders can gather
more information on Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s
financial dealings, according to court filings.  U.S. District Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange in  Oklahoma  City,
Oklahoma, agreed yesterday to reschedule the hearing on
shareholders’ arguments that the natural-gas producer’s June 8
annual meeting should be put on hold. Investors contend that
McClendon’s compensation and loans he arranged to cover his
costs in a well-ownership program may have created conflicts of
interest.  The Oklahoma City-based  company’s shares  have dropped 48
percent in the past year. The effect of falling gas prices has
been compounded by McClendon’s use of personal stakes in the
company’s wells to obtain loans.  As of Dec. 31, McClendon, 52, had $846 million in loans
covering his well-ownership costs. The program, which allowed
him to own as much as 2.5 percent of almost every well the
company drilled, required the CEO to pay development costs
proportionate to his stake.  Chesapeake’s lawyers countered in court filings that
investors already have a wealth of data about McClendon’s
financial dealings and can’t make the case that the annual
meeting should be delayed.  The case is Deborah G. Mallow IRA SEP Investment Plan v.
McClendon, 12-cv-436, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Oklahoma ( Oklahoma City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Crowe-Frowe in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, at   carol.colefrowe@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  