-- Chesapeake Valuation Seen Luring Major Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-30T20:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/chesapeake-valuation-seen-luring-major-oil-merger-deal-real-m-a.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s depressed
valuation is making the company a potential target for acquirers
willing to bet that natural-gas prices will rebound from a
decade low.  Chesapeake’s equity and net debt was valued yesterday at
$9.19 for each barrel of oil equivalent, the lowest among U.S.
oil and gas explorers with market capitalizations greater than
$5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While a
stock purchase by Carl Icahn helped the $11 billion company’s
shares rebound in the past week, Chesapeake was still down 27
percent in 2012 amid investigations into Chief Executive Officer
 Aubrey McClendon ’s personal loans backed by stakes in company-
operated wells.  The second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer said it may
face a cash shortfall as early as next year after prices for
natural gas, which accounts for  83 percent  of its reserves,
reached a 10-year low last month. While a buyer would have to
cope with seven joint ventures and $13.1 billion of debt, Exxon
Mobil Corp. and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  may see a chance to scoop up the
largest holder of onshore drilling leases before gas prices
rebound, said SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  may also be interested, said Huntington Asset Advisors Inc.  “For any of the major integrated  oil companies  that want
to pick up reserves on the cheap, this would be a good one,”
said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $14.7 billion at
Huntington in Cincinnati. Chesapeake and other gas producers
will be “worth a whole lot more than they are today. We’ll look
back on this and say, ‘Wow, this was really an opportunity.’
There may be some people that end up kicking themselves.”  Chesapeake “had a bit of a drama around it,” he said.
“But that doesn’t change the fact that these are very desirable
assets.”  Exxon, Shell  Today, shares of Chesapeake rose 9 cents to $16.44 for the
eighth-straight day of gains, the longest streak since 2009.  Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Oklahoma City-based
Chesapeake, declined to comment on whether the company is for
sale, may be for sale or has been in talks with potential buyers
of the whole company.  Kimberly Brasington, a spokeswoman for Irving, Texas-based
 Exxon (XOM) , and Russell Johnson, a spokesman for San Ramon,
California-based Chevron, declined to comment on potential
acquisitions. Jonathan French, a spokesman for Shell in London,
declined to comment on whether The Hague-based company has
considered an acquisition of Chesapeake.  “We are happy with the portfolio we have acquired and
built organically in  North America  over the past years, but we
are always looking at opportunities worldwide,” French said,
when asked if Shell is looking to add resources on the
continent.  Personal Loans  McClendon, 52, co-founded Chesapeake in 1989 and built it
into the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer behind Exxon
by embracing techniques such as horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing that revived U.S. oil and natural-gas
production. The company has outspent  cash flow  in 19 of the past
21 years as it amassed a portfolio of gas and oil fields.  McClendon, who was allowed to take a 2.5 percent stake in
almost every well the company drilled and was required to pay
development costs proportionate to his stake, had amassed $846
million in loans as of Dec. 31 to cover his share of the costs.
The board announced May 1 that it will strip McClendon of his
chairmanship as it reviews his personal loans. The Internal
Revenue Service and Securities and Exchange Commission are also
investigating.  Cash Shortfall  The decline in  gas prices , coupled with McClendon’s
personal-loan entanglements, led to a  47 percent drop  in
Chesapeake’s shares in the last 12 months through yesterday.
Natural gas, the fuel for heating and power plants, fell to a
10-year low of $1.902 per million British thermal units on April
19 because of a glut of production from new wells in shale
formations from Texas to Pennsylvania.  On May 1, the company posted an  unexpected  $71 million
first-quarter loss and warned it may run short of cash next year
without enough divestitures. Chesapeake increased planned asset
sales through the end of 2013 by 17 percent to $20.5 billion.  Reuters, citing people familiar with the matter,  reported 
that the company will meet with many of its lenders later this
week as it tries to raise cash to close a $9 billion to $10
billion funding shortfall.  “The knee jerk reaction is the stock is down so much, it’s
a real opportunity, but unless they’re able to sell these assets
and get good prices for these assets, the debt burden is choking
them,”  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about $2 billion as chief
investment officer of Solaris Group in  Bedford Hills ,  New York ,
said in a phone interview. “This has always been a bit of a
higher risk name.”  ‘Cheap Enough’  Chesapeake’s depressed valuation may still be enough to
entice a buyer, said Neal Dingmann, a Houston-based analyst at
SunTrust.  Chesapeake’s  enterprise value , which is the sum of its
equity, net debt, minority interest and preferred equity, was
almost $29 billion yesterday, 9.2 times the value of its proved
reserves. That’s the cheapest among U.S. oil explorers and
producers and integrated oil companies with market values higher
than $5 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The industry
is valued at a median of about 15.5 times. Chesapeake held
proved reserves equivalent to  3.13 billion  barrels of oil at the
end of 2011.  “There are a lot of people that talk about Chesapeake and
say it’s too convoluted and too complicated to have somebody buy
it out,” Dingmann said in a phone interview. “But if assets
are cheap enough, buyers are going to find a way to get through
all these issues.”  Icahn’s Investment  Chesapeake’s largest investor, Southeastern Asset
Management Inc., said in a May 7  letter  to the board that the
company should be open to takeover offers that aren’t
“lowball” bids relative to its net asset value.  “We also don’t want to use this large price-to-value gap
as an excuse to refuse discussions with any potential acquirers
who would be willing to pay a price today that recognizes the
longer term value of the company,” Southeastern Chairman and
CEO Mason Hawkins said in the letter.  Hawkins, who is based in Memphis, Tennessee, didn’t return
a phone call seeking comment.  Icahn, who is known for pushing for change at the companies
in which he invests, last week  disclosed  that he purchased a
7.56 percent  stake  in Chesapeake. Icahn, 76, called for at least
four of the nine  directors  to be replaced.  Susan Gordon , a spokeswoman for Icahn, didn’t respond to an
e-mail asking if he will push for Chesapeake to consider a sale.  Gas Prices  “The company is definitely vulnerable to a takeover given
where it is now,” Andre Cillie, managing partner at
Fountainhead Partners Fund, said in a phone interview from Cape
Town. Chesapeake is Fountainhead’s second-largest investment.
“The possibility must be there, especially given the fact that
 Carl Icahn  has gone activist against the company and has a large
shareholding.”  A purchase of Chesapeake, which holds  reserves  vast enough
to satisfy more than three years of U.S.  household demand , may
be a bet on higher gas prices. Gas prices have rallied 28
percent since the low point on April 19, still leaving the
commodity about 85 percent below its 2005 peak.  “Natural gas has shown signs of bottoming,” Huntington’s
Sorrentino said in a phone interview.  Natural gas for June delivery closed at $2.429 a million
British thermal units yesterday in New York. Commodity traders
don’t expect gas to reach $3.50 a million British thermal units
until November 2013 and $4 until December 2014, based on New
York Mercantile Exchange futures contracts.  Exxon, Chevron  Exxon, the world’s biggest energy company with a market
value of $373 billion, and Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil
company, “desperately need” to boost production and may look
to acquire Chesapeake, said SunTrust’s Dingmann. Chevron’s year-
over-year oil and gas  production  has declined for five straight
quarters, while Exxon’s was down in the last  three quarters ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Each has about $19 billion in
 cash  and short-term investments.  “For somebody like an Exxon or Chevron, where they just
don’t have much in the way of production growth right now, the
easiest way to get that is to go out and acquire it,” Dingmann
said. “Both are sitting on billions of dollars of cash right
now that’s really not doing anything.”  Exxon surpassed Chesapeake as the largest U.S. natural-gas
producer with its 2010 acquisition of XTO Energy Inc.  Shell’s Interest  Phil Adams , a Chicago-based debt analyst at Gimme Credit
LLC, said Exxon tops his list of likely acquirers because it’s
the largest potential suitor and has the  highest  corporate
credit ratings. Chevron, rated the second rung of investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service, is also among companies
capable of paying cash for Chesapeake without damaging its debt
rating, he said.  Shell, Europe’s biggest oil company, may also be interested
in buying Chesapeake to reduce its exposure to regions with
higher political risks, said Huntington’s Sorrentino. All of
Chesapeake’s sales are generated in the U.S., while about 32
percent of Shell’s $470 billion in revenue last year came from
areas including Africa and Asia, according to its annual report.  “If you want to try to clean up and eliminate some of your
political and geographic risk, these would be nice assets,”
Sorrentino said. “There’s nothing here that’s terribly risky.”  “We have more than 40 trillion cubic feet of gas in the
U.S. and Canada and we bought that quite efficiently, so we have
plenty on our plate,” Shell CEO  Peter Voser  said in an
interview in Calgary yesterday when asked if his company is
interested in buying all or part of Chesapeake.  Takeover Price  Sorrentino said a buyer could pay about $20 a share, while
SunTrust’s Dingmann estimates Chesapeake could fetch a takeover
price in the “mid to high $20” range, or as much as a 77
percent premium to Chesapeake’s closing price of $16.35
yesterday. The stock reached a  record  of $69.40 in 2008 and
closed as high as $35.61 last year.  An acquirer would have to take on Chesapeake’s seven joint
ventures and $13.1 billion in  debt , surmount the board’s
takeover defenses and convince McClendon to sell. Chesapeake is
protected by an Oklahoma law that prevents a shareholder from
engaging in a “business combination” without approval by the
board of directors or two-thirds of the other shareholders,
according to  company filings . The law makes an exception if the
investor owns 85 percent of the company’s stock.  “I don’t believe they’re an attractive target,” Tim Rezvan, a New York-based analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.,
said in a phone interview. “There are too many joint ventures
and too much uncertainty about all those moving parts. Anyone
looking to make an acquisition can find a lot cleaner assets out
there.”  McClendon’s Valuation  A takeover may still be a bargain for any buyer that agrees
with McClendon’s valuation estimates. In a March interview,
McClendon said the Permian Basin accounts for 5 percent of the
company’s value and divesting holdings there will generate at
least $5 billion, implying that Chesapeake as a whole could be
valued at $100 billion. That’s more than nine times its current
market value.  “If one is willing to look past the near-term volatility,
given the plunge in natural-gas prices and the management
turmoil, I do think Chesapeake will rebound and is certainly a
valuable company,” Todd Smurl, president and chief investment
officer of Houston-based Ascendant Advisors LLC, where he
manages the  Ascendant Natural Resources Fund (NRGCX) , said in a phone
interview. “Definitely the attraction to an acquirer would be
the assets that they own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at +1-214-954-9455 or  susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 