-- China’s Money Market Rate Falls Most in a Week on Policy Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-30T09:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/china-s-money-market-rate-falls-most-in-a-week-on-policy-outlook.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell the most in a week on speculation the central bank will
loosen monetary policy further to arrest an economic slowdown.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the world’s second-biggest economy
faces increasing downward pressure, the Hunan Daily reported
today, citing a speech he made in the southern Chinese province
on May 25. The central bank gauged demand for 91-day repurchase
contracts for an auction tomorrow, according to a trader
required to bid at the sales.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 24 basis points to 2.35 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, the biggest decline since May 23,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It has slid 143 basis points this
month, set for the biggest decline since July.  “Easing is the overall policy tone, so liquidity will
remain loose,” said Duan Su, a bond analyst at Bank of Yinzhou
in Ningbo. “Space for further declines in the seven-day repo
rate is limited because the overnight rate is firm.”  The  finance ministry  issued at least 30 billion  yuan  ($4.7
billion) of five-year bonds today at a yield of 2.75 percent,
compared with the median estimate of 2.65 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey. The auction drew bids for 1.18 times the amount on
offer, the person said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell six basis
points to 2.56 percent, the first drop in four days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has slid 69 basis points this
month, the most since September.  The yield on the 3.41 percent government bond due March
2019 rose one basis point to 3.18 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  