-- China Stocks Fluctuate as Stimulus Hopes Ease
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-30T07:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/china-s-stock-futures-drop-as-xinhua-report-damps-stimulus-hopes.html
China ’s stocks fell, dragging the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  from a two-week high, as the government
damped speculation of a large-scale stimulus program to revive
economic growth.  Anhui Chaodong Cement Co. and  Hebei Iron & Steel Co. (000709)  paced
losses among building-material makers after Xinhua News Agency
reported the nation has no plans to introduce stimulus measures
on the scale deployed during the global financial crisis. Sany
Heavy Industry Co., China’s biggest machinery maker, dropped 0.9
percent the company was said to cut the size of a share sale in
 Hong Kong .  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  advanced 1 percent as JPMorgan Chase &
Co. recommended real-estate stocks.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index fell 0.2 percent to 2,384.67
at the close, with about five stocks declining for every four
that advanced. The gauge climbed 2.4 percent in the past two
days to its highest level since May 11. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
retreated 0.3 percent to 2,642.26.  “The Xinhua report may disappoint investors and put them
in doubt whether the current scale of the stimulus plans will be
enough to reverse the slowdown in economic growth,” Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai,
said by phone today. “Whether these measures will work needs to
be closely watched.”  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-
traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 3.2 percent in  New
York  yesterday. Chinese equities climbed amid signs the
government is stepping up measures to bolster consumption. The
nation rolled out a 4 trillion yuan ($630 billion) package in
2008 to help the economy battle the global financial crisis.  Policy Speculation  The Shanghai Composite has slipped 0.5 percent this month.
It has climbed 8.4 percent this year on optimism the government
will ease monetary policies and accelerate approvals of
infrastructure projects to spur growth. Stocks in the measure
are valued at 10.3 times estimated earnings, compared with a
record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to  weekly data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Anhui Chaodong Cement lost 1.1 percent to 13.91 yuan.
 Jiangxi Wannianqing Cement Co. (000789)  fell 1 percent to 14.87 yuan.
Hebei Steel, the listed unit of China’s biggest steelmaker, slid
0.7 percent to 3.08 yuan.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has vowed to focus more on increasing
growth after trade and domestic demand were below forecasts in
April, data that prompted economists to pare outlooks for the
world’s second-largest economy. The government may spend as much
as 2 trillion yuan to stimulate the economy, Credit Suisse Group
AG said in a May 28 report.  Increased Lending  “The Chinese government’s intention is very clear: It will
not roll out another massive stimulus plan to seek high economic
growth,” Xinhua said yesterday in a Chinese-language article on
economic policy, without attributing the information. “The
current efforts for stabilizing growth will not repeat the old
way of three years ago.”  Chinese lenders have received verbal instructions from
their headquarters or regulators to increase lending to support
economic growth, Market News International reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people from the banking industry. The orders
came in response to government signals of accelerated investment
project approvals, it said.  Sany Heavy (600031)  lost 0.9 percent. The company reduced its Hong
Kong share sale to about $2 billion, roughly 10 percent of its
enlarged share capital, two people with knowledge of the
transaction said. The offering may start in the next few months,
they said.  Kweichow Moutai Co., China’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor by market value, advanced 1.4 percent to 228.66. The
liquor maker’s per-share earnings may rise 61 percent this year
and 41.7 percent in 2013, Tong Xun and Zhang Xuejiao, analysts
at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities, wrote in a report today.  Property Stocks  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at
14.84 today, the highest level in a week. About 11.8 billion of
the gauge’s shares traded yesterday, 31 percent higher than the
daily average this year.  Gemdale, China’s fourth-biggest publicly traded property
developer, rose 1 percent to 7.06  yuan . China Merchants Property
Development Co. gained 0.8 percent to 25.96 yuan.  There’s market speculation that China may fine-tune
restrictions on home purchase and China has room to ease policy
implementation, especially in lower-tier cities, JPMorgan
analysts led by Lucia Kwong, wrote in a note yesterday. Home
transactions may beat expectations and decrease inventories,
helping developers regain pricing power by the end of the year,
according to the report.  PMI Data  China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation is due
to release its  purchasing managers’ index  for May on June 1. The
measure may fall to 52 from 53.3 a month earlier, according to
the median estimate of 26 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index’s 3.2 percent gain
yesterday in New York was the biggest since Jan. 3.  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of China’s biggest real estate website,
climbed 16 percent, the steepest advance in seven months.
 Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  surged to the highest level in
almost four months after Nomura Holdings Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. recommended buying shares of the mobile-phone chipmaker.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  