-- China’s State Grid Buys Brazil Power Lines for $936 Million
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-05-30T04:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/china-s-state-grid-buys-brazil-power-lines-for-936-million.html
China ’s State Grid International
Development Ltd. bought seven power transmission lines in  Brazil 
for 751.7 million euros ($936 million) to expand in Latin
America’s biggest economy.  An agreement was signed with  Spain ’s ACS Actividades de
Construccion & Servicios SA on May 26, according to a  statement 
posted yesterday on the website of the unit of State Grid Corp.
of China. ACS units Area Industrial, Cobra, Cymi and CME will
sell the lines for an enterprise value, comprising 423.4 million
euros in equity and 328.3 million euros in debt, the Madrid-
based company said in a statement May 28.  ACS is selling assets to pay debt as orders waned for
Spanish builders following government spending cuts on
infrastructure. The diminishing fortunes of debt-laden European
companies are providing State Grid an opportunity to secure
targets at discounted valuations. State Grid in January bought
25 percent of Portugal’s national power grid company Redes
Energéticas Nacionais.  “You don’t have to pay a premium when someone is eager to
sell something,” said Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
“The timing certainly works for State Grid. It can cut cost and
strike scale advantage and may also gain technology knowhow.”  The transaction is pending regulatory approval, ACS said.
Most of the  power lines  are operational, State Grid said in its
statement. The lines, located in 10 states, have a total length
of 2,792 kilometers (1,735 miles), it said.  The acquisition will “further improve the company’s market
share in Brazil’s power transmission industry, strengthen the
scale advantage and improve influence and competitiveness in
global markets,” State Grid said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  