-- China Stocks Seen Rising 15% by Goldman Partner on Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-31T07:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/china-stocks-seen-rising-15-by-goldman-partner-on-loans.html
While the Chinese government is
vowing not to spend as it did during the 2008 global financial
crisis, the most accurate analysts say the benchmark  index  for
the nation’s  stocks  will keep rising.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index is poised to gain 15 percent
from yesterday’s close to 2,750 by year-end as slowing inflation
allows the government to loosen monetary policy and banks to
lend more to companies, according to  Beijing Gao Hua Securities
Co. , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s partner in China and the firm
with the most correct predictions for yuan-denominated A shares
in the two years to January 2012, based on Bloomberg Rankings.  The benchmark  stock index  has climbed 7.9 percent this year
on speculation the government will accelerate measures to boost
the world’s second-biggest economy after gross domestic product
grew at the slowest quarterly pace since 2009. The government
said on May 29 it has no plan to introduce stimulus on the scale
of measures in 2008, when policy makers unveiled a fiscal
package of 4 trillion yuan ($629 billion).  “We remain positive on the market this year,” Wang Hanfeng, China strategist at  Gao Hua (GS) , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “With inflation easing, there is a shift
towards policy loosening which will help improve the liquidity
situation and support the valuation expansion of A shares.”  Slowing inflation leaves room for the government to
stimulate the economy as policy makers turn their attention to
growth, said Wang. A statistics bureau report on May 11 showed
China’s consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in April, below the 3.6
percent rate in March and the government’s full-year target of 4
percent. The  economy  grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the
least since the three months ending June 30, 2009.  Brokerage Targets  The Shanghai Composite slipped 0.5 percent to 2,372.23 at
today’s close. It lost 1 percent this month, compared with a 13
percent plunge in  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index, the 6.7 percent drop
for the BSE India Sensitive Index and the 11 percent slump in
 Russia ’s Micex Index.  Gao Hua’s stock recommendations on  Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Co. (000157)  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. were the
most accurate based on an analysis of recommendations on 135 A
shares from more than 400 analysts at 43 brokerages. The
analysts were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates between Jan. 1, 2010 and Jan. 9, 2012.  Most Accurate  Gao Hua had the highest accuracy rate at 60 percent with 55
correct recommendations out of 88, followed by  Capital
Securities Corp. (6005)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , according to Bloomberg Rankings.
Masterlink Securities Corp., Morgan Stanley, China International
Capital Corp., HuaChuang Securities,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rounded out the top
10 brokerages.  Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Co., based in Shanghai,
said on April 24 that the Chinese index may rally another 30
percent this year, led by banks and developers. Guotai Junan
Securities Co., also located in Shanghai, forecasts the gauge
may hit 2,800 by the end of the second quarter. Morgan Stanley
and Guotai Junan advised buying stocks before the Shanghai
gauge’s last bear market ended in July 2010.  Wang has an overweight allocation for stocks in the
insurance,  property  and construction material industries,
suggesting investors should hold more of the shares than are
represented in benchmark indexes. Gaohua cut the coal industry
to neutral from overweight, he said.  Index Valuations  Wang recommended Chinese consumer and health-care stocks in
April 2010, and they finished among the top three best-
performing industries that year even as the Shanghai Composite
slumped. A combined 33 percent loss in 2010 and 2011 for the
Shanghai index dragged down the gauge’s valuation to a record
low of 8.9 times estimated earnings on Jan. 6, according to
weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The index now trades at 10.2
times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI Emerging-Markets
Index’s  multiple  of 9.7 times.  China’s stocks fell yesterday as a May 29 report from the
state-run Xinhua News Agency damped speculation of increased
government stimulus. Credit Suisse said in a May 28 report that
spending in response to China’s economic slowdown will probably
range from 1 trillion  yuan  to 2 trillion yuan.  “The Chinese government’s intention is very clear: It will
not roll out another massive stimulus plan to seek high economic
growth,” Xinhua reported, without attributing the information.
“Current efforts for stabilizing growth will not repeat the old
way of three years ago.”  Reserve Rules  China’s central bank has cut lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios three times since November, fueling speculation the
government will allow banks to lend more to cash-strapped
companies and step up investment. New bank lending was 681.8
billion yuan in April, down 32 percent from the previous month,
central bank data showed on May 11.  China will start a number of “key infrastructure projects
that are vital to the overall economy and can facilitate
growth” and speed up construction of railway, environmental
protection and rural projects, the government said on May 23,
summarizing a meeting of the State Council, or cabinet.  The government suspended construction of new railway
projects last year after a high-speed train crash killed 40
people in July and banks cut loans for investment projects as
consumer prices jumped to a three-year high that same month.  “New lending may accelerate” in the second quarter, said
Wang, who was previously a strategist at CICC, the top-ranked
brokerage for  China  research in the annual survey by Asiamoney
magazine. “We may also see accelerated approvals of investment
projects including the resumption of some halted railway and
infrastructure projects.”  Goldman Partner  Goldman and Gao Hua are partners in China in domestic
securities trading, investment research, private wealth
management and asset management, according to Vicki Kwong, a
Beijing-based spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs. Gao Hua’s research
reports are co-branded and its analysts work closely with their
Goldman counterparts, though neither company holds an equity
stake in the other, Kwong said.  The two-year stock market slump has created “more scrutiny
on investment ideas,” Kelvin Koh, director of Greater China
research at Goldman Sachs, said in a phone interview from
Beijing on April 26. “People are more focused on what the sell-
side can deliver in a difficult environment.”  Zoomlion, China’s second-largest construction machinery
maker, has gained 18 percent since Gao Hua analyst Tian Lu
upgraded the stock to buy from neutral on April 5, compared with
a 3 percent advance for the Shanghai Composite, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Low Risk  Gao Hua has the equivalent of a buy rating on shares of
Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest Chinese developer. The
stock may advance another 17 percent after climbing 36 percent
this year, according to Gao Hua’s share-price  estimate  on
Bloomberg. The Guangzhou-based company’s price-to-earnings  ratio 
has declined to 12.8 times from an average of 28.3 times during
the past five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The overall policy of the  property market  may remain
relatively tight but some fine-tuning may be seen at local-
government levels,” Wang said. “The risk of a hard landing for
China is pretty low.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  