-- Clemens Wouldn’t Cheat, Ex-Blue Jays Teammate Testifies
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/clemens-wouldn-t-cheat-ex-blue-jays-teammate-testifies.html
Ex-Major League Baseball pitcher
Roger Clemens wouldn’t cheat at the sport, his former Toronto
 Blue Jays  teammate Charlie O’Brien told a jury during Clemens’s
trial on charges of lying to Congress about drug use.  O’Brien, testifying yesterday for the defense in federal
court in  Washington , said Clemens refused to use damaged
baseballs to gain an advantage over an opponent. O’Brien,
Clemens’s catcher while the two played for the Blue Jays in
1997, said some pitchers used scuffed baseballs to get movement
on the ball before it reached that batter.  “In a game, I tried to throw him a ball that had been
scuffed,” O’Brien said. “He said, ‘I don’t need that.’”  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, asked O’Brien how often
that sort of “cheating” was done during his 15 years in the
major leagues.  “All the time,” O’Brien replied.  “But not by him?” Hardin asked, referring to Clemens.  “No sir,” O’Brien said.  O’Brien, the third witness called by the defense team, also
backed up Clemens’s 2008 testimony to Congress that, after
ballgames, syringes filled vitamin B12 were arrayed in locker
rooms, ready to give players injections.  Syringes in Toronto  O’Brien testified that he remembers seeing four or five
syringes lined up in Toronto and players waiting in line for an
injection by the team’s physicians.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of performance-enhancing drugs including
steroids and human growth hormone. The ex-New York Yankees
pitcher faces as long as 21 months in prison if convicted. He
denies having used the drugs.  Prosecutors, who rested their case May 29, allege Clemens
concocted a “web of lies” to hide the fact that he used
performance-enhancing drugs to recover from injury as he aged.
The indictment contains 15 false or misleading statements that
Clemens made to Congress in 2008 -- some involved drug use
denials, others had to do with frequency of vitamin B12
injections and whether he attended a pool party at a teammate’s
Florida home in 1998.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  on May 29 dismissed two
of the 15 false statements that make up the obstruction charge
at Hardin’s request.  McNamee’s Credibility  Much of the government’s case depends upon whether jurors
believe the testimony of  Brian McNamee , Clemens’s former
trainer.  McNamee, who spent six days testifying, told jurors that he
gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and HGH during the
1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both men worked for
the Blue Jays and the Yankees.  The prosecution’s evidence includes a needle and cotton
with Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for steroids. The
material was given to prosecutors by McNamee, who said he saved
needles, gauze and vials from one of the injections in 2001. He
told jurors he kept some of the items in a Miller Lite beer can
that he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s apartment.  On cross examination, O’Brien was asked by Assistant U.S.
Attorney Steven Durham to describe the color of liquid B12. He
said he thought it was clear.  Red Vial  Last week, one of the government’s experts extracted B12
from a vial for the jury. It was red.  Hardin yesterday said the defense has 21 witnesses and may
be able to finish its case by June 8.  O’Brien was one of four former baseball players who
testified today in defense of Clemens. The others were Phil
Garner, Darrin Fletcher and Michael Capel. The jury also heard
from Steven August, who was traveling secretary and later
assistant general manager of baseball operations for the  Boston
Red Sox  while Clemens pitched for the team.  Fletcher, who was Clemens’s catcher on the Blue Jays in
1998, backed the ex-pitcher’s testimony to Congress regarding a
pool party at the Florida home of teammate  Jose Canseco  in 1998.  McNamee told Congress and the jury that Clemens was at this
early afternoon party. The occasion is significant because
McNamee testified that after he saw Clemens at the party and the
team returned to Toronto, Clemens sought his help administering
a shot of steroids for the first time.  On the Road  Clemens told Congress in 2008 that he didn’t attend the
party, which occurred while the team was on the road.  “I did not see  Roger Clemens  there,” Fletcher told the
jury.  Fletcher said Clemens was likely golfing, which he said was
his routine the day after pitching a night game.  Hardin said he plans to call Eileen McNamee, who is
involved in a divorce proceeding with Brian McNamee.  Durham told Walton yesterday Eileen McNamee had been
offered limited immunity from prosecution so she could testify
for the prosecution. Durham said the government decided not to
call her for “tactical” reasons.  Walton said he’d hear argument today about whether any
immunity should still apply and what topics the defense plans to
question her about.  Hardin said Eileen McNamee will discredit the testimony her
husband gave.  “He painted a very false picture of their relationship
with the children and used them as an excuse for things,”
Hardin said.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 