-- Colombia Reports Anthrax Livestock Deaths and Skin Lesions
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-30T13:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/colombia-reports-anthrax-killed-livestock-and-infected-a-person.html
Colombia  reported livestock deaths
from anthrax on two farms in the country’s north near the border
with  Venezuela  as well as a person with skin lesions.  The disease killed goats, sheep and pigs on two farms in
the La Guajira community, the first outbreaks in the country
since April last year, and a person was found to have skin
lesions, according to a  notification  by the  Agriculture Ministry 
to the Paris-based World Organization for Animal Health dated
May 28 and published online today.  Anthrax, which has been used as a biological weapon, is
caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis and can survive in
soil decades after an outbreak, according to the  animal health 
group, known by its acronym OIE. Anthrax can cause skin
infections that can be treated with antibiotics, as well as more
severe lung infections, according to the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  “The community has been informed of the protocol to be
applied to dispose of the carcasses, mainly the fact that under
no circumstances the animals must be either manipulated or
consumed,” the OIE wrote. “An intense epidemiological
surveillance is being conducted in the area together with the
public health authorities.”  Colombia had about 27.8 million cattle and 4.6 million
sheep and goats in 2010, according to data from the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  The outbreaks are continuing, the OIE wrote. Livestock
typically become infected by ingesting spores from the soil or
in feed, according to the animal health group.  The bacterial disease killed three goats, three sheep and
two pigs held by an indigenous community in La Guajira as well
as five goats and three sheep on another farm there, the notice
showed. Susceptible species are being vaccinated, the OIE wrote.  People can become infected with anthrax by handling
products from sick animals, breathing in spores or by eating
undercooked meat from infected animals, according to the CDC.
Inhalation anthrax is the most severe form, with about half of
the U.S. cases in 2001 ending in death, a  CDC briefing  shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  