-- Corporate Donations Compete With Climate Stance, Group Says
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-05-30T21:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/companies-political-cash-contradicts-climate-stance-group-says.html
Companies that express concern about
global climate change are more likely to donate to campaigns of
U.S. lawmakers who oppose caps on carbon dioxide than to
supporters of emission curbs, according to a study.  The Union of Concerned Scientists studied 28 companies in
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  that weighed in on a California
campaign to repeal limits on greenhouse gases or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s finding that carbon dioxide
and other heat-trapping gases endangered public health.  When measured by donations from executives and employees,
only nine of the 28 companies supported “science-based”
climate policy, with the rest favoring “anti-climate”
candidates, according to the report today. Campaign giving was
one of the areas in which corporate actions deviated from
statements on global warming.  The report is a “wake-up call to Americans about a
concerted effort being made to distort science in order to fit a
special-interest agenda,” Representative Chris Van Hollen, a
Maryland Democrat, said in a conference call with leaders of the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based environmental group.  Nike Inc. (NKE) , NRG Energy Inc.,  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ,  AES Corp. (AES) 
and  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  rated the highest for consistent
support for climate-change action, according to the study.  ‘Obstructionist’ 11  Eleven companies were called “obstructionist,” including
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) , a natural-gas producer that gave $26 million to the
Sierra Club for an anti-coal campaign. Burning coal produces
more carbon than burning natural gas.  “While all the companies publicly expressed concern about
climate change, many misrepresented climate science or sought to
undermine climate policy efforts in other venues,” according to
the report.  The Union of Concerned Scientists said it supports a bill
introduced by Van Hollen that would expand the disclosure of
corporations’ political spending.  Among other changes, it would require companies to include
in public financial filings what it spends on campaign-related
activities.  While Chesapeake’s annual report and website cited concern
about climate change, the report said the company challenged the
EPA’s “endangerment finding,” which allowed the U.S. agency to
regulate  greenhouse gases .  Science Challenge  Peabody was criticized for comments to the EPA and for the
organizations it supports with cash that have challenged the
science behind climate change.  Executives and employees of Peabody also donated four times
as much to candidates who dispute that humans cause climate
change than to candidates who agree with the scientific
consensus, according to the report.  “The company continues its global leadership advancing
emissions improvement toward the ultimate goal of near-zero
emissions from coal,” Vic Svec, a Peabody spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “These activities are vital to ensuring our
energy, economic and environmental goals are met.”  The bill is H.R. 4010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  