-- Condoleezza Rice Endorses Romney Citing His Leadership
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-31T14:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/condoleezza-rice-to-endorse-romney-at-west-coast-event.html
Former U.S. Secretary of State
 Condoleezza Rice  endorsed Mitt Romney as the Republican
presidential nominee at a fundraiser in California last night,
saying he understands the nation’s special place in the world.  Rice, 57, spoke at an event the former Massachusetts
governor attended in Hillsborough, California, near where she
teaches at  Stanford University . Romney clinched the nomination
two days ago, winning the party primary in Texas.  “If America is going to rebuild its strength at home,
rebuild its sense of who we are, it needs a leader that also
understands how really exceptional the  United States of America 
is, and is not afraid to lead on the basis of that
exceptionalism,” Rice told about 300 donors. “The only thing
that people dislike more than unilateral American leadership is
no American leadership at all.”  Rice is often mentioned as a possible vice presidential
pick for Romney because the former Bush administration official
would boost his foreign policy credentials, help secure women’s
votes and potentially draw black voters who have been loyal to
President  Barack Obama .  Venture Capital  During last night’s event, Romney, 65, praised the
innovation of the Silicon Valley area while questioning federal
government investment in certain businesses. He cited as an
example Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel manufacturer that received a
$535 million loan guarantee from the government only to go
bankrupt.  “Then there’s the president’s policy to become a venture
capitalist,” Romney said. “That’s a tough job. We’ve got a few
venture capitalists in the audience tonight, I know. He’s
decided he can do it better than you guys can.”  Romney said business will be less willing to invest, if the
government is picking winners and losers.  “The president doesn’t understand that when he invests
like that in one solar energy company, he makes it harder for
solar technology generally,” he said. “The scores of other
entrepreneurs in the solar field suddenly lost their opportunity
to get capital. Who wants to put money in a solar company when
the government puts a half a billion into one of its choice?”  Exceptional Country  As she praised Romney, Rice said America’s strength in the
world comes from the fact that anyone in the U.S. can rise to do
great things.  “That’s the truly exceptional nature of this country,”
she told those gathered at the Carolands mansion. “It’s
understood in this world. Its leadership is craved in this
world. And Governor Romney, you can bring it back.”  In March, Rice rejected the possibility of being Romney’s
running mate, saying on  Fox News  that she prefers policy to
politics, adding that the latter is not her “strong suit.”  “I think we should go another direction and find somebody
who really wants to be in elected office,” she said. “How many
ways can I say it? Not me.”  Secretary of State  Rice, the first black woman to become secretary of state,
was born in Birmingham, Alabama. She served as Stanford’s
provost from 1993 to 1999. She was secretary of state from 2005
to 2009, during  George W. Bush ’s second term, and was national
security adviser in his first term.  In her memoir published last year, Rice wrote how she often
clashed with former Vice President  Dick Cheney  over what to do
with captured terrorism suspects and other matters. She also
defended some of the most controversial foreign policy decisions
of the  Bush administration , including the invasion of Iraq.  After leaving Washington, Rice returned to her academic
career as a political science professor and fellow at the Hoover
Institution. Rice also started a company with colleagues from
the Bush administration to advise U.S. businesses investing in
 emerging markets .  Contribution to Economy  George Shultz , secretary of state under  Ronald Reagan , also
endorsed the presumptive nominee at the fundraiser. In his
speech, he defended Romney’s record as an executive at  Bain
Capital  LLC, a Boston-based private equity firm.  “What he has done at Bain Capital has been a major
contribution to the American economy,” said Shultz, who also
served in the cabinet of  Richard Nixon  with Romney’s father,
George.  Venture capital firms “help make our economy more
competitive; they learn how to keep costs under control; they
are the kind of people who help figure out where to put
investments,” Shultz said.  “He has learned and instinctively can feel what it takes
to get this huge amount of money that is sitting on the
sidelines of our economy to move forward and invest,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Beverly Hills ,  California  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  