-- Ex-Cameron Aide Coulson Charged With Perjury, Police Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-31T06:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/coulson-said-to-be-detained-by-police-on-suspicion-of-perjury.html
Andy Coulson , a past editor of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World and former press chief to U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , was arrested and charged with perjury,
Scottish police said.  Coulson, 44, was detained yesterday and following an
interview was arrested and charged, Sergeant Jim Telford of
 Scotland ’s Strathclyde Police said today in a phone interview.
Coulson was then released, Telford said.  “A report will be submitted to the procurator,” Telford
said, referring to the prosecutor.  The case stems from the perjury and libel trials of former
Scottish lawmaker Tommy Sheridan. Sheridan, the former leader of
the Scottish Socialist Party, was sentenced to three years in
prison in 2011 for perjury at a trial at which Coulson denied
there was a culture of phone hacking at his newspaper and said
he had no knowledge of illegal activities by reporters.  Coulson was previously arrested by London police as part of
their investigation of phone-hacking at the now-defunct tabloid.  Jo Rickards, Coulson’s lawyer, declined to comment on the
matter.  Sheridan was found guilty of perjury during a defamation
case against the News of the World at the Glasgow High Court in
2010. He had won 200,000 pounds ($310,000) in damages from the
tabloid newspaper in 2006 over stories about adultery and
visiting swingers clubs. Sheridan denied the allegations.  Aamer Anwar, who represented Sheridan during the libel
trial, said in a statement to the U.K. Press Association that in
July he gave Scottish police a file related to phone hacking and
perjury in the case.  “At the time I said that nobody was above the law and we
expected a rigorous and robust investigation,” Anwar said in
the Press Association statement.  Phone Hacking  Coulson quit as editor of the News of the World in 2007
after former private detective  Glenn Mulcaire  and reporter Clive Goodman pleaded guilty to phone hacking at the newspaper. He
lost a lawsuit in December to have his legal fees covered by the
company as he faces the criminal phone-hacking probe.  News Corp. closed the News of the World in July after
police investigations and civil lawsuits revealed the practice
went beyond Goodman and Mulcaire. The newspaper accessed the
voice-mail messages of celebrities, crime victims and
politicians for stories while Coulson was in charge of the
weekly tabloid.  Cameron appointed Coulson as press chief in 2010, a role he
quit in 2011 as the phone-hacking scandal gained public
attention. Coulson was later arrested.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWS)  units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  