-- Cove Energy Rises to Record After Mozambique Allows PTT Bid
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-05-30T15:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/cove-energy-rises-to-record-after-mozambique-approves-ptt-bid.html
Cove Energy Plc (COV) , the U.K. explorer
with a share in gas fields off Mozambique, reached a record in
 London  after the African country approved a bid by Thailand’s
PTT Exploration and Production Pcl.  Cove rose as much as 2.5 pence, or 1 percent, to 259.75
pence, above PTT’s offer of 240 pence and the highest price
since the company started trading in 2005. The stock closed down
0.5 pence at 256.75 pence.  Mozambique’s decision removes the risk the government could
block Bangkok-based PTT’s bid in favor of an earlier, lower bid
from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , analysts at Credit Agricole Chevreux
said in a note. Shell, which had agreed to buy Cove for 220
pence a share, said last week it’s considering its options.  Cove’s largest asset is a 8.5 percent holding in
Mozambique’s Rovuma Area 1, where a group led by  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found as much as as 30 trillion cubic feet
of natural gas, more than three times the U.K. existing
reserves. After Shell made its 220 pence bid, Anadarko announced
a second discovery in the area holding between 7 trillion and 20
trillion cubic feet.  Mozambique’s decision on PTT presents “an opportunity,
albeit remote, for Shell to come back with a matching or
improved options,” FirstEnergy Capital Corp. said in a note to
clients this morning.  The discoveries open the way for Mozambique to become an
exporter of liquefied natural gas, shipping fuel to energy-
hungry Asian economies, including India and China. For state-
controlled PTT, the acquistion of Cove offers  Thailand  secure
source of gas supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  