-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Climb on Europe Crisis Concern
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-30T21:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-climb-on-europe-crisis-concern.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
increased by the most in more than two weeks as  Spain  grapples
with measures to recapitalize its banks and the number of
Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned homes fell.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 5.7 basis points to a mid-price of 122.4
basis points at 5:20 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The index jumped 6.2 basis points on May
14.  The measure surged as Spain’s biggest banks had the worst-
performing junior bonds this month on concern investors will be
wiped out in a rescue of the nation’s financial system. The
 index  of pending home resales in the U.S. dropped 5.5 percent
following a revised 3.8 percent gain the prior month, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington .  Another report showed economic confidence in the euro area
fell more than forecast in May to the lowest level in 2 1/2
years, the European Commission said today. A VPRC opinion poll
for Epikaira magazine showed that  Greece ’s anti-austerity party
Syriza had the support of 30 percent of voters, compared with
26.5 percent for  New Democracy , which backs the terms of a
European Union bailout.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  