-- Oil Enters Bear Market on Europe Debt Crisis, Slow U.S. Economy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-05-31T04:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/crude-poised-for-biggest-monthly-decline-since-december-2008.html
Oil entered a  bear market  in New York
as it headed for the biggest monthly drop in more than three
years on speculation Europe’s worsening debt crisis and a
slowing U.S. economy will reduce fuel demand.  Futures today are 20 percent lower than their highest
settlement this year, a definition of a bear market. Prices
slipped as the cost of protecting Spanish bonds against default
climbed to a record yesterday and a Greek poll showed support
for anti-austerity parties ahead of elections. A report
yesterday showed pending U.S. home sales in April slid the most
in a year. Oil peaked in February on concern that tension with
 Iran  will disrupt global supplies.  “Prices have fallen on the pessimistic expectations of the
global economic recovery,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity
derivative sales manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo  who sees  New
York  crude falling to $75 a barrel by the third quarter. “The
problem is not only in  Greece , but several countries in Europe.
And from a fundamental point of view, we don’t have any shortage
concerns, even with the Iran embargo.”  Oil for July delivery traded at $87.65 a barrel, down 17
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 2:21 p.m. Sydney time. The contract slid $2.94 yesterday to
$87.82, the lowest close since Oct. 21.  Crude in New York has dropped 20 percent since its peak
close this year of $109.77 a barrel on Feb. 24. Prices are down
16 percent this month, set for the largest monthly drop since
December 2008, and 11 percent lower this year.  ‘Demand Destruction’  Brent oil for July settlement decreased 0.3 percent to
$103.20 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. Prices have dropped 14 percent this month, the most
since May 2010. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $15.55, from $15.65 yesterday.  “We’re seeing demand destruction across the board,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin,
a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney. “I was looking for a
Middle Eastern premium to be built in, but  Spain ’s concern seems
to be overriding that and filtering through the whole commodity
complex. People are scared to spend.”  Costs to protect Spanish government debt climbed to a
record. Credit-default swaps linked to the country’s bonds
climbed 23 basis points to 583 at 11:44 a.m. in  London 
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Technical Indicators  The countries using the euro accounted for about 12 percent
of global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy released in June. The U.S. accounted for
about 21 percent, the report showed.  Oil may extend its decline in New York as the monthly
moving average convergence-divergence indicator falls below its
signal line, showing a loss of positive momentum, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts on
a so-called bearish MACD crossover. Futures have short-term
technical support along the lower Bollinger Band on the daily
chart, around $85.45 a barrel today.  U.S. crude output rose 90,000 barrels a day to 6.24 million
in the week ended May 18, the highest level since February 1999,
Energy Department data showed last week. Oil production in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries climbed 305,000
barrels to 31.405 million barrels a day in April, the most since
October 2008, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Market Oversupply  “The market is oversupplied by around 500,000 barrels a
day,” said Dominic Schnider, the Singapore-based global head of
commodity research at UBS AG’s wealth-managment unit, who sees
New York crude falling to $80 a barrel and Brent to $95. “The
speculative interests are still high in oil. That makes it
extremely vulnerable to further deterioration.”  Long positions in crude, or  wagers  on rising prices, on
crude on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  outnumbered short bets
by 136,751 contracts in the week ended May 22. That’s 12 percent
higher than the average in Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data compiled by Bloomberg going back to at least June 2006.  Iran, the second-biggest crude producer in OPEC, faces
Western sanctions including an oil embargo starting July 1 aimed
at persuading it to stop enriching uranium. The Persian Gulf
nation has increased its stockpile of 20 percent medium-enriched
uranium by a third since February, the UN’s International Atomic
Energy Agency said in a May 25 report.  U.S. Stockpiles  Iran and Western negotiators agreed to hold another round
of talks about the country’s nuclear program next month after
failing to reach a deal at a summit in  Baghdad  last week. The
government in Tehran faces four set of United Nations sanctions
urging the country to stop enriching uranium.  U.S. oil  stockpiles  dropped 353,000 barrels to 385.9
million last week, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute , a Washington-based industry group. That is the first
drop in four weeks. An Energy Department report today will
likely show that supplies climbed 1 million barrels to 383.5
million last week, the most since 1990, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gasoline inventories rose  2.1 million barrels , API data
showed. The Energy Department will probably show they slid 1
million barrels, according to the survey. The agency is
scheduled to release its report at 11 a.m. today.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  