-- Daimler Shows Big Rig Getting Almost 10 Miles Per Gallon
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-30T18:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/daimler-unveils-big-rig-50-percent-more-efficient-than-average.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Freightliner unit
demonstrated a heavy-duty truck that got 9.3  miles  per gallon
under realistic driving conditions, becoming the first company
in the U.S. to reach fuel-economy goals set by President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  The 2014 Freightliner Cascadia Evolution improved its fuel
economy through aerodynamic improvements and engine adjustments,
Martin Daum, chief executive officer of Daimler Trucks North
America, said today at a news conference in National Harbor,
 Maryland .  “We need companies like Daimler to push the boundaries,”
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said at the news
conference.  Obama’s administration announced a plan last year to
improve tractor-trailer fuel economy by about 20 percent by
2018, saving $50 billion in fuel costs over five years and
decreasing carbon-dioxide emissions.  Daimler’s  Portland , Oregon-based Freightliner unit hit the
9.3-mpg mark during a road trip testing the 2014 model under
real-world conditions, company executives said. Under test-track
conditions, pulling a trailer that was also aerodynamically
improved, the truck got 10.7 miles per gallon.  Road Trip  The road test involved driving more than 2,400 miles from
 San Diego ,  California , to Gastonia,  North Carolina ,  where 
Freightliner has a components manufacturing plant. The truck
that averaged 9.3 mpg was pulling an aerodynamically optimized
trailer that can’t be bought today, said Wilfried Achenbach, the
company’s senior vice president of engineering and technology.  Pulling a conventional trailer, the new model averaged 7.7
mpg, Achenbach said. A current Cascadia model pulling a
commercially available trailer got 7.1 mpg on the route. The
American Trucking Associations estimates current big rigs
average about 6.5 mpg in real-world conditions.  On the test track, the 2014 model averaged 10.7 mpg driving
at 60 miles per hour for 17 hours, Achenbach said. Company
engineers believe the truck would have reached 11 mpg if it
hadn’t rained for four hours during the test, he said.  For comparison purposes, a 2012 Cadillac Escalade gets
about 16 mpg in combined city and highway driving, according to
the  EPA .  “The new trucks are so much better than the old trucks,”
Daum said. “Fuel efficiency is the name of the game.”  Freightliner assembles its Cascadia models at a plant in
Saltillo,  Mexico .  Long-Term Savings  The cost of a big rig will increase approximately $6,220
because of the fuel-saving technology, according to the Obama
administration. Truck operators will save $73,000 on fuel over
the lifetime of the trucks, according to summaries of the
regulation.  Freightliner hasn’t announced what the 2014 Cascadia will
cost, Daum said. The company is confident buyers will be able to
cover the increased cost through fuel savings in one to two
years, which would mean a price increase for that model in the
$3,000 to $6,000 range, he said. A new truck typically is priced
at more than $110,000, he said.  Daimler controls about 32.6 percent of the U.S. market for
medium and heavy-duty trucks, according to a March 31 company
news release, compared with 30 percent in 2009.  The trucking industry compromised with the Obama
administration in devising the greenhouse-gas emissions goals,
Daum said in an interview. The idea was to use commonly
available technologies for this first-ever set of regulations,
he said. The industry knows tougher targets are coming every
three years, he said.  “For us it was easier, because we started early and
anticipated CO2 would become a big challenge in the future,”
Daum said. “We are fully aware that the numbers will increase
in 2017, and they’ll increase again.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Jeff Plungis in
 Washington  at   jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 