-- Dewey Unsecured Creditors May Find the Cupboard Is Bare
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-30T17:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/dewey-unsecured-creditors-may-find-the-cupboard-is-bare.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s unsecured
creditors, meeting today in  Manhattan  to form a committee to
represent their interests, may find the defunct  law firm  has
nothing left to pay them.  Dewey’s Memorial Day bankruptcy filing disclosed
$225 million of secured loans from banks and bondholders to be
paid mostly from $255 million of bills to the defunct law firm’s
clients that analysts value at as little as 40 cents on the
dollar.  Secured creditors by law must be paid in full before
unsecured creditors get anything.  Topping a list of Dewey’s unsecured creditors is the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., claiming $80 million for
underfunded pensions. Second is Dewey’s landlord, Paramount
Group, claiming $3.8 million for property taxes and May rent,
followed by Thomson Reuters Corp., owed $2.4 million for legal
research.  Former Dewey partners, including those with an estimated
$100 million of guarantees, can rank equal to, or below trade
creditors under bankruptcy law.  “Dewey is essentially a zero-asset bankruptcy for the
unsecureds,” said Ed Reeser, a former managing partner for the
Los Angeles office of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP who’s
now a consultant. “There is nothing there for them to get.
There is going to be terrible pain worked on many good people.”  Pennies Per Dollar  Vendor claims against Dewey, also known as trade paper,
were recently quoted at 5 cents to 8 cents on the dollar, said
 Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt
including Dewey’s.  The category includes a unit of ABM Industries, which
provided janitorial services at Dewey’s offices at 1301 Avenue
of the Americas in  New York  and sued the firm for about $300,000
in unpaid bills.  Dewey’s secured bonds, which were privately placed and
trade sparsely, were quoted at 45 cents to 55 cents on the
dollar this month, CRT said.  Dewey unwound fast this year as at least 250 of its
304 partners quit to join rivals. Now it faces a long fight to
collect money for secured lenders led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
from clients reluctant to pay bills and partners who might have
carried off some of the firm’s business to rivals as they joined
new firms.  Drawn-Out Cases  With few assets with which to pay debts except their
collectible bills, law firms’ liquidations tend to be drawn out
and contentious as the bankrupt estate scrounge for small
amounts of money to pay debt.  Legal bills, Dewey’s main source of funds in the past,
“are never worth 100 cents on the dollar, and they take a
severe haircut if a firm is failing, because clients don’t want
to pay all of it,” said  Bruce MacEwen , a lawyer and law-firm
consultant at Adam Smith Esq. LLC in New York.  Dewey had more than 1,300 attorneys in 12 countries after
the 2007 merger of Dewey Ballantine LLP and LeBoeuf, Lamb,
Greene & McRae LLP, making it the biggest bankruptcy in its
business. It now has 150 employees in the U.S. to wind it down
and pay creditors.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 