-- LDK Solar ‘Fantasy Land’ Forecast Belies Debt, U.S. Duty
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-05-30T21:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ldk-solar-fantasy-land-forecast-belies-debt-u-s-duty.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-
largest maker of solar wafers, lost 38 percent of its market
value in four trading days as analysts cut estimates today and
questioned whether its balance sheet can withstand a global
oversupply and threats from U.S. tariffs.  The company’s American depositary receipts closed at $1.88
in New York, down from $3.05 on May 23 and a 55 percent drop for
the year.  Chinese solar companies have slumped since the U.S.
Commerce Department announced May 17 duties on solar cells
imported from the country. LDK’s 35 percent slide since then was
the  worst  among the 17-member Bloomberg Global Large Solar
Energy index, and Aaron Chew, an analyst with Maxim Group LLC in
 New York , said high debt and slowing sales are a concern.  Investors “have for the most part identified LDK as the
one solar company with the most precarious balance sheet and
most liquidity issues,” Chew said today in a telephone
interview. “LDK’s solvency issues are coming to the forefront,
and that’s just killing the stock. You have people rushing for
the exits.”  The company  reported  net debt of $2.9 billion in the fourth
quarter. Sales were $420.2 million and LDK forecast sales would
fall to $190 million to $230 million in the first quarter.  LDK announced April 30 plans to fire more than 5,500
workers and its net loss of $588.7 million in the fourth quarter
was its third straight quarterly loss and more than five times
analysts’ estimates of $109.7 million.  “The money LDK owes isn’t to the government, it’s to
publicly traded Chinese banks,” Chew said. “They totally
expect to get their money back. They’re not just going to eat $3
billion.”  China’s Steve Jobs  Peng Xiaofeng, LDK’s chief executive officer, has said he’s
confident he can turn the company around. “It’s just like  Steve Jobs  10 years ago,” Peng said in a May 28  interview  with
Southern Weekend, a Chinese newspaper. “Everyone thought he
wasn’t much, but times change and in the end the true value was
eventually reflected.”  Jobs used innovative products to transform a struggling
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  into the world’s most valuable company. Peng may need
to do more than that, Chew said.  “There’s a lot of chatter within China that LDK is about
to go under,” Chew said. “Not even the Steve Jobs of China may
be able to save it.”  Chinese solar companies including Suntech Power Holdings
Co. and JinkoSolar Holding Co. have said they plan to shift
manufacturing to other countries and won’t be significantly
affected by the U.S. tariffs.  LDK may be affected more than its competitors. Peng told
 China ’s Xinhua News Agency May 25 that the tariffs will be “a
challenge for us.”  Anti-Dumping Duties  The Commerce Department announced preliminary anti-dumping
tariffs of 31.18 percent on LDK’s products. The agency will make
a final decision in October on the tariffs, which range from
31.14 percent to 250 percent for different Chinese companies.  Shipments of Chinese solar panels to  North America  may fall
75 percent because of the duties, the El Segundo, California-
based consulting company IHS Inc. predicted yesterday.  Two investment banks reduced their price targets for LDK
today. Nitin Kumar, a Singapore-based analyst for Nomura
Holdings Inc., expects the ADRs to fall to $1.30 from an earlier
prediction of $2.50, and Ricky Ng, of Mirae Asset Securities Co.
in  Hong Kong , lowered the target to $1.90 from $2.10. Each ADR
is worth one ordinary share.  LDK and other Chinese companies have expanded production
capacity, creating an oversupply that pushed down  prices  for
solar panels 49 percent in the past year.  ‘Fantasy Land’ Guidance  The company’s “focus on scale to the exclusion of all
else” isn’t working, Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at
Auriga USA LLC in New York, wrote in a May 1 note to investors.
LDK’s “guidance still resides in fantasy land” and its “debt
morass” is dragging down earnings.  “The company is representative of all that is wrong with
the Chinese solar PV manufacturing base, which serves as a
large-scale employment welfare scheme subsidized and fully
underwritten by the government,” Polavarapu said in an e-mail
today.  E-mails to LDK and a public relations firm that represents
the company weren’t returned today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  