-- Doc Watson, Pioneering Folk Guitarist, Singer, Dies at 89
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-30T07:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/doc-watson-pioneering-folk-guitarist-and-singer-is-dead.html
Doc Watson, a singer and guitarist
who expanded the instrument’s role in traditional American music
and influenced generations of musicians with his playing skills,
died yesterday. He was 89.  Watson passed at the Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center in
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, said Marguerite Beck, a hospital
spokeswoman. He underwent colon surgery there after a fall
earlier this month.  Watson, blinded by an eye infection before his first
birthday, rose to prominence during a 1960s folk-music revival.
His style of flatpicking, or plucking a guitar’s strings with a
pick rather than his fingers, transformed the acoustic guitar
into a lead instrument in folk, country and bluegrass songs.  “The respect musicians have for him is amazing,” T.
Michael Coleman, who played bass with him for 15 years, told the
Washington Post in 2008. “People like  Paul Simon , even, they’d
be so nervous” when encountering Watson, Coleman said.  Watson won seven  Grammy Awards , starting in 1973. The last
one came in 2006, for his recording of “Whiskey Before
Breakfast” with bluegrass guitarist  Bryan Sutton .  The National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which
sponsors the Grammys, presented him with a Lifetime Achievement
Award in 2004. He received the  National Medal of Arts , the U.S.
government’s highest honor for artists, in 1997.  Mountain Roots  Arthel Lane Watson was born on March 3, 1923, in Deep Gap,
North Carolina, in the western part of the state along the Blue
Ridge Mountains. Sources including the Birthplace of Country
Music Alliance say he was born on March 2, 1923, and
Ancestry.com lists his first name as Orthel. He was the sixth
child of General Dixon Watson and Annie Green, according to the
 North Carolina History Project .  Watson’s parents sparked his interest in music. His father
played banjo and led the singing at a Baptist church, while his
mother sang traditional and gospel songs in their house.  The harmonica, which he learned at about age 6, was his
first instrument. He graduated to the banjo at about 11, when
his father made him one. At 13, a classmate at the  Governor
Morehead School for the Blind  in Raleigh,  North Carolina , taught
him to play guitar.  At first, Watson adopted the so-called thumb lead style of
Maybelle Carter, the matriarch of the  Carter Family , who began
making country records in the 1920s. After learning to use a
thumb pick, he turned to flatpicking in order to play Jimmie
Rodgers songs.  ‘Call Him Doc’  Watson got his nickname as a teenager when he played at a
local furniture store. The show was broadcast on radio, and the
announcer didn’t want to refer to him by his first name. “Call
him Doc,” a woman in the audience said.  Rosa Lee Carlton, the daughter of a fiddler who lived
nearby, became his wife in 1947, according to the website of
 Folklore Productions International , which represents Watson. The
couple had a son -- Eddy Merle, who was later known by his
middle name -- in 1949 and a daughter, Nancy Ellen, two years
later.  To support his family, Watson tuned pianos. He didn’t
become a professional musician until 1953, when he was hired as
the lead guitarist for Jack Williams and the Country Gentlemen,
a country and western swing band.  Watson learned to perform fiddle tunes on the guitar so
that his band, which usually lacked a fiddler, could do square-
dance music.  First Recording  When he wasn’t working, he played traditional music with
family and friends. One friend, guitarist and banjoist  Clarence
Ashley , enlisted him for a  recording  session that musicologists
 Ralph Rinzler  and Eugene Earle arranged in 1960.  “Old Time Music at Clarence Ashley’s,” the resulting
album, marked Watson’s first appearance on record, according to
Folklore Productions. After its release, he went to  New York 
with Ashley and some friends for a concert sponsored by the
Friends of Old-Time Music, a group that included Rinzler.  Watson returned to New York in 1962 for a solo show and
played the next two years at the Newport Folk Festival. “Doc
Watson & Family,” an album of songs that Rinzler recorded after
the Ashley sessions, was released in 1963. He was signed to
Vanguard Records the following year.  Merle Watson started accompanying his father in 1964, only
months after learning the guitar, and toured full time with him.
They made about 20 albums together before Merle died in a 1985
tractor accident on the Watson farm.  Country Revival  The  Nitty Gritty Dirt Band  included Doc Watson on “Will
the Circle Be Unbroken,” a 1972 album of traditional songs that
the country-rock band played with country and bluegrass stars.
Lester Flatt, Earl Scruggs, Chet Atkins and Ricky Skaggs were
among his other collaborators over the years.  Starting in 1988, Watson hosted a traditional-music
festival that commemorated his son. The annual Merle Watson
Memorial Festival, or  Merlefest , featured performances with
Merle’s son, Richard, and was held in Wilkesboro, North
Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  