-- TDR Capital Said to Seek More Than $2 Billion for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-05-30T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/tdr-capital-said-to-seek-more-than-2-billion-for-fund.html
TDR Capital LLP, a London-based
private-equity firm started with backing from hedge-fund manager
 Paul Tudor Jones , may seek 1.75 billion euros ($2.2 billion) for
its third European fund, according to two people with knowledge
of its plans.  The firm expects to start marketing TDR Capital III in the
second half, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the information is private. Blair Thompson, a partner at the
firm, declined to comment.  TDR Capital, which last year hired David Melvin, the former
co-head of the global financial sponsors group at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, will compete with European firms such as
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and  Nordic Capital  that also are
raising money. CVC may seek as much as 10.75 billion euros for
its next European fund, two people briefed on the matter said
this month. Nordic Capital is targeting 4 billion euros, Cinven
Ltd. is seeking 5 billion euros and Permira Advisers LLP 6.5
billion euros for new funds.  TDR Capital invests in businesses with significant
operations in Western Europe. Last year it bought U.K.-based
Lowell Group, which buys nonperforming  consumer debt , and
purchased a portfolio of U.K. pubs to form Stonegate Pub Co. in
2010.  Deutsche Bank  The prior fund, TDR Capital II, raised 2.2 billion euros in
2006. The fund included 1.75 billion euros from institutional
investors and a friends-and-family pool, according to one of the
people.  Manjit Dale and Stephen Robertson left the European
private-equity arm of Deutsche Bank AG in 2002 to start TDR
Capital, securing backing from Jones’s Tudor Investment Corp.
The firm raised 500 million euros for its debut fund, TDR
Capital I, in 2003. That fund has generated a 2.1 times multiple
on invested capital and an internal rate of return of more than
65 percent, according to the firm’s website.  Probitas Partners LLC is the placement agent for the new
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  