-- Dudley Says Fiscal Shock Could Cause Another U.S. Recession
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-30T20:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/dudley-says-fiscal-shock-could-cause-another-u-s-recession-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said a failure to avert a shock in
fiscal policy next year could subtract 3 percentage points from
economic growth and cause a recession.  If “no policy action” is taken by Jan. 1, the U.S. may
suffer a 3 percentage point reduction in gross domestic product,
Dudley said at a press conference in New York today. “That
would be a huge shock” to an economy that’s recovering at a
disappointing pace.  The fiscal tightening would result from the expiration of
income-tax cuts first enacted under President  George W. Bush ,
the end of payroll-tax reductions and automatic decreases in
government expenditures. A prediction that a failure to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff would lead to another recession
should be taken seriously, Dudley said. “I don’t think that’s
an unreasonable forecast.”  Dudley, vice chairman of the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee , reinforced the view expressed at the panel’s
April meeting, when several policy makers said slowing economic
growth or rising risks to their outlook could warrant additional
accommodation, according to the minutes of the gathering. He
said he would favor more easing if the labor market stagnates,
the threat of deflation increases or risks to growth were to
rise substantially, reiterating remarks made last week.  The pace of growth has been “disappointing” and “the
headwinds retarding recovery are well known,” Dudley said. He
reiterated that he expects growth of about 2.4 percent over the
next four quarters and said that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
poses another significant downside risk to the outlook.  ‘Very Modest’  Still, U.S. banks are “better placed” against any shocks
from  Europe ’s crisis, with stronger capital and liquidity
buffers, he said. Their exposure to “peripheral” Europe is
also “very modest,” he said.  “That doesn’t mean the U.S. is completely insulated from
what happens in Europe,” he said.  The economy in  New York City  is “doing quite well” and
has become less dependent on  Wall Street , Dudley said. Tourism
to New York has helped, and has been “really quite a success
story,” he said.  The FOMC said last month it planned to keep its benchmark
interest rate near zero until at least late 2014, reiterating a
plan announced in January. The Fed has kept the rate near zero
since December 2008 and bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of asset purchases.  ‘Earlier Stage’  Dudley endorsed the 2014  interest-rate  plan. He said he
“would be willing to consider tightening policy at a somewhat
earlier stage if growth strengthened sufficiently” or “if
there was evidence of a genuine threat to medium-term
inflation.” Under those circumstances, he said he would expect
“the first step would be to bring in the late 2014 date of the
policy guidance.”  Dudley said he anticipates inflation to “remain moderate
and close to our objective” of 2 percent. The economy
“continues to operate with significant slack” and inflation
expectations “remain well-anchored,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  