-- Teavana Tumbles Most Since Market Debut on Teaopia Impact
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-05-30T20:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/teavana-tumbles-most-since-market-debut-on-teaopia-impact.html
Teavana Holdings Inc. (TEA) , a retailer of
premium, loose-leaf teas, fell the most since its initial public
offering in July after saying its deal to buy Teaopia Ltd. will
dilute earnings by two cents a share in the second quarter.  Teavana tumbled 18 percent to $13.78 at the close in New
York, for the biggest drop since its  market debut  on July 28.
The stock, which has fallen 27 percent this year, was the
 fourth-worst  performer in the  Russell 2000 Index (RTY)  today.  Teavana announced its agreement to buy Teaopia, a tea
retailer based in  Canada , in April, and expects to complete the
$26.9 million purchase in the quarter ending July 31. The
estimated dilution excludes transaction and integration expenses
of three cents a share, according to a statement today. The
acquisition will be neutral to earnings per share in the fiscal
year ending in January 2013 as a whole, Atlanta-based Teavana
said.  Teavana plans to “raise average sales per store at Teaopia
closer to the Teavana average,” Andrew Mack, Teavana’s chairman
and chief executive officer,  said  on a conference call. “We
expect to reduce this revenue gap through a combination of
introducing our exclusive products and merchandising strategy
along with bringing the talent of Teaopia’s employee base
through our training and sales process.”  Second-quarter profit excluding the deal’s effect will be a
much as 3 cents a share, the company said. That’s in line with
the average analyst estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales excluding the effect are expected to be $38
million to $40 million, the company said. That compares with an
average analyst estimate of $41.5 million, according to the data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Teavana expects an increase in the quarter in comparable
sales, “including e-commerce, in the low to mid-single digit
range,” the company said in the statement.  The company, which had 200 stores at the beginning of the
year, will add 106 locations by the end of the year, in part
through the Teaopia purchase, Mack said on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  