-- EBay Drops on Second-Quarter Sales Concern: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-30T21:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ebay-drops-on-second-quarter-sales-concern-san-francisco-mover.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest online
marketplace, fell the most in almost seven months after an
analyst said second-quarter sales may miss estimates because of
a slowdown in U.S. e-commerce spending growth.  The shares declined 4.6 percent to $39.59 at the close in
 New York , the biggest decrease since Nov. 9. The  stock  has
climbed 31 percent this year.  Sales for the quarter ending in June will be $3.33 billion,
according to a projection today by  Investment Technology Group
Inc. (ITG)  That’s less than the average $3.37 billion analyst  estimate 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue from the PayPal unit, EBay’s
fastest-growing segment, will be $1.23 billion, according to
ITG, falling short of a $1.24 billion estimate. Online
merchandise will generate $1.42 billion, missing the $1.44
billion estimate, ITG said.  “They usually beat the high end,”  Herman Leung , an
analyst at Susquehanna International Group in San Francisco.,
said in an interview. “If they come in within range, for EBay,
that’s a miss. People are thinking, if they miss here, that
means the numbers need to come down.”  Online retail sales have increased year-over-year for 10
consecutive quarters,  data  from  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  show. E-commerce
spending rose 17 percent to $44.3 billion in the first quarter,
compared with a 12 percent increase in the same period of 2011,
ComScore said earlier this month.  “E-commerce growth has accelerated and exceeded consensus
expectations so far this year, and we see that trend
continuing,” David Spitz, president of Morrisville, North
Carolina-based ChannelAdvisor Corp., whose software helps
retailers manage online sales, said via e-mail.  Price Declines  EBay’s online sales revenue is being curtailed by a decline
in the average selling price of merchandise, ITG said. Price
decreases would reduce revenue for the PayPal unit, which gets
34 percent of payment volume from EBay’s online sales, ITG said.  EBay in April forecast second-quarter revenue of $3.25
billion to $3.35 billion. Profit excluding some items will be 53
cents to 55 cents, the company said last month. The average
analyst estimate is currently 55 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  