-- ECB Wasn’t Consulted on Spanish Recapitalization Plan
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-30T16:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ecb-says-spain-hasn-t-consulted-it-on-bank-recapitalization-plan.html
(Corrects to remove reference to Wall Street Journal in
fourth paragraph )  The  European Central Bank  denied it
has rejected a plan floated by the Spanish government to
recapitalize Bankia, saying it hasn’t been approached.  “Contrary to media reports published today, the European
Central Bank has not been consulted and has not expressed a
position on plans by the Spanish authorities to recapitalize a
major Spanish bank,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in an e-
mailed statement. “The ECB stands ready to give advice on the
development of such plans.”  The Spanish government itself has backtracked on an idea to
recapitalize Bankia by injecting sovereign debt into its parent
company that, according to the Financial Times, could then be
used as collateral to borrow from the ECB. An Economy Ministry
spokesman said yesterday the plan had become “marginal,” and
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos today told lawmakers that his
government hasn’t presented any proposals to the ECB for the
recapitalization of Bankia.  Earlier today, the FT reported such a plan was rejected by
ECB officials.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 dropped 1.1 percent as Bankia lost 3.4
percent amid the country’s ongoing struggles to recapitalize the
banking sector. Bankia has tumbled 30 percent this week.  Second Version  To add to the confusion, the ECB issued a second version of
its statement that included a line saying “the funds needed to
ensure banks’ compliance with capital requirements cannot be
provided by the Eurosystem,” suggesting it would be opposed to
the plan in question. It then said this wording had been
published erroneously.  Spain nationalized the Bankia group on May 9, leading the
lender with the biggest Spanish asset base to request 19 billion
euros ($23.9 billion) of government backing to clean up lending
to property developers and other loans such as residential
mortgages.  The size of the support needed for Bankia, and the
implication that other banks may also need state support to
repair their balance sheets, has pushed the country’s 10-year
yields to the most relative to German bunds since the euro was
created.  Spain’s 10-year bonds declined today, propelling the yield
24 basis points higher to 6.68 percent, the most since Nov. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  