-- ECB Says Baltic States’ Euro Adoption Challenged by Inflation
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ecb-says-baltic-states-euro-adoption-challenged-by-inflation.html
The  European Central Bank  said the
countries most likely to join the euro next,  Latvia  and
Lithuania, face a “challenging” inflation outlook that could
hamper their convergence with the single currency.  “Maintaining low inflation rates at all times in Latvia
will be challenging in the medium term, given monetary policy’s
limited room for maneuver under the fixed exchange-rate
regime,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said today in its
2012 Convergence Report. In Lithuania, “it may be difficult to
prevent macroeconomic imbalances, including high rates of
inflation, from building up again,” the ECB said.  All members of the 27-country European Union, with the
exception of the U.K. and  Denmark , are in a so-called
convergence process, and Latvia and  Lithuania  are next in line
to switch currencies. The two Baltic nations peg their
currencies to the euro with the official government goal of
joining the monetary union in 2014.  The ECB said the 12-month average rate of inflation in the
reference period from April 2011 to March 2012 was 4.2 percent
in Lithuania and 4.1 percent in Latvia, both “well above the
reference value of 3.1 percent for the criterion on  price
stability .”  Six other countries, which unlike Latvia and Lithuania, are
not in the final stage of the convergence process by being
members of the so-called Exchange Rate Mechanism II, are also
candidates for eventual membership of the euro. Of Bulgaria, the
 Czech Republic , Hungary, Poland, Romania and Sweden, none met
all conditions on price stability, government deficits or legal
rules on central bank independence.  Three out of the eight countries met the ECB’s target on
price stability, and all apart from Sweden are subject to an EU
decision on excessive deficits. None of the nations met ECB
requirements regarding central bank independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  