-- Tech Shares Slump as Perfect World Drops: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-05-30T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/tech-shares-slump-as-perfect-world-drops-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities traded in New York
fell, extending the  benchmark index ’s loss this month to the
largest since September, on speculation a manufacturing report
tomorrow will signal Asia’s largest economy is slowing.  Technology shares led declines on the  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S.,
which fell 2.7 percent to 90.95 yesterday in New York, for a
loss of 12 percent in May.  Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (SMI)  and  iSoftStone Holdings Ltd. (ISS)  dropped at
least 7 percent. Online games operator  Perfect World Co. (PWRD)  sank as
much as 17 percent after forecasting second-quarter sales will
slump.  A government purchasing managers’ index for May due
tomorrow may decline from the prior month, a Bloomberg survey of
27 economists shows. The report comes after the official Xinhua
News Agency said in a May 29 article  China  has no plans for new
stimulus measures on the scale unleashed during the global
credit crisis in 2008. The nation has cut banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios three times since November as its economy
grew at the slowest pace in two years last quarter.  “China’s growth momentum has been slowing down for months
while the manufacturing sector is bumping on the bottom,”
Charlie Awdry, who helps manage an $800 million China
Opportunities Fund at Henderson Global Investors Ltd., said by
phone yesterday from  London . Chinese stocks are down because the
government’s stimulus measures “are smaller than people
thought,” he said.  China ETF Declines  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 1.7 percent to $33.29,
deepening this month’s slide to 12 percent. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks retreated 0.2 percent from a
two-week high to 2,384.67. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. shares slumped 1.4 percent to 1,313.32 after a measure of
pending home sales dropped by the most in a year and as concern
that  Greece  will leave the euro increased.  The benchmark measure for Shanghai stocks is set to gain 15
percent from yesterday’s close to 2,750 by year-end as slowing
inflation allows the government to loosen monetary policy and
banks to lend more to companies, according to Beijing Gao Hua
Securities Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s partner in China and
the firm with the most correct predictions for yuan-denominated
A shares in the two years to January 2012, based on Bloomberg
Rankings.  Perfect World  American depositary receipts of Perfect World dropped 5.9
percent to $10.82, the lowest level since Feb. 1.  The Beijing-based company estimated second-quarter sales to
be between 647 million  yuan  ($101.8 million) and 683 million
yuan, according to its May 29 statement. That was below the
average forecast of 739 million yuan by six analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Six out of eight analysts updating ratings
yesterday cut their 12-month price estimates of the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock “is likely to remain under pressure in the near
term as investors await signs of sustained re-acceleration in
sales and earnings growth,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a research note yesterday.  Adam Krejcik  at  Roth Capital Partners  downgraded the
company to neutral from buy yesterday, cutting his price target
to $12 from $20.  ADRs of Semiconductor Manufacturing, a Shanghai-based
circuit-chip maker, tumbled 7.9 percent to a three-year low of
$1.86. The ADRs, each representing 50 underlying shares in the
company, traded 3.7 percent below its  Hong Kong  stock.  ISoftStone, Cnooc  iSoftStone , an information technology service provider
based in Beijing, sank 8.3 percent to $6.18, the lowest level
since Oct. 4. The company has  reported earnings  that
disappointed analysts in every quarter since its initial public
offering in December 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil explorer, led
declines in the nation’s producers as futures tumbled to a
seven-month low on speculation that U.S. crude stockpiles
climbed to the highest level since 1990 and as the euro
weakened.  Oil for July delivery fell 3.2 percent to $87.82 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the lowest
settlement since Oct. 21.  Cnooc’s ADRs sank 3.2 percent to $179.22, the lowest level
this year. The ADRs  traded  2 percent lower than the company’s
Hong Kong shares, the biggest discount since May 4.  China’s yuan weakened for a third day versus the dollar,
losing 0.15 percent to a five-month low of 6.3577 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It has fallen 0.75 percent in May, heading for its worst monthly
performance in at least five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  