-- Telefonica Plans German IPO as Investors Lose $60 Billion
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-05-31T07:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/telefonica-to-sell-shares-in-german-division-in-push-to-cut-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , whose market value has
slumped by $60 billion in 1 1/2 years, plans to sell shares in
its German and Latin American phone units, raising cash to
restore debt ratings threatened by Spain’s financial crisis.  Telefonica’s board yesterday approved a proposal to seek an
initial public offering for O2  Germany , and to explore possible
listings for its Latin American assets. The Madrid-based company
will speed up the sale of non-core businesses and cut the cash
portion of its 2012 dividend by 69 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, who spent the past
decade making acquisitions in Latin America,  Europe  and China,
is now turning to some of Telefonica’s most valuable divisions
for cash.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the company’s rating last week
to the lowest level since it started ranking the debt in 1996.
Telefonica this week ceded its position as Spain’s biggest
company by market value to clothing retailer  Inditex SA. (ITX)   “Germany is Telefonica’s crown jewel in Europe so this
could be a positive move,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-
based strategist at FGA/MG Valores. “No doubt investors will be
more willing to pay a premium for assets in Germany or  Latin
America  rather than the U.K. or Spain.”  Telefonica jumped as much as 3.4 percent and was up 2.8
percent at 9.10 euros as of 9:17 a.m. in  Madrid . The stock had
declined 34 percent this year through yesterday, the worst
performance in the 19-company  Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index (BETELES) , which was down 12 percent.  Market Value  Its market value of 40.7 billion euros ($50.5 billion) as
of yesterday has shrunk by 49 billion euros since November 2010
and compares with as much as 110 billion euros reached in 2007.
It is also less than Telefonica’s net debt of 57.1 billion euros
at the end of March.  Alierta, who spent about $85 billion on acquisitions since
taking over in 2000, is struggling to stem customer defections
in Spain to discounters. By relying on proceeds from
reorganizing and selling smaller assets such as the Colombian
unit, satellite company Hispasat SA and Portugal’s  Zon
Multimedia SGPS SA (ZON) , the CEO hasn’t gone far enough to protect
its debt rating, said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit
research at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London .  “Telefonica needs to speed up the sale of assets,”
Appleyard said. “It’s a balance. They need to keep investing
but cannot be aggressive anymore.”  O2 Valuation  Alierta bought mobile-phone operator O2 Plc for $31.5
billion in 2006 to add wireless units in the U.K., Ireland and
Germany in his biggest acquisition. Germany is now Telefonica’s
second-largest market in Europe with 25 million customers,
compared with 44.3 million in Spain. The U.K. follows with 23.3
million customers.  Macquarie Securities values the German business alone at
about 7 billion euros, while Espirito Santo Investment Bank said
the unit may be worth 8 billion euros to 9 billion euros. A
Telefonica spokesman declined to comment on valuation or a
timetable for the IPO.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB yesterday began
a 2.6 billion-euro offer to boost its stake in Dutch phone
company Royal  KPN NV. (KPN)  KPN controls E-Plus, which vies for the
No. 3 position with O2 in Germany.  A listing of O2 Germany may be a prelude to consolidation,
as is KPN’s indication that it would respond to America Movil’s
tender offer shortly, Jefferies analyst Ulrich Rathe said in a
note today. Still, German consolidation faces significant
regulatory hurdles, he wrote.  Latin America  In Latin America, Alierta expanded Telefonica in the past
decade in Argentina, Peru, Brazil as well as Mexico, going head-
to-head with Slim. In Brazil, the only Latin American economy
larger than Mexico, Telefonica maintains its leading 30 percent
market share while Slim has slipped to third place behind
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s TIM unit.  “Telefonica’s decision comes way too late as it wants to
sell assets at an all-time low when it could have done it much
earlier,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London. “You now have corporate uncertainty on top
of the whole euro-crisis.”  Bernstein estimates the Latin American business, excluding
“unattractive” Argentina and Venezuela, is worth 47 billion
euros.  ‘Crucial Moment’  Telefonica is considering carving out assets for individual
Latin American countries instead of an IPO for the regional
business, said a person with knowledge of the matter, asking not
to be identified because the discussions are confidential.  Alierta bought Brazil’s  Vivo Participacoes SA (VIV)  in 2010 for
7.5 billion euros. In Europe, Telefonica also owns a 10.5
percent indirect stake in Telecom Italia, worth 1.3 billion
euros at yesterday close. It holds a 9.6 percent stake in  China
Unicom Hong Kong Ltd. (762)  valued at $3.2 billion.  “This is a crucial moment for Telefonica’s management to
start making decisions,” said Juan Fuente, who helps manage
about $9 billion including Telefonica shares at Bankinter
Gestion in Madrid. “There’s increasing pressure from unhappy
investors as the shares continue to drop sharply.”  Telefonica, which cut its 2012 dividend forecast in
December, said yesterday it plans to pay 40 cents of the 1.50
euro-a-share dividend in cash, compared with 1.30 euros
previously. The remainder will be paid via share buybacks and a
scrip dividend, or payment in stock.  Debt Ratio  The operator still aims to reach a net debt ratio of less
than 2.35 times operating income before depreciation and
amortization this year. The ratio was about 2.5 times last year.  “Their cash squeeze is beginning to compromise their
ability operationally and to invest in their businesses,” said
Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie Securities in London.  Starting next month, Telefonica will face even more
challenges to defend its Spanish market share as customers will
be able to change operators more quickly while keeping their
phone number. First-quarter Oibda in Spain slumped 14 percent,
while earnings in Latin America surpassed Europe for the first
time in the period.  Telefonica’s mobile-phone market share in Spain fell to
38.6 percent in March from 39.6 percent in the previous month.
Telefonica was the only company losing wireless clients in
March, ceding 337,700 customers, the Spanish phone regulator
said today.  The company said in a presentation today it sees benefits
from last year’s layoffs of about 250 million euros in 2012,
while profitability for the group will improve in the second
half.  Alierta, who holds a law degree from the University of
Zaragoza and an MBA from  Columbia University , has been a board
member at Telefonica since 1997 and chairman since 2000. The 67-
year-old told shareholders this month that he was optimistic the
stock will rebound and “our main goal is to survive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  