-- Emerging Stocks Drop First Day in Five on Spain Debt, China
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-05-30T22:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/emerging-stocks-drop-first-day-in-five-on-spain-debt-china.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in five days after China damped speculation of a
stimulus package while Spanish and Italian borrowing costs rose,
sending commodity shares lower.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 1.5 percent to 907.88
at the close in  New York , headed for a 12 percent plunge this
month, the most since September.  Brazil ’s Bovespa fell 1.5
percent to a seven-month low as  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA 
declined 12 percent in  Sao Paulo .  Russia ’s Micex Index dropped,
with OAO Lukoil falling as crude oil retreated.  China has no plans to introduce stimulus measures on the
scale deployed during the global financial crisis, Xinhua News
Agency reported.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields jumped to a euro-
era record relative to German bunds. Italy sold 5.73 billion
euros ($7.1 billion) of bonds, short of its maximum target for
the auction, as borrowing costs rose from a previous sale. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials declined
2.3 percent to 603.28, the lowest level since Oct. 5.  “The slowdown in  China ’s economy will likely continue,”
said Arifin Hasudungan, an analyst at Jakarta-based PT Mega
Capital Investama, which manages about $209 million in assets.
“For  Europe , investors’ attention is again focused on  Greece 
and Spain. Developments there are hurting market confidence.”  China Slowdown  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has erased this year’s
advance amid signs of a deepening slowdown in China and as
European leaders pressure Greece to meet bailout terms and stay
in the euro. Greece will hold an election next month that may
determine its course of action.  The  emerging-markets gauge  has slipped 0.9 percent this
year, compared with a 0.1 percent decline in the MSCI World
Index.  Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest natural gas producer,
tumbled 1.4 percent as crude for July delivery sank to a seven-
month low. OAO Novatek retreated 3.1 percent after the nation’s
finance minister indicated Russia may raise taxes on oil and gas
producers. Russia’s Micex Index slipped 1.4 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa dropped to the lowest level since Oct. 10.
 PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes (PDGR3) , Brazil’s biggest
homebuilder, added 1.5 percent after falling 11 percent in
trading yesterday.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  slid 1.4 percent in
Johannesburg as copper and gold retreated in  London . The  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  slipped 0.6 percent in  Turkey . Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE) 
Index lost 1.1 percent and  South Korea ’s Kospi Index declined
0.3 percent.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  tumbled 0.9 percent in  Poland , which sends
most of its exports to the euro region.  Besiktas, ICBC  Besiktas Futbol Yatirimlari Sanayi & Ticaret AS (BJKAS) , the
merchandising unit of Turkish sports club Besiktas, plunged 8.8
percent to the lowest level in almost two years after CNBC-e
television reported that its soccer team was banned from
European competitions for a year.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  dropped 1.7 percent.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest listed lender, fell 1.7 percent, the first decline in
three days.  Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. , a Chinese provider
of commercial banking services, lost 1.4 percent.  ‘Government’s Intention’  “The Chinese government’s intention is very clear: It will
not roll out another massive stimulus plan to seek high economic
growth,” Xinhua said yesterday in a Chinese-language article on
economic policy, without attributing the information. “The
current efforts for stabilizing growth will not repeat the old
way of three years ago.”  The Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , fell 0.8 percent in Mumbai.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s largest automaker, sank 12
percent after its main Jaguar Land Rover unit missed analysts’
profit estimates. Jaguar’s fourth-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 605.4 million
pounds ($940 million) missed estimates at Deutsche Bank AG and
Nomura Holdings Inc.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 422, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  