-- Eni to Sell 30% Stake of Snam to Bank for 3.5 Billion Euros
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-30T17:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/eni-to-sell-30-stake-of-snam-to-bank-for-3-5-billion-euros-1-.html
Eni SpA (ENI)  will sell a 30 percent stake
of gas-network operator  Snam SpA (SRG)  to a state-owned bank for 3.5
billion euros ($4.34 billion), part of government efforts to
increase competition in the  energy industry .  Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA will pay Rome-based Eni 3.47
euros a share, a 3 percent premium to Snam’s average market
price over the last month, the state-controlled lender said in a
statement today.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , attempting to boost economic
growth in the face of Europe’s debt crisis, forced the sale to
improve access to  Italy ’s gas-pipeline network and cut energy
costs. European Union regulators have accused Eni of distorting
natural-gas flows. Eni, the country’s largest oil company, said
it will use the cash to reduce debt and invest in exploration
and production projects.  The sale will be “positive” for shareholders as Eni
“will be a stronger company that is today,” Chief Executive
Officer  Paolo Scaroni  told analysts on a conference call today.
The company has had expressions of interest from buyers for its
remaining 20 percent holding in Snam, he said. “We are not in
the business of being minority shareholders.”  CDP will pay Eni in three installments, with half
transferred as soon as competition authorities approve the deal.
A further 25 percent will be paid by Dec. 31, with the remaining
amount turned over by May 2013. CDP said it will raise 2 billion
euros selling bonds to finance the purchase.  Tax Liability  The sale won’t incur any significant tax liability on the
sale to EDP, the company said.  Scaroni also said Eni plans a new buyback program of 326
million shares, which investors will discuss and vote on at a
July meeting.  Eni is unlikely to sell its remaining Snam shares to a
single strategic buyer, Scaroni said. He decline to give a
timetable for disposing of the rest of Eni’s stake. A sale of
some shares to retail investors in Italy is possible, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  