-- Mercedes Car Stolen in War Belongs to Heirs, Court Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/mercedes-car-stolen-in-war-belongs-to-heirs-court-says.html
A court in Hamburg ruled that the
grandchildren of a German industrialist have a valid claim to a
classic Mercedes car worth about $4 million that was taken by
U.S. soldiers during World War II.  Hans Prym, the owner of a manufacturer of buttons, zips and
other clothing fasteners that is still in the possession of  his
family today , kept the car in Stolberg, close to the Belgian
border. Known locally as the “Zipper King,” he purchased the
car -- one of the most expensive models available at that time -
- in 1935.  In an initial ruling, the  Hamburg regional court  said
yesterday there was no evidence that U.S. troops quartered at
Prym’s Stolberg estate, Waldfriede, in 1945 were entitled to
take the car, a Mercedes-Benz 500K “Spezial Roadster.” A Dutch
classic car collector called Frans van Haren paid $3.8 million
for it last year at RM Auctions in Monterey,  California . When he
offered it for sale in March this year at  Techno Classica , a car
show in the German city of Essen, it was impounded under court
order.  “The court has recognized our claim is valid and we will
prepare the next stage and file suit for the car’s return,”
said Alexander Martius of  Stein & Partner Rechtsanwaelte  in
Aachen, the lawyer who represented the heirs in court. “We
think the decision is right and it’s an important step toward
restitution. I am extraordinarily happy for the Prym family.”  History Gap  The car may be one of only 29 of its type left and is still
in immaculate condition, according to Martius. RM Auctions said
in its  sale note  that the car’s history from Prym’s purchase
until the 1970s was unknown. It described the Mercedes as
“magnificently designed, fastidiously constructed and
assiduously maintained by a succession of owners.”  At the end of World War II, many valuables found their way
to the U.S., taken as trophies and souvenirs by troops when they
left  Germany . Some have since been returned. In a  New York  court
decision in 2009, for instance, a collector was forced to return
a 16th-century book worth $600,000 to a museum in Stuttgart,
more than six decades after it was stolen by a U.S. army
captain.  Prym’s Mercedes disappeared in 1945, while he was serving a
prison sentence handed to him by the Allies. His estate was used
as a base for U.S. troops serving under General Maurice Rose at
the beginning of the march into Germany. Stolberg was one of the
first places in Germany to be conquered.  The caretaker who looked after Prym’s car, Franz Wagemann,
was away for a few days when it vanished. His daughter, who is
now 84 and lives in the U.S., recalled her father’s reaction in
a statement presented to the court. He was, she wrote,
“furious” and “very dismayed.”  The court said that the statute of limitations has not yet
expired on the theft, because the 30-year period under German
law is only applicable for the time the car has been in Germany.
In the U.S., the statute of limitations runs only from the time
of discovery of its location.  Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on  autos ,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology , Manuela Hoelterhoff on  Mugzie .  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 