-- Terrell Owens Released After Missing Children’s Hospital Visit
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/terrell-owens-released-after-missing-children-s-hospital-visit.html
Terrell Owens  was released by the
Indoor Football League’s Allen Wranglers for missing a visit to
a children’s hospital.  Owens told the team he joined in February that he wouldn’t
play against the Nebraska Danger and Everett Raptors in the last
two road games for the Wranglers (6-5) as they chase a playoff
spot, according to a statement on the team’s website.  “The proverbial straw that broke the camel’s back for Mr.
Owens was his no-show to a scheduled appearance at a local
children’s hospital with other Wrangler players and coaches,”
team President Tommy Benizio said. “It’s not the desire of the
Allen Wranglers’ organization to disappoint fans by having our
most notable player miss a scheduled appearance.”  The 38-year-old Owens ranks second to  Jerry Rice  in
National Football League history with 15,934 yards receiving.
He’s tied with Randy Moss behind Rice for the second-most
touchdown catches with 153 and has 1,078 career NFL receptions,
sixth on the career list.  Owens didn’t play in the NFL last season after having knee
surgery in April 2011. He received a contract worth between
$250,000 and $500,000 to play with the Allen, Texas-based
Wranglers.  “It’s impossible to maintain a player when even our fans
notice and comment on a player’s lack of effort both on and off
the field,” said team owner Jon Frankel.  Owens, a five-time NFL All Pro, will no longer participate
as a team owner, the Wranglers said.  Owens spent eight NFL seasons with the  San Francisco 49ers ,
three with the  Dallas Cowboys , two with the  Philadelphia Eagles 
and one each with the  Buffalo Bills  and Cincinnati Bengals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  