-- EU Commission May Agree for Spain to Cut Deficit More Slowly
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-05-30T15:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/eu-commission-may-agree-for-spain-to-cut-deficit-more-slowly-1-.html
The European Commission may give
 Spain  more time to meet budget-deficit rules as the country
battles a deepening recession.  Commission officials “are ready to consider proposing an
extension of the deadline to correct the excessive deficit by
one year to 2014,” said Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  during a news conference in Brussels.  Spain has the third-largest budget gap in the  euro zone ,
comparable to  Greece ’s. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy today
repeated a call on European authorities to support his
government’s efforts as the yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark
bond jumped 22 basis points to 6.67 percent.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos today said that the yield
premium investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year debt over
similar maturity German bonds, which reached a euro-era record
540 basis points today, isn’t sustainable.  Rajoy, in power since December, pledged in March to reduce
overspending by the equivalent of 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product this year to cut the  budget deficit  to 5.3 percent of
GDP and reach 3 percent, the limit set by the EU for all  euro
zone  members, by 2013. The shortfall was 8.9 percent last year.  His People’s Party government is stepping up austerity
efforts even with the economy set to contract 1.7 percent this
year.  Conditions  The Commission may agree to more flexibility on the
condition that Spain can effectively “control the excessive
spending at the subnational level, especially by the autonomous
regions” and present a “solid” 2013-2014 budget plan, Rehn
said.  In a staff report, the European Commission said the policy
plans submitted by Spain “lack sufficient ambition” as the
nation hasn’t gone far enough in overhauling labor rules and its
tax system. The report recommended raising consumption and
environmental levies, while reducing tax advantages, such as the
favorable fiscal treatment of residential housing.  Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez today
said meeting deficit targets will be “tremendously arduous” as
tax receipts may come in lower than forecast and spending be
higher than planned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  