-- EU to Lift Bulgaria’s Excessive Budget Deficit Procedure
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-05-30T14:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/eu-to-lift-bulgaria-s-excessive-budget-deficit-procedure-1-.html
The European Commission recommended
lifting the excessive budget-deficit procedure against  Bulgaria 
after the country narrowed its shortfall to within the European
Union’s limit last year.  Bulgaria narrowed its budget gap to 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product last year from 3.8 percent in 2010 and plans to
cut the deficit to 1.36 percent this year. The commission, the
EU’s executive, forecast this year’s shortfall at 1.9 percent,
within the 3 percent EU limit.  The country has “sustainably corrected” its fiscal
shortfall “in a durable manner,” EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Brussels today.  Bulgaria, the EU’s poorest country in terms of economic
output per capita where about 25 percent of bank assets are
controlled by Greek lenders, weathered the global financial
crisis without borrowing from international lenders. The
government is working on cutting the deficit to raise funds for
835 million euros ($1 billion) of debt due in 2013.  Public debt was 16.5 percent of GDP at the end of last
year, the second lowest among the EU’s 27 countries, the
commission said this month. That will help compensate for
contagion from  Greece ’s debt crisis, Tim Ash, an economist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London , said in e-mailed
note to clients today.  “Bulgaria has a stellar public-debt profile,” Ash said.
“In a worst-case scenario, Bulgaria has the ammunition to cover
potential problems in the banks, and also extending into public
finance space, if growth dips, and budget revenues drop,
boosting the fiscal deficit and budget financing needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  