-- EU Weighs Direct Aid to Banks as Antidote to Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-31T08:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/eu-weighs-direct-aid-for-banks-common-bonds-as-crisis-antidote.html
The European Commission challenged
 Germany ’s remedies for the financial crisis, calling for direct
euro-area aid for troubled  banks  and demanding a path to common
bond issuance.  The commission, the European Union’s central regulator,
sided with Spain in proposing that the planned permanent rescue
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, inject cash to banks
instead of channeling the money via national governments.  “Flexibility and speed of action will be of the essence,”
 Jose Barroso , the commission’s president, said in Brussels
yesterday. He sought “not only flexibility in terms of
instruments, but also in terms of speed of reaction of the so-
called firewalls, in this case of the ESM.”  Proposals for more liberal use of European bailout money
face resistance in creditor countries such as Germany, Finland
and the Netherlands, the scenes of growing taxpayer opposition
to adding to the 386 billion euros ($479 billion) already
pledged to fight the crisis.  Germany showed no signs of easing its stance, as Steffen Seibert, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, told
reporters in Berlin that “the German position on the direct
recapitalization of banks out of the European rescue funds is
known.”  Signs of stress multiplied in financial markets. Investors
relinquished returns for security, sending the yield on German
two-year notes to zero yesterday. Italy’s 10-year yields
declined for the first time since May 24 after rising above 6
percent yesterday for the first time since January. Spain’s 10-
year yields fell 3 basis points to 6.58 percent.  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.2395 at 9:55 a.m. in
Berlin.  Leaders’ Call  President  Barack Obama  held a videoconference with Merkel,
French President  Francois Hollande  and Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  to discuss “developments in  Europe ,” the White
House said in a statement late yesterday. Merkel faced calls by
those three leaders at the Group of Eight summit this month to
do more to spur growth and stem the debt crisis.  The commission packaged the bank-aid ideas along with a
call for a European deposit-insurance program, designed to break
the spiral of faltering governments and failing banks. It said
it will make concrete proposals for common bond issuance -- also
opposed by northern European donor countries -- and singled
Spain out as the only country entitled to more time to cut its
 budget deficit .  Spain, the 17-nation euro area’s fourth-largest economy, is
trying to simultaneously plug holes in regional budgets and
detoxify its banks, all while struggling to lift the economy out
of a recession.  ‘Sever the Link’  Current EU plans call for the 500 billion-euro ESM to
funnel bank-aid money through national governments and,
ultimately, require those governments to pay it back. Direct
recapitalizations by the fund “might be envisaged” and would
“sever the link between banks and the sovereigns,” the
commission said in a  staff working paper .  Any discussion of creating that power would come once the
permanent fund gets going in July, the commission said. A
makeover of the fund’s aid tools requires a  unanimous vote  of
the euro area’s 17 finance ministers, though ratification by
national parliaments wouldn’t be needed.  Germany is spearheading resistance to direct European
financing for banks because that would let governments bypass
the conditions set for full aid programs, such as deeper budget
cuts and more European intrusion into economic management.
 Finland  is in Germany’s camp, Martti Salmi, a Finance Ministry
official, said in a telephone interview.  Banking Union  The commission appealed for a “banking union” that would
more tightly integrate supervision and create a pool of European
funds to clean up banks with cross-border exposure and segregate
their underperforming assets.  “It’s hard enough to bail out local banks let alone non-
domestic banks,” said  Harvinder Sian , a London-based fixed-
income strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “A
crisis lesson so far is that big ideas coming from Brussels or
the guys taking the money are noise up until the point that the
Germans get on the same page.”  Part of the solution lies in “correct and transparent risk
recognition” instead of putting off the reckoning, the
commission said. In the wake of the  European Central Bank ’s
unprecedented 1 trillion euros in long-term loans, some banks
are still using the funds to buy sovereign bonds, binding them
more closely to financially shaky governments, the commission
said.  Watchful ECB  The central bank’s “accommodative”  monetary policy  with
 interest rates  at 1 percent limits its scope for spurring the
economy, the commission said. It estimated on May 11 that the
euro economy will contract 0.3 percent in 2012.  In an assessment by staff economists, the commission said
there is little room for deficit-plagued countries to push back
planned savings to a later date. Such an easing-up would be
punished by markets, it said.  “Member states which face high and potentially rising risk
premia do not have much room for maneuver to deviate from their
nominal fiscal targets, even if macroeconomic conditions turn
out worse than expected,” according to the document.  Still, Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
 Spain  might be granted an extra year, until 2014, to bring its
deficit down to the limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product.  Spanish Plan  Spain deserves that mercy -- denied to  France  and the
Netherlands -- because it is the only euro-area country likely
to still be in recession in 2013, Rehn said. The concession will
only come if Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government
delivers a “solid, two-year budget plan for 2013 and 2014,” he
said.  The commission, which gained new powers to police national
budgets in response to the crisis, is trying to crack down on
deficits without imposing policies that crimp the economy.  “Credibility of consolidation is one of the key factors,”
the staff paper said.  The commission kept alive the debate over common borrowing
by euro-area governments, already rejected by Merkel as at best
a goal for the long term and not a way out of the current
turmoil.  Debate over euro bonds flared at last week’s summit of
European leaders, the first for Hollande after he took office
vowing to challenge the German-dominated budget-cutting creed
that has marked the crisis response.  Debt Fund  Ideas include a debt-redemption fund proposed by Germany’s
council of economic advisers and different types of “stability
bonds” sketched out by the commission last year. The commission
is now working on more concrete proposals.  Passage of a deficit-limitation treaty and the adoption of
two laws that further enhance central oversight of national
budgets will help pave the way toward common bond sales, the
commission said.  The commission is only asking for “a roadmap and a
timetable, but an early confirmation of the steps to be taken
will underscore the irreversibility and the solidity of the
euro,” Barroso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  