-- Greece Risks Trade Constraints as Insurers Cut Export Coverage
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/euler-hermes-suspends-insurance-cover-for-exports-to-greece.html
Euler Hermes SA (ELE) , the world’s biggest
credit insurer, said it will no longer cover new shipments of
goods to  Greece  because of the risks of the nation leaving the
euro currency and customers defaulting on payments.  The insurer, a unit of  Allianz SE (ALV) , took the decision
because exporting to Greece has become “significantly more
risky,” Paris-based Euler Hermes said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The insurer is still working under the assumption
Greece will remain in the  euro zone , it said.  “We will still cover those shipments under way and
internal commercial transactions,” spokeswoman Bettina Sattler
said by telephone today. Future shipments to the country won’t
be covered, she said.  The lack of export insurance, which pays companies if a
client defaults, raises the prospect that certain goods will no
longer reach Greek companies and stores. Austria’s OeKB
Versicherung AG said on May 29 it will also drop coverage of new
shipments to Greece and Coface SA of France said it’s only doing
business with “the healthiest Greek companies.”  Greeks vote again June 17 after elections on May 6 failed
to produce a workable majority in parliament, as parties opposed
to sticking to Greece’s part of an aid agreement with the
European Union won most of the votes. Euler Hermes said on May
26 it was reviewing its coverage of exports to Greece because of
the risk of the country exiting the euro.  Atradius NV, the trade-credit insurer owned by Grupo
Catalana Occidente SA, and Sace SpA,  Italy ’s trade-credit
insurer, said earlier this week they continue to cover
reasonable risks on new supplies to Greece, while closely
monitoring developments in the country.  Euler Hermes had gross premiums last year of 2.28 billion
euros ($2.9 billion), up 5.9 percent from the year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  