-- European Stocks Drop on Concern Debt Crisis Is Deepening
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-30T16:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/european-stock-futures-drop-bankia-vallourec-may-move.html
European stocks  dropped the most in a
week as Italy failed to meet its maximum target at a debt sale,
Spain struggled to bolster its banking system and a Greek poll
showed increased support for parties opposed to spending cuts.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical maker, declined 2
percent as  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  reported the company
isn’t seeing the kind of dynamism it expected in  Asia .  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  fell more than 2.5 percent as
copper declined.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s biggest oil
company, retreated as oil fell to a seven-month low.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1.5 percent to 240.56
at the close in  London . The benchmark measure has tumbled 12
percent from this year’s high on March 16 amid growing concern
that Greece will be forced to leave the euro currency union.  “The rising yields at Italy’s bond auction show the
nervousness of the market, impacted by the rising probability of
a Greek exit as well as increasing pressure from the Spanish
banking market,” said Kai Fachinger, who manages about $750
million at SAM Sustainable Asset Management AG in Zurich.  National benchmark indexes slipped all the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 1.7 percent and
Germany’s DAX fell 1.8 percent, while France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  slid 2.2
percent. Greece’s ASE Index slumped 3.2 percent.  Italian Bond Sale  Italian bonds fell for a fourth day, the longest stretch of
losses in more than a month. The nation’s borrowing costs rose
at an auction today as it sold 5.73 billion euros ($7.1 billion)
of five-year and 10-year securities, short of its maximum target
of 6.25 billion euros.  “The main threat to Italy’s debt market right now is
external,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in London, wrote in an e-mail. “While things are going
from bad to worse in Spain, the uncertainty surrounding Greece’s
membership of the  euro zone  is weighing heavily on sentiment.”  In Greece, a VPRC opinion poll for Epikaira magazine showed
that anti-austerity group Syriza had the support of 30 percent
of voters, compared with 26.5 percent for  New Democracy , which
backs the terms of a European Union bailout. Greece holds new
elections on June 17.  A separate survey indicated most citizens wanted the terms
of the international financial rescue eased, even as they
acknowledged that failure to abide by the austerity measures may
lead to an exit from the single currency.  Spanish Yields  In  Spain , the cost of insuring against sovereign default
rose to a record today. Credit-default swaps linked to the
nation’s debt climbed 29 basis points to 589.5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. An increase signals worsening
perceptions of  credit quality . The yield on Spanish five-year
notes rose to 6 percent for the first time since Nov. 30.  Egan-Jones Ratings Co. yesterday cut Spain’s sovereign
credit rating to B from BB- on the country’s deteriorating
economic outlook.  Elsewhere, a European Commission report showed that
economic confidence in the euro region declined more than
forecast in May to the lowest in 2 1/2 years. An index of
executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation currency union
fell to 90.6 from a revised 92.9 in April. That’s the lowest
since October 2009 and below the 91.9 forecast by economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. Property Market  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned homes fell in April by the most in a year, indicating the
U.S. housing recovery remains uneven.  The index of pending home resales dropped 5.5 percent
following a revised 3.8 percent gain the prior month, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for no change in the measure.  BASF dropped 2 percent to 56.79 euros after Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung cited Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Martin
Brudermueller  as saying the company isn’t seeing the kind of
dynamism it expected in Asia. BASF is considering taking a
partner in India, where a backlog of policy changes is holding
back growth, the official said.  BHP Billiton  and  Rio Tinto  declined 2.5 percent to 1,707.5
pence and 4.1 percent to 2,801 pence, respectively. Copper fell
for a second day, poised for the biggest monthly drop since
September.  Royal Dutch Shell decreased 1.1 percent to 24.91 euros in
Amsterdam.  BP Plc (BP/)  declined 2.1 percent to 398.30 pence. Oil fell
to its lowest since Oct. 20 on speculation that U.S. crude
stockpiles climbed to the highest level since 1990.  Vallourec, Bankia  Vallourec lost 3.8 percent to 31.41 euros. The company is
not witnessing a rebound in orders in Europe and Asia,  Les Echos 
reported, citing an interview with Chairman Philippe Crouzet.
The company would reduce production by a further 20 percent if
the economy worsens, the report said.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  slid for a sixth day, losing as much as 17
percent, after the Financial Times reported the  European Central
Bank  rejected the Spanish plan for the nationalized lender as
unacceptable, citing unidentified European officials. The plan
could breach the EU’s “monetary financing” ban, the newspaper
had reported.  The stock closed the session 8.6 percent lower at 1.04
euros after the ECB said the Spanish government hasn’t consulted
it on any plans to recapitalize a major bank and that the
central bank has not given any advice.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  tumbled 4.9 percent to 30.5
euro cents, while  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  dropped 7.9 percent
to 1.16 euros.  French Advertising Ban  Societe Television Francaise 1 (TFI) , France’s most-watched
television channel, slumped 5.7 percent to 6.00 euros after
Kepler Capital Markets said the company may lose about 40
million euros in revenue if the French government lifts the
advertising ban on France TV.  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the truck and tractor manufacturer
that Italian carmaker Fiat SpA spun off in 2011, gained 1
percent to 7.97 euros after saying it will merge with tractor
unit CNH Global and move its primary listing to  New York .  Booker Group Plc (BOK) , the biggest U.K. food wholesaler, rallied
10 percent to 87 pence, the highest since Feb. 2006.  Metro AG (MEO) 
agreed to sell its Makro U.K. wholesale unit to Booker for 139.7
million pounds ($218 million) in cash and stock. Metro gained
1.3 percent to 22.90 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  