-- European Bank Shares Drop as Spanish Lender Concern Deepens
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-05-30T11:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/european-banking-shares-drop-as-spanish-lender-concern-gains-1-.html
European banking stocks  fell to a
five-month low on concern that Spanish lenders’ deteriorating
finances will spread turmoil elsewhere in the region.  The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index
fell 2.3 percent to 65.85 at 12:25 p.m. local time. A close at
that price would be the lowest level since Nov. 25.  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest lender, declined 2.2 percent. Shares
of  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the lender with the biggest Spanish asset base,
dropped 4.3 percent.  The  yield  on the 10-year Spanish bond surpassed 6.55
percent today, the highest since November, on concern bailouts
for banks and regional governments will hamper  Spain ’s ability
to service its debt. The yield difference, or spread, between
Spanish and German 10-year bonds increased this week to the
highest since the creation of the euro.  Banks elsewhere in Europe may have to take losses on their
Spanish debt holdings, hampering their ability to boost capital
levels and satisfy regulators, according to Ingo Frommen, an
analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.  “If the house is on fire in Spain, there are consequences
for Europe’s banking sector as a whole,” said Frommen, who is
based in Stuttgart, Germany. “The last thing banks need is to
show some losses in their second-quarter earnings as they’re
gearing up to meet European  capital requirements .”  ECB, Bankia  Spanish bonds slid today after the Financial Times said the
 European Central Bank  rejected Spain’s plan to recapitalize
Bankia, which was nationalized after property loans soured.
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said Spain didn’t present any
such plan to the ECB. The central bank hasn’t been consulted by
Spain on any plans to recapitalize a “major Spanish bank,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the ECB today.  The Bank of Spain late yesterday said Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez resigned a month early amid criticism from the
governing  People’s Party  over his handling of Bankia.  “Spain looks to have gotten to the point where it cannot
bear the burden alone,” David Mackie, chief European economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said today in a note to clients. The
Spanish government “does not want the kind of burden sharing
that was made available to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . The
Spanish government wants the ECB to directly purchase its
sovereign debt and for the EFSF/ESM to directly recapitalize its
banks,” he wrote, referring to Europe’s rescue funds.  A Spanish bailout by the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  to cover the country’s gross funding needs through
the end of 2014 could total about 350 billion euros ($435
billion), including 75 billion euros to recapitalize banks,
according to JPMorgan estimates.  Europe’s leaders have sought to restore confidence in the
banks’ ability to withstand the sovereign debt crisis by
ordering lenders to boost capital by mid-year. The European
Banking Authority told lenders in December to raise 114.7
billion euros in fresh capital to attain a core Tier 1 ratio, a
measure of financial strength, of at least 9 percent of risk-
weighted assets after accounting for writedowns on some European
sovereign bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  