-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Falls to 2 1/2 Year Low: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-30T10:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/euro-area-economic-confidence-declines-more-than-forecast-1-.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
declined more than economists forecast in May to the lowest in 2
1/2 years after inconclusive Greek elections raised the specter
of a euro breakup and  Spain  struggled to shore up its banks.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 90.6 from a revised 92.9 in April, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest
since October 2009 and below the 91.9 forecast by economists,
according to the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Europe ’s  economic slump  shows signs of deepening after
 Greece  failed to form a government following May 6 elections
while Spain struggles to clean up its banks amid recession and
unemployment of more than 20 percent. Citigroup Inc. economists
forecast Greece could leave the euro area by next year. Euro-
zone manufacturing and services output contracted more than
economists estimated in May and German  business sentiment  had
the steepest decline since August.  “All second-quarter sentiment indicators seem to signal a
fall back into  recession territory ,” said Peter Vanden Houte,
an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “European leaders will
have the difficult task to find a way out of this doom loop.”  The euro extended its decline against the dollar after the
data and traded at $1.2439 at 11:44 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.5
percent on the day at a two-year low. The Stoxx Europe 600
dropped as much as 1.1 percent and Standard & Poor’s Index
futures fell 0.7 percent.  Loan Growth  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers fell to
minus 11.3 from minus 9 in April, today’s report showed. That’s
the lowest since February 2010. An indicator of services
confidence dropped to minus 4.9 from minus 2.4, while a gauge of
consumer sentiment rose to minus 19.3 from minus 19.9. Sentiment
in the  construction industry  also declined this month.  The  European Central Bank  said today that loans to
households and companies in the euro zone grew at the slowest
pace in two years in April as the crisis curbed demand for
credit. The central bank has flooded markets with more than 1
trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) in three-year loans at its
benchmark  interest rate , which is at a record low of 1 percent.  Confidence may continue to deteriorate after the Greek
elections on May 6 failed to produce a government and saw an
increase in support for parties opposed to austerity measures.
Seventy-seven percent of Greeks say the terms of the bailout
should be revised, a poll by GPO SA showed today. The country
will hold new elections on June 17.  Cash-Strapped Regions  Citigroup economists, who earlier forecast departure
chances at as much as 75 percent, now are assuming as a “base
case” that Greece will leave on Jan. 1, 2013.  In Spain, the fourth-biggest economy in the euro, Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on May 16 there is a risk investors
will stop lending or charge “astronomical prices” as his
government tries to shore up banks and help the nation’s cash-
strapped regions.  “New elections in Greece and the Spanish banking crisis
are fueling uncertainty among consumers and companies,” said
Heinrich Bayer, an economist at  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  in Bonn.
“The euro-region economy will have a weak second quarter, or
stagnation with a  downward risk . We still see a moderate
recovery in the second half unless the crisis worsens further.”  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-largest bank by market
value, on May 11 reported a 75 percent drop in first-quarter
earnings, hurt by Greek losses.  Increased ‘Complexity’  “The election results increased the complexity of a
situation that was already tense,” Credit Agricole Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet told reporters on that day.
“We’ve been working for several quarters on this worry” that
Greece may leave the euro.  With European austerity measures undermining  consumer
spending  and economies from Spain to  Italy  in recessions,
companies have been forced to  lower costs  to protect earnings.
Euro-area unemployment probably rose to 11 percent in April from
10.9 percent in the previous month, a Bloomberg survey shows.
That would be a  euro-era record . The European Union’s statistics
office will release the jobless data on June 1.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said today that it may cut as many as
1,000 jobs at LSG Sky Chefs, the world’s largest in-flight
caterer, to reduce expenses. Europe’s second-biggest airline,
which employs 120,000 people worldwide, is already cutting 3,500
administrative positions, or 20 percent of the total.  ‘Inflection Point’  “In terms of what will stop this -- you need growth, which
will take a while, and the second is, we need some kind of
structural reform,” said  Alexander Friedman , chief investment
officer at  UBS AG (UBSN) , in an interview with Bloomberg Television
from Zurich yesterday. “If you look over the next six months,
ultimately the incentives are” there to keep “the euro zone
all together. We’re possibly at an inflection point.”  Europe’s economy may struggle to gather strength in the
current quarter after stalling in the previous three months as
 Germany  shows signs of faltering. Investor confidence in
Europe’s largest economy fell from a two-year high in May and
business sentiment dropped more than economists had forecast.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s largest retailer, on May 23 reiterated
its forecast that profit won’t increase this year, with CEO Olaf Koch forecasting “continued economic instability.”  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury
goods , said last month it will “maintain a strict control over
costs” given the situation in Europe.  China Growth  In  China , state-run Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday
that the government has no plan to introduce stimulus measures
to support growth on the scale unleashed during the depths of
the global financial crisis in 2008. That follows data showing
trade below forecasts in April and industrial production rising
the least since 2009.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Australian retail
sales unexpectedly fell 0.2 percent in April from the previous
month, a report showed today. New Zealand’s home-building
approvals declined 7.2 percent in April from March.  A gauge of  euro-zone  manufacturers’ production expectations
dropped to minus 3.3 from minus 1.6 in April, today’s report
showed. An indicator of export order books fell to minus 19.6
from minus 17.3, while an index of employment expectations also
declined from April. A gauge measuring service companies’
expectations of demand over the next three months fell to 0.6
from 3.2 and consumers also grew more pessimistic in their
financial situation over the coming year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  