-- Euro-Area Loan Growth Slowed in April as Crisis Damped Demand
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-30T08:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/euro-area-loan-growth-slowed-in-april-as-crisis-damped-demand.html
Growth in loans to households and
companies in the 17-nation euro area slowed in April as the
sovereign debt crisis curbed demand for credit.  Loans to the private sector  grew 0.3 percent from a year
earlier after gaining an annual 0.6 percent in March, the
 European Central Bank  said today. The rate of growth in  M3 money
supply , which the Frankfurt-based ECB uses as a gauge of future
inflation, slowed to 2.5 percent from 3.1 percent.  The ECB has flooded markets with more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) in three-year loans at its benchmark rate, which
is currently at a record low of 1 percent, to prevent a credit
crunch.  “The ECB has made sure that there is enough supply in the
credit markets,” said  Michael Schubert , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “But as the economy is still weak,
demand for credit continues to be low and the ECB can’t change
that.”  Euro-area gross domestic product was unchanged in the first
quarter from the prior three months.  Banks tightened credit standards less in the first quarter
than in the previous three months, while credit demand from non-
financial corporations and households continued to fall, the ECB
said in its quarterly bank lending survey published April 25.
For the current quarter, euro-area banks forecast an improvement
in demand for corporate loans and a deceleration of the decline
in loans to households.  M3 grew 2.7 percent in the three months through April from
the same period a year earlier, the ECB said. M3 is the broadest
gauge of  money supply  and includes cash in circulation, some
forms of savings and money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  