-- Hewlett-Packard Promotes Veghte to COO, Kadifa Software Lead
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-05-30T20:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/hewlett-packard-promotes-veghte-to-coo-kadifa-to-lead-software.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest personal-computer maker, has elevated Bill Veghte to
chief operating officer and named George Kadifa executive vice
president of the company’s software business.  Kadifa will report to Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman ,
the  Palo Alto , California-based company said today in a
statement. Veghte will work closely with Whitman on projects
affecting operational success. Both appointments are effective
immediately.  Whitman is cutting jobs and streamlining businesses as
Hewlett-Packard grapples with slower demand for printers,
services and data-center equipment. Customers want help
modernizing business applications, retooling data centers for
Internet-delivered cloud-computing software, and analyzing reams
of data.  “Bill has done an excellent job delivering strong results
in HP Software, and more recently helping us focus our efforts
in the execution of our strategy,” Whitman said in the
statement. Kadifa’s “ability to manage multiple business models
will prove extremely valuable to HP as we extend our software
offerings in cloud, information and security.”  Jan Zadak will become president of enterprise services for
Europe,  Middle East  and Africa, the company said in a separate
statement today. Previously, Zadak was executive vice president
for global sales, the company said.  Earlier this month the company said it would eliminate
27,000 jobs, or about 8 percent of its workforce, through
firings and early retirements, a move designed to generate
annual savings of as much as $3.5 billion starting in 2014.  The stock decreased 0.3 percent to $22.74 at the close in
 New York . The shares have dropped 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  