-- Ex-Goldman Trader's Symphony Seeks Money for Hedge Funds
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-30T06:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ex-goldman-trader-run-symphony-seeks-1-billion-for-hedge-funds.html
Symphony Financial Partners , co-
founded by an ex- Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. trader in 2003, is
seeking $1 billion from investors after its Japan-focused hedge
fund returned more than four times its peers.  David Baran, co-chief executive officer of Tokyo-based
Symphony, is targeting about $500 million in new allocations for
the $200 million SFP Value Realization Fund, which invests in
Japanese companies and works with management to prompt corporate
actions such as share buybacks, he said. Symphony is also
opening up the $21 million  Sinfonietta fund , an Asia-focused
macro fund, and looking to raise $400 million to $500 million
from outside investors for it, he said.  Baran, who traded stocks and equity derivatives as a
proprietary trader at Goldman Sachs and  Lehman Brothers  in
 Tokyo , is seeking to entice investor appetite with his fund
performances as hedge funds globally struggle to capture new
allocations. The  Japan  fund has returned 16 percent through
April this year, beating the 3.6 percent return by the
Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index, while Sinfonietta fund gained 6.8
percent this year, according to Baran.  “Our Japan experience has affected our world view, which
has aided performance,” Baran said in an interview from his
Tokyo office. “It’s timely to increase our exposure and assets
as unlocking value is becoming easier with a dramatic increase
of corporate actions in Japan.”  Mispriced Stocks  Japan’s stock benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has added
2.1 percent this year, rebounding from last year’s 17 percent
slide, and is trading at 1.38  price-to-book  value. A reading
below one means a company can be bought for less than the value
of its assets.  Baran plans to achieve the fundraising targets within the
next two years. Symphony’s current investors are pensions,
endowments, funds-of-hedge funds, family offices and high-net-
worth individuals, he said.  The Value Realization fund has gained 57 percent net of
fees since inception in September 2003, during which the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  declined about 5 percent, according to Baran.
The fund invests in 15 companies with average market
capitalization of $200 million to $300 million because companies
that size tend to have the “greatest mispricing,” he said.  “From the beginning, we have held that the Japanese equity
market is highly inefficient -- nowhere else in the world do
price and value diverge like in Japan,” Baran said. “The lack
of a market for corporate control can lead to huge disparities
between price and value.”  Nagawa Buyback  Among the contributors to the fund’s recent outperformance
was Nagawa Co., which makes, sells and rents prefabricated
offices and stores, Baran said. Symphony worked with the
management of Nagawa to buy back its own shares to boost the
stock price, because shares were trading below their intrinsic
value despite their strong earnings and dividends, he said.
Nagawa announced a plan to buy back 6.6 percent of its shares on
May 21 and has gained 29 percent since then.  Sanjo Machine Works Ltd., which makes auto parts for
companies including Honda Motor Co., was another contributor to
the fund’s performance. Symphony prompted a management buyout of
the company last year, Baran said.  “We seek situations where we can work closely with
management to cause that huge gap between where the shares are
traded and what the whole enterprise is worth to close,” Baran
said, adding that the number of management buyouts is increasing
in Japan where deal premiums have averaged between 50 to 60
percent.  Bank Support  “More deals will be done in the future as banks are now
highly supportive of corporate actions,” he said.  Sinfonietta fund, which seeks to profit on macroeconomic
trends by wagering on bonds, currencies, stocks and commodities,
started in 2008 with partners’ capital and returned 29 percent
in 2011, Baran said. The gain compares with the 1.2 percent
decline by the Eurekahedge Macro Hedge Fund Index of similar
funds last year.  Symphony was co-founded by Baran and Kazuhiko Shibata, who
was an M&A and real estate banker at Nomura Securities Co. in
 New York  and Tokyo, according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  