-- Ex-Liberia Leader Taylor Sentenced 50 Years for War Crime
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-05-30T11:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ex-liberia-leader-taylor-sentenced-to-50-years-for-war-crimes.html
Former Liberian President  Charles Taylor  was sentenced to 50 years in prison for supporting rebels
who committed atrocities in neighboring  Sierra Leone  during an
11-year civil war.  “The accused is being found responsible for aiding and
abetting as well as planning of some of the most heinous and
brutal crimes recorded in human history,” Presiding Judge
Richard Lussick said at the  Special Court for Sierra Leone  in
Leidschendam, near The Hague. Prosecutors requested he be
imprisoned for 80 years.  Taylor, 64, is the first former head of state to be
convicted by an international court for  war crimes  since the
Nuremberg trials after World War II. He was charged with 11
counts, including terrorizing civilians, murder, rape and
kidnapping children to use as soldiers, according to the
tribunal, which was set up by the West African nation and the
 United Nations  in 2002.  “Mr. Taylor was functioning in his own country at the
highest level of leadership which puts him in a class of its own
when compared to the principal perpetrators who have been
convicted by this court,” Lussick said. The court has now
convicted nine people.  Sierra Leone’s civil war left 50,000 people dead and
displaced 2 million before the government and rebels agreed to a
cease-fire in 2000. The Revolutionary United Front guerrillas,
backed by Taylor, gained notoriety for amputating the limbs of
their victims.  Blood Diamonds  The court, which on April 26 found Taylor guilty, said the
former president provided the rebels with arms and ammunition in
exchange for so-called  blood diamonds , regularly found by slave
laborers.  Taylor led a group of rebels who invaded Liberia from
neighboring  Ivory Coast  in 1989, starting a civil war that
lasted until 1996. He won an election in 1997, becoming
president until he resigned in 2003. Taylor then went into exile
in  Nigeria  as pressure mounted following his indictment and he
was arrested in 2006.  Taylor pleaded not guilty and he may appeal the verdict.
The time he has served in The Hague since 2006 will be deducted
from the sentence. The longest sentence handed out by the court
was 52 years for Revolutionary United Front leader Issa Sesay. 