-- Texas Voters Set Dewhurst, Cruz Republican Senate Runoff
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-05-30T19:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/texas-voters-set-dewhurst-cruz-republican-senate-runoff.html
Republican Ted Cruz, a newcomer
backed by Tea Party activists, threatened to make  Texas  the
latest state where insurgents have upset established political
leaders in U.S. congressional races.  Cruz, 41, forced three-term Republican Lieutenant Governor
David Dewhurst, 66, into a head-to-head U.S. Senate primary
campaign, winning 34 percent to Dewhurst’s 45 percent in voting
that ended yesterday. To avoid a July 31 runoff, one candidate
had to win a majority in the open primary.  “It underlines the ongoing process of integrating a newly
mobilized far right in the Texas Republican Party,”  Jim Henson ,
the Texas Politics project director at the  University of Texas 
in Austin, said by telephone before results were known. “The
party is sorting out how you maintain power as a party that
dominates state government on one hand while mobilizing people
who think that government is more often a threat.”  Both Cruz and Dewhurst attracted millions of dollars in
campaign support, helping to make the election the nation’s
most-expensive Senate race. The Club for Growth political action
committee, a Washington-based group, spent almost $2 million
just this month to help Cruz. It has backed Tea Party-supported
candidates in states such as  Indiana , where Treasurer  Richard Mourdock  upset six-term incumbent Republican Senator  Richard Lugar  in a May 8 primary.  Immigrant’s Son  The son of a Cuban immigrant, Cruz is seeking to be the
first Hispanic U.S. senator from Texas. He won the support of
Sarah Palin, the Tea Party favorite and the 2008 Republican
nominee for vice president. She also backed Deb Fischer, a
Nebraska state senator who beat better-known Republicans to win
a Senate primary on May 15.  “This race is ground zero in the battle between
conservatives and the moderate establishment,” Cruz said today
in a statement. “The runoff will be decided by grassroots
conservatives.”  Dewhurst, meanwhile, criticized Cruz for receiving backing
from outsiders.  “I am confident that we will prevail over the Washington
insiders funding my opponent,” Dewhurst said in a message on
his campaign website.  Perry Support  Supported by Texas Governor  Rick Perry , Dewhurst has served
as lieutenant governor since 2003. A U.S. Air Force veteran and
former Central Intelligence Agency employee turned businessman,
he began his political career in 1998, becoming the first
Republican since Reconstruction elected to the office of Texas
Land Commissioner.  The July runoff winner still must defeat the winner of a
runoff between Democrats Paul Sadler, a lawyer and former state
representative, and Grady Yarbrough, a political newcomer from
 San Antonio  in November. The candidates seek to replace retiring
 Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Republican first elected in 1993.  No Democrat has prevailed in a statewide campaign in Texas
since 1994. Former Dallas Mayor Tom Leppert, who conceded defeat
yesterday, led a field of seven Republican also-rans, with 13
percent after 37 percent of the votes cast had been counted.  “Statewide runoffs are not all that common,”  Mark Jones ,
who teaches politics at  Rice University  in Houston, said by
telephone before yesterday’s voting.  Dewhurst’s Fortune  “The mass media ads that both candidates have used might
not work” in a runoff that may draw as few as 500,000 to cast
ballots in late July, Jones said. The state’s almost 13.1
million registered voters don’t have to be a member of a party
to participate in its primary election.  Dewhurst’s personal fortune may give him an advantage,
Jones said. The lieutenant governor’s campaign said he has $9.9
million in outstanding loans to the effort -- more than the $6.2
million Cruz raised from all sources, including $470,000 in
loans he made, according to Federal Election Commission reports.  Through May 9, Dewhurst’s campaign spent $11.8 million,
according to federal records, while Cruz went through $4.4
million. Including Leppert and the rest, the candidates pumped
more than $25 million into the race, according to  Craig Holman ,
an analyst at Public Citizen’s Congress Watch in  Washington .  The Texas Conservatives Fund, a political action committee,
put $1.7 million into supporting Dewhurst, federal records show.
Much of that paid for ads against Cruz, a former state solicitor
general.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  