-- Mexico Peso Falls to Six-Month Low as European Crisis Saps Risk
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-05-30T16:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/mexico-peso-drops-most-in-one-week-as-europe-concern-intensifies.html
Mexico’s peso tumbled to a six-month
low as investors shunned higher-yielding assets amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will damp global economic growth and
demand for the Latin American country’s exports.  The currency extended its drop this month against the
dollar to 7.6 percent, making it the biggest loser among the
major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “It’s more of the same,”  Ramon Cordova , a currency trader
at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, said in a
phone interview. “It has to do directly with  risk aversion .”  The peso slumped 1.5 percent to 14.0882 per dollar at 11:24
a.m. in Mexico City after touching 14.0973, the weakest intraday
level since Nov. 28.  Economic confidence  in the euro area declined in May to the
lowest in more than two years after inconclusive Greek elections
raised the specter of a euro breakup and  Spain  struggled to
shore up its banks. The yield on  10-year Spanish debt  rose to
the highest level since November, approaching the 7 percent mark
that preceded bailouts in  Greece , Ireland and Portugal.  Concern about how Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will weigh
on global expansion and the market for Mexican exports helped
make the peso Latin America’s worst-performing major currency in
2011. The region’s second-biggest economy depends on exports for
about 30 percent of its gross domestic product.  The peso also fell after figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today that the number of
Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned homes fell
in April by the most in a year.  “This is what caused the peso to cross a significant
level,” Cordova said.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 rose
less than one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.19
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
dropped 0.05 centavo to 133.15 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  