-- Exxon Shareholders Reject Separating Chairman, CEO Roles
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-05-30T20:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/exxon-shareholders-reject-separating-chairman-ceo-roles.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  shareholders again
rejected a proposal to split the chairman and chief executive
officer roles amid increasing investor scrutiny of board
accountability in the  energy industry .  Sixty-five percent of votes opposed the separation, down
from 69 percent last year, according to a tally announced at the
company’s annual meeting in  Dallas  today. This was the 11th
consecutive year in which the shareholder resolution failed. Rex Tillerson has served in both roles for the Irving, Texas-based
company since January 2006.  About 41 percent of the companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index have separate chairmen and CEOs, according to Ram
Trust Services, a Portland, Maine-based investment fund and lead
sponsor of today’s resolution.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the
second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer after Exxon, announced
May 1 that it will appoint an independent chairman and strip CEO
Aubrey McClendon of the job after revelations that he personally
borrowed money from the company’s financiers.  “A combined CEO-chair role potentially establishes an
imperial CEO, lessening accountability,” Ram said in its
written proposal. “Chairing and overseeing the board is a time-
intensive responsibility, and a separate chair leaves the CEO
free to manage the company and build effective business
strategies.”  Tillerson’s Seat  The proposal wouldn’t have forced Tillerson to surrender
the chairman’s seat. It would’ve directed the board to find a
new chairman when the next CEO is named.  Chesapeake is searching for a new chairman after starting
an internal probe of McClendon’s personal finances. The Oklahoma
City-based company’s annual shareholders’ meeting is scheduled
for June 8.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S. oil company, said
about 62 percent of votes cast at its annual meeting today were
against a shareholder proposal that called for an independent
chairman. About 64 percent of oil and gas producer  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  shareholders rejected a proposal to make its
chairman an independent director at the company’s May 15 annual
meeting.  Exxon opposes splitting the roles on the grounds that
directors should judge who is most qualified to fulfill the
chairman and CEO roles.  “The board retains authority to amend the bylaws to
separate the positions of chairman and CEO at any time,”
according to an April 12 proxy statement. Exxon’s 11 board
members were re-elected to their positions today. One member
retired.  ‘Insular Corporate Culture’  The proposal was supported by the AFL-CIO, which represents
more than 12 million union workers, and activist investors
including the Needmore Fund and several descendants of  John D.
Rockefeller , who founded Exxon’s predecessor companies in the
1880s.  Ram Trust held about 120,000 Exxon shares in the $168
million of equities it had under management as of March 31,
according to a filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission.  Splitting the roles would break down Exxon’s “very insular
corporate culture,” said Tracey Rembert, senior manager of
investor engagement at Ceres, a sustainability advocacy group.
“There really has to be an independent person leading the
board.”  Other shareholder proposals, including a requirement that
Exxon report on its political contributions and a company policy
prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation, were
also defeated at the meeting.  Exxon  fell  2.6 percent to $79.79 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 5.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  