-- MF Global U.K. Repo Dispute With U.S. May Delay Creditor Payouts
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-30T10:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/mf-global-u-k-repo-dispute-with-u-s-may-delay-creditor-payouts.html
Payments to creditors of the U.K. arm
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  scheduled for next month may be
delayed because of a legal dispute over  repurchase agreements 
between the British and American units of the failed broker.  Louis Freeh , the bankruptcy trustee of parent company MF
Global Holdings Ltd., filed a lawsuit in  London  saying U.K.
administrators KPMG LLP wrongly rejected his claim for the
repurchase agreements, often referred to as Repos. Freeh’s
rejected claim was for several hundred million dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to comment because the filing isn’t public.  The lawsuit means KPMG can’t make a distribution to
creditors under U.K. insolvency rules without a court order, the
firm said in a statement. An interim dividend to creditors had
been scheduled for June 30.  “No one wants to delay distributions to creditors,”
Freeh, who is the trustee for six MF Global entities, said in an
e-mailed statement. “I have received very few details from my
administrative counterparts -- none of which categorically
refute the claim.”  KPMG  said in a statement Freeh’s lawsuit was “unhelpful.”
While the administrators retain an “open mind” about an
interim distribution to creditors, the trustee’s appeal may
cause delays.  $1 Billion  Disputes between MF Global’s U.K. administrators and the
various trustees of the U.S. entities have tied up about $1
billion that can’t be returned to clients or creditors until
courts decide to whom it belongs.  “The administrators are unable to declare a dividend while
any application by a creditor to challenge the rejection of
their claim is outstanding,” without a court’s permission, said
Linton Bloomberg, a lawyer at Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP in
London who is advising KPMG.  James Giddens, another trustee who is winding up MF
Global’s New York-based brokerage unit MF Global Inc., is suing
KPMG over $700 million in customer funds held in London which he
says should have been protected and belongs to American clients.
That suit means KPMG has only been able to return to clients
about 26 percent of what it recovered from their accounts.  MF Global Holdings filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy
on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
at its brokerage unit.  Creditors of its U.K. unit include customers without
protected or “segregated” accounts, its employees and banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to a list published by
KPMG.  Repurchase agreements are a financing mechanism that allows
borrowers to sell securities and buy them back at a later date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  