-- Facebook Gets Second FTC Information Request on Instagram
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-30T13:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/facebook-gets-second-ftc-information-request-on-instagram.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  said it received a so-
called “second request” from the U.S.  Federal Trade Commission 
for information about the proposed purchase of Instagram Inc.,
extending the time the agency can take to review the
transaction.  Facebook last month offered to buy the photo-sharing site
for $300 million in cash plus about 23 million shares of common
stock, a deal valued at $1 billion when it was announced. Under
antitrust law, regulators must issue the second request to
companies that have proposed to merge when the agency reviewing
a particular transaction decides it needs more than 30 days to
make a decision about whether or not to approve the deal.  “We’ll continue to work closely with the FTC as the agency
reviews this transaction and look forward to answering any
questions that arise,” the  Menlo Park , California-based company
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook shares fell 1.1 percent to $28.52 at 9:34 a.m. in
 New York . Before today, the stock had dropped 24 percent since
it started trading.  The FTC is looking at whether Facebook’s acquisition of
Instagram could hurt competition in the social networking market
by making the company or its services inaccessible to rivals,
said two people familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak about the
matter.  Deal Timing  Facebook said it expected its  purchase  of San Francisco-
based Instagram to close by the end of the year. When the deal
was announced last month, the company said it anticipated
completing the transaction in the second quarter.  Both the FTC and the antitrust division of the  Justice
Department  have authority to review mergers to ensure they don’t
hurt competition. The two agencies divide up the reviews based
on expertise through an internal clearance process. If after 30
days the reviewing agency doesn’t issue a second request or move
to block a given transaction, the companies may close a deal.  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
review. Reuters reported yesterday on the second request by the
FTC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  