-- Facebook Seen Dropping 20% to Gain Parity With Nasdaq Rivals
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-30T20:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/facebook-seen-dropping-20-to-gain-parity-with-nasdaq-web-rivals.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s stock, which has
already lost $25 billion in value since its public debut, would
have to drop another 20 percent for its valuation to match other
companies that do business over the Internet.  Facebook, with a market capitalization of $79.1 billion, is
trading at 29.5 times the company’s projected 2014 profit of
$2.69 billion,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock would
have to dive to $23.07 to match the average price-to-earnings
ratio for the Nasdaq Internet Index based on estimated earnings
in the next 12 months, according to the data.  Investors have pummeled shares of Facebook since its
initial public offering, citing concern over growth prospects
for the largest social-networking service. Shareholders filed
lawsuits that said the company and its underwriters overpriced
Facebook at $38 a share. The IPO gave Facebook a higher multiple
than 99 percent of the Standard Poor’s 500 Index.  “It could fall quite significantly because it was priced
at a significant premium,”  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley
& Co., said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Such stocks --
when they go out of favor -- tend to fall before stabilizing.”  Facebook fell 2.3 percent to $28.19 at the close in  New York .
Earlier today, the shares dipped as low as $27.86 in intraday
trading, below the low end of the  price range  initially proposed
for the IPO.  Mobile Users  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, makes most of
its revenue from advertising targeted to members who access the
site on computers. The company didn’t introduce a service for
ads aimed at mobile users until March.  “We do not currently directly generate any meaningful
revenue from the use of Facebook mobile products, and our
ability to do so successfully is unproven,” the company said in
a regulatory filing earlier this month.  The company said this month that advertising growth isn’t
keeping pace with gains in daily users, and in April reported
first-quarter profit fell 12 percent as sales growth slowed and
marketing costs more than doubled.  Based on a trailing earnings of $974 million, Facebook
trades at a price-to-earnings multiple of 81 times. The  Nasdaq
Internet Index (QNET) , whose members include  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , EBay Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., has a ratio of 35.4 times
profit in the past year and 23.5 times projected earnings.  Bullish investors are speculating that surging demand for
social-media stock, coupled with earnings growth faster than
 analysts’ estimates , will justify Facebook’s valuation.  ‘Disrupting Industries’  “This a company that’s growing and changing rapidly,”
 Arvind Bhatia , a Dallas-based analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc., said in an interview yesterday. He has a buy  rating  on the
stock and a one-year price estimate of $46. “Google looked
expensive for a long, long time. That’s what happens with
companies that are changing and disrupting industries.”  The pace of Google’s yearly profit growth has averaged 73
percent since its IPO in 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While the company’s trailing  12-month multiple  has
slumped more than 70 percent since its 2004 debut, shares of
Google have surged 599 percent from its IPO price through
yesterday, the data show.  Bhatia’s price target is based on 30 times estimated
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $3.9 billion in 2014. He said Facebook is cheap relative to
companies like  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , which surged 109 percent in its
first day on May 2011 and trades at a valuation more than 5
times higher than the Nasdaq Internet Index’s multiple, based on
estimated profit in the next year.  ‘Botched Deal’  “It’s a botched deal but the company hasn’t really
changed,” Bhatia said, referring to Facebook. “Had these guys
come out public in that initial price range, it would’ve been
considered a big success.”  Facebook’s price-to-earnings growth ratio is 1.3 based on
an annual growth rate of 48 percent for profit through 2013
compared with 2010 earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to the S&P 500’s so-called PEG ratio of
1.1. The PEG ratio, an indicator popularized by  Fidelity
Investments ’  Peter Lynch , is found by dividing the price-
earnings multiple by estimates for profit growth.  The  Mountain View , California-based professional networking
website LinkedIn has a PEG ratio of 7.3 based on profit in 2010
and the projection for 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  High Valuation  At the time of its IPO, underwriters led by Morgan Stanley
set a price that valued Facebook at 107 times reported earnings
in the last 12 months, more than every S&P 500 stock except
Seattle-based Amazon.com and Equity Residential, a real estate
investment trust in  Chicago . The valuation made Facebook, co-
founded in 2004 by Harvard University student  Mark Zuckerberg ,
the largest technology IPO of all time.  The company and Morgan Stanley have faced criticism for
increasing the number of shares to sell by 25 percent to 421.2
million days before the offering and pushing the asking price to
$34 to $38 from $28 to $35.  Facebook increased less than 1 percent to $38.23 on May 18
in a day marred by delays, cancellations and mishandled orders.
 Robert Greifeld , the chief executive officer of New York-based
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , said a “poor design” in software
driving IPO auctions caused the mishaps.  The company, while having long-term potential, has been
hampered by some investors getting more shares than expected,
said  Ryan Jacob , chief investment officer at Jacob Asset
Management. Also, investors may be concerned about shares that
will become available for trading after a so-called lock-up
period ends, he said.  “It will find a floor,” he said. “Fundamentally, I think
there’s a lot of optimism. But there are these near-term issues
that the stock has to get past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  