-- Fed’s Rosengren Calls for Easing to Boost Economy, Jobs
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-30T22:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/fed-s-rosengren-calls-for-easing-to-boost-economy.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  called for new monetary stimulus,
saying the U.S. economic expansion is too weak to generate more
growth in jobs.  “We should be looking for ways that monetary policy can
foster more rapid growth, to bring down the unemployment rate
more quickly,” Rosengren said today in a speech in Worcester,
 Massachusetts . “Further monetary policy accommodation is both
appropriate and necessary.”  Rosengren joins Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  in
calling on fellow policy makers to take more steps to reduce a
jobless rate persisting at 8.1 percent nearly three years into a
recovery from the worst recession since the Great Depression.  Economists estimate the economy will add 150,000 jobs in
May, according to the median of a Bloomberg News survey before a
June 1 report from the Labor Department. The  unemployment rate 
will be unchanged, according to the survey. The jobless rate
first breached 8 percent in February 2009.  The Boston Fed chief, who does not vote on the  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year, said more easing is warranted by his
“expectations of only modest growth, no improvement in the
unemployment rate, an inflation forecast below 2 percent and
significant downside risks to the forecast.”  Additional  accommodation  is needed because most U.S.
unemployment results from cyclical weakness rather than
structural shifts in the economy’s composition, Rosengren said.  Stimulate Growth  “My desire to stimulate more growth now is partly to
prevent the structural problem from becoming more severe because
the economy did not re-employ workers more quickly,” he said.  Wage data showing that most industries are seeing pay
increases of 2 percent or less highlights that low aggregate
demand is at the root of the economy’s weakness, Rosengren said.  Policy makers next meet in  Washington  on June 19-20 when
they will consider what to do once their $400 billion maturity
extension program, known as Operation Twist, expires in June.
The central bank previously expanded its balance sheet by $2.3
trillion in two rounds of large scale asset purchases.  The Fed lowered its benchmark  interest rate  to zero in
December 2008 and has said economic conditions will probably
warrant holding the rate low through at least late 2014.  Asked by the audience about ways to increase stimulus,
Rosengren said the Fed could opt for a new round of Operation
Twist, extending the average duration of assets on its balance
sheet. Or it could start a third round of large-scale asset
purchases, focusing on either Treasuries or mortgages, he said.  Near Zero  Another option would be using communications to clarify how
long the central bank intends to hold interest rates near zero,
he said. He didn’t identify his preferred option.  Rosengren said his outlook is less favorable than those of
most of his FOMC colleagues. His forecasts place him as one of
the three most pessimistic forecasters among the 17 policy
makers at the Fed’s April meeting.  At their April meeting, most policy makers said the economy
would grow 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent and the unemployment rate
would decline to 7.8 percent to 8 percent by the end of 2012.  “I am expecting growth of only 2.3 percent for the full
year, I’m sorry to say,” Rosengren said. The unemployment rate
probably won’t improve, and inflation on the personal
consumption expenditures index will probably rise by 1.7
percent, he said.  In contrast,  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said
today the U.S. expansion will probably continue at a
“moderate” pace and additional stimulus probably won’t be
needed unless the economy falters.  ‘Further Action’  “As long as the  U.S. economy  continues to grow
sufficiently fast to cut into the nation’s unused economic
resources at a meaningful pace, I think the benefits from
further action are unlikely to exceed the costs,” Dudley said
in a speech in New York.  Rosengren said his forecast “reflects concern that the
uncertainty about both  Europe  and the U.S. federal ‘fiscal
cliff’ will restrain spending by households and businesses.” He
also assumes “Europe and our own fiscal situation achieve a
muddling through,” he said.  U.S. stocks fell today putting the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index on pace for its worst month since September, as concern
grew about  Greece ’s future in the euro and the health of Spanish
banks. The  S&P 500  slid 1.4 percent to 1,313.32 in New York
while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to a record
low 1.62 percent.  Reduce Yields  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said today Europe’s
debt crisis has done more to reduce yields than Operation Twist.  “We are the beneficiary” of Europe’s crisis because it
makes the U.S. look “relatively handsome,” Fisher said in
response to a question from the audience after a speech in  San
Antonio ,  Texas . “That’s one of the reasons interest rates are
so low.”  Rosengren said that U.S. banks are “much better
capitalized than they were in 2007,” adding that “if we really
had a disorganized failure in Europe it would be hard to fully
insulate our economy.”  Rosengren, 54, was formerly the head of banking supervision
and regulation at the bank. He became president of the Boston
Fed in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Worcester, Massachusetts at 
 jzumbruN@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  