-- Fed’s Dudley Sees Economy Continuing to Grow at Moderate Pace
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-30T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/fed-s-dudley-sees-economy-continuing-to-grow-at-moderate-pace.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said the U.S. expansion will
probably continue at a “moderate” pace and that additional
stimulus likely won’t be needed unless the economy falters.  “As long as the  U.S. economy  continues to grow
sufficiently fast to cut into the nation’s unused economic
resources at a meaningful pace, I think the benefits from
further action are unlikely to exceed the costs,” Dudley said
today in the prepared text for a speech in New York.  Dudley, vice chairman of the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee , reinforced the view expressed at the panel’s
April meeting, when several policy makers said slowing economic
growth or rising risks to their outlook could warrant additional
accommodation, according to the minutes of the gathering. He
said he would favor more easing if the labor market stagnates,
the threat of deflation increases or risks to growth were to
rise substantially, reiterating remarks made last week.  The pace of growth has been “disappointing” and “the
headwinds retarding recovery are well known,” Dudley said.
Consumers continue to deleverage, housing “remains depressed”
and fiscal policy is “restrictive,” he said.  Still, some of those headwinds are subsiding as employment
growth has improved and credit conditions are easing, he said.
“For these reasons, I expect that growth will gradually
strengthen over the next few years.”  Smallest in Six Months  A Labor Department report on June 1 may show job growth
picked up this month. Employers probably added 150,000 workers
to payrolls in May, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, compared with a gain of
115,000 in April that was the smallest in six months.  The FOMC said last month it planned to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  near zero until at least late 2014, reiterating a
plan announced in January. The Fed has kept the rate near zero
since December 2008 and bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of asset purchases.  Dudley endorsed the current FOMC policy, including the 2014
interest-rate plan. He said he “would be willing to consider
tightening policy at a somewhat earlier stage if growth
strengthened sufficiently” or “if there was evidence of a
genuine threat to medium-term inflation.” Under those
circumstances, he said he would expect “the first step would be
to bring in the late 2014 date of the policy guidance.”  ‘Significant Slack’  Dudley said he anticipates inflation to “remain moderate
and close to our objective” of 2 percent. The economy
“continues to operate with significant slack” and inflation
expectations “remain well-anchored,” he said.  There have also been “temporary factors” affecting
inflation, including higher commodity costs, “upward pressure”
on rents and higher prices for imported goods such as clothing,
he said. The personal consumption expenditures price index
climbed 2.1 percent for the 12 months through March.  If more easing is needed, the Fed could expand its balance
sheet with another asset-purchase program or extend the duration
of its Treasury portfolio, Dudley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  