-- Fed’s Fisher Says Europe Drives U.S. Interest Rates Down
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-30T20:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/fed-s-fisher-says-europe-drives-u-s-interest-rates-down.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said Europe’s debt crisis has done more
to lower U.S.  interest rates  than the Fed’s maturity-extension
program, known as Operation Twist.  “We are the beneficiary” of Europe’s crisis because it
makes the U.S. look “relatively handsome,” Fisher said in
response to a question from the audience after a speech in San
Antonio,  Texas , today. “That’s one of the reasons interest
rates are so low.”  The Fed announced in September it would replace $400
billion of short-term debt with longer-term securities, a
program intended to lower borrowing costs and in turn support
the recovery. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes dropped to a
 record low  today as investors grew concerned over the deepening
crisis in  Europe .  “I don’t know what we would gain” from further policy
easing, given that borrowing costs already are so low, Fisher
told reporters after the speech. “Liquidity is not the issue.”  Fed policy makers last month repeated their pledge to keep
interest rates low through at least late 2014, citing a still-
elevated level of unemployment.  “Right now, we are in accommodative mode” because
economic growth is “just above stall speed,” Fisher said.  Pending Home Sales  Stocks fell and Treasuries rose today as  Spain  struggled to
recapitalize its banks and concern grew about Greece’s future in
the euro. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.3 percent to
1,315.72 as of 3:30 p.m. in  New York . The yield on 10-year
Treasury notes fell to a record of  as low as  1.6170 percent
today.  Recent economic reports have underscored the Fed’s
depiction of an economy that’s growing “moderately.”  Pending home resales dropped  5.5 percent  in April,
according to figures released today by the National Association
of Realtors. A May 16 Fed report showed that industrial
production increased 1.1 percent in April, the most since
December 2010.  Several Fed officials said they would favor more stimulus
should the recovery falter or downside risks “became great
enough,” minutes of the April 24-25 meeting showed. The Dallas
Fed chief has repeatedly voiced his opposition to more easing,
arguing that there’s little more the central bank can do.  Fisher, 63, isn’t a voting member of the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year. He dissented last year
twice against moves to push down long-term rates and to keep the
benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero until at least mid-2013.
He voted five times in 2008 in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Antonio  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  