-- Felda Said to Seek $3.2 Billion in Malaysian Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2012-05-30T12:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/felda-said-to-seek-3-2-billion-in-second-biggest-ipo-of-2012.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd.
may raise as much as 10.2 billion ringgit ($3.2 billion) in an
initial public offering in Kuala Lumpur, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Malaysian palm oil and rubber producer fixed a price
range of between 4 ringgit and 4.65 ringgit apiece after a
meeting today, said the people who declined to be identified
because the information was private. Felda declined to comment
in a statement to Bloomberg News, saying the final price will be
determined at a later date.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company is attempting this year’s
second-biggest IPO after  Facebook Inc. (FB)  as concerns about a
possible Greek exit from the euro drive stocks lower worldwide.
Malaysian stocks have withstood the global selloff, with the
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  little changed so far this month
compared with a 10 percent drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  “The stock is in high demand,” said Scott Lim, who
manages 380 million ringgit as chief executive officer of Kuala
Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd. “Investors are
still optimistic about commodities globally.”  Felda Global manages estates for the Federal Land
Development Authority, a Malaysian government agency. Kuala
Lumpur-based Felda Global has about 355,864 hectares (878,984
acres) of plantations in  Malaysia  in addition to land in
 Indonesia . It also has palm oil refining businesses in  China ,
Indonesia, Turkey and  South Africa , according to a draft
prospectus issued April 26.  Bigger IPOs  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak will unveil the IPO
prospectus tomorrow. The IPO comprises 2.19 billion shares,
according to the listing document.  Felda Global plans to use proceeds to buy plantation assets
as well as to build or purchase mills and refineries. The
company will also target acquisitions of oil and fats,
manufacturing and logistic businesses, it said.  The offering follows calls by Najib for large Malaysian
companies to list to attract global investors. At 10.2 billion
ringgit, it will be the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest share
sale since  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised a record 12.8
billion ringgit in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It will be the second largest IPO this year globally, after
Facebook raised $16 billion this month. Facebook has dropped 24
percent since its May 18 debut.  “It’s probably unlikely to be a  Facebook IPO ,” Alan Richardson, who helps oversee about $87 billion as a  money
manager  at Samsung Asset Management in  Singapore , said by phone.
“I think it’ll be successful. Foreigners are finding it
difficult to get allocation.” He’d be interested in buying the
stock at the right price, he said.  Cornerstone Investors  Louis Dreyfus Holding BV, a Dutch commodities group, agreed
to pay about $150 million for a 2.5 percent stake in Felda
Global ahead of the share sale, two people with knowledge of the
matter said on May 15.  Fidelity Investments ,  Hong Kong ’s Value
Partners Group Ltd. and Malaysian billionaire Quek Leng Chan are
also among so-called cornerstone investors in the IPO, the Edge
newspaper reported on May 16, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  Cornerstone investors typically agree to hold shares for a
specified period of time in exchange for a guaranteed allocation
in an IPO.  Some shares will be distributed to Malaysian state
governments and local institutions including Lembaga Tabung Haji
and Permodalan Nasional Bhd., state news service Bernama
reported on May 27, citing Felda Global’s chairman.  The company boosted profit 1 percent to 942.2 million
ringgit last year, according to its preliminary prospectus.
Sales advanced 29 percent to 7.5 billion ringgit.  Felda Global 
plans to pay half of its profit as dividend, the document shows.  Morgan Stanley, CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. and Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd. are managing the offering, according to the
draft prospectus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  