-- Felda Said to Seek $3.2 Billion in Malaysian Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2012-05-31T02:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/felda-said-to-seek-3-2-billion-in-malaysian-share-sale.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd.
may raise as much as 10.2 billion ringgit ($3.2 billion) in an
initial public offering in  Kuala Lumpur , two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company is attempting this year’s
second-biggest IPO after  Facebook Inc. (FB)  even as other Asian
initial public offerings get pulled or trimmed amid adverse
market conditions. Graff Diamonds Corp., the London-based
jeweler, postponed a $1 billion IPO in Hong Kong today.  Felda Global, a Malaysian palm oil and rubber producer,
fixed a price range of between 4 ringgit and 4.65 ringgit a
share yesterday, said the people who declined to be named as the
information is private. It has signed up 12 so-called
cornerstone investors, including local pension funds, to take up
19.8 percent of its enlarged share capital, according to a term
sheet obtained by Bloomberg News today. Felda declined to
comment in a statement.  “Investors are still optimistic about commodities
globally,” said Scott Lim, who manages 380 million ringgit as
chief executive officer of Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset
Management Bhd. “The stock is in high demand. It’s skewed by
the fact that the amount that is going to be openly bid is
actually quite small relative to the institutional size.”  Facebook Factor  The offering comes amid weakened global investor appetite
for shares with concern that  Greece  will abandon  Europe ’s common
currency erasing about $3.9 trillion from global equities this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Facebook has
fallen 26 percent from its IPO price after raising $16 billion
this month.  “It’s probably unlikely to be a  Facebook IPO ,”  Alan Richardson , who helps oversee about $87 billion as a  money
manager  at Samsung Asset Management in  Singapore , said by phone.
“I think it’ll be successful. Foreigners are finding it
difficult to get allocation.”  China  Yongda Automobiles Services Holdings Ltd. this week
scrapped a share sale in Hong Kong, while Sany Heavy Industry Co.
has trimmed its planned offering, people with knowledge of the
matter said May 30.  Malaysian stocks have withstood the global selloff, with
the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  little changed so far this
month compared with a 10 percent drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index.  Larger IPOs  Kuala Lumpur-based Felda Global manages estates for the
Federal Land Development Authority, a Malaysian government
agency. It has about 355,864 hectares (878,984 acres) of
plantations in  Malaysia  in addition to land in Indonesia. The
company also has palm oil refining businesses in China,
Indonesia,  Turkey  and South Africa, according to a draft
prospectus issued April 26.  The offering follows calls by Malaysian Prime Minister
Najib Razak for larger companies to list to attract global
investors. At 10.2 billion ringgit, this would be the Southeast
Asian nation’s biggest share sale since  Petronas Chemicals Group
Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised a record 12.8 billion ringgit in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IPO comprises 2.19 billion shares, according to the
listing document. Najib is scheduled to officially unveil its
prospectus today.  Louis Dreyfus Holding BV, a Dutch commodities group, agreed
to pay about $150 million for a 2.5 percent stake in Felda
Global ahead of the share sale, two people with knowledge of the
matter said on May 15.  Cornerstone Investors  Some 723.5 million shares will be distributed to
cornerstone investors who must hold them for at least 180 days,
according to the term-sheet.  Fidelity Investments  and Value Partners Group Ltd. are
among foreign investors to be allotted shares. Lembaga Tabung
Haji, Employees Provident Fund and Permodalan Nasional Bhd. will
be among local investors along with Hong Leong Foundation and
the Guoco Group, the statement said.  Felda Global plans to use 2.2 billion ringgit of the
proceeds to buy plantation assets, according to a sale document
published in the Star newspaper today. The company intends to
invest another 840 million ringgit on oil and fats,
manufacturing and logistics businesses, and 780 million ringgit
on building and acquiring mills and refineries, it said.  The company boosted profit 1 percent to 942.2 million
ringgit last year, according to its preliminary prospectus.
Sales advanced 29 percent to 7.5 billion ringgit.  Felda Global 
plans to pay half of its profit as dividend, the document shows.  CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. and
Morgan Stanley are managing the offering, according to the draft
prospectus. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG are also
involved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser in  Hong Kong  at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  