-- Fiat Industrial Plans to Move Listing to U.S. From Italy
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-05-30T15:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/fiat-industrial-plans-merger-with-equipment-division-cnh.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the truck and
tractor manufacturer that carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  spun off in 2011,
plans to move its primary listing to New York from Milan after
merging with its  CNH Global NV (CNH)  unit in a blow to  Italy .  Fiat Industrial, which controls the tractor maker through
an 88 percent stake, proposed to CNH’s board the creation of a
new company in a share exchange that wouldn’t include a premium
for either companies’ investors, the Turin, Italy-based company
said in a statement today.  The transaction would create the world’s third-largest
capital goods company, according to Fiat Industrial, with a
product range that includes Iveco delivery trucks, New Holland
harvesters and FPT ship engines. Fiat Industrial Chairman  Sergio Marchionne  targets 25 billion euros ($31.1 billion) in sales
this year, including Amsterdam-based CNH.  “With the crisis in Europe and an Italian exchange not
very liquid, it’s obvious that a global player with a strong
presence in the U.S. would seek a New York listing,” said
Giuliano Noci, associate dean at MIP Politecnico in Milan.
“Fiat Industrial may presage a similar move of Fiat and
Chrysler.”  Merger Plans  Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of U.S. auto manufacturer
Chrysler Group LLC, aims to merge the two carmakers to boost
revenue to more than 100 billion euros in 2014. Marchionne
hasn’t disclosed yet where the combined entity will be listed
and based.  He said today on a conference call with analysts that while
there is a “technical blueprint” to replicate the deal for
Fiat and Chrysler, the group is “miles away” from “being able
to action anything like that.”  Fiat Industrial  rose  as much as 45 cents, or 5.7 percent,
to 8.34 euros and was up 0.6 percent as of 5:21 p.m. in Milan
trading. CNH fell as much as 5.8 percent in  New York .  Marchionne has been looking for a way to buy out minority
CNH shareholders, who own a stake worth about $1.15 billion at
current market values. He said last month that Fiat Industrial
was working on a solution after the parent company simplified
its  capital structure  by converting its saving and preferred
shares into common stock.  The chairman said today that the decision to move the
primary listing to New York was driven by better access to
 capital markets  and not the downturn in Europe. Marchionne also
said the group has been analyzing how it would react to a Greek
exit from the euro, which he sees as a “very distant”
possibility.  Simplified Structure  The new structure would create a single class of stock
listed in New York with a secondary listing in  Europe  which may
not be in Milan, Marchionne said. The new company, which will
likely be based in the Netherlands, won’t carry the Fiat name
and will have “no legal link with the Italian market,” he
said.  “The deal makes sense as it simplifies the structure of
the company,” said Emanuele Vizzini, chief investment officer
of Investitori Sgr in Milan. “It’s is also a sign of
Marchionne’s center of gravity moving to the U.S.”  Exchange ratios for the new company will be based on
“undisturbed” share prices from March and April, according to
today’s statement. CNH and Fiat Industrial shareholders won’t
receive a premium because cost savings will probably be
“minimal,” the Italian company said.  Shareholder Incentives  The closing will be subject to a 250 million-euro cap on
Fiat Industrial shareholders’ withdrawal rights, the company
said. The proposal includes incentives for investors to hold on
to the stock “to facilitate a stable shareholder base,” the
company said. The incentives include doubling the  voting rights 
for investors that keep the shares at least three years.  CNH’s board hasn’t yet fully evaluated the proposal, the
tractor manufacturer said in a separate statement.  “The proposed move will have one key effect, reduction in
borrowing costs for the combined entity given a U.S. listing
versus the present Italian one for Fiat Industrial,” said  David Arnold , a sales specialist at Credit Suisse in  London .  Exor SpA (EXO) , the holding company that’s Fiat Industrial’s
 biggest shareholder , said separately that it supports the
planned combination and wants to be a long-term investor in the
new entity.  Exor will still control the resulting company, Mediobanca
analysts wrote in a note to clients today. The withdrawal right
is priced at 7.64 euros per share as of today, Mediobanca said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  