-- Ford Says It Boosted Incentives in May After April Cut
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-05-30T20:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ford-says-it-boosted-incentives-in-may-after-april-cut.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said it raised incentives this month to boost
domestic sales after cutting them about $300 a vehicle in April.  “We pulled back perhaps a little too much in the month of
April, which is why we had a bit of a dip,”  Erich Merkle , the
company’s sales analyst, told reporters at a briefing today in
Dearborn, Michigan. Ford boosted incentives to be in line with
the industry, which remains “very disciplined” in its use of
discounts, he said.  Ford, unable to keep up with rising demand, said it will
lose U.S. market share this year after three consecutive annual
gains. Sales in April slid 5.1 percent for Ford while gaining
2.3 percent industrywide. Its market share fell to 15.4 percent
this year through April, from 16.2 percent last year, according
to researcher Autodata Corp. of Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .  Ford offered $2,637 a vehicle in incentives this month, up
7.1 percent from April and 8.4 percent from a year earlier,
according to Santa Monica, California-based researcher
TrueCar.com. The industry average was $2,392, TrueCar said.  TrueCar estimates that larger rival  General Motors Co. (GM)  is
offering average incentives of $2,973 and that Chrysler Group
LLC’s average is $3,104.  Jim Cain , a GM spokesman, said the Detroit-based automaker
is offering smaller discounts than Ford or Chrysler.  “GM has been consistently below key domestic and some
Asian competitors and that’s certainly going to be the case in
May,” Cain said today in an interview. “We’ve been very
disciplined.”  Holiday Weekend  Discounts increased during the Memorial Day holiday
weekend, Merkle said.  “Memorial Day generally tends to be a time when automakers
do a fair amount of activity,” he said. “We feel really good
about our Memorial Day sales. We’re encouraged.”  Ford fell 1.7 percent to $10.66 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have dropped 27 percent in the past 12 months.  The automaker earned $1.4 billion in the first quarter, a
decline of 45 percent from $2.55 billion a year earlier as a
higher  tax rate  and overseas losses ate into growing income in
 North America . The Dearborn-based company earned $29.5 billion
in the past three years after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006
through 2008.  Ford this month reclaimed control of its blue oval logo and
other assets put up as collateral to obtain $23.4 billion in
loans in late 2006 that enabled it to avoid the bankruptcies
that befell its U.S. competitors. Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings raised Ford’s credit to  investment grade  in the
past two months. Both had rated it as junk since 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  