-- Foreign Workers Flooding Brazil as Salaries Rise: Jobs
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-05-30T18:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/foreign-workers-flooding-brazil-as-salaries-rise-jobs.html
Noelia Barriuso made the career
decision of her life when she moved to  Brazil  from Spain during
the financial crisis in 2009, leaving behind record high
unemployment for an economy in the midst of a decade-long  boom .  “I bet on  Latin America  and Brazil and it paid off,” said
the 34-year-old native of Burgos, who now works as a consultant
for an affiliate in Brasilia of Bilbao-based engineering
services firm Idom Consultoria SA.  Like Barriuso, a growing number of foreigners are flocking
to Latin America’s biggest economy. The number of work visas
granted jumped 26 percent last year to 70,524, the highest since
at least 2005, led by applicants from the U.S., Labor Ministry
statistics show. Brazil added 2 million jobs in 2011, half in
the services industry, even as  economic growth  slowed to 2.7
percent from 7.5 percent in 2010.  The tight labor market has driven up average inflation-
adjusted wages by 30 percent to 2,114 reais ($1,060) per month
in the six years through December 2011.  A shortage of skilled professionals is contributing to that
jump, said Haruo Ishikawa, who owns Haruo Ishikawa Engenharia e
Construcoes Ltda construction company.  “Brazil wasn’t ready for this kind of growth,” Ishikawa
said in a telephone interview in Sao Paulo. “We never invested
in education and training.”  Demand in labor-intensive segments of the economy, from
construction and oil and gas to commerce, has pushed down
 unemployment  to 6 percent in April, the lowest on record for
that month. Joblessness in the U.S. that month was 8.1 percent,
while it was 8.2 percent in the U.K. and 10.9 percent in the
 euro zone  in March, the last month for which data is available.  Labor Costs  A mason in Sao Paulo earns 2,500 reais a month on average,
according to the state’s construction chamber Sinduscon.
Government-mandated benefits, such as a 13th-month bonus salary,
a 30-day vacation and retirement pay, can double that amount to
companies. Labor costs account for 55 percent to 60 percent of a
construction project, up from 40 percent to 45 percent five
years ago, said Ishikawa.  Consumer demand fueled by higher wages, more jobs and
easier access to loans, particularly among the 40 million people
who emerged from poverty into the middle class from 2003 to
2010, has been the engine of Brazil’s  economy  as it grew an
average 4.2 percent annually between 2006 and 2011.  One such consumer is Joao Batista, an air conditioning
technician, who saw his salary nearly double in five years to
1,500 reais and, at age 60, bought his first car ever in 2010.  ‘It’s Mine’  “It’s a used car but it’s mine,” Batista said at a
Brasilia construction site, one of several where hotels are
being built for the 2014 soccer  World Cup . “Without a doubt my
life is better today than five years ago.”  Batista said he hopes to retire next year, while adding
that he is “a bit worried” about how the recent run-up in
prices would affect his ability to do so.  And wage increases are contributing to inflation. Service-
sector prices rose 9.1 percent from a year earlier in April,
compared with a 5.1 percent increase in  consumer prices .  A jump in construction labor costs contributed to an
increase in the IGP-M, the broadest inflation index, of 1.02
percent in May.  Salary increases are necessary not only to sustain consumer
demand and keep Brazil’s economy running but also to make up for
historically low pay, said Quintino Severo, secretary-general of
the country’s largest union federation, known as CUT.  “For decades Brazilian workers earned little and
contributed to corporate profits,” Severo said by telephone
from  Sao Paulo . “With the economy growing, it’s only fair they
get a bigger share.”  Strike Delays  Industry leaders argue that excessive union demands for
wages threaten to put companies out of business. Already strikes
are delaying construction on stadiums, public transport projects
and airport renovations for the World Cup and the 2016  Summer
Olympics  in  Rio de Janeiro .  “We’re not against better pay, but it’s gone too far,”
Adauto Duarte, the National Industry Confederation’s labor
relations councilor, said by telephone from  Belo Horizonte .
“With those unemployment numbers, our hands are tied.”  Former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who rose from
shoe-shine boy to labor leader before taking office in 2003,
brokered a deal with unions during his eight-year tenure that
boosts the minimum wage every year by a formula linked to
inflation and economic growth. Over the past eight years the
 wage  rose 140 percent to 622 reais. Since this is the benchmark
used to calculate government pensions, the jump has forced up
federal spending.  Skills Shortage  A shortage of skilled professionals is driving the demand
for foreign labor, said Frederic Ronflard, the local head of
London-based recruitment company  Robert Walters . The country
each year has a deficit of 20,000 engineers, according to the
Federal Council of Engineering, Architecture and Agronomy.  A treasury director at a multinational company in Sao Paulo
earns 285,000 reais, compared with the equivalent of 249,000
reais in  Shanghai  and 185,000 reais in  New York , Robert Walters
said in a March report.  Even though a 14 percent depreciation of the real over the
past three months has reduced Brazilian salaries in dollar
terms, the country continues to draw professionals from around
the world, particularly  Europe , said Ronflard.  “I’ve been here for two years and every day I get 5 to 10
e-mails from candidates wanting to come to Brazil,” he added.  Business consultant Barriuso noted that it’s not just the
prospect of higher wages that draws foreign workers. “ Spain  is
not an entrepreneurial country,” she said. “In Brazil people
sell all sorts of things in the street. That caught my
attention. In life you have to take certain risks.”  Unique Skills  Still, hiring foreigners in Brazil isn’t easy. Companies
must demonstrate foreigners have unique skills not found locally
and can’t have more than a third of their workforce made up of
expatriates. Obtaining the necessary documentation to obtain
work permits is cumbersome and can take months. In addition,
state-run companies like Rio de Janeiro-based oil producer
Petroleo Brasileiro SA are forced by regulations to favor
suppliers that hire and train Brazilians.  Those same restrictions are forcing companies to hire
workers lacking the appropriate skills, further eroding
competitiveness, said Paulo Leme, chairman in Brazil for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. “The time it takes to train a bricklayer can
result in a negative productivity response,” Leme said in an
interview in Rio de Janeiro on May 21.  Delayed Projects  The skilled-worker shortage in the building industry and
the consequent fall in productivity have resulted in longer
completion times on some projects, said Ishikawa, the
construction company owner.  To reduce red tape that can delay investments, the
government is studying ways to make it easier to hire
foreigners, according to an e-mailed statement from Strategic
Affairs Secretary Wellington Moreira Franco.  “We need to train Brazilian workers to take those jobs but
we’re not xenophobic either,” Labor Minister Carlos Brizola
told reporters in Brasilia on May 22. “Within our needs, we’ll
welcome foreign workers.”  To address Brazil’s skill shortage, President  Dilma Rousseff  last October created a program to boost technical
training for workers, young students and welfare recipients.
Last month she also visited  Harvard University  and the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge as part of
her program to send 101,000 students abroad by the end of 2014.  Demand will continue to increase for foreign workers, who
should be required to transfer know-how to help foment domestic
technology, said Jorge Ramos, who heads the South America branch
of the International Society of Automation, a non-profit
organization dedicated to technology standards and training.  “If projects are developed as planned, there won’t be time
to develop sufficient skilled labor, and the shortage will get
worse before it gets better,” Ramos said by telephone from Sao
Paulo. “To get the most out of foreign workers, Brazil should
require them to transfer their skills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 