-- France to Cap CEO Pay at State-Owned Companies Like EDF, Areva
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-30T10:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/france-to-cap-ceo-pay-at-state-owned-companies-like-edf-areva.html
France  will cap the salaries chief
executives officers at state-owned companies, signaling a pay
cut for  Electricite de France SA ’s  Henri Proglio .  Salaries for the heads of state enterprises will be limited
to twenty times the company’s lowest paid worker, Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault said in an interview published yesterday on
the website of  L’Express  magazine. The measure would apply to
existing contracts and call upon the “patriotism” of corporate
leaders in the face of the economic crisis, he said.  A cap could affect EDF’s Proglio as well as the heads of
 Aeroports de Paris ,  Areva SA (AREVA)  and La Poste, according to the
companies’ annual reports. The country’s minimum annual wage is
16,800 euros ($21,000), putting the proposed limit at about
336,000 euros.  Proglio earned 1.6 million euros in 2011.  Aeroports de
Paris (ADP)  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Graff was paid 736,000
euros, Areva SA Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel’s
compensation was 679,048 euros while  La Poste ’s Jean-Paul Bailly
was paid 626,174 euros.  Proglio, 62, told shareholders last week that his salary is
determined by “objective criteria,” including results and
nuclear power production. EDF shares dropped 39 percent in Paris
last year. The state owns 84 percent of the company.  EDF’s 58 French reactors provide more than three-quarters
of the nation’s electricity, a higher proportion than in any
other country. Proglio has headed the utility since November
2009 after being named by the former government.  He came under fire during the presidential campaign from
advisers to President  Francois Hollande , who questioned
Proglio’s support of incumbent Sarkozy and said his attitude
during the campaign had been “totally abnormal.” Hollande’s
team also criticized EDF salaries for top managers as
“scandalous.”  Ecology,  Sustainable Development  and Energy Minister Nicole Bricq hasn’t yet outlined her plans for EDF. She is scheduled to
meet with Proglio on June 1 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  