-- French Scholar Richard Descoings Died of Natural Causes
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-30T16:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/french-scholar-descoings-died-of-natural-causes-examiner-says.html
Richard Descoings, the French
academic found dead in a  New York  hotel last month, died of
natural causes, authorities said.  Descoings, 53, who was director of the Paris-based Sciences
Po institute, suffered a fatal heart attack, Ellen Borakove, a
spokeswoman for the New York City Medical Examiner’s Office,
said today in a telephone interview. His death was “100 percent
due to disease,” with hypertension listed as the official
cause, she said.  “There were no outside influences,” Borakove said.  Descoings’s body was discovered in his room at  Manhattan ’s
Michelangelo Hotel on West 51st Street at Seventh Avenue at
about 12:55 p.m. April 3, the New York City Police Department
said in a statement after his death. There was no immediate
evidence of a crime, said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the
department.  Descoings checked into the hotel by himself on April 1,
Browne said. He was one of about two dozen university presidents
who were scheduled to participate in the Global Colloquium of
University Presidents at  Columbia University , an annual
gathering convened by the presidents of Columbia, the  University
of Pennsylvania ,  Yale University ,  New York University  and
 Princeton University , and the  United Nations .  Missed Meeting  Descoings was scheduled to meet a colleague in the lobby at
about 7:30 a.m. April 3, Browne said. When he didn’t arrive, his
colleague assumed he had departed for the conference already and
left the hotel, Browne said.  A hotel worker went into the seventh-floor room to refill
the minibar at about 9:30 a.m., saw Descoings sleeping and left,
Browne said. Descoings was still asleep when a security guard
checked on him just before 11 a.m. after conference attendees
called the hotel, Browne said.  The hotel again sent a guard to check on Descoings at about
12:45 p.m. after his phone went unanswered, and the guard found
him unresponsive, lying on his bed, naked, Browne said. The
hotel called 911, and emergency medical technicians pronounced
Descoings dead at the scene after they were unable to revive
him, Browne said.  There was no visible trauma to his body, and robbery was
ruled out, said Browne. Descoings’s laptop and mobile phone were
found on a third-floor ledge outside the hotel and may have been
thrown out of the window, Browne said.  Prescription Drugs  Prescription drugs and alcohol were found in the room, ABC
News reported, without citing anyone. Browne didn’t respond to a
request for comment on the medical examiner’s report.  In his 16 years running Sciences Po, Descoings transformed
the university, whose alumni include former French President
 Jacques Chirac  and former UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-
Ghali. He added programs in economics and journalism, introduced
courses taught in English, and reserved places for students from
disadvantaged backgrounds.  The school, formally called the Institute for Political
Studies, opened six campuses outside of Paris and raised tuition
under Descoings. At Sarkozy’s request, he produced a report on
the secondary education system in 2009.  Descoings was born in Paris and graduated from  France ’s
prestigious Ecole Nationale d’Administration in 1985. He worked
at the culture ministry and other governmental posts before
taking charge of budget issues at the education ministry under
Socialist Minister Jack Lang in 1992.  Descoings married Nadia Marik, a judge and fellow
administrator at Sciences Po, in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  