-- IPOs of About $1 Billion Set for Market: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-30T18:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/gateway-revives-ipos-from-four-year-low-corporate-canada.html
HealthLease Properties Real Estate
Investment Trust (0355514D)  and Gateway Casinos & Entertainment Ltd. lead
companies set to raise more than C$1 billion ($980 million) in
initial public offerings in Canada starting next month,
reversing the slowest start for stock sales in four years.  “The pipeline we’ve got now is as good as we’ve seen in
years,” Daniel Nowlan, co-head of  equity capital markets  for
 CIBC World Markets  in Toronto, said in an interview. “It’s an
impressive, large group of deals and they’ll get quite a bit of
attention.”  Canadian companies including Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. have
raised $790 million in IPOs the first five months of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 25 percent less
than the same period a year earlier and the lowest since 2008.  Europe ’s debt crisis kept companies out of the market,
while falling commodity prices have also damped plans, with
copper down 17 percent and crude oil down 9.8 percent in the
past 12 months. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index (SPTSX)  has
fallen 16 percent in the past year, trailing the three main U.S.
stock indexes.  Canada ’s IPO outlook has improved as companies see investor
appetite rising for new stocks, including yield-oriented
offerings, and as private-equity firms look to reduce or exit
their holdings in private companies.  ‘Market Conditions’  “The pipeline is building up more with consumer, real
estate and industrial companies, which would be more conducive
for the current market conditions,” said Peter Miller, BMO
Capital Markets head of equity capital markets in Canada.
“We’re starting to see them come to market and we’re going to
see more of them.”  HealthLease Properties may be first to go public next month
by selling shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange. That could
prompt a turnaround for a year in which the largest Canadian
IPO, the $579 million sale by Calgary-based Sunshine Oilsands,
wasn’t even listed in Canada. Sunshine has dropped 4.9 percent
since it began trading in  Hong Kong  in February.  The largest Canadian-listed IPO this year was the C$82.5
million sale of  Morguard North American Residential Real Estate
Investment Trust (MRG-U) , arranged by  RBC Capital Markets . Morguard has
risen 13 percent since the IPO. Companies including miners
 Intergeo (0419650D)  MMC Ltd. and Ivanplats Ltd. are also considering sales.  HealthLease Properties plans to sell 11 million units for
C$10 each next month to raise C$110 million, according to sale
documents. The real estate investment trust units will offer a
yield of between 8 percent and 8.5 percent. The Toronto-based
REIT plans to use the proceeds to buy 15 seniors housing
properties in British Columbia,  Alberta  and the U.S. Midwest.
Canaccord Genuity and National Bank Financial lead the sale.  Casinos Sale  Gateway Casinos filed documents with regulators on May 22
for its IPO, as owners Catalyst Capital Funds and TOP V New
World Holdings LLC seek to sell stakes. Gateway, based in
Burnaby, B.C., operates nine casinos, two community gaming
centers and bingo halls. TD Securities, BMO Nesbitt Burns,
JPMorgan Securities and Scotia Capital are managing the sale. A
message left with Gateway Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Creighton wasn’t immediately returned.  Pure Multi-Family REIT LP also filed documents with
regulators this month for an IPO, led by Dundee Securities and
Canaccord Genuity. The strategy of the Vancouver-based REIT is
to invest in multi-family real estate properties in major U.S.
markets, according to a May 18 prospectus.  Energy IPO  Argent Energy plans to raise C$325 million next month to
buy oil and natural gas assets in Oklahoma and  Texas , according
to two people familiar with the sale, who declined to be named
because the details aren’t public. Scotia Capital, CIBC and RBC
Capital Markets are leading the sale for the Calgary-based firm,
according to a May 11 statement. Argent CEO Brian Prokop
declined to comment.  Argent would be the second large energy IPO this year,
following February’s sale of  Sunshine Oilsands (2012) , which was
managed by BOC International Holdings Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and
Morgan Stanley.  The IPOs in the works are weighted toward natural
resources, BMO’s Miller said.  “It’s a challenging market for these sectors,” he said in
an interview from Toronto. “Only the best will be able to
access the market under current conditions.”  Intergeo, a mining company controlled by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , filed papers with Canadian
regulators on May 15 for its IPO. The company plans to sell a
stake as large as 10 percent and may raise $100 million to $500
million, said a person familiar with the sale who declined to be
identified because the details haven’t been made public.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and BMO Capital Markets are managing the sale.  Andrey Belyak, spokesman for Prokhorov’s Onexim Group,
declined to comment.  ‘Pretty Tough’  “There are a number of IPOs in the pipeline at the moment
but given the erratic market activity, it’s pretty tough to
price them,” said Dean Braunsteiner, IPO services leader in
Toronto for PwC Canada, a member of PwC International Ltd. “The
volatility at the moment is all over the place. It almost
becomes impossible to come up with a realistic price.”  The projected sales may soon include Ivanplats, a mining
company controlled by billionaire Robert Friedland, founder of
Vancouver-based Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. Ivanplats may seek as much as
$1 billion in an IPO, people with knowledge of the plan said in
January. Ivanplats, which has metals deposits in  South Africa 
and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, plans to list in Toronto,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the process is private.  Ivanplats, formerly known as Ivanhoe Nickel & Platinum
Ltd., is working with Morgan Stanley,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and UBS
AG on the potential IPO, according to one of the people with
knowledge of the plan. Ivanplats declined to comment, according
to a spokesman in  Vancouver .  Even with these deals in the works, Braunsteiner says it’s
unlikely that IPOs this year will surpass the C$2.5 billion
raised in 2008.  “The uncertainty in Europe needs to get sorted out before
these companies on the sidelines are really willing to get into
the market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  