-- Gazprom Keeps EU Gas Export Plan Even as Crisis Hurts Demand
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-05-30T12:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/gazprom-keeps-eu-gas-export-forecast-even-as-crisis-hurts-demand.html
OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, maintained its outlook for exports to
 Europe  in 2012 even as the region’s downturn hurts demand.  “The economic crisis in the eurozone has considerably
influenced demand for energy,” Gazprom Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Miller said today in Omsk,  Russia . “Demand for energy in
the eurozone has fallen so far in 2012 compared with 2011.”  Still, it’s “too early” in the year to predict potential
changes to demand, Miller said. Europe remains Gazprom’s primary
export market, he said. Gazprom has said shipments to Europe
will probably remain little changed this year at about 150
billion cubic meters.  The Russian gas producer depends on Europe for about half
of its revenues. Gazprom’s share of Europe’s gas supply rose to
27 percent last year after cargoes of liquefied natural gas were
diverted to  Asia .  Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, reduced supplies to
Europe by more than 12 percent in January through April, two
people with knowledge of the data said earlier this month.
Prices for European customers jumped 19 percent to about $415
per 1,000 cubic meters in the first quarter.  Gazprom may produce 1 percent to 2 percent less than the
528 billion cubic meters planned for this year, Vsevolod
Cherepanov, head of production, said last week. Since May,
output has fallen short of targeted levels by about 12 percent
because of lower-than-expected demand, reaching 1.2 billion
cubic meters a day, he said.  “We see the continuing decrease in Gazprom’s export
volumes as a risk to the company’s 150 billion cubic meters
export plan for 2012,” VTB Capital said in a note today, citing
an Interfax report yesterday that said gas exports fell 13
percent from January through May. “On the back of poor European
sales, we have already decreased our forecast for export
deliveries to Europe to 142 billion cubic meters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  