-- General Electric Will Open More Innovation Centers in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-30T05:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/general-electric-to-open-second-china-innovation-center-in-xi-an.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , with businesses
ranging from energy to health care to aviation, plans to open
its second China innovation center in Xi’An city to be closer to
customers in faster-growing regions.  The company intends to set up more centers in China after
opening the Xi’An facility in the central province of Shaanxi
this summer, Chief Executive Officer Jeff Immelt said at a
briefing today in Chengdu, western China. GE is working on two
to three more joint ventures in the country, according to
Immelt, who said it’s too early to provide details.  GE is carrying out projects as part of a $2 billion
commitment made in late 2010 for innovation and technology
partnerships over three years in China, where annual revenue
gains of 20 percent contrast with negative growth for the
company. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE today opened an $80
million center in  Chengdu  for researching products in areas
including health care, energy and transportation.  “We expect to see steady and consistent growth in China
over a period of time,” Immelt said at the briefing to open the
Chengdu center. “Our revenue growth in China is 20 percent a
year, which is quite substantial.”  GE recorded revenue declines for the three years through
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales from the
U.S., the largest revenue contributor, dropped 7.1 percent last
year, the data show.  The company is focusing on  international markets  and plans
to boost sales outside the U.S. to 65 percent of total
industrial revenue by 2020 from 59 percent now, GE said in a
 presentation  on its website March 7.  China Products  China, Australia and  Peru  are among the so-called growth
markets that GE projects will account for half its industrial
revenue by 2020, Vice Chairman  John Rice  said in March.  GE’s center in Chengdu will mainly focus on developing new
health-care products aimed at solving rural medical needs, while
the Xian center “focuses more on lighting and coal,” Immelt
said today.  At the Chengdu center, hospital simulation areas have been
set up where GE customers can try new products in recreated
maternity wards or intensive care units, and then suggest
modifications. GE researchers are working on  medical devices 
better suited for rural markets, including a handheld
ultrasound, and teleconference facilities allowing doctors in a
city hospital to diagnose patients sitting in a county-level
clinic.  China  is trying to improve quality health-care for its
poorest citizens, including setting up community level health
clinics throughout its rural districts and training thousands of
general practitioners to staff them.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  