-- German Stocks Decline After Greek Poll; Commerzbank Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-05-30T16:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/german-stocks-pare-losses-after-commission-bank-aid-call.html
German stocks declined as a poll
showed Greece’s biggest anti-bailout party leading its rivals,
euro-area confidence fell more than forecast, and Spain’s
default risk rose to a record.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of luxury
cars, fell 3.1 percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  retreated 2.9 percent.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s largest lenders,
resumed losses after earlier rallying.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 1.8 percent to 6,280.8 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The gauge has fallen 7.1 percent this
month, on course for the biggest drop since August, amid growing
concern that Greece will fail to implement agreed austerity
measures and leave the euro area, and as Spanish banks seek
government bailouts. The wider HDAX also fell 1.8 percent today.  “The German economy is in good shape but there is a bad
picture from the European debt crisis and problems with Spanish
banks,” said  Robert Halver , head of capital markets research at
Baader Bank AG. “There is a high level of uncertainty and
nervousness. There is talk but no action.”  Syriza,  Greece ’s biggest anti-bailout party, has more voter
support than the  New Democracy  party before new elections to be
held on June 17, an opinion poll showed.  Syriza scored 30 percent in voter preferences, according to
the VPRC poll for Epikaira magazine, said a spokesman for the
publication, who declined to be named. New Democracy, which
supported austerity measures in return for international funds,
received 26.5 percent while socialist Pasok was polling 12.5
percent, according to the spokesman.  ‘Headline Driven’  “Volumes are low and everything is very headline driven
and reactive to positive or negative news, rather than being
stock or fundamental specific,” said Betsy Anderson, a  fund
manager  at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow.  The number of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
today was 4.6 percent below the average over the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic confidence in the euro area declined more than
economists forecast this month to the lowest in 2 1/2 years
after inconclusive elections in Greece on May 6 raised the
specter of a euro breakup.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment fell to 90.6
from a revised 92.9 in April, the European Commission in
Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since October 2009 and
below the 91.9 forecast by economists, according to the median
of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Spanish Bonds  The cost of insuring against default on Spanish sovereign
bonds rose to a record as the nation’s debt crisis deepened amid
concern over bank bailouts. Credit-default swaps linked to the
nation’s debt climbed 29 basis points to 589.5 at 5:27 p.m. in
Frankfurt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain ’s sovereign-credit rating was cut by Egan-Jones
Ratings Co. to B from BB- on the country’s deteriorating
economic outlook  The European Commission, the European Union’s central
regulator, sided with Spain in proposing that the euro’s
permanent bailout fund inject cash to banks instead of
channeling the money via national governments. The use of the
rescue fund to recapitalize banks “might be envisaged” and
would “sever the link between banks and the sovereigns,” the
commission said in policy recommendations released today in
Brussels.  U.S. Home Sales  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned homes fell in April by the most in a year, indicating the
U.S. housing recovery remains uneven.  The index of pending home resales dropped 5.5 percent
following a revised 3.8 percent gain the prior month, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for no change in the measure.  BMW dropped 3.1 percent to 62.01 euros. Preferred shares of
Volkswagen, the world’s second-biggest carmaker, fell 2.9
percent to 130.55 euros. Daimler retreated 2.5 percent to 37.95
euros. A gauge of automakers was the second-worst performer of
the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank erased earlier gains,
declining 1.4 percent to 28.83 euros, and 1.7 percent to 1.33
euros, respectively.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, fell 3.3
percent to 13.88 euros.  BASF SE (BAS)  retreated 2 percent to 56.79 euros. The world’s
biggest chemical maker is not seeing the dynamism it expected in
Asia and is considering a partnership in India,  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  reported, citing an interview with the deputy
chief executive officer,  Martin Brudermueller .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  