-- German Two-Year Yield Declines to Zero as Debt Crisis Escalates
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-30T17:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/german-two-year-yield-declines-to-zero-as-debt-crisis-escalates.html
German  two-year  notes rose, sending
yields to zero for the first time, as investors were prepared to
forgo a return in exchange for safety amid  Europe ’s escalating
debt crisis.  Ten-year bund  yields in Europe’s largest economy also
dropped to a record. The European Commission called for direct
euro-area aid for troubled banks and touted a region-wide
deposit-guarantee system and common bond issuance as antidotes
to the debt crisis now threatening to overwhelm Spain. Demand
for AAA rated Dutch and Finnish securities also jumped after
inconclusive elections in Greece on May 6 fueled speculation the
country will exit the euro area.  “It’s just panic,” said  David Keeble , head of fixed-
income strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in  New York . “We have so
few safe assets in the world that just a small move in risk
sentiment causes quite strange and outsized reactions. Until
we’ve got the Greek election out of the way we’re just going to
be in this horrible world. If you’re buying Europe right now
there’s only really one credit which people want.”  Germany ’s  two-year  note yield fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to zero, before closing at 0.01 percent
at 5 p.m. London time. The zero percent security due in June
2014 climbed 0.065, or 65 euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,240)
face amount, to 99.98. The 10-year yield declined nine basis
points to 1.27 percent, after reaching an all-time low of 1.261
percent. U.S. Treasury  10-year yields  tumbled to a record low of
1.6170 percent.  Annual Return  German bonds have returned 3.7 percent this year, after
gaining 9.7 percent in 2011, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish bonds have lost 4.5 percent in 2012, while
Greek securities have slumped 41 percent, the gauges show.  Investors are seeking safety in Germany as the European
financial turmoil that began in 2009 and led to bailouts for
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland shows no sign of abating. The
crisis deepened after Greece’s elections propelled the Syriza
party, which wants to annul the terms of the bailout, into
second place.  “The fear is still there,” said Christian Reicherter, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank AG. “People are looking for
safe havens in every distance and German bunds are in the
spotlight. It’s unbelievable how this trend persists.”  After more than two crisis-filled years and 386 billion
euros in loan pledges to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, “markets
remain exceptionally tense and vigilant and confidence is still
weak,” the commission said.  Stable Outlook  Germany, the only country in the euro area with a stable
outlook on its AAA rating, sold two-year notes carrying a zero
percent coupon for the first time on May 23, attracting bids for
more than the maximum 5 billion-euro target.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty in Europe, and yields
at these levels suggest people are looking for the safest assets
they can find,” Carl Heinz Daube, a managing director of the
Germany’s Federal Finance Agency, said in a telephone interview.
“Not very long ago, investors hunted for yield, while risk and
liquidity mattered less. These days, it’s the opposite. The
market is risk averse.”  The euro tumbled to an almost two-year low of $1.2382 today
as  Spain ’s borrowing costs jumped on concern banking losses will
increase amid a surge in  bad loans .  Greece was cut to CCC from B- by  Fitch Ratings  on May 17 on
speculation the politically deadlocked country will not be able
to sustain its euro membership.  “The strong showing of ‘anti-austerity’ parties in the May
6 parliamentary elections and subsequent failure to form a
government underscores the lack of public and political
support” for the country’s bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , Fitch said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  