-- Gilani Seen Risking Record Pakistan Budget Shoftfall
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-05-31T12:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/gilani-seen-risking-record-pakistan-budget-gap-as-election-looms.html
Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  may raise government salaries and cut taxes in an
election-year budget that risks widening the deficit to a
record.  The steps may increase the  shortfall  to an unprecedented
level in the year ending June 30, 2013, according to Standard
Chartered Plc, that predicts a budget gap of more than 8 percent
of gross domestic product from between 7 percent and 8 percent
in the previous 12 months. United Bank Ltd. and Optimus Capital
Management Pvt. also forecast a record deficit.  A Pakistan general election due by February is adding
pressure on Gilani to counter growing public anger over
persistent power blackouts, the fastest inflation rate in  Asia 
and an insurgency on the Afghan border. Spending more to appease
voters risks further straining government finances, which have
relied on domestic borrowings after aid flows from the U.S. and
the  International Monetary Fund  dwindled.  “Financing the deficit remains the single biggest
challenge for policy makers,” said Sayem Ali, a Karachi-based
economist at  Standard Chartered . “Indications are that the
government will need another bailout package from the IMF
sometime this year.”  The economy expanded  3.7 percent  in the current fiscal year
to June, the government estimates. Foreign direct investment
fell 50 percent in April to an eight-year low. Finance Minister
Abdul Hafeez Shaikh is scheduled to present the budget tomorrow.  Government Borrowing  “Government borrowing has to fall for inflation to slow,”
Shaikh said at a news conference in Islamabad today. “For
this, we need to collect more taxes and reduce our
expenditure.”  Pakistan collected 1.45 trillion rupees ($15.5 billion) in
the 10 months ended April 30 and collection will be 25 percent
higher than last year by end-June, he said. The government cut
current spending by 10 percent, he said.  With street protests and factory shutdowns rising, Gilani
said this week the budget will have no new taxes, and that it
will outline steps to create 100,000 more jobs, and increase
cash handouts for the country’s poor.  Pakistan  recorded its highest budget deficit of 8.8 percent
of GDP in the year ended June 1991, according to government
data.  ‘Flirt with Danger’  “If the government flirts with danger and is unable to
generate new income, the deficit will swell to a record level,”
said Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui, head of research at United Bank Ltd.
in Karachi, who estimates the shortfall will reach 8 percent in
the current fiscal year to June.  The country already has one of the world’s lowest tax-to-
GDP ratios, estimated at 8.6 percent in June last year,
according to Macro-economic Insights in Islamabad. The figure is
between 13 percent and 18 percent in developing economies,
according to Invest  Capital Markets , a brokerage in Karachi.  Financing a bigger budget deficit by “printing money” may
jeopardize the government’s plan to bring inflation to less than
10 percent in the next fiscal year, said Asif Ali Qureshi,
 executive director  at Optimus Capital Management Pvt. in
Karachi.  “You can’t expect any radical move from this government in
its last budget,” said Qureshi. “The focus will be to buy
voters through some populist measures.”  The Pakistan rupee has slipped more than 7 percent against
the dollar in the past year. The benchmark Karachi Stock
Exchange 100 Index has advanced 15 percent in the same period.  Energy Shortages  Inflation accelerated to an eight-month high of 11.27
percent in April, limiting room to cut  interest rates  to support
the $200 billion economy. The pace of price gains is the fastest
in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Energy shortages are compounding the challenge, and may
slice 4 percentage points off economic growth in the current
fiscal year, the government estimates.  ”Our factories are facing severe problems, and it’s
reflected in the export numbers,” said Anwar Tata, CEO of  Tata
Group  in Karachi, and former chairman of the All Pakistan
Textile Mills Association.  The country’s trade gap widened 72 percent to $1.52 billion
in April as exports fell, according to the Pakistan Bureau of
Statistics. Textiles account for about two-thirds of overseas
sales, which have also been hurt by slowing demand.  Roads, Healthcare  With a view to wooing voters ahead of the election, the
government on May 24 said it would increase spending on roads,
electricity, education and healthcare by 19.5 percent to 873
billion rupees in the 12 months starting July 1.  As aid dried up, the government borrowed 442 billion rupees
from the central bank in the first 11 months of the fiscal year,
defeating its zero-borrowing target. That was double the amount
borrowed last year,  State Bank of Pakistan  data shows.  Borrowings may still rise. An $11.3 billion IMF loan to
Pakistan expired in September, with disbursements suspended in
May 2010 after the country failed to meet conditions attached to
it. The Washington-based lender, which has described the
country’s economy as “highly vulnerable,” said in February the
government should widen the tax base, curb some subsidies and
curtail central bank financing of the  budget deficit .  Fractious Relationship  Pakistan is also trying to mend a fractious relationship
with its main aid provider, the U.S., which scaled back funds
over differences on how to stop militant groups from operating
in the country’s tribal areas and a refusal to re-open supply
routes for NATO troops in  Afghanistan . The Senate Appropriations
Committee has requested $1 billion in aid for Pakistan for
fiscal year 2013, down from about $1.5 billion.  Gilani faces a political test, as well. Pakistan’s  Supreme
Court  on April 26 ruled him guilty of contempt for not obeying
its earlier order to reopen corruption cases in  Switzerland 
against President Asif Ali Zardari, his party colleague.  Gilani’s administration, seeking to strengthen its position
before the poll, may increase salaries of civil servants by 20
percent, according to Ali of Standard Chartered Bank.  The government may also reduce taxes on fertilizers and
pesticides, Qureshi said, adding that that federal excise duty
on cement may also be cut to 500 rupees a ton from 750 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  