-- GM Prepares to Make Chevy, Manchester United Announcement
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-30T20:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/gm-prepares-to-make-chevy-manchester-united-announcement.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the carmaker that
said it will stop advertising in the  Super Bowl  because it’s too
expensive, is preparing to make a marketing announcement between
its  Chevrolet  brand and  Manchester United  Ltd.’s soccer team.  The world’s largest automaker has invited reporters to an
announcement by Chevrolet and Manchester United in Shanghai on
the evening of May 31.  Joel Ewanick , GM’s chief marketing
officer, will subsequently hold a briefing at the company’s
Detroit headquarters about a Chevrolet global sports marketing
initiative. Patrick Morrissey, a GM spokesman, declined to
provide details of the announcements before the events are held.  A sponsorship deal would allow GM to promote its Chevrolet
brand through Manchester United, the record 19-time English
soccer champion, which is traveling to China to play two
exhibition matches during the off-season. The team has dropped
its former automotive partner,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand, from
its official website. The German carmaker agreed to a deal with
European champion Chelsea earlier this month.  Manchester United’s 659 million followers makes it the
world’s “most popular club,” according to a study carried out
for the team by market research company Kantar last year, when
the club won the Premier League. In the study, 54,000 people in
39 countries were asked which team -- or teams -- they followed.  ‘Followers Doubled’  “Our followers have doubled in five years,” Manchester
United’s commercial director Richard Arnold told reporters in
London yesterday. “It’s important to the club, not only for
commercial partnerships: It gives us a road map to understand
exactly what’s going on.”  Chevrolet sold  a record 4.76 million  vehicles globally last
year, led by the Cruze compact sedan. Sales of the brand in
 China  rose 9.5 percent to 595,068 units, according to the
company.  GM, two years after a government-backed bankruptcy
reorganization, earned $9.19 billion last year and sold more
vehicles than any other automaker for the first time since 2007.  GM fell 2.1 percent to $22.37 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  