-- Google’s Schmidt Said to Be Set for Questioning by FTC
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-05-30T20:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/google-s-schmidt-said-to-be-set-for-questioning-by-ftc.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  is
set for questioning by the Federal Trade Commission as the
agency speeds up its antitrust probe of the world’s most popular
search engine, according to three people familiar with the
situation.  Schmidt’s deposition is slated to take place as soon as
next week, one of the people said. FTC investigators are also
interviewing two lower level Google officials this week, another
of the people said. The three people declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
matter.  Plans for the question-and-answer session with Schmidt are
the latest move in the increasingly active probe, which is
examining whether Google uses its dominance to hamper
competition among Internet companies. Google was used in
66.5 percent of U.S. searches last month, according to ComScore
Inc., a Reston, Virginia-based market researcher.  Earlier this month, the agency, which started the probe a
year ago, sent out about a dozen civil investigative demands,
which are similar to subpoenas, to companies including  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
and  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  seeking information on Google, people familiar
with the matter said May 22.  Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for Mountain View, California-
based Google, declined to comment on the planned deposition.  “Naturally, we worry that governments dictating search
results could make it harder for us to give people the answers
they’re looking for,” he said.  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, declined to comment.  Public Defender  Schmidt, 57, oversaw Google’s growth in the past decade and
is the company’s most public defender against antitrust
allegations. FTC lawyers will be listening for inconsistent
statements from Schmidt, said  Robert Lande , a University of
Baltimore law professor.  “A skilled cross examiner will catch people off guard,”
said Lande, who isn’t involved in the case. “They’re hoping to
pick up some gems from Schmidt.”  A similar deposition of Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill
Gates  helped prosecutors build their argument more than a decade
ago that the company had suppressed competition in the Internet
software market, he said.  “Bill Gates’s ego took over,” Lande said. “There were a
number of times when Gates pretty much forgot the bigger picture
and made statements damaging to his antitrust case.”  By interviewing Schmidt, the FTC also is making it harder
for Google to blame any antitrust violations on rogue
underlings, Lande said.  ‘Demented Middle-Management’  The questioning “is going to prevent them from using the
demented middle-management defense,” Lande said.  Last month the agency hired  Beth Wilkinson , a top
Washington litigator, to run the antitrust investigation,
signaling that the agency may be preparing to sue Google.  The FTC is looking at changes Google made in February 2011
to the mathematical formulas that rank its search results, among
other things, two people told Bloomberg News last month. Some
websites reported losing almost half of their user traffic
following the changes.  Google disclosed a year ago it received a demand for
information from the FTC.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  also said it got a
formal request from the agency.  Joaquin Almunia , the European Commission’s antitrust
chief, told reporters May 21 that Google has a “matter of
weeks” to resolve a probe and avoid possible fines over
allegations of discriminating against competitors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 