-- Graff Diamonds Shelves IPO as Crisis Roils Markets
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-05-31T03:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/graff-diamonds-postpones-planned-hong-kong-initial-offering.html
Graff Diamonds Corp. (1306)  shelved a $1
billion initial public offering in Hong Kong as Europe’s debt
turmoil drives first-time stock sales to the lowest level since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Graff, which depends on just 20 customers for almost half
its revenue, cited “consistently declining stock markets” in
an e-mailed statement. It had sought a valuation of as much as
24 times estimated full-year earnings, a higher multiple than
those of luxury-goods companies including  Harry Winston Diamond
Corp. (HWD)  and PPR SA.  Demand for new equity collapsed as world stock markets lost
about  $4 trillion  since the start of May, pulled down by
speculation that  Greece  may exit from the euro. Investors have
become more skittish about valuations as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  tumbled
26 percent from its IPO price.  “The global IPO markets are dead until European Union
issues abate, worldwide economic indicators improve and the
overall stock market regains some footing,” said Jim Krapfel,
an IPO analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . “No company
wants to go public at a time when investors are applying the
brakes.”  IPOs have raised $58.9 billion globally since January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the slowest start to a
year since 2009, when  equity capital markets  were reeling from
Lehman’s bankruptcy.  Felda IPO  Asian stocks are set for the biggest monthly drop in more
than three years, with the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  down about 11
percent in May. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields reached a record
low of 1.595 percent today after Spanish credit default swaps
surged, spurring demand for safer assets.  Companies have scrapped or delayed $2 billion of IPOs in
Asia this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. China Yongda
Automobiles Services Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest distributor
of BMW cars, this week canceled plans to raise as much as $430
million in  Hong Kong . Sany Heavy Industry Co. cut the size of a
planned share sale in the city to $2 billion, people with
knowledge of the matter said May 30.  Some companies are pushing ahead with IPOs. Felda Global
Ventures Holdings Bhd., the Malaysian palm oil and rubber
producer, has set a  price range  for a sale that may raise as
much as $3.3 billion in  Malaysia , according to a term sheet sent
to investors today.  Tiffany’s Multiple  Formula One, owner of the auto-racing series, is planning
an IPO in Singapore that may raise as much as $3 billion, people
with knowledge of the matter have said. The company plans to
push ahead with the deal and will meet potential investors early
next week, one person said today.  Graff was offering as many as 311.2 million shares at HK$25
($3.22) to HK$37 apiece, according to a sales prospectus. The
company was targeting a $1 billion IPO, including stock sold by
an existing shareholder, the document shows.  The jeweler’s price range had valued it at 18 times to 24
times full-year earnings as estimated by bankers arranging the
IPO.  Harry Winston , the Toronto-based diamond mining company and
jewelry retailer, trades at 13.7 times estimated full-year
earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-largest luxury jeweler,
is trading at 15.1 times earnings on that basis. Last week,
Tiffany cut its profit and sales forecasts for the year, sending
its shares tumbling.  Graff’s IPO is “too expensive for the current market to
digest,” said Jason  Yuan , head of research at Pegasus
Investment Management in Beijing, which has $500 million assets
under management.  The Magnificence  Graff, founded by  Laurence Graff  in 1960, says its ability
to find, cut and polish the finest diamonds sets it apart from
competitors. Those include the Magnificence, a 243.96-carat
stone that was certified in 2008 as the world’s largest
“Emerald Cut, D Colour, Flawless diamond,” according to
Graff’s listing document.  The company said in a January statement that it provided
the diamond for actress Drew Barrymore’s engagement ring. Other
customers have included  Oprah Winfrey  and Victoria Beckham,
according to the  New York  Times.  Graff marketed its IPO amid a slowdown in luxury-goods
spending in Hong Kong, where Chinese tourists splurge to take
advantage of lower tax rates than in the country’s mainland.
Sales of jewelery, watches and valuable gifts in Hong Kong rose
an average of  17 percent  in the first three months of the year
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s down from growth of about 37 percent in the last quarter
of 2011, the data show.  ‘Super Rich’  Still, demand for high-end diamonds will increase in China
and other Asian countries as the ranks of the “super rich”
swell, Graff Chief Executive Officer Francois Graff, the son of
Laurence Graff, told reporters on May 28 in Hong Kong.  Graff directly owns 18 stores globally and plans to open
five others in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Macau, Hangzhou and Tokyo
this year, Graff said. He also plans to open six more across
 Asia .  “The company is committed to growing its business and will
continue to do so irrespective of today’s announcement,” Graff
Diamonds said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  