-- Greek Exit, Non-Lehman Event, May Boost Trading, Greenwich Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-30T15:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/greek-exit-non-lehman-event-may-boost-trading-greenwich-says.html
An orderly Greek departure from the
euro would not cause a “Lehman-style event,” while increasing
trading volume and containing volatility in the foreign-exchange
market, according to Greenwich Associates.  In the most likely scenario for the future of the euro
bloc, a contained Greek exodus, trading volumes excluding
interbank trades and short-dated swaps and rollovers would
probably rise 7.5 percent in the year after the withdrawal,
according to a report by the research firm. Volume would slow to
a 5.5 percent average annual increase in the following years
with muted volatility as investors are exhausted by negative
news, it said.  Measures taken by the  European Central Bank  and euro-area
governments as the debt crisis has continued have allowed global
investors to prepare systems and strategies for a potential
change to the makeup of the currency union, according to the
report. A systemic shock similar to the one that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 isn’t
probable, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm said.  “A contained Greek exit is what we thought would be the
most likely outcome given the current environment, but it’s a
moving target,” Tim Sangston, a consultant at Greenwich, said
in a telephone interview. “There is so much news you that can’t
act on every bit or else you’ll drive yourself crazy, so there
is a natural volatility limit.”  If  Greece  forms a government in the June 17 election that
supports the nation’s bailout terms and the ECB continues to
support the region’s liquidity, Greenwich said average annual
volume would increase 4.2 percent next year, compared with last
year’s rise of 3.6 percent. Volumes are calculated on an
October-to-October basis.  Recession, Unrest  A disorderly Greek exit that started a  chain reaction  and
caused acute crises in  Portugal , Ireland and Spain would drive
volume up by 13.9 percent and volatility would seesaw, the firm
said. Bond issuance and bank lending would slow, with
international markets taking five years to settle as European
countries struggled through recession and civil unrest,
according to the report.  In another scenario, if  Germany  and other core nations were
to leave the shared currency, volatility would remain at
elevated levels due to liquidity withdrawals. Investors could
expect an increase of 9.6 percent in average annual volume.  The euro dropped 0.8 percent to $1.2406 in  New York  trading
today and touched $1.2386, the weakest level since July 2010.  Greenwich tracks foreign-exchange trading volume among
2,600 end-user corporate and institutional customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  