-- Greek Bank Recap Secures Normal Operation, Fund Chief Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-05-30T15:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/greek-bank-recap-secures-normal-operation-fund-chief-says-1-.html
Hellenic Financial Stability Fund
chief Panayotis Thomopoulos said the 18 billion euros ($22.3
billion) funneled to  Greece ’s four biggest banks this week will
ensure the banking system operates normally and will protect
deposits.  Banks have to submit comprehensive restructuring plans,
which could include job losses and closing branches, to the HFSF
by the end of August so that their recapitalization is completed
in September, Thomopoulos said. Final terms, like the price at
which the banks will be recapitalized by the state-owned HFSF
and the mix of equity and debt instruments used, must be
determined by a cabinet meeting after Greece forms a government,
he added.  “The  Greek economy  is passing through a deep crisis that
would be worse if the banking system didn’t operate normally,”
Thomopoulos told reporters in Athens today. “When banks are
recapitalized in September it will produce a period of stability
for the financial system.”  Greece’s banks need recapitalizing after sustaining losses
on their holdings of  government bonds  in the country’s debt
swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in history. The
country, which is holding repeat elections on June 17 after an
inconclusive May 6 vote didn’t yield a government, secured a 130
billion-euro bailout from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  in March, which earmarks 50 billion euros for the
bank recapitalization.  Can’t Lend to State  Bringing the core tier one  capital ratios  for the banking
system to 9 percent by September, part of the economic program
for Greece, will cost 42 billion euros, Thomopoulos said. The
remainder of the funds will provide a buffer, he added.  The HFSF can’t lend money to the Greek state in case the
state runs short of cash, Thomopoulos, responding to questions
on reports that the HFSF would provide funds it has for bank
recapitalizations in case the Greek state runs short of cash.  After dispersing the recapitalization bridge to the banks
earlier this week, the HFSF currently has 7.7 billion euros at
its disposal, of which 7 billion euros are bonds from the
European Financial Stability Facility and 700 million euros is
cash remaining from the country’s first EU and IMF bailout in
May 2010, Thomopoulos said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  