-- Greece Needs to Show Budget-Cutting ‘Determination,’ EU Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-05-30T14:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/greece-needs-to-show-budget-cutting-determination-eu-says.html
Greece must pursue budget cuts with
“determination” to be eligible for more emergency aid, warned
the European Commission, which said it may review progress two
weeks after the country’s June 17 election.  The message highlights the limited room that the next Greek
government will have to renegotiate fiscal-austerity conditions
tied to international aid. Greeks return to the polls next month
after an inconclusive May 6 vote catapulted a party opposed to
the rescue terms into second place, raising concerns that Greece
may have to abandon the 17-nation euro.  Greece, which has struggled to meet targets for narrowing
its  budget deficit  while receiving aid pledges of 240 billion
euros ($299 billion) over the past two years, faces a cumulative
fiscal gap in 2013-2014 of 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the commission.  “Greece will therefore have to make substantial additional
expenditure cuts in the coming months,” the commission, the
European Union’s executive arm in Brussels, said in a report
today. “Comprehensive international financial assistance can
continue to be provided only if policy implementation
improves.”  The report, part of an annual assessment of budget programs
across the 27-nation EU, lists shortcomings by Greek authorities
in enacting an economic overhaul first outlined when Greece got
an initial 110 billion-euro rescue from the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund  in May 2010. A second 130 billion-
euro loan package, coupled with the biggest writedown of
privately held debt, followed this year.  ‘Insufficient Progress’  The commission cited “insufficient progress” by Greece in
bolstering tax collection and improving public procurement and
said the sale of state-owned assets has been “slower than
planned.”  Such shortcomings have increased skepticism in euro nations
such as  Germany , the Netherlands and  Finland  about aiding
Greece, while a Greek recession in its fifth year has made
domestic voters critical of the fiscal-austerity demands.  Greece narrowed its deficit from more than 15 percent of
GDP in 2009 -- five times the EU limit -- to 9.1 percent in
2011. The country’s spending gap is due to fall to around 7
percent of GDP this year.  Financial-Rescue Terms  Most Greeks want to see the financial-rescue terms revised
while acknowledging that failing to abide by them may result in
the country leaving the euro, according to a Greek opinion poll
broadcast today on Mega TV. Syriza, the party that came in
second in the May 6 election, says its wants to alter the
bailout conditions while keeping Greece in the euro.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
called the aid arrangement a “solidarity pact” between Greece
and its public creditors and urged Greeks to fulfill the
conditions.  “It is important that all parties to this solidarity pact
respect their respective commitments,” Rehn told reporters in
Brussels.  The commission and IMF review of Greece’s eligibility for
the next disbursement of aid depends on the outcome of the June
17 election and is provisionally scheduled to take place in
“late June/early July,” according to today’s report.  “The determination of the Greek authorities to stick to
the agreed policies will be tested in the coming months when
deficit-reduction measures to close the large gap for 2013-2014
need to be identified,” the commission said. “Implementation
risks will remain very high. The success of the second program
depends chiefly on  Greece .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  