-- Gupta Lawyer Asks Witness If Galleon Traders Exaggerated
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/gupta-lawyer-asks-witness-if-galleon-traders-exaggerated.html
A lawyer for former  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  director  Rajat Gupta , who’s on trial for  insider trading ,
asked a government witness during cross-examination whether Raj Rajaratnam and Galleon Group LLC traders “exaggerated” and
“bragged” about having sources of inside information.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003 and was a
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, is accused of leaking tips
about P&G and Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam, the Galleon co-
founder who was his friend and business partner.  Michael Cardillo, an ex-Galleon portfolio manager who
pleaded guilty and is cooperating with prosecutors, testified
last week before a jury in federal court in Manhattan that he
traded on P&G stock in 2009 after learning that Rajaratnam had a
“guy” on the company’s board.  In cross-examination yesterday, Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , asked Cardillo about Rajaratnam and other Galleon
traders’ claims about their sources of illegal tips.  “Were there others at Galleon who claimed to have sources
of inside information that they did not have?” Naftalis asked.
After an objection by prosecutors, U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff barred Cardillo from answering. The government alleges
Gupta was the person on the P&G board.  “At morning meetings with Raj Rajaratnam, did people talk
about or exaggerate their sources of inside information from
time to time?” Naftalis asked.  “There were rare occasions when it happened,” Cardillo
said.  Kraft Talk  Naftalis asked Cardillo if he’d ever heard Raj Rajaratnam,
his brother R.K. Rajaratnam or other Galleon traders talk about
sources of illegal tips about companies such as Kraft Foods Inc.
or Chico’s FAS Inc.  Cardillo said he once witnessed the brothers discussing the
possibility of Kraft’s acquiring the chocolate maker Cadbury
Plc. R.K. Rajaratnam worked at Kraft before joining Galleon as a
portfolio manager, Cardillo said.  “Raj had said to R.K., ‘You’ll get the heads-up if this is
coming together. You’ll get the heads-up on that,’” Cardillo
said. “I didn’t know if it was feasible or probable.”  “You were skeptical?” Naftalis asked Cardillo.  “Yes, I didn’t think he was ever going to get that
information.”  Kraft didn’t make the acquisition until 2010.  Michael Mitchell , a Kraft spokesman, declined to comment
immediately on the testimony.  Cardillo testified earlier that R.K. Rajaratnam, who ran a
commodities fund at Galleon, told him to trade P&G stock in 2009
after learning that Raj Rajaratnam had a contact who was a P&G
director.  ‘Raj’s Guy’  “He told me he was hearing from Raj’s guy on the P&G
board,” Cardillo told jurors during his direct testimony by the
government.  Gupta, who pleaded not guilty, is charged with conspiracy
and  securities fraud , which carries a maximum 20-year prison
sentence. The government alleges Gupta was the person on the P&G
board who passed Rajaratnam the inside information and that his
tips included leaks about P&G’s 2008 sale of its Folgers coffee
unit to J.M. Smucker Co. and P&G earnings in January 2009.  Naftalis has argued to the jury that the government has the
wrong man on trial and that Raj Rajaratnam “had sources all
over town” for illegal tips.  Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison term for trading on
inside information on a series of stocks, including Goldman
Sachs,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and
Clearwire Corp.  Guilty Plea  Cardillo pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and one
count of securities fraud and hasn’t been sentenced, he
testified.  He also said that beginning in late 2009, he agreed to wear
a concealed recording device for the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and record his former Galleon friends and
colleagues.  Cardillo, who testified he received $50,000 in cash from
Craig Drimal, another Galleon trader, for trading on inside
information, paid more than $68,000 to settle a civil suit by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, he said.  Drimal pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 5 1/2 years in
prison.  Swipe Card  Late yesterday, prosecutors called an executive for a
company that provided electronic swipe cards to Galleon offices.
Rajaratnam’s assistant, Caryn Eisenberg, previously testified
that her boss gave Gupta a electronic key card to enter Galleon
offices.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky showed jurors data
about the card’s use, which indicates that on March 12, 2007,
someone using the card assigned to Gupta swiped into Galleon’s
Madison Avenue office at 11:36 a.m.  Brodsky also showed jurors Gupta’s calendar for that day,
which showed that Gupta had scheduled a teleconference of the
audit committee of Goldman Sachs Board of Directors in which
“First Quarter Earnings Review” would be discussed from 11:30
a.m. to noon.  Gupta’s calendar also shows that he had a meeting from noon
to 2:30 p.m. that same day for “NSR Partners Meeting, Location:
Galleon Office.”  Prosecutors allege Gupta invested about $35 million in
entities with Rajaratnam, including New Silk Route LLC and
Voyager Capital Partners.  The government claims that Gupta was at Galleon’s offices
when he listened to the Goldman Sachs call where the bank’s
first quarter 2007 earnings were discussed. Prosecutors said
Gupta then passed the information he’d learned about Goldman to
Rajaratnam, who caused Galleon to buy 350,000 shares after audit
committee meeting call ended, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  