-- Icahn to Nominate Directors in Second Effort at Forest
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-05-30T21:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/icahn-to-nominate-directors-in-second-effort-at-forest.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
he plans a second proxy battle at  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  after
failing last year to install directors on the drugmaker’s board.  Icahn didn’t specify how many candidates he intends to
nominate, though his slate won’t make up a majority of the
board, the investor said today in a regulatory filing. He
appointed Eric Ende, president of Ende BioMedical Consulting
Group and a former biotechnology analyst at Merrill Lynch, to
run the proxy contest.  Icahn, who is New York-based Forest’s second-largest
shareholder with 26.4 million shares, or 9.9 percent of the
stock, failed last August to get his directors elected. He
nominated four candidates, including Ende, arguing the board had
been in place too long and had let the stock falter more than 50
percent from a 2004 high of $77.59.  “There is probably some unrecognized value at Forest,”
 Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co. whose
fund holds Forest shares, said today in a telephone interview.
“They could probably better leverage some of their existing
assets.”  Icahn hasn’t provided the names of his proposed nominees to
the company, Forest said in a statement.  ‘Puzzled’ By Action  “We always value constructive input from our shareholders,
but we are puzzled and disappointed that Mr. Icahn’s first
chosen method of engagement since last year is the threat of yet
another proxy contest,” Howard Solomon, chairman and chief
executive officer of Forest, said in the statement.  The company added three new directors to its 10-member
board at its August annual meeting last year. All of the board
members are up for re-election at this year’s annual meeting,
Forest said in its statement.  Forest’s shares gained less than 1 percent to $33.66 at the
close in  New York , and have lost 5.9 percent in the past 12
months.  Forest lost patent protection for the antidepressant
Lexapro, its best-selling medicine, in March, and the company in
April  forecast  a 26 percent decline in fiscal 2013 revenue, to
$3.4 billion.  The drugmaker and partner  Ironwood Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IRWD) 
have applied for U.S. approval of an experimental medicine,
called linaclotide, for irritable bowel syndrome and chronic
constipation, which could draw as much as $3 billion in annual
worldwide revenue, according to Graig Suvannavejh, an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. in New York.  September Decision  The  Food and Drug Administration  in April said a decision
on the medicine would be delayed by three months, until
September, so the agency could complete its review.  “A lot is riding on the outcome of linaclotide,”
Funtleyder said. “Another delay in linaclotide gives activists
the opportunity to ask the question: ‘What’s going on? Why can’t
you get this approved?’”  Suvannavejh, who recommends holding Ironwood shares, said
he views the three-month delay as a “non-event,” noting
linaclotide “has shown to be remarkably and consistently safe
and effective” in trials. He anticipates approval in the U.S.
in early September, he wrote in a May 14 research note.  Icahn lost at Forest last year after proxy adviser
Institutional Shareholder Services recommended investors vote
for the drugmaker’s slate, saying the billionaire’s case wasn’t
compelling enough for change at the board level.  “Activism, especially in biotech, usually takes longer
than you believe it will,” Icahn wrote in a statement after the
annual meeting last year. He cited experience at ImClone Systems
Inc., Genzyme Corp. and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  as recent examples.  The investor was involved with the sales of ImClone to  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in 2008 for $6.5 billion and Genzyme to Sanofi in
February 2011 for $20.1 billion. Ende was an Icahn-backed
director at Genzyme. At Biogen, Icahn gained three seats on the
board after a three-year battle, and oversaw a restructuring and
appointment of a new chief executive.  Icahn didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  