-- Indicators Signal Higher Money-Market Stress Amid Europe Crisis
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-30T16:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/indicators-signal-higher-money-market-stress-amid-europe-crisis.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled strains in short-term funding markets increased amid
the deteriorating credit conditions of European sovereign
borrowers.  Predictions in the forward market for London interbank
offered rate-OIS, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, rose to
an almost one-week high, according to the so-called FRA/OIS
spreads. The forecast by the spread for the three-month period
beginning in September, the so-called second rolling contract,
reached 40.1 basis points, the highest level since May 24,
compared with 37.3 basis points yesterday.  Three-month Libor, which represents the rate at which banks
say it would cost to borrow from another,  was  0.46685 percent,
where it has held since May 16, according to the British
Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks
reluctance to lend, narrowed to 30.2 basis points from 30.7
basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate will average
for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  The gap between the two-year swap rate and the comparable-
maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap spread, widened
2 basis points to 35.17 basis points. The gap is a gauge of
investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-sector credit risk as
swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar Libor. Swap
rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of debt,
including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  Cross Currency Swaps  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollar-based funding via the cross currency
swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 50.9 basis points below Euribor, compared to 47.2 basis
points below yesterday.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was
little changed at 39 basis points. The measure has fallen from
95 basis points at the start of the year.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $14.9 billion to $1.009 trillion in the week ended May 23,
according to Fed data. That’s the highest level since $1.03
trillion on Sept. 21, while the fourth straight weekly increase
is the longest streak since the period ended Feb. 8.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and dollars was minus 37.2 basis points, from minus 36 basis
points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates investors are
willing to receive reduced interest payments on the yen they
lend in order to obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  