-- India Policy Freeze Saps Funds as Greek Fallout Risk Rises
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-05-31T06:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/india-policy-freeze-saps-funds-as-greek-fallout-threatens-growth.html
Posco, the world’s third-largest
steelmaker, took seven years to gain permission to build a mill
in  India , only to have the environmental approval suspended by a
tribunal in March.  Bahrain Telecommunications Co. (BATELCO)  may sympathize after selling
its share of mobile-phone operator STel Pvt. following the
Indian  Supreme Court ’s revocation of 122 licenses in a
corruption probe. Star India Pvt. Ltd., a unit of New York-based
News Corp., waited even longer than Posco, finally exiting an
eight-year television channel venture after the government
failed to relax rules on news media ownership.  The reversals reflect policy paralysis in Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s administration that leaves India risking deeper
damage from any global crisis now than it experienced during the
2008-09 turmoil. A Greek exit from the euro could see growth in
Asia’s third-largest economy careen to a rate unseen in a decade,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Morgan Stanley sees
59 percent odds that the rupee, already Asia’s worst performer
in the past year, will weaken further against the dollar.  “India doesn’t have time on its side,” said  Chetan Ahya ,
a Singapore-based Morgan Stanley analyst ranked one of the top
two India economists by Asiamoney magazine each year from 2001
to 2010. “Capital flows which have been funding its current-
account deficit are now slowing significantly.”  Growth Weakens  A slump in economic growth has increased the urgency of
pulling in foreign capital. Gross domestic product rose 5.3
percent last quarter from a year before, less than all 31
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey, a government report showed
today. By comparison, India  averaged  an annual expansion rate of
more than 8.5 percent over the six fiscal years to March 2011.  Overseas investors’ disenchantment makes it tougher for
India to lure enough foreign currency at current exchange rates
to pay for its excess of imports. India has foregone potential
investment from overseas insurers, pension funds and retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in the past year. Singh’s efforts
to lift barriers were rejected by his coalition allies.  The gap in India’s current account, the broadest measure of
trade, is forecast at 3.23 percent of GDP this year, its second-
worst reading in International Monetary Fund data back to 1980.
That would exceed the shortfall Singh contended with as finance
minister in 1991, when India was on the brink of default on $84
billion of overseas debt.  “It is now make or break time for the government,” said
 Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.
“The inability to take the right economic decisions” has
eroded the nation’s economic fundamentals, she said.  Rupee Risk  The rupee has tumbled 20 percent in the past year, the most
among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and reached a
record low against the dollar on May 24. It was at 56.2325 per
dollar yesterday in Mumbai. Morgan Stanley’s “FX probability
analyzer” on May 30 estimated a 59 percent chance it will reach
57 in the coming three months, with an 18 percent risk of
hitting 60.  India’s current-account gap has left its currency bearing a
greater impact from an investor exit from riskier assets as
 Greece  prepares for its second general election in two months on
June 17. A disorderly Greek exit from the euro would send growth
in the fiscal year through March to 5.5 percent, Indranil Sen Gupta, a Mumbai-based economist at BofA Merrill Lynch, wrote in
a May 24 report.  Capital inflows have probably already slowed to a $40
billion annual rate, from as high as $55 billion in the fiscal
year that ended in March, according to Ahya at Morgan Stanley.  Six-Year Wait  The slowdown in investment is compounded by difficulties
companies face in getting government approvals. ArcelorMittal,
the world’s largest steelmaker, has waited more than six years
to get land for projects. Last month, the Luxembourg-based
company’s India-born Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal 
called for greater transparency in mining-rights allocation.  A parliamentary committee in India proposed banning land
purchases by the government on behalf of private companies,
making it harder to acquire sites.  Posco (005490)  has been trying to
build its $12 billion steel mill in eastern Odisha state since
2005. Posco spokesman Vikas Saran declined to comment on the
delay.  In the retail industry, Singh last year shelved a plan to
allow Wal-Mart and other foreign companies to buy majority
stakes, after opposition from his own coalition ally. A proposal
to raise the foreign investment limit to 49 percent in local
insurers has been pending in parliament since 2008, while a plan
to open up pension funds was dropped last year. India doesn’t
allow overseas investment in retirement funds and has capped the
insurance sector at 26 percent.  ‘Respond and React’  In an interview with Bloomberg in December, Singh said
he’ll succeed in letting foreign companies buy majority stakes
in Indian retailers after the regional elections this year.  While democratic debate slows decision making in India,
policies, once implemented, are put in place for the long term,
said Satish Misra, a political analyst at Observer Research
Foundation, a policy-research group based in New Delhi.  The government has pledged to keep up its campaign for
greater economic opening, and Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
said in parliament May 16 that the nation’s “growth story has
not come to an end.” He said that “despite differences,
despite bitter fighting amongst ourselves, when the situation
demands, we respond and react to it -- that is the strength.”  The IMF estimates  India’s economy  grew 7.2 percent in 2011,
more than the 6.5 percent expansion in  Indonesia , Malaysia’s 5.1
percent climb and the 4.9 percent advance in  Singapore .  Need for Progress  “Policy makers obviously understand the need to show some
signs of progress in structured reforms,” said Leif Eskesen,
Singapore-based chief economist for Southeast  Asia  and India at
HSBC Holdings Plc. “It is ultimately what is needed to ensure
that the medium-term growth story is intact.”  For now, policy makers may have more immediate needs, such
as quelling the rupee’s slump. The central bank curbed trading
in currency derivatives this month to rein in volatility and
moved to boost the supply of dollars by cutting the amount of
overseas income that companies can retain in foreign currency to
50 percent from 100 percent. India’s foreign-exchange  reserves 
have dropped about $28 billion since the end of October, to $256
billion as of May 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Low’ External Debt  For Indian companies, the weaker rupee has pushed up the
cost to repay foreign debt after dollar loans more than doubled
to $253.75 billion since the end of 2007. Even so, at 16 percent
of GDP, private-sector external debt is “relatively low,”
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Sovereign foreign-
currency debt amounts to 5 percent of GDP, according to the
ratings company.  “Continued balance-of-payments volatility will be less
damaging than in 1991, when low reserves and a widening current-
account deficit prompted India’s last balance of payments
crisis,” Moody’s analysts including Atsi Sheth in  New York 
wrote in a May 28 note.  Short of a payments crisis, the rupee’s decline has
constrained the  Reserve Bank  of India’s ability to shore up
growth by lowering  interest rates . The slide threatens to push
up what’s already the highest inflation rate among the BRIC
nations, at 7.23 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its estimate for the
benchmark wholesale price gauge to a 6.5 percent gain for the
fiscal year that began April 1, from 5 percent previously.
Tushar Poddar, a Goldman economist in Mumbai, now sees the RBI
cutting interest rates by half a percentage point in the final
three months of 2012, instead of the 75 basis points previously
forecast.  Bottlenecks  The RBI has blamed infrastructure bottlenecks for
contributing to the nation’s price pressures. Inadequate roads,
ports and power plants, and corruption are major obstacles to
doing business in the nation, according to the  World Economic
Forum . India placed 86th in the forum’s 2011-2012 global
infrastructure ranking, lower than Cambodia and  Sri Lanka .  “The government may promise a lot but the fact is that
there are no reforms,” said Walter Rossini, a Milan-based  fund
manager  who oversees about $260 million of Indian assets at
Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA. “Growth prospects are more and more
worrying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  