-- ING Said to Pick Second-Round Bidders for Asset Management Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-30T01:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ing-said-to-pick-second-round-bidders-for-asset-management-unit.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and
 Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  were invited to make second-round
bids for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s asset-management business in Asia, said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  and Nikko Asset Management Co.
will also be given access to more financial information on the
unit, the people said, asking not to be identified because the
process is confidential.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  dropped out of
bidding for the business, another person said.  ING’s Asian asset-management business is worth about 500
million euros ($627 million), according to an estimate by Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux. The company is under European Union orders to sell
its insurance and investment management businesses before the
end of 2013, after receiving state aid in 2008 and 2009.  ING spokeswoman Victorina de Boer declined to comment, as
did Manulife spokesman Michael May and Susan Houser, a Principal
spokeswoman. Jean Khong, a spokeswoman at United Overseas Bank,
and Kyoko Wada of Nikko Asset Management also declined to
comment. Navleen Prasad, a spokeswoman for Macquarie in Sydney,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Reuters reported on the second-round bidders yesterday,
citing people it didn’t identify.  The Asian part of ING’s investment management business had
a book value of about 300 million euros at the end of last year,
according to a company presentation dated Feb. 9. The Asian unit
oversaw 41.7 billion euros as of Dec. 31.  ING investment management oversees assets for ING insurance
as well as third-party retail and institutional clients. The
Asian unit has operations in China,  Hong Kong , Taiwan, Japan,
Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and India according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  