-- Intervention From Rupee to Real Shows Focus on Inflation
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-05-31T05:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/intervention-from-rupee-to-real-shows-focus-on-inflation-fight.html
Just three months ago, emerging
nations from the  Philippines  to Brazil were intervening in
foreign exchange markets to make exports more competitive. Now
they are selling dollars to stem currency declines and quell
inflation.  Bank Indonesia said on May 29 it will start offering dollar
term deposits in two weeks to stabilize the rupiah, the second-
worst performer in Asia this year, as a report this week may
show consumer prices rose the most in nine months. Brazil
auctioned currency swaps for four straight days last week to
support the real after it fell to a three-year low.  South Korea ,
 India  and Russia are also acting to curb exchange-rate losses.  “Inflation is still an issue for a number of emerging-
market countries,” said Callum Henderson, global head of
currency research at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “At
the same time, growth is an increasing concern for those
countries vulnerable to the European debt crisis. Policy makers
have to try and strike a very careful balance.”  Asia , whose 10 biggest economies hold half of the world’s
$10 trillion reserves, has had the most success in curbing
currency declines, with the  Taiwan dollar  down 2.1 percent this
month, the Philippine peso 3.3 percent and the Thai baht 3.6
percent. The Polish zloty and the Hungarian forint both slid 11
percent, the two biggest losers, as the countries sought to stem
losses without depleting currency stockpiles, amid a worsening
European debt crisis and fund outflows.  Emerging-Market Selloff  Emerging-market stock funds had a net $1.5 billion in
redemptions for the five-day period ended May 23, a third week
of outflows, according to EPFR Global, a data provider in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Bond funds focused on  developing
countries  recorded $478 million of withdrawals. JPMorgan Chase &
Co’s Emerging Market Bond Index has dropped 2.6 percent this
month, while the  MSCI (MXEF)   Emerging Markets  Index of shares plunged
13 percent.  The average cost of insuring developing Asia’s sovereign
debt for five years using credit-default swaps rose 53 basis
points, or 0.53 percentage point, from 2012’s low in March to
181 yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets. A similar measure for  Latin
America  advanced 161 basis points to 415, and for emerging
Europe rose 163 to 448.  ‘Risk-Off Sentiment’  “Risk-off sentiment has been lingering for quite some
time,” said Takahide Irimura, the head of emerging-market
research at Kokusai Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which
oversees $46 billion. “It’s understandable that central banks
around the world come up with different types of measures to
supplement their intervention to stem declines.”  Russia’s central bank sold dollars to slow the ruble’s
depreciation for the first time since January on May 25,
according to a statement on its website. The bank is selling as
much as $150 million a day after the ruble depreciated beyond
35.65 against its dollar-euro basket, according to Vladimir Kolychev, chief economist at Societe Generale SA’s OAO Rosbank
unit in Moscow.  Poland’s government plans to sell the equivalent of 11
billion euros ($13.6 billion) of foreign currencies in the
market this year to support the zloty, about the same amount as
in 2011, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said May 23.
Hungary’s central bank held the European Union’s highest
benchmark rate at 7 percent on May 29, saying a “cautious
policy stance” was needed because of the outlook for inflation.  Turkey’s Reserves  Turkey’s central bank said on May 29 it will raise the
portion of required reserves lenders can keep in foreign
currency to as much as 45 percent from 40 percent. The measure,
effective June 22, would free up to 2.8 billion liras ($1.5
billion) of cash, according to a statement on its website.  “There is a limitation on how far we can use the reserve
to defend our currency,” Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters in Bangkok yesterday. “This
method has a dangerous aspect. If we use it to a certain point,
we may be cornered when our reserves run out.”  Bank Indonesia  will use its “ammunition” carefully,
Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said on May 16 in Jakarta. A
weekly offering of dollar deposits will “complement” reserves,
according to the monetary authority. The rupiah fell 5.3 percent
this year and dropped to 9,620 per dollar yesterday, the weakest
level since November 2009.  Rupee Derivatives  The  Reserve Bank  of India curbed trading in rupee
derivatives this month to rein in volatility, and cut the amount
of export income that can be held in foreign currency to 50
percent from 100 percent. The rupee lost 5.7 percent in 2012 in
the worst loss among Asia’s 10 most-used exchange rates, and
touched a record low of 56.5150 per dollar today.  “Central banks are intervening in order to prevent any
perception of disorderly currency devaluation and to maintain
greater stability in domestic markets,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a
senior Hong Kong-based strategist at Scotiabank, a unit of Bank
of Nova Scotia. “This helps prevent a vicious circle of foreign
investors selling domestic securities and exiting the currency,
potentially drawing in more selling.”  Brazil ’s real fell to a three-year low this month,
prompting the central bank to auction currency swaps in the
first operation of its kind since October to limit declines. The
central bank has lowered the benchmark Selic rate 400 basis
points since August to 8.5 percent to buttress economic growth.
In announcing its latest reduction yesterday, the central bank
said that “risks to the inflation trajectory are limited,” and
cited the fragility of the global economy for its decision.  Reversal in Brazil  Brazil’s swap auctions aimed at bolstering the real were a
reversal from April’s policy of stepped-up dollar purchases to
weaken the currency to aid exporters. Policy makers bought $7.2
billion in the  spot market  in April, the most since $8.4 billion
in March 2011.  Policy makers were concerned with excess volatility, not
any particular exchange rate level, after the real suffered from
an “aversion to risk,” Carlos Hamilton, the Brazilian central
bank’s director of economic policy, said last week.  Mexico’s central bank sold dollars on May 23 for the first
time since 2009 to prop up the peso after it plunged to a six-
month low. Peru sold U.S. currency on May 25 for the first time
in seven months, dipping into a record $58 billion of
international reserves.  Inflation Pressure  Emerging economies are trying to contain inflation after
their faster growth relative to developed economies lured money
that policy makers in Europe and the U.S. pumped into their
financial systems. Developing nations will expand 5.7 percent
this year, compared with 1.4 percent for advanced countries,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “Inflation will show up eventually with all this monetary
printing,” John Corcoran, a New York-based client portfolio
manager at OppenheimerFunds Inc., which oversees more than $183
billion in assets, said in an interview on May 30. The effects
of intervention “will be a mixed bag,” he said. “One lesson
from the 1998 Asian crisis is that market forces typically
overwhelm the ability of any one central bank to control how the
market treats its currency.”  Brazilian investors’ inflation expectations, while falling,
remain above the country’s 4.5 percent annual target.  The gap between fixed-rate and inflation-linked government
bonds due 2015, known as the breakeven rate, was 5.18 percentage
points in Brazil yesterday, compared with 1.69 percentage points
in the U.S. and 0.92 percentage points in Germany. Brazil’s
inflation rate fell to 5.1 percent in April from 5.2 percent in
March.  ‘Discreet Intervention’  Authorities in Asia’s emerging economies must guard against
price risks and be prepared to reverse policy easing even as
growth slows, the  World Bank  said this month. Central banks from
 Indonesia  to South Korea to Malaysia refrained from cutting
borrowing costs this quarter.  “Inflation is certainly more of an issue in Asia than it
is in the West,” said Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment
advisory at LGT Bank in Singapore. “Asian central banks will
prefer to address it through discreet intervention rather than
raise  interest rates , which is more detrimental to growth.”  Indonesia’s annual consumer-price  gains  quickened to 4.6
percent in May, the most since August, economists estimate
before data due on June 1. Taiwan’s statistics bureau said this
month inflation may be at 1.84 percent in 2012, compared with
its January forecast of 1.29 percent.  ‘Many Strategies’  “We have many strategies to handle inflation, including
working together with the government,” Difi Johansyah, Bank
Indonesia’s Jakarta-based spokesman, said yesterday, without
elaborating.  A slide in the won is making imports costlier and spurring
inflation in South Korea, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said on
May 18. The Philippine central bank will curb excessive currency
movements if needed, Governor Amando Tetangco said on May 25, as
the peso slumped to a four-month low. Malaysia’s central bank
declined to comment on any plans to support the currency to cap
prices.  “These interventions are reactive and not proactive,”
said Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in
London and former head of currency research at Morgan Stanley.
“The fear here is that, given the massive amounts of capital
that have entered these countries in recent years, a stampede on
their currencies could easily be triggered, if they are not
careful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  