-- Ion’s Air Races GoPro Down Kilimanjaro: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-05-30T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/ion-s-air-races-gopro-down-kilimanjaro-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Whether you’re out for a Sunday
morning bike ride or snowboarding down  Mount Kilimanjaro , you
may well want a video record of it for sharing with family and
Facebook friends (or, in the case of Kilimanjaro, just to prove
you really did it).  Until now, your main choices for so-called “point-of-
view” videocams were the HD Hero cameras from  GoPro  and their
competitors from  Contour .  These rugged cameras are designed to be mounted -- on
handlebars, inside cars, on sports helmets and boards -- to let
you capture experiences in the moment, hands-free.  Now there’s a new entrant: the Ion (“eye on,” get it?)
 Air Pro . Despite some software issues, the camera is reliable
and extremely easy to use, the latter in particular being an
absolute requirement in this category. You don’t want to be
fumbling for the record button when the sharks are striking your
cage.  The Air Pro starts at $230, but as with all POV cameras,
that’s just the beginning. You’ll also have to factor in the
cost of a microSD card to store your content, plus whatever
mounts and accessories might be needed to customize the camera
for your particular purpose.  Going Wi-Fi  The coolest option is a $100 attachment that provides the
Air Pro with Wi-Fi capabilities. (It’s also available as part of
a $350 bundle that includes a variety of mounts.) The add-on
puts the Air Pro ahead of its competitors, though probably not
for long.  The Air Pro is a handsome blue-and-black cylinder just over
four inches long and about an inch-and-a-half across. It weighs
4.6 ounces, has a built-in microphone and is waterproof to a
depth of 10 meters, about 33 feet.  Beneath the bubble-shaped glass on the front of the camera
is a 170-degree wide-angle lens that in addition to capturing
video can also snap off five-megapixel still images. The rear
houses the microSD slot, a high-definition video port and a USB
port for charging the camera and transferring its contents to a
computer.  Ion says the battery is good for up to four hours of 1080p
recording. In a nice touch, the camera automatically generates
two files for every video you shoot, one of them thumbnail-size
for uploading to  Facebook (FB)  or other online sites.  Bike Trek  Not living anywhere near Mount Kilimanjaro, we’ve been
using the Air Pro for more prosaic pursuits. A colleague used it
to record a 40-mile bike trek through Northern California,
including a 40 miles per hour downhill sprint, while I used it
to chronicle my own particular extreme sport: navigating the
California freeway system during rush hour.  In general, the camera performed well, with one exception:
The autorotation feature, which is supposed to sense where the
ground is, got confused at times, resulting in some footage shot
at crazy angles.  The Wi-Fi add-on, which the company calls a Podz, works
with a free Ion app for  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone, iPod touch and iPad. A
version for  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating system is in the works.  With Wi-Fi, you can use your phone as a viewfinder to aim
the camera, then play back, on the spot, the video you’ve shot
to see how it came out. And someone holding the phone near
enough to the wearer can monitor the action in real time, seeing
what the camera is seeing.  Big Drawback  There’s one big drawback, at least for now: When the Wi-Fi
is on, the camera can’t record. You have to remember to shut it
off before you catch that wave. In addition, and unlike GoPro’s
promised Wi-Fi option, there’s no ability to remotely control
the camera from the app. Communication is strictly one-way.  I also encountered a problem when I attempted to launch
live streaming from the app: I kept getting an error message
telling me the camera and iPhone weren’t connected, even though
the phone’s settings confirmed they were. The company provided
me with a workaround -- an extra tap of the camera’s power
button -- that got things going. Still, the app needs work.  Obviously, not everyone leads the kind of life that demands
an actioncam to document it. But even those whose most daring
escapade is navigating the Interstate 280-Bayshore Freeway
interchange at rush hour may find the Air Pro a welcome
companion.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music and
 Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 