-- Lions Gate Posts Loss on Costs From Summit, ‘Hunger Games’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-31T21:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/lions-gate-has-quarterly-loss-on-summit-hunger-games-expenses.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  posted
a loss on costs to market the film hit “The Hunger Games” and
the purchase of  Summit Entertainment . The company also predicted
$900 million in profit over the next three years.  The fiscal fourth-quarter net loss of $22.7 million, or 17
cents a share, compared with profit of $48.7 million, or 34
cents, a year ago, Vancouver-based  Lions Gate  said yesterday in
a  statement . Analysts predicted profit of 22 cents excluding
items, the average of eight  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Hunger Games,” the independent film studio’s biggest
hit ever, opened eight days before the quarter ended, on March
31. About 90 percent of the profit from the film will come
ahead, Lions Gate said today on a conference call. The studio
plans as many as four movies based on the Suzanne Collins book
trilogy.  “We’ve have established ourselves as the No. 1 studio in
young adult franchises,” Chief Executive Officer  Jon Feltheimer 
said on the conference call.  Lions Gate rose 3.7 percent to $13.32 at the close in New
York trading. The shares have added 60 percent this year.  The company expects about $900 million in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, over the next
three years, Feltheimer said.  Summit Acquisition  Profit during the March quarter was reduced by about $36
million in costs related to the Summit acquisition, the company
said yesterday. The studio also spent about $55 million
promoting “The Hunger Games” in the quarter, Ben Mogil, an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a May
24 note to investors.  Of 11 analysts who follow the company, eight have buy
recommendations, two say hold and one says sell.  Revenue rose 71 percent to $645.2 million in the quarter,
missing the average forecast of $670.2 million. Lions Gate, run
from  Santa Monica ,  California , is also producer of the Emmy-
award winning TV series “Mad Men.”  “The Hunger Games” generated $233 million in domestic
ticket sales during the fourth quarter, Mogil, who  recommends 
the stock, wrote in a May 24 note. This quarter, Lions Gate will
benefit from $180 million in ticket sales without offsetting
marketing costs, he wrote.  International Rights  Since its release, “The Hunger Games” has collected $396
million in domestic ticket revenue, a sum Lions Gate splits with
theater operators. It has also generated $247 million outside
the U.S. and  Canada , according to film researcher  Box Office
Mojo .  Lions Gate sold some of its international rights to “The
Hunger Games” to help defray the $80 million production cost, a
decision that limited its overseas income from the picture.  Revenue got a boost from the February home entertainment
release of “The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 1,”
according to  Alan Gould , an analyst with Evercore Partners LLC
in New York, who has an overweight or buy recommendation on the
stock. The final movie in the series is scheduled to be released
in theaters on Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  