-- Lira Falls on Bank’s Higher Foreign-Exchange Reserve Ratio Move
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-30T14:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/lira-falls-on-bank-s-higher-foreign-exchange-reserve-ratio-move.html
The lira weakened the most in more
than a week after Governor Erdem Basci said the central bank
will gradually increase the proportion of lira reserves lenders
keep in foreign exchange, triggering bets yields may decline.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 1.8473 per
dollar at 5:14 p.m. in Istanbul, the most on an intraday basis
since May 22.  The central bank is introducing a new mechanism to reduce
the need for intervention in the foreign exchange markets, Basci
said today. It will gradually raise the amount of lira reserves
banks may deposit in dollars to 60 percent from 40 percent,
enabling lenders to deposit or withdraw foreign currency as per
their requirements, the governor said in a speech in Ankara. A
higher proportion of reserve in dollars means more local
currency in the hands of banks, implying lower yields and a
weaker lira.  “The central bank is telling banks to give their foreign-
exchange to the bank in return for the lira liquidity,” Ugur Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is Securities,  Turkey ’s
biggest brokerage, in Istanbul said in e-mailed comments.
“There is nothing positive for the lira in this step and the
lira may even weaken if interest rates decline as a result of
these steps but higher bank reserves may support the market
confidence.”  Turkey’s banks hold 225.5 billion liras ($122.4 billion) of
the government lira bonds, which account for 56.2 percent of the
total government debt as of April, according to the Treasury
website. While the move up to 60 percent will come over time,
the central bank increased the local currency reserves in
dollars to 45 percent yesterday, freeing up about 2.8 billion
liras.  Reserves  The total foreign-exchange reserve in Turkey has fallen
from $85.9 billion in October -- when Basci introduced a
flexible  interest rates  policy -- to $80 billion on May 18. Part
of the reduction is down to the central bank selling dollars
last year to boost the lira, which fell 18 percent in 2011.  The Ankara-based bank lent 3 billion liras of funding to
banks at 5.75 percent today, the third day of loosening after
withholding funding at the lowest policy rate in the previous
five working days. It varies the policy rate daily between 5.75
percent and 11.5 percent within the so-called interest rate
corridor to defend the current and curtail inflation.  Yields on two-year debt climbed for the time in three days,
up six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 9.46 percent
today. Bond prices have risen since the beginning of the year,
with yields at 11.5 percent on Jan. 4. Yields fell to 9 percent,
the lowest level since October, on Feb. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  