-- Iran Says It's Produced Antivirus to Newly Detected Flame
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-05-30T07:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/iran-says-it-s-produced-antivirus-to-newly-detected-flame.html
Iran  says it has produced a tool to
combat a newly detected virus that has been described as the
most complex cyber menace to date.  Iran’s computer emergency response and coordination center
produced an antivirus that can identify and remove the malicious
software, Flame, the Persian Gulf country’s Information
Technology Organization said on its  website .  Iran, whose nuclear facilities and Oil Ministry have been
the target of past virus attacks, has accused the U.S. and
 Israel  of trying to sabotage its technological progress.  Israeli Vice Prime Minister Moshe Yaalon told Israel’s  Army
Radio  yesterday that it’s “reasonable that whoever sees the
Iranian threat as significant would use various measures,
including this, to hurt it.” He made the comments when asked
about reports of a virus targeting Iranian computer systems.  The ITO’s statement yesterday didn’t specify whether Iran’s
government computer systems had been harmed by the Flame virus.  The Moscow-based information-technology security company
 Kaspersky Lab  said on its website earlier this week that the
creators of Flame are seeking to collect information in some
Middle Eastern countries including Iran, Lebanon,  Syria  and
Israel as well as the Palestinian territories.  The software is a “highly sophisticated malicious program
that is actively being used as a cyber-weapon” and can steal
computer files, contact data and audio conversations, Kaspersky
said. “Its complexity and functionality exceed those of all
other cyber menaces known to date.”  The U.S. and Israel say Iran’s nuclear activities may have
military intent. The Islamic republic denies that allegation,
saying its program is aimed at generating power and for medical
research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  