-- Iraq Starts First Auction of Oil, Gas Exploration Rights
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y
-- 2012-05-30T22:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/iraq-starts-first-auction-of-oil-gas-exploration-rights.html
Iraq failed to attract partners for
all three natural-gas blocks it offered on the first day of an
auction of exploration licenses, awarding rights to only one of
the six oil and gas areas put up for bidding.  Kuwait Energy Co.,  Dragon Oil Plc (DGO)  and Turkiye Petrolleri AO
won a license to explore for crude in a plot along the Iranian
border, Oil Ministry officials said in Baghdad yesterday, the
country’s first sale of energy-exploration rights since the 2003
ouster of  Saddam Hussein . The two-day auction of rights to 12
blocks resumes today.  The bidding is the next step in an energy-industry revival
that has lifted Iraq into third place among the 12 members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, nine years
after the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Hussein. In its three
previous bid rounds since 2003, Iraq auctioned rights to produce
at  oil fields  already discovered or in operation, whereas this
week’s is for new exploration.  “Expectations were low going into this as the terms were
so fundamentally unsuitable, but I am slightly surprised by how
bad the turnout was,” said Samuel Ciszuk, a consultant at KBC
Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames, U.K.  International companies proved reluctant to commit to
costly exploration projects in return for a per-barrel fee they
would receive under the service contracts on offer. Iraq holds
the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves, according to data from
 BP (BP/)  Plc that include Canadian  oil sands . The ministry is seeking
to develop gas deposits as fuel for  power plants , which meet
less than half of the nation’s electricity needs.  ‘Not Flexible’  “Service contracts are just not flexible -- to have a set
fee when you don’t know what’s underneath the ground or how big
the reservoir is,” Ciszuk said. “Production sharing agreements
would be the classic option for an exploration round.”  Companies that win bids won’t own the resources they may
find. The service contracts Iraq is offering entitle its
partners to a fee for each barrel of crude produced, whereas  oil
companies  tend to prefer production-sharing agreements under
which they are compensated with a share of the output.  Oil production has rebounded in  Iraq  since the regime
change in 2003 ended more than two decades of stagnation from
wars, economic sanctions and underinvestment. The Persian Gulf
state is now pumping crude at more than 3 million barrels a day,
according to OPEC data, and is poised to overtake  Iran  as the
group’s No. 2 producer within months.  Auction’s No-Shows  More than a third of the companies that could have bid
yesterday didn’t send representatives to Baghdad, hurting the
prospect for awards, Abdul Mahdy Al-Ameedi, director general of
the ministry’s licensing department, said after the auction.  “We hope to award as many blocks as we can, but this will
be a mere wish as it depends on the competing companies,” Al-
Ameedi said. Of 25 companies that bought data packages for
fields up for bid yesterday, only 16 sent officials to the
auction, he said.  BP,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP)  didn’t bid. Iraq’s
proposed terms in this bidding round, such as compensation for
exploration risks, are unattractive, Arnaud Breuillac, Total’s
senior vice president for exploration and production in the
 Middle East , said May 29 in  Abu Dhabi .  Second Attempt  Iraq offered exploration rights in six areas yesterday and
plans to conclude bidding on the remaining six today. The blocks
offered yesterday -- numbered 2, 9, 6, 12, 1 and 11 -- included
three with gas and three with oil. The ministry will offer gas
blocks 2 and 6 again today to give companies that weren’t
present yesterday a chance to bid, Al-Ameedi said.  In yesterday’s round, the Kuwait Energy-led group won
rights to block 9, in southern Iraq near the border with Iran.
The group bid to produce oil for a fee of $6.24 a barrel.  A separate group made up of Petrovietnam Oil and Gas Group,
 Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  and OAO Bashneft bid for block 12 in
southwestern Iraq. Their proposed fee of $9.85 a barrel exceeded
the government’s maximum allowable amount of $5 a barrel and
wasn’t accepted.  Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in a speech in
Baghdad before the bidding began that 47 companies from 25
countries had qualified for the round. Production foreseen from
the 12 areas would result in revenue of $5 trillion over the
next 20 years with 94 percent of income going to the state, he
said.  “Iraqi production is not just a function of its geology,
which is of course very attractive, but a very important
function of its political backdrop over there - institutions,
the infrastructure,” Amrita Sen, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
 London , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with Guy Johnson. “And there are still a lot of
impediments over there, so it’s going to be a very gradual
increase in its production from here.”  In an earlier oil-bidding round in June 2009, the ministry
awarded only one of eight areas on offer, assigning rights to
the Rumaila field, the country’s largest, to BP. It negotiated
contracts later for the seven unawarded fields.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad  at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  