-- Tisch Calls Bonds ‘Certificates of Confiscation’
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-30T20:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/tisch-calls-bonds-certificates-of-confiscation-.html
James Tisch, the chief executive
officer of  Loews Corp. (L) , said bonds should be called
“certificates of confiscation” with  yields  on 10-year U.S.
Treasuries at record lows.  “When I got started in the business, bonds were
called certificates of confiscation,” Tisch, 59, said today at
a conference sponsored by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New
York , the city where Loews is based. “T-bills and fixed-income
securities these days are still certificates of confiscation.”  Loews holds about $40 billion in fixed-maturity securities
at its  CNA Financial Corp. (CNA)  insurance subsidiary. The Chicago-
based insurer has shortened the maturity date of its holdings as
rates fell. The share of the CNA portfolio due after 10 years
dropped to 30 percent as of March 31 from 50 percent at the end
of 2010, regulatory filings show.  The portfolio runs off fast enough that when  interest rates 
rise, “which I expect, at some point in time, we’ll be able to
invest in longer-dated securities,” Tisch said.  Ten-year note yields lost 12 basis points to 1.622 percent
as of 4:05 p.m. in New York. Investors are accepting lower rates
for the safety of U.S. government securities as Europe struggles
to contain its debt crisis.  The lower rates have pressured returns at insurers, which
hold bonds to back obligations to policyholders. CNA, which
sells property-and-casualty coverage, has dropped about 5.9
percent in the past year in New York trading.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the
largest U.S. life insurer, slumped 32 percent and No. 2
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  declined 26 percent.  Prudential, MetLife  Prudential and New York-based MetLife said at investor
presentations last week that they have been charging more for
some savings products and counting on hedges to reduce the risk
tied to record-low yields. The  Federal Reserve , led by Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , has said conditions may warrant “exceptionally
low levels” for rates through at least late 2014 as the U.S.
copes with an  unemployment rate  that has been more than 7
percent since late 2008.  “Interest rates are extremely low as a result of policy
initiatives that are designed to try to flatten the yield curve
and improve liquidity and encourage risk-taking,” Prudential
Vice Chairman Mark Grier said in a May 22 presentation. “These
are characteristics of policy actions through the crisis, not
characteristics of policy actions in a healthy, robust economic
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  