-- Monti to Increase Gasoline Taxes to Help Quake Relief
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-30T14:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/italy-quake-leaves-thousands-braving-aftershocks-in-tent-cities.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government extended a state of emergency after two  fatal
earthquakes  in northern  Italy  and will raise gasoline taxes,
 Europe ’s highest, to help fund quake relief.  Monti’s  Cabinet  in  Rome  today agreed to expand the
emergency zone beyond the  Emilia-Romagna  region after two
earthquakes in the past 10 days killed 24 people and forced more
than 14,000 people from their homes. Farmers lobby Coldiretti
said the agriculture industry alone suffered more than 500
million euros ($621 million) in damages, while employers group
Confindustria estimates total losses at “several hundreds of
millions.”  The Cabinet approved an increase of 2 euro cents per liter
of gasoline to help fund the quake aid. Savings from a review of
 government spending  will also be used to help the region. Those
funds were earmarked to allow the government to avoid raising
Italy’s value-added tax rate to 23 percent from 21 percent as
part of its effort to eliminate the country’s budget deficit.  Italy’s economy already is mired in its fourth recession
since 2001.  Consumer spending  has been depressed by tax
increases included in Monti’s austerity package that aimed to
convince investors the government can tame Europe’s second-
biggest debt and bring down borrowing costs.  Tax Increase  The government’s finances are solid enough that it can
still avoid the sales tax increase this year, said Minister for
International Cooperation Andrea Riccardi.  The  death toll  rose to 17 in yesterday’s 5.8 magnitude
quake, which came nine days after a 5.9 magnitude temblor killed
seven. More than 14,000 have been forced to leave their homes
and are sleeping in tent cities and public schools.  Italy suffers about 2,000 earthquakes a year with more than
3 million people living in seismic areas, according to the
National Council of Geologists. Almost half of Italy’s territory
is at risk of a quake, with more than 6 million buildings in the
seismic areas, the group said.  The government today also agreed to suspend tax collection
in the region until September and allow residents whose homes
were affected by the quake to delay mortgage payments, the
Cabinet statement said.  Fiat SpA (F) ’s sports-car makers Ferrari SpA, based in Maranello
near Modena, and Maserati SpA suspended operations yesterday at
their factories in the region. The plants reopened today.  Factories Collapse  The worst damage was reported near the epicenter
surrounding towns including Cavezzo, Medolla and Mirandola,
Emilia Romagna’s administration said in a  statement . Two
factories in the cities of Mirandola and Medolla were reduced to
rubble. A building in San Felice Sul Panaro collapsed, killing
three, one day after it reopened following the first quake.  Yesterday’s quake was felt throughout northern Italy,
including the financial capital Milan, where some buildings and
schools were evacuated, and as far south as Tuscany and Umbria.
The May 20 disaster, centered near the town of Finale Emilia,
toppled structures across the region, including two factories
where four workers were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net 
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  