-- Lithuanian Economy Expanded 3.9% in First Quarter on Building
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-30T08:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/lithuanian-economy-expanded-3-9-in-first-quarter-on-building.html
Lithuania’s  economy , the second
fastest growing in the European Union, expanded 3.9 percent in
the first quarter on construction and household consumption.  Growth slowed from 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter, the
 statistics office  in the capital, Vilnius, said today by e-mail,
confirming its preliminary estimate made on April 30. Gross
domestic product rose a seasonally adjusted 0.8 percent from the
previous three months, also unchanged from the initial estimate.  The Baltic nation’s economy advanced as domestic demand
strengthened and the country’s main export markets of Russia,
Germany, Latvia and Estonia, posted quicker economic growth than
economists predicted. That has prompted SEB Bank AB and the
central bank to raise their growth forecasts for this year.  The expansion was driven by rising construction output,
which jumped 10.8 percent, while household consumption grew 6.8
percent from the same period last year and  government spending 
rose 0.4 percent, the statistics office said.  Retail sales  grew 8.3 percent in the first quarter from
last year, helping companies such as  Apranga AB (APG1L) , the biggest
clothing retailer in the Baltic states, boost sales. Revenue at
Apranga grew at least 28 percent in May, driven by a recovery in
 consumer spending  and “ideal weather conditions” for the
clothing market, Chief Executive Officer Rimantas Perveneckas
said yesterday.  “Consumer spending is on the rise in the Baltic states,”
Perveneckas said. “We can’t complain about that.”  The central bank estimates growth may slow to 3 percent
this year from 5.9 percent in 2011, the second-fastest pace in
the 27-member EU behind  Estonia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  