-- Liu Says HP Overbilled NYC $163 Million on 911 Overhaul
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-30T22:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/liu-says-hp-overbilled-nyc-163-million-on-911-system-overhaul.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  overbilled  New
York City  $163 million for improvements to the municipal 911
emergency-communications system, Comptroller  John Liu  said.  The “questionable selection” of the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company as system integrator may result in $362
million in cost overruns, Liu, 45, said in an audit. The
project, seven years behind schedule, has increased in cost to a
projected $2.3 billion, from $1.3 billion, he said.  Liu released the audit before a June 30 deadline on the
city’s $68.7 billion fiscal 2013 budget, now under negotiation
between Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and the City Council, with
members resisting cuts to early-childhood education, youth
programs and fire companies.  “With devastating cuts on the table, taxpayers should be
outraged at the fleecing that transpired under  City Hall ’s
watch,” Liu, a possible 2013 Democratic mayoral candidate, said
at a news conference, surrounded by union leaders.  The 70-year-old mayor, an independent who is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred
from serving a fourth term.  Lillian Roberts, who represents 121,000 workers as
president of District Council 37 of the American Federation of
State, Municipal and County Employees, the city’s largest union,
said the audit showed “how contracting out wastes taxpayers’
dollars.”  Review Sought  Liu said he would ask for a review of the contract by
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. “because of the
possibility of fraud in the solicitation and billing process.”
He declined to elaborate.  Tracy Golden, a spokeswoman for the  district attorney ,
declined to comment.  “HP delivered every significant item that they were
scheduled to deliver,” Caswell Holloway, deputy mayor for
operations, told reporters outside City Hall. “It’s clear that
the comptroller is not going to allow the facts to get in the
way of the story that he wants to tell.”  David Kelly , HP’s account executive for the job, said the
company denied the allegations in Liu’s audit.  Killing Bugs  Kelly rejected the assertions of Deputy Comptroller Tina
Kim, who supervised the audit and who told reporters that the
company billed as much as $192 an hour for such tasks as opening
doors for visitors, removing restroom garbage and eliminating
insects from a project site.  “HP did not bill the city for anything outside the scope
of the contract,” Kelly said.  HP shares declined about 0.26 percent in  New York  today.
They’ve fallen 11.7 percent in 2012.  Liu’s audit said that Hewlett Packard shouldn’t have been
hired for the 911 work because it failed to meet the city’s
technical requirements. The city’s  Department of Information
Technology and Telecommunications  allowed the company to
“drastically mark up” subcontractor bills, with project
consultants overbilling the city, it said.  The Bloomberg administration, in a response appended to the
audit, disagreed that the city wrongly awarded the work to the
company, whose chief executive officer,  Meg Whitman , is cutting
jobs and streamlining businesses as the company grapples with
slower demand for printers, services and data-center equipment.  In On Time  Bruce Gaskey, director of the mayor’s Office of Citywide
Emergency Communications, said in a letter to Liu’s office that
the auditor ignored the fact that Hewlett Packard completed its
work for $34 million less than the maximum in the contract and
that the city pressed the company to improve performance.  The city will review Liu’s findings looking for costs it
might claw back, he added.  The project’s overrun, “for which the city is pursuing
and expects to receive a substantial recoupment,” resulted from
delay in delivery of the 911 emergency telephone system, not
from Hewlett Packard’s management, he wrote.  Liu said the 911 system’s flaws echo faults in city
oversight of an automated Internet-based payroll system called
CityTime, for which  Science Applications International Corp. (SAI)  in
March agreed to pay $500.4 million in restitution under a
deferred-prosecution agreement to resolve charges of fraud
against the city.  “We have long feared that CityTime was not an isolated
incident, and unfortunately what we have learned today is that
our fear has become a reality,” Liu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: William
Glasgall at   wglasgall@bloomberg.net  