-- James Patterson Taps $84 Million Thriller War Chest
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/james-patterson-taps-84-million-thriller-war-chest.html
With more than 260 million books sold
around the world, novelist James Patterson no longer worries
about whether his next crime thriller will flop.  He’s more concerned about building an audience of future
readers at a time when the written word competes with film,
television, video games and more. Part of the solution is
getting more children to read widely at a young age, he says.  “If you can get kids to the dinner table, you can get them
to read,” the affable Patterson, 65, said in an interview at
the Manhattan headquarters of his publisher, Hachette Book
Group. “You just have to insist on it.”  The prolific writer has a website to encourage reading,
writes books aimed at a young audience and regularly gives books
away. Last week, he donated 3,000 copies of his novels to the
 Los Angeles Unified School District .  A former advertising executive, Patterson has produced 95
works of adult and children’s fiction. Last year, he earned an
estimated $84 million, according to Forbes magazine, which named
him the world’s best-paid author.  In the past decade, Patterson started focusing on donating
his wealth and books to charity.  “I have a bigger war chest now,” Patterson said.
“Instead of setting up a foundation, I said let’s just do it.”  College, Military  Each year, he gives a total of $70,000 to college-bound
students who write the best essays for his  College Book Bucks 
programs. The winners are required to spend the awards on books
listed on the IndieBound.org website.  In March, he donated 200,000 novels to U.S. armed forces.
Patterson also has donated money to his alma maters,  Manhattan
College  and  Vanderbilt University , from which he holds degrees
in English.  Four years ago, Patterson started  ReadKiddoRead.com , a
website with suggested-reading lists for children and teenagers.
It includes illustrated books for babies such as “Tails” by
Matthew Van Fleet and Bob Shea’s “Dinosaur vs. Bedtime.” Also
on the list is J.D. Salinger’s “The Catcher in the Rye” and
fiction titles for ages 9 or older such as U.K. mystery author
Siobhan Dowd’s award-winning “The London Eye Mystery.”  Patterson also holds a monthly raffle on the site that
gives away a box of his bestselling books to 25 high schools.
The winning schools this month will receive copies of “Maximum
Ride: The Angel Experiment,” part of his young-adult science-
fiction series launched in 2005. It focuses on the lives of six
fugitive kids who are 98 percent human and 2 percent avian.  ‘Child Inside’  “The best way to get kids reading is to give them the
books they love,” said the author best known for his thrillers
such as “Along Came a Spider” and “Kiss the Girls” featuring
forensic psychologist Alex Cross. “My style of storytelling
would be good for kids. I’m in touch with the child inside
myself.”  There will be no shortage of Patterson novels for future
readers. At his Palm Beach, Florida, home, he said he and his
team of collaborators and co-writers are working on more than 35
manuscripts, film scripts and outlines for future novels.  “I’m a freak,” Patterson said about his nonstop writing
schedule. “I thought it was presumptuous when I started that I
could even make a living doing this.”  Muse highlights include:  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art and
 Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining.  To contact the writer on this story: Patrick Cole in New York at
   pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 