-- Japan’s Industrial Production Rises Less Than Anticipated
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-05-31T02:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/japan-s-industrial-production-rises-less-than-anticipated.html
Japan ’s industrial production rose
less than forecast in April, underscoring concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and and a stronger yen may limit the
rebound in the world’s third-largest economy.  Factory output  gained 0.2 percent from the previous month,
when it rose 1.3 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo
today. The median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 0.5 percent increase.  Today’s report adds to signs that growth will slow in the
second half of the year as reconstruction spending cools. Adding
to that risk is the renewed appreciation in the yen, which rose
to its strongest level since February against the dollar today,
threatening the profits of exporters.  “Japan may already be in a soft patch,” said  Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo who
accurately predicted the month-on-month increase in output.
“There’s a growing concern about whether Japan can sustain a
recovery after the effect of reconstruction fades.”  The yen traded at 78.76 as of 11:15 a.m. in Tokyo, the
strongest since Feb. 16. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in Tokyo today that excessive yen moves in a short
period of time are undesirable and that he is watching movements
closely. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 1.9 percent.  Europe Crisis  The  European debt crisis  and concerns that  Greece  may exit
the euro are increasing demand for the yen as a haven, pushing
the currency back toward the record high reached in October of
75.35 against the dollar. A stronger local currency erodes the
value of overseas earnings and Japanese companies’ global
competitiveness.  Elsewhere in the region,  South Korea ’s industrial
production rose 0.9 percent in April, the most in  three months ,
as improving domestic demand offset exports hurt by  Europe ’s
debt woes.  Japanese government subsidies for purchases of fuel-
efficient cars, which contributed to gains in  consumer spending 
in the first quarter, may expire as early as the end of August,
slowing production later this year, according to Satoshi Osanai,
economist at Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo.  “Production was on a recovery track, supported by a
rebound in cars after the Thai floods last year, but looking
ahead, output may go into a lull, led by a slowdown in
automobiles,” Osanai said. “Also, output of steel and
machinery will probably slow as exports to  Asia  remain weak.”  Car Production  Production and shipments of cars and other transport
equipments rose in April, while those of electric parts and
devices as well as information and communication electronics
equipment fell. Output of cars and other transport equipment is
forecast to decline in May and June, according to today’s
report.  Japanese manufacturers said they plan to decrease output
3.2 percent in May and increase production 2.4 percent in June,
a government survey included in today’s report showed. If these
forecasts are accurate, production would fall 0.8 percent this
quarter from the previous three months, according to the
ministry. That would be the first decline in four quarters.  Rising Unemployment  Data for April may signal that economic growth could lose
momentum after expanding at an  annualized  4.1 percent in the
first quarter. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly increased to
4.6 percent in April from 4.5 percent, the first increase in
three months, while retail sales fell 0.3 percent from March,
government reports showed on May 29. Japan’s exports rose a
less-than-estimated 7.9 percent in April from a year earlier.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  are among exporters who are
losing customers to their overseas rivals, prompting them to cut
labor costs.  Panasonic, the biggest employer among companies on the
Tokyo bourse, may cut jobs at its headquarters after
streamlining operations at production units, Yuko Hosaka, a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman, said on May 29. The Nikkei newspaper
reported that its headquarters workforce of about 7,000 will be
cut by 3,000 to 4,000 through attrition and transfers to
subsidiaries.  Sony, cutting 10,000 jobs after four straight years of
losses, forecast on May 10 that profit would be less than half
of what analysts estimated as TV and PlayStation 3 sales slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  