-- Japan’s Currency Chief Sees Threat From Very Rapid Gains in Yen
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-05-30T00:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/japan-s-currency-chief-sees-threat-from-very-rapid-gains-in-yen.html
“Very rapid” gains in the yen are
“counter-productive” and Japanese officials are closely
monitoring the foreign-exchange market, the nation’s top
currency official said.  “The disorderly and speculative movement of any currency
is not constructive” for economic growth, Vice Finance Minister
Takehiko Nakao said in an interview yesterday in  Hong Kong ,
where he’s attending a meeting of the Financial Stability Board.
This is especially so for Japan as the nation recovers from last
year’s earthquake and tsunami, he said.  The yen has climbed about 5 percent against the dollar from
this year’s low in mid-March, weighing on export sales and
profits for manufacturers as the government seeks to sustain a
rebound in the world’s third-biggest economy. Nakao said that
the  finance ministry  will take action if necessary, suggesting
that the door is open to further government intervention to
weaken the currency.  Last year, Nakao oversaw interventions that helped to pull
the yen back from a post-World War II high of 75.35 against the
dollar. The currency was at 79.51 as of 9:43 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Nakao called for euro region nations to support their
system, adding that Japan didn’t want to see a Greek exit.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny said yesterday that the “prime objective” is to keep
Greece in the euro area, adding that this is “something that
doesn’t only depend on the side of the European authorities, but
also on the decisions of Greek people and their government.”  Recovery Flags  In Japan, a report yesterday showed that the jobless rate
rose for the first time in three months, exceeding analysts’
estimates and underscoring concern that the recovery will lose
momentum in the face of gains in the yen and  Europe ’s crisis.  Sony Corp. (6758)  is among manufacturers to have announced job
cuts.  Nakao took the role made famous by  Eisuke Sakakibara , the
official who became known as Mr. Yen, in August last year.  He said yesterday that Japan’s economy may grow more than 2
percent this fiscal year as earthquake reconstruction bolsters
demand. Gains in  consumer spending  helped to drive an annualized
4.1 percent expansion in the first quarter after a 0.1 percent
advance in the final three months of 2011.  A sovereign-rating cut by  Fitch Ratings  this month
underscored the challenge for the government of sustaining
growth without worsening the nation’s finances. Japan has the
world’s biggest public debt burden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  