-- Aluminum Buyers in Japan Said to Pay Record Quarterly Fee
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-05-30T05:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/japan-aluminum-buyers-said-to-agree-to-record-quarterly-premium.html
Aluminum buyers in  Japan , Asia’s
largest importer, agreed to pay a record premium to producers
next quarter after global smelters cut output, according to five
officials with direct knowledge of the talks.  Premiums for the three months starting in July will be $200
to $210 a metric ton over the London Metal Exchange’s price of
metal for immediate delivery, compared with $115 to $127 this
quarter, said the executives, referring to transactions agreed
so far. They declined to be identified because the fee hasn’t
been publicly announced.  Premiums are rising as Japanese demand expands, led by the
car and construction industries rebuilding from last year’s
earthquake and tsunami. At the same time, buyers in  China  are
boosting imports to take advantage of international prices that
are below domestic costs.  An average of 68,100 tons of aluminum was produced globally
in April, down from 68,300 tons in March, the London-based
International Aluminium Association estimates. Output rose as
high as 71,000 tons a day in October. The price of metal for
immediate delivery on the LME declined 14 percent since March 1
to $1,978.25 a ton, bourse data show.  “Metal purchasing costs for Japanese companies will stay
high as rising premiums offset a drop in the LME,” said Naohiro
Niimura, a partner at research company Market Risk Advisory in
 Tokyo . “Their earnings are threatened as they have difficulty
passing on costs to consumers amid deflation.”  Australian Cuts  Shipments to Asian buyers decreased after  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,
 Europe ’s third-largest producer, cut annual production at its
Kurri Kurri smelter in Australia by a third, or 60,000 tons, in
January, spurring importers to seek alternative supplies.  Hydro said earlier this month it started talks with workers
to shut down the Australian smelter because of falling metal
prices and the country’s carbon tax.  Availability in Asia also declined after producers in the
 Middle East  boosted shipments to Europe and the U.S., where the
metal traded at higher premiums than Japan. The U.S. Midwest
premium climbed to a record 11.5 cents a pound, while premiums
in Europe advanced to $170 a ton.  Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products are forecast
to gain 2.8 percent to 2.06 million tons for the year to March
31, 2013, the highest level in five years, according to the
Japan Aluminium Association.  Auto Industry  Demand expansion is led by the auto industry as companies
such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  benefited from
surging domestic sales after the government offered subsidies
for purchases of fuel-efficient vehicles.  China’s imports of primary aluminum surged 216 percent to
40,347 tons in April, according to the Beijing-based Customs
General Administration. Imports in the first four months
amounted to 226,588 tons, rising 159 percent on year.  The gain in aluminum fees may boost costs for fabricators
such as  Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. (5741) , Japan’s largest mill.
Spokesman Ryu Sawachi said he couldn’t confirm the premium.  The fee is applied to so-called Good Western-grade aluminum
ingot. It includes freight and insurance costs, and reflects
local supply and demand. The biggest suppliers of Western ingot
to Japan include Rio Tinto Group,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  