-- Dewey, Skadden, Jones Day, Fried Frank: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-30T11:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/jones-day-fried-frank-paul-weiss-business-of-law.html
The plan to save part of Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP’s business through a merger was dealt “a body
blow” when the  Manhattan  District Attorney said he was probing
possible wrongdoing at the firm, lawyer Al Togut told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn at a court hearing.  Togut, a partner at  Togut, Segal & Segal LLP , also said at
yesterday’s hearing in Manhattan that the firm is cooperating
with the district attorney’s investigation into its former
chairman, Steven Davis.  The firm filed for bankruptcy May 28 listing debt of $245
million and assets of $193 million.  It is closing offices in  Hong Kong , Beijing, Sao Paulo,
London, Paris, Madrid, Frankfurt and Johannesburg. All U.S.
offices have been closed or are closing. The firm is recovering
equipment and artwork and securing client records, according to
the filing.  Dewey, which has been collecting bills to pay lenders, had
about $13.4 million of cash in its bank accounts on May 25,
according to a U.S. budget published in a court filing. Cash may
rise by June 25 to $30.3 million as more clients pay their
bills, according to the filing.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deals  Skadden and Jones Day Work on Marubeni’s Purchase of Gavilon  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
Tokyo-based  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  in its agreement to buy Gavilon Group
LLC for $3.6 billion. Jones Day is representing Gavilon, the
third-largest U.S. grain merchandiser.  Skadden partners involved in the deal are Patricia Moran
and Sally Thurston in New York and Nobuhisa Ishizuka in  Tokyo .
The Jones Day partners representing Gavilon are Robert Kennedy
and Nicholas Rodriguez, both in New York.  Marubeni is  Japan ’s biggest agricultural trader and the
purchase will double its grain-trading capacity, the company
said yesterday in a statement. The company will use cash and
loans to fund the deal and take on Gavilon’s $2 billion of debt,
Chief Financial Officer Yukihiko Matsumura told reporters in
Tokyo.  Buying Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon will allow Marubeni to
compete with Cargill Inc. and other top global grain traders.
The acquisition also strengthens Marubeni’s position in
supplying food to  Asia , said Daisuke Okada, the company’s
managing executive officer.  For more on the deal, click here.  Paul Weiss, Fried Frank and Debevoise on Interline Deal  GS Capital Partners, the private-equity unit of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and P2 Capital Partners LLC agreed to buy
 Interline Brands Inc. (IBI) , a distributor of janitorial, plumbing and
lighting products that went public in 2004, in a deal valued at
$1.1 billion including debt.  Partners Robert Schumer, Paul Ginsberg, Eric Goodison, John Kennedy, David Sicular and Lawrence Witdorchic from Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP represented Interline.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP advised GS
Capital. The firm’s partners on the deal are Robert C. Schwenkel, David L. Shaw, Christopher Ewan, F. William Reindel
and David C. Golay.  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP represented P2. On the Debevoise
team are partners Andrew L. Bab, Gary M. Friedman, Gregory V. Gooding, Jonathan F. Lewis and Pierre Maugue.  Funds managed by GS Capital and P2 Capital will pay
Interline shareholders $25.50 a share, 42 percent higher than
the closing price on May 25, according to a statement from the
Jacksonville, Florida-based company yesterday. Interline closed
at $25.08 in New York trading. The company may solicit
alternative proposals through June 28 under what’s known as a
“go-shop” provision.  For more on the deal, click here.  Courts  MBIA Lawyer Finishes Opening Statement in New York Trial  A lawyer for  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  finished his opening statement in a
trial over the bond insurer’s 2009 restructuring after two days,
saying the transaction was properly approved by New York state
regulators.  The restructuring protected all policyholders, including
the banks opposed to it, and they can’t prove that the approval
was “arbitrary and capricious” and based on a flawed analysis
by a single department employee,  Marc Kasowitz , the MBIA
attorney, said in New York  Supreme Court  in Manhattan.  “The department vigorously and throughly analyzed the
proposal,” Kasowitz, a partner at Kasowitz Benson Torres &
Friedman LLP, said yesterday. “This was not a situation of
the department blindly accepting the work that MBIA had done.”  Justice Barbara Kapnick of state Supreme Court is hearing a
nonjury trial on claims by  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  that the February 2009 approval of MBIA’s proposal
by then-Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  was based on inaccurate and
incomplete information and should be annulled.  More than a dozen financial institutions sued Armonk, New
York-based MBIA and the state insurance department in 2009 over
the restructuring. Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , and Paris-based  Societe Generale  are the only banks
left in the litigation after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan
Stanley, UBS AG and other banks dropped out.  The banks claim the restructuring exposed them to losses as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of an
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt into a new division
that guaranteed municipal bonds.  David Holgado, a lawyer in state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office, last week asked Kapnick to dismiss the
banks’ challenge, saying the approval was rational and based on
an “extraordinary” analysis by the former Insurance Department
official, Jack Buchmiller.  Proceedings in the case are scheduled to resume on
tomorrow, when Robert Giuffra, a lawyer with Sullivan & Cromwell
LLP who is representing the banks, is set to respond to the
presentations given by attorneys for the state and MBIA. The
trial is scheduled to last two to four weeks.  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Class Actions  Accounting Class Actions Increase in 2011  The number of securities class actions filed in 2011
involving accounting allegations climbed, fueled in part by
lawsuits against China-based issuers that entered the U.S.
through reverse mergers, Cornerstone Research said in a study.  Of the 188 securities class actions filed in 2011, 70
included accounting allegations, according to the study released
May 22. The previous year, 46 of the 176 class actions filed had
accounting claims.  Securities class actions involving accounting allegations
increased as a proportion of total securities-case filings in
2011, to 37 percent from 26 percent in 2010, the study found.  The number of accounting cases filed in 2011 involving
restatements of financial statements also rose, ending four
years of declines.  While fewer than half of the cases settled in 2011 included
accounting claims, those cases represented a disproportionately
higher share of total settlement values, the study found.  For more on the study,  click here.   Hong Kong Proposes Class Actions After IPO Disputes Increase  Hong Kong, where the securities regulator this month
proposed introducing civil liability for banks working on
initial share sale prospectuses, may also allow class-action
lawsuits to help investors seek damages.  The city’s  Law Reform Commission  on May 28 recommended
legislation to allow a group with a common complaint to sue
through a representative. The new regime initially will apply to
product liability and consumer fraud cases and not to purchasers
of securities, the commission said.  Hong Kong currently allows multiparty proceedings under
rules the city’s then-chief justice Andrew Li criticized as
restrictive and inadequate in 2004. Losing parties must pay all
or part of their opponent’s legal fees under Hong Kong law, a
deterrent for individual investors seeking damages.  As a result, litigation risk for bankers and companies
selling shares in Hong Kong has been relatively low to date,
according to Jeff Maddox, a lawyer who had advised on capital
raising in Hong Kong, New York and Singapore stock exchanges.  “There’s less than a 3 percent chance of getting sued
after a listing here compared to a 20 to 25 percent chance in
the U.S.,” said Maddox, a Hong Kong-based partner at
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, citing industry statistics.  Allowing class actions was recommended by a sub-committee
of the law commission in 2009 following losses by thousands of
investors on notes guaranteed by failed Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Its final recommendation comes two weeks after the
Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong’s market regulator,
proposed extending criminal and civil liability laws to initial
share sale arrangers who sign off on misleading or inaccurate
prospectuses.  The SFC said tighter laws are needed to protect investors
after finding substandard work by investment banks arranging
IPOs. In one case, it alleges that Chinese fabric-maker Hontex
International Holdings Co. misled investors in its listings
prospectus in 2009.  For more, click here.  Law Firm Moves  International Trade Commission Lawyer Joins McKool Smith  Kent R. Stevens, a former trial lawyer with the U.S.
International Trade Commission, joined  McKool Smith  as a
principal in the firm’s  Washington  office.  Stevens has more than 20 years of experience in
intellectual property litigation and specializes in handling
Section 337 investigations before the ITC, the firm said in a
statement. He also focuses on proceedings relating to ITC probes
before the U.S. Customs and  Border Protection  and the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  Stevens served as both an investigative attorney and senior
investigative attorney for the ITC’s Office of Unfair Import
Investigations. In 10 years there, he handled cases involving
petitions for temporary relief, gray market cases, and patent
cases involving pharmaceutical, electronic and other
technologies.  McKool Smith has more than 170 litigators in offices in
Austin,  Texas ; Dallas; Houston;  Los Angeles ; Marshall, Texas;
New York; Silicon Valley and Washington.  Energy Lawyer Golden Joins Orrick Herrington  Cornelius J. “Neil” Golden Jr. joined Orrick, Herrington
& Sutcliffe LLP as a partner in its Global Energy &
Infrastructure practice. He was previously a partner at
Chadbourne & Parke LLP.  Golden has more than 25 years of experience representing
energy clients in complex equity and debt financings, project
acquisitions and divestitures, and other transactions, the firm
said in a statement.  In recent years, he has worked extensively on the
development and financing of renewable energy projects and
conventional  power plants   Orrick has 1,200 lawyers in nine countries.  Buchanan Ingersoll Adds Energy Lawyer in New York Office  Matthew Cohen joined Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC as a
shareholder in its energy practice, the firm said in a
statement. Cohen was a partner in the corporate practice group
of Thompson & Knight LLP.  In the past two years, Buchanan has added more than 20
attorneys to its roster of more than 80 energy-focused
professionals. Cohen has handled domestic and cross-border deals
for businesses in the oil and gas and metals and mining
industries.  Buchanan Ingersoll has more than 450 attorneys and
government-relations professionals practicing throughout the
U.S., with offices in California, Florida,  New Jersey , New York,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia and Washington, D.C.  King & Spalding Adds Two Litigators in Austin Office  Litigators Paul R. Bessette and Michael J. Biles joined
King & Spalding LLP as partners in the Austin, Texas, office.  Both specialize in securities litigation and related
government investigations, and come to the firm from Greenberg
Traurig LLP, King & Spalding said in a statement.  Bessette will serve as co-chairman of King & Spalding’s
national securities litigation practice, a role he played at his
previous firm, according to the statement.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe , the  Middle East  and Asia.  New Silicon Valley Lawyer Joins DLA Piper  Michael Torosian joined DLA Piper LLP as a partner in the
corporate and finance practice in the firm’s Silicon Valley
office.  Previously a senior counsel in the corporate department at
Latham & Watkins LLP, Torosian advises public and private
companies, investment banks and venture capital and private
equity firms in the emerging growth, mergers and acquisitions,
and capital markets areas, according to a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 31 countries and 77 offices
throughout the Americas, U.K., Continental Europe, Middle East,
Asia and  Australia .  Greenberg Traurig Adds Employment lawyer in New Jersey Office  Robert H. Bernstein is joining Greenberg Traurig LLP as a
shareholder in the labor & employment practice in the firm’s
Florham Park, New Jersey, office.  Bernstein is the sixth labor and employment attorney to
join Greenberg Traurig’s New Jersey office in recent months, the
firm said in a statement. Bernstein focuses on labor and
employment issues for management, with an emphasis in litigation
and counseling.  Before joining Greenberg Traurig, Bernstein was head of
Constangy, Brooks & Smith LLP’s Princeton office, where he was a
partner.  Greenberg Traurig has about 1,800 attorneys in 34 offices
in the U.S.,  Latin America , Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  