-- JPMorgan Employee Said to be Linked to Insider Trading
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-05-30T03:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/jpmorgan-employee-said-to-be-linked-to-insider-trading.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  employee in
 Japan  was found to have leaked insider information connected to
Nippon Sheet Glass Co.’s 2010 share sale, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation.  The people, who declined to provide any additional details,
asked not to be identified as the matter is confidential. Asuka
Asset Management Co. was told about the non-public information
from one of the lead underwriters for Nippon Sheet’s equity
offering, Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission said yesterday.  Japanese regulators have been probing trades tied to stock
offerings in response to criticism that leaks on financing plans
are eroding investor confidence. The investigation comes to
light less than three weeks after JPMorgan disclosed  losses  of
at least $2 billion at its London unit due to bets on illiquid
 credit derivatives , causing its shares to fall 17 percent.  JPMorgan said it’s “cooperating fully” with the
authorities on the matter, without confirming that an employee
was involved.  The bank “has not received any indication from the
authorities that suggests J.P. Morgan’s involvement either by
the company as a whole, or by any department as a whole,” it
said in a  statement  on its website following the SESC’s
announcement. “We take this matter extremely seriously and will
continue to take measures to enhance our internal control.”  Joint Underwriters  Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest
brokerage, and New York-based JPMorgan were the two joint global
coordinators on the deal, the watchdog said yesterday at a press
conference in  Tokyo . The SESC officials declined to comment on
whether JPMorgan was the source of the leaked information.  Daiwa wasn’t involved in the insider-trading activity,
Akihiro Honda, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the Japanese
brokerage, said yesterday.  The SESC recommended that the Financial Services Agency
impose a 130,000 yen ($1,600) fine against Tokyo-based Asuka
Asset Management.  Separately, it also recommended an 80,000 yen fine for Chuo
Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking Co., a unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , related to a  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
stock sale.  Underwriters for the Mizuho deal included Mizuho Securities
Co.,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , JPMorgan and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch, it said.  JPMorgan  shares  rose 0.4 percent to $33.63 in  New York 
trading yesterday. Daiwa declined 2.3 percent to 250 yen at
12:45 p.m. in Tokyo. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust dropped 2.4 percent
to 202 yen. The benchmark Topix index lost 1.1 percent.  Second Penalty  The latest penalty recommendation for Chuo Mitsui is its
second since March, when it was fined 50,000 yen for using
information obtained by an underwriter in trades tied to  Inpex
Corp. (1605) ’s 2010 share offer.  Nomura, one of the lead underwriters for the Inpex shares,
was involved in an insider-trading case connected to that equity
offering, a person with knowledge of the matter said at the time
of the fine recommendation.  Following yesterday’s action against Chuo Mitsui, Nomura
said in a statement that it “will continue to cooperate fully
in the ongoing inspection” of the brokerage.  Nomura, Japan’s largest investment bank, also said it has
hired outside attorneys to conduct an investigation of the
company and to advise the firm on improvement measures and
disciplinary actions based on their findings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  