-- Jumbo Jet Clips American Eagle Plane at O’Hare Airport
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-05-30T20:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/jumbo-jet-clips-american-eagle-plane-at-o-hare-airport.html
A  Boeing Co. (BA)  747 jumbo cargo carrier
clipped the tail of an American Eagle regional jet at Chicago’s
O’Hare airport today as the smaller aircraft was taxiing to a
gate.  No injuries were reported among the 21 passengers and crew
on Eagle Flight 4265, which had just arrived from Springfield,
Missouri, Mary Frances Fagan, a spokeswoman for American Eagle
parent AMR Corp., said in an e-mail. Passengers were taken off
the  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  140 after the incident happened at 1 p.m. local
time and damage is being assessed, she said.  The EVA Cargo wide-body jet, operating as Flight 661, was
on a taxiway when it “made contact” with the smaller jet, said
Karen Pride, a spokeswoman for the Chicago Department of
Aviation. It wasn’t immediately clear whether both planes were
moving at the time, or if one was stationary, she said. The
incident didn’t disrupt flight operations, Pride said.  Managers at EVA’s Chicago office weren’t immediately
available to comment, said a man who answered the phone and
declined to give his name.  O’Hare is the second-busiest airport in the U.S. behind
Atlanta, with about 67 million passengers per year, according to
 Airports Council International , a trade group.  The incident was similar to one last year at New York’s
John F. Kennedy International Airport when an  Air France (AF)   Airbus
SAS (EAD)  A380 superjumbo jet clipped a commuter plane operated by
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s Comair unit, spinning the smaller plane
about 90 degrees.  The A380 is a double-decker aircraft that can carry more
than 500 passengers, making it the largest commercial jet in
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  