-- Kayak Said to Postpone IPO Following Facebook’s Tumble
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-05-30T20:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/kayak-said-to-postpone-ipo-following-facebook-s-tumble.html
Kayak Software Corp. is delaying its
initial public offering following  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s post-IPO
descent, according to a person close to the situation.  The Norwalk, Connecticut-based  online travel service  has
postponed the roadshow for the offering, which was scheduled to
start last week, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the information is private. Morgan Stanley, the lead
bank on Facebook’s initial share sale, also was hired to lead
Kayak’s IPO.  Kayak would have been the first U.S. Internet offering
since Facebook went public in the biggest technology IPO on
record this month. The social network has dropped 26 percent
since its market debut, extending its losses in the worst-
performing large IPO in the past decade. Investors are pummeling
the stock amid questions about Facebook’s growth and how
underwriters managed the share sale.  “After Facebook’s tumble, investors are not willing to buy
pie in the sky,” said Francis Gaskins, president of Marina Del
Rey, California-based researcher IPOdesktop.com.  ServiceNow Inc., an IT cloud-computing services company,
and Palo Alto Networks Inc., an Internet security company, both
planning IPOs led by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , are on track to go public,
said people familiar with the situation. Pen Pendleton, a
spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  Mike Haro , a spokesman with Palo Alto Networks, and Rhett
Glauser, a spokesman with ServiceNow, didn’t immediately respond
to requests for comment. Jessica Casano-Antonellis, a
spokeswoman for Kayak, declined to comment.  Slowing Growth  Facebook’s investors are concerned about the company’s
prospects after first-quarter profit decreased on slowing sales
growth, and some shareholders have filed lawsuits alleging that
the biggest social network and its underwriters overpriced the
stock at $38 a share. At that price, Facebook had a higher
price-to-earnings multiple than 99 percent of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  “Facebook makes money but it seems their wheels came off
their growth expectations and investors are hungry for tech
companies with high growth margins,” Gaskins said.  Facebook closed at $28.84 yesterday, slipping below $30 for
the first time. The stock fell 2.3 percent to $28.19 as of 4
p.m.  New York  time.  Kayak first filed to go public in November 2010 and put its
plans on hold earlier this year because of choppy market
conditions. The company said this month it posted a profit of
$4.15 million in the quarter that ended March 31, compared with
a loss of $6.91 million in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose
39 percent to $73.3 million.  VKontakte, the largest Russia social-networking website,
has shelved its IPO indefinitely after Facebook’s offering hurt
investor demand, Pavel Durov, founder and chief executive
officer, said yesterday on his Twitter account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 