-- Korea Leads Rankings of Universities Under 50 Years Old
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-05-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/korea-leads-rankings-of-universities-under-50-years-old.html
Pohang University of Science &
Technology  in  South Korea  led a global ranking of the top 100
universities less than 50 years old, a list that features
institutions from 30 countries.  The U.K. had the most colleges on the list, with 20, and
had three in the top 10, followed by Australia with 14,
according to a statement today from Times Higher Education, a
London-based magazine that compiled the rankings. The U.S. had
nine schools in the top 100, including two in the top 10: the
University of California’s campus in  Irvine  was fourth, while UC
Santa Cruz was seventh.  The list is an offshoot of the  Times Higher Education’s
World University Rankings , which are led by the  California
Institute of Technology , in Pasadena, and features seven U.S.
colleges in the top 10. A list of the top universities founded
since 1962 shows which nations have made the greatest strides in
developing their higher-education systems and which universities
might hold the most promise, said Phil Baty, the editor of Times
Higher Education Rankings.  “We’re looking for future stars,” Baty said in a phone
interview. “Some of these institutions have done remarkably
well in a matter of decades, and the potential is there. There’s
a real sense that many of these nations are poised to steal
America’s crown.”  Three of the top five universities under 50 years old are
in Asia, reflecting the region’s investment in higher education,
Baty said.  Asian Universities  Pohang University, known as Postech and based in Pohang,
was founded in 1986.  Hong Kong University  of Science &
Technology, which opened in 1991, was ranked third, and the
Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, founded in
1971 in Daejeon, was fifth.  There are no universities from mainland China in the
rankings because China has chosen to invest in its older
institutions rather than develop its newer ones, Baty said.  The number of the U.K. schools on the list reflects the
country’s investment in higher education since World War II, he
said.  The top-ranked U.K. school was the  University of York ,
which came eighth, followed by Lancaster University in ninth
place and the University of East Anglia, in Norwich, in 10th.  Switzerland’s Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne
ranked second overall. Macquarie University in Sydney and the
University of Wollongong were the top Australian schools, tying
for 33rd.  Other U.S. universities to make the list were the
 University of Illinois at Chicago ; the University of Medicine &
Dentistry of  New Jersey , based in Newark; the  University of
Texas  at Dallas; the University of Texas at  San Antonio ; George
Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia; the  University of
Maryland , Baltimore County; and  Florida International University 
in Miami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  