-- Daewoo Told to Pay 71% U.S. Duty on Washing Machines
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-05-31T04:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/korean-washer-exporters-to-pay-u-s-duties-as-high-as-71-1-.html
The  U.S. Commerce Department  told
Daewoo Electronics Corp. to pay a 71 percent import duty on
large, residential washing machines made in  South Korea , after
the company didn’t respond to a probe of government subsidies.  The agency announced a preliminary finding yesterday after
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  of  Benton Harbor ,  Michigan , said in a Dec. 30
complaint that Seoul-based Daewoo,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  of Suwon, South Korea, sell washers in
the U.S. for less than production costs.  The finding comes after Daewoo in March said it was ‘on
track” to diversify distribution channels by supplying Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. as it targeted doubling North America home appliance
sales to $150 million this year. Samsung was ordered to pay a
1.2 percent duty, and LG Electronics 0.22 percent on the washing
machines imported to the U.S. from South Korea, according to the
agency. All other companies would pay 1.2 percent.  Daewoo will discuss the matter with its U.S. unit and
decide how to respond before the final finding is announced,
Gwon Dae Hoon, a spokesman for the company, said today by phone.  The higher duty set for Daewoo reflects the company’s
refusal to respond to an investigation of South Korean subsidies
for the makers, which sell about $569 million worth of the
machines a year in the U.S., the agency said.  “I don’t think it’s going to be a big issue for Samsung
and LG as the duties don’t seem to be high, and the portion of
North America washing machine sales out of their total sales is
small,” Kang Yoon Hum, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co., said by phone today.  Whirlpool ‘Pleased’  Samsung is “confident that once the full investigation is
concluded, the U.S. Department of Commerce will confirm that
Samsung is in compliance,” the company said today by e-mail.
“Samsung respects the trade rules in the U.S. market.”  LG will fully cooperate until the final decision is made,
the company said today in an e-mailed response to a Bloomberg
News query.  Samsung fell 2.6 percent to 1.194 million won in Seoul
trading at 12:47 p.m. local time, while LG Electronics dropped
3.6 percent. The benchmark Kospi index retreated 1.4 percent.
Daewoo was delisted from the Korean stock exchange in 2002.  Whirlpool is pleased “given the proven record that South
Korean appliance producers have benefitted from their
government’s subsidies that violate trade law,” Kristine
Vernier, a spokeswoman, said in a  statement .  Whirlpool closed up 30 cents to $63.13 in  New York  Stock
Exchange  trading , and touched $65.45 after the announcement.  Countervailing Duties  The agency’s decision sets countervailing duties, which are
imposed to offset government subsidies. The Commerce Department
hasn’t issued results of its investigation into Whirlpool’s
anti-dumping complaint against imports from Korea and  Mexico .
That decision is scheduled next month, according to a statement.  The Commerce Department and the U.S. International Trade
Commission, an independent agency, are scheduled to make their
final determinations on the trade disputes later this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  