-- Nasdaq Safeguards in Facebook Seen as Focus of Regulators
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/nasdaq-public-safeguards-in-facebook-seen-as-focus-of-regulators.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s handling of
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering has already led to
lawsuits and may cost brokers $100 million. What Securities and
Exchange Commission officials will want to know is whether the
market operator put the public’s interest first.  “Their interest is twofold: to make sure that sufficient
safeguards are in place to ensure that mistakes won’t happen in
the future, and to make sure that decisions were not made that
are not in the public interest,” Larry Harris, a professor of
finance and business economics at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles  and a former chief economist at the
SEC, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The $16 billion IPO of the largest social networking
company, founded in 2004 by Harvard University student  Mark
Zuckerberg , was supposed to be a victory for  Nasdaq  OMX, chosen
by Facebook over rival NYSE Euronext. The debut was anything
but, with the first day of trading on May 18 marred by delays,
mishandled orders and investor uncertainty.  A review by the SEC that has yet to be completed shows
technical failures precipitated the trading issues, not a
violation of industry rules, the Wall Street Journal said
yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter who it didn’t
name.  “We continue to review issues related to the IPO and have
drawn no conclusions,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in
an e-mail yesterday. Joseph Christinat, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman,
declined to comment, as did Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for
 Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook .  ‘Poor Design’  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld 
acknowledged that a “poor design” in software put the opening
auction that set the price for the first traded shares into a
loop that delayed its completion. Executives of the company,
which operates the Nasdaq Stock Market, “believed they had the
right solution” as they worked to start trading,  Eric Noll , the
executive vice president for transaction services, said in a
statement provided by spokesman Robert Madden on May 22.  SEC officials will examine whether New York-based Nasdaq
OMX took enough care setting up and testing the IPO auction,
when it became aware of the breakdowns and how much it knew as
they were occurring, Harris said. Examiners would need proof of
malfeasance to conclude Nasdaq OMX was guilty of more than bad
judgment or bad luck, according to Thomas Hazen, a professor at
the University of  North Carolina  at Chapel Hill’s School of Law
and author of a seven-volume treatise on securities regulation.  “There’d have to be some pretty strong evidence for the
SEC to suspect real wrongdoing,” he said in a May 29 phone
interview. “This was supposed to be a showcase IPO for Nasdaq.
But finding evidence to show they prematurely opened up trading
is a different matter.”  SEC Sanction  If warranted, the most likely SEC sanction against Nasdaq
OMX would be a fine, according to Hazen. While securities laws
allow for more, including revoking an exchange’s registration,
investors would lose out by such a drastic response, making it
unlikely, he said.  Facebook shares, which rose as high as $45 on the day of
their debut, have lost 33 percent since their first public trade
at $42. Nasdaq OMX is down 5.2 percent from its May 17 close and
reached a seven-month low of $21.80 on May 24.  Phillip Goldberg, an investor in Maryland, said in a
lawsuit filed in Manhattan federal court that Nasdaq OMX “badly
mishandled” orders placed through an online Charles Schwab
Corp. account. He is seeking to represent a class of investors
who lost money.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other underwriters along with Facebook
were sued separately by investors who say they were misled in
the purchase of the stock.  Fair, Orderly  “Everybody who’s run an exchange has had some technology
issues that have disrupted fair and orderly trading,” Neal Wolkoff, former chairman and chief executive officer of the
American Stock Exchange and ex-CEO at ELX Futures LP, said in a
May 24 phone interview from South Orange,  New Jersey . “If it
interferes with just and equitable trading, you really have to
consider what the options are, rather than just limping through
it. An exchange has broad latitude.”  Bats Global Markets Inc., the Lenexa, Kansas-based exchange
operator that competes with NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX, halted
trading and then called off its own IPO on March 23 when a
malfunction in its auction system kept the first transaction
from being published properly.  No action such as halting a stock or canceling trades is
likely to be “applauded by everyone,” said Wolkoff, who also
was a chief operating officer of the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . “Making a decision in the Facebook case wouldn’t have
been easy, and I’m not saying what would have been the right
decision for Nasdaq. But they had choices.”  Halting Stock  Nasdaq OMX would have had to consider the effect of halting
Facebook shares on the social-networking company, said Harris,
the USC professor.  “Nasdaq had a responsibility to Facebook as well as to
shareholders,” he said. “If they had halted the stock, people
might have thought that the problem was with Facebook and not
Nasdaq. It’s a delicate issue.”  Facebook was sold by underwriters at $38 on May 17. The
pricing of the first public transaction, a trade known as the
IPO cross, took a half hour longer than Nasdaq OMX planned the
next morning. About 30 minutes after that, the second-largest
U.S. equities market owner reported an issue confirming trades
from the opening auction with the brokerages that placed them.  Some Dispute  Order updates and cancellations totaling 30 million shares
were submitted into the auction as a technical issue was being
repaired between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. New York time,
Greifeld told reporters on May 20. About half may involve “some
level of dispute,” he said.  Nasdaq OMX said in a May 21  notice  that the 30 million
shares didn’t participate in the IPO cross. An error prevented
execution reports for the shares that entered the auction, as
well as those that were ignored, from being disseminated
immediately to brokerages, the company said.  Some orders submitted before 11:30 a.m. received executions
at prices different from the $42 IPO cross, causing buyers to
pay more and sellers to receive less than they should have,
Nasdaq OMX said in another May 21  notice . A portion of those
deemed ineligible for the IPO auction were later re-entered into
the market by Nasdaq’s systems, the exchange said.  Auction Delays  Nasdaq OMX blamed the trading delay for Facebook on its
inability to handle order updates and cancellations that came in
as the exchange was trying to complete the IPO cross. That,
along with mishandled trade requests, led to confusion among
investors, brokers and market makers about the status of
millions of orders sent to Nasdaq OMX for the opening cross. The
exchange’s systems didn’t distribute execution reports until
1:50 p.m., leaving member firms and customers without
information about their orders and unable to cut losses and
manage financial risks.  Deciding not to accept order modifications and
cancellations after a specified time before the IPO cross is
safer for investors, said  Robert Schwartz , a professor of
finance at  Baruch College  at the  City University  of New York,
who was on an advisory committee that helped design Nasdaq OMX’s
auctions for the start and end of the trading day almost a
decade ago. Nasdaq OMX hadn’t experienced a similar problem
before with initial offerings, he said.  “It’s wise to have a hard stop like a train schedule so
people aren’t trying to get on board when the train is leaving
the station,” Schwartz said in a May 23 phone interview. “You
also have to build human safeguards into any electronic system.
When you have extremely heavy order flow from customers who are
far and wide apart, they’ll behave differently than big,
sophisticated customers.”  System Altered  Nasdaq OMX said it would no longer accept “cross-
eligible” order modifications after the auction’s final price
calculation has begun, the exchange operator said on May 21.  The commission will want Nasdaq OMX to provide its own
chronology of events, said Larry Bergmann, who worked at the SEC
for more than 30 years starting in 1975, including as associate
director in the agency’s division of market regulation.  “An exchange is required to operate a fair and orderly
market,” Bergmann, now a partner at Murphy & McGonigle PC in
Washington and a member of the exchange board at Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, said in a May 25 phone interview. “That’s the No.
1 obligation. From the SEC’s point of view, exchanges are rules-
based organizations and the key thing is whether the actions
they took are permitted by their rules or fairly implied. I’d
think the SEC would also want to look into whether the rules
specify that they take certain actions in certain
circumstances.”  Equity Wholesalers  Losses may total $120 million for the four largest U.S.
equity wholesalers, or market-makers that execute orders for
individual investors supplied from brokers such as TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. and  Charles Schwab . Nasdaq OMX plans to set aside
about $13 million to reimburse member firms, pending SEC
approval, Greifeld said on May 20.  Knight Capital Group Inc. estimated it lost as much as $35
million trading Facebook because of the malfunction, the Jersey
City, New Jersey-based broker said in a May 23 SEC filing.
Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based investment firm run by  Ken Griffin , lost as much as $35 million on Facebook in its market-
making unit, according to a person with knowledge of the firm.  UBS AG lost about $30 million and Citigroup Inc. about $20
million from servicing retail customers through their
wholesaling businesses, Dow Jones Newswires reported on May 25.  System Malfunction  Nasdaq OMX’s liability stemming from a systems malfunction
or trading-systems error is  capped  at $3 million per month,
according to its rules. Greifeld said on May 20 that about $10
million the exchange received from its unanticipated
participation in Facebook’s IPO would be added to the fund, if
the SEC permits it.  Former SEC Commissioner Roberta Karmel, a professor at
Brooklyn Law School, said technology problems and the financial
risks they produce can snowball as trading becomes faster and
market participants rely more on automation to execute orders.  “You wouldn’t want an exchange to be bankrupted because of
a technology problem,” Karmel, author of “Regulation by
Prosecution” and co-author of “Demutualization of Stock
Exchanges,” said in a May 21 phone interview. “It wasn’t a
problem in the past. Now things can go awry quicker and have
much greater consequences. It’s another example of speed not
necessarily meaning a fairer or more orderly market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  