-- National Systemic Banks to Face Core Capital Rules in Basel Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-30T12:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/national-systemic-banks-to-face-core-capital-rules-in-basel-plan.html
Global regulators will seek a deal
this year to strengthen  capital requirements  and supervision at
banks whose failure would harm national economies.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is preparing to
identify so-called domestically systemic lenders and discussing
“possible policy tools” that regulators should use to handle
their collapse, Teo Swee Lian, deputy managing director of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, said in an e-mail.  Rules on the amount of core capital that the lenders should
hold are expected to be “an important part of the policy
framework,” said Teo, a member of the Basel group.  The Group of 20 nations last year agreed on 29 banks that
should face tougher capital requirements than the minimum levels
set by international regulators because their failure would
imperil the global economy.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were among lenders targeted for these
so-called core capital surcharges, which range from 1 to 2.5
percentage of the bank’s risk weighted assets.  G-20 regulators said earlier this year that they would seek
to expand the definition of too-big-to-fail financial firms
beyond the 29 banks, adding domestic lenders, clearinghouses and
insurers.  The Basel committee is aiming to conclude work on the
measures “in the second half of 2012,” Teo said.  FSB Meeting  The Financial Stability Board, a group bringing Basel
regulators together with financial ministry officials and
central bankers from the Group of 20 countries, met in  Hong Kong 
today. The FSB agreed at the meeting on a draft method for
identifying insurers that should be labeled as too-big-to-fail,
 Mark Carney , the board’s chairman, told reporters.  The Basel committee agreed in 2010 to more than triple the
core capital that all banks must keep to stave off insolvency,
and to force them to hold minimum amounts of easy-to-sell
assets. The G-20 agreed that the revised requirements, known as
Basel III, must be written into national laws by the end of
2012, and will come into full effect in 2019.  “Singapore-incorporated banks start from relatively strong
capital and liquidity positions,” Teo said. The Singapore
regulator “has always set capital requirement levels that are
higher than the Basel minimums.”  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  