-- National Bank of Greece 1st Quarter Loss 537 Million Euro
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-05-30T16:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/national-bank-of-greece-1st-quarter-loss-537-million-euro.html
  National Bank of Greece SA , the
country’s biggest lender, posted a first-quarter loss as the
national economic slump caused non-performing loans to rise and
the bank had a trading loss.  The net loss was 537 million euros ($665 million) after a
profit of 157 million euros a year earlier, according to a faxed
statement from the Athens-based lender. The first-quarter loss
from trading was 271 million euros, the bank said.  “Against a backdrop of extreme uncertainty, NBG continues
to encounter unprecedented challenges,” Chief Executive Officer
Apostolos Tamvakakis said in the statement. A recent injection
of 7.4 billion euros from  Greece ’s recapitalization fund has
boosted the bank’s capital adequacy and secures “uninterrupted
access to liquidity” from the  European Central Bank , he said.  Greece’s four biggest banks needed an 18 billion-euro
bridge recapitalization this week after reporting a combined
loss of 28 billion euros in 2011 as they wrote down their Greek
government bond holdings. The banks were shut off from ECB
refinancing operations, depending on the  Bank of Greece (TELL) ’s
Emergency Liquidity Assistance program, pending the capital
injection.  National Bank’s deposits in the first quarter stood at 57.4
billion euros, down 15 percent from a year earlier, while its
core tier one capital ratio stood at 6.4 percent, the bank said
in the statement.  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , Greece’s fourth-biggest lender, said
first-quarter net income rose to 298 million euros from 9
million euros a year earlier, according to a separate statement.  Deposits in Greece fell by 1.3 billion euros in April and
May after a 2.3 billion-euro outflow in the first quarter,
National Bank said. The figures are “well within manageable
levels,” the bank said.  The outflows in the past three weeks are a “phenomenon
that appears to be losing momentum,” Tamvakakis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  