-- New York Transit Agency Settles Religious Headwear Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-30T19:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/new-york-transit-agency-settles-religious-headwear-case.html
The  New York  City Transit Authority
agreed to change its uniform policy to resolve allegations it
engaged in religious discrimination against employees who wore
head coverings, the U.S. Justice Department said.  The U.S. sued the transit agency in 2004, alleging that it
violated Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by enforcing
its policies on uniforms to target Muslims, Sikhs and other
employees whose religious beliefs require they wear head
coverings, according to a document filed in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, today. The agency runs the city’s subways
and buses.  The settlement contains “no finding of fault or
liability,” the state  Metropolitan Transportation Authority ,
which operates the agency, said in a statement. The new uniform
policy will allow station agents and bus and train operators to
wear turbans, headscarves and other headwear in the agency’s
standard blue color that don’t bear its official logo.  “New York City Transit believes it had offered reasonable
accommodations to its headwear policy to its employees,” the
MTA said. “The existing policy, which was in place long before
these lawsuits were filed, was never animated by religious or
ethnic bias.”  Accommodate Workers  The authority consented not to “selectively enforce
uniform policies or take adverse employment actions” against
such employees, and also agreed to accommodate workers who can’t
comply with uniform policies and work to eliminate policies and
practices that discriminate on the basis of religion, according
to the court filing.  The authority will adopt new uniform policies that give
workers additional options on head coverings and don’t require
those who wear specified items such as turbans, yarmulkes or
skullcaps to attach anything to them or wear anything on top,
according to the court filing.  The agency also agreed not to retaliate against employees
or prospective workers who have complained that it has engaged
in such discrimination, and to require mandatory training
regarding religious discrimination, according to the court
document.  The case is U.S. v. New York City Transit Authority, 04-cv-
4237, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  