-- New Nuclear Chief Can Act Fast on Yucca, Fukushima Fixes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/new-nuclear-chief-can-act-fast-on-yucca-fukushima-fixes.html
Gregory Jaczko ’s resignation as
chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission gives the
agency a fresh chance to tackle two crucial issues: nuclear-
plant safety and waste disposal.  The U.S. nuclear-power industry is in turmoil, competing as
it does with rock-bottom natural-gas prices. Even as most power
companies wait to make new investments in nuclear, 104 existing
reactors need close attention right away.  Arguably the biggest item on the NRC’s to-do list is to
carry out the recommendations of a  task force  that looked at how
to avoid Fukushima-like problems in the U.S. It took until
March, a year after the Japanese disaster, for the NRC to
finally issue the first three  orders  to improve safety and
preparedness. Plant owners must now have backup equipment to
keep reactors and spent-fuel pools cool if the power goes out,
improved venting systems to limit damage to the core, and better
tools for monitoring the amount of water used to cool spent
fuel.  Other recommendations remain, including assessments of
plants’ vulnerability to earthquakes, floods and other hazards.
The NRC needs to also issue rules for coping with a “station
blackout” -- a total loss of electric power at a nuclear plant.  Work on some of these items has begun, but the five members
of the NRC have disagreed on how quickly to proceed, and many
rules are not expected to be issued until the end of 2016, at
the earliest.  That’s too long to wait. Many operators are already seeking
or will soon request license renewals, including two California
plants perched near earthquake faults. While the U.S. is not
likely to experience an exact replica of  Japan ’s crisis, which
was triggered by a magnitude-9.0 earthquake and exacerbated by a
tsunami, risks exist. A magnitude-5.8 earthquake in  Virginia 
last year caused about twice as much ground shaking as the  North
Anna  nuclear plant, about 11 miles from the epicenter, was
designed to withstand. The plant shut down as intended, although
on-site generators restored power. Also in 2011, a fire at an
idled Nebraska nuclear plant knocked out power used to keep
water circulating in a spent-fuel pool, an event the NRC
preliminarily classified as “red,” which is the highest safety
threat. Rising floodwaters from the Missouri River have also
threatened the plant.  The other vital order of business before the NRC -- what to
do with the 65,000 metric tons of radioactive waste being stored
on-site at nuclear reactors -- has become as hot as uranium,
with policy makers arguing over whether to store radioactive
waste at  Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain.  A proposal to do so had been under review at the NRC since
2008 -- until the Obama administration, which has made clear its
opposition, provided no funding to keep the review going in
fiscal 2011. Jaczko, a physicist who previously worked as
science-policy adviser for Nevada Senator  Harry Reid , a staunch
opponent, terminated the NRC’s license review of Yucca in 2011,
citing budgetary reasons.  In the meantime, the U.S. continues to  collect  about $750
million per year in disposal fees from the industry (the fund
now totals about $27 billion). Storing the waste on-site
indefinitely is not desirable or feasible, a fact cited in a
January report by a  blue-ribbon commission  created by the White
House to address nuclear-waste disposal. The commission also
rightly noted that once any disposal facilities are selected, it
will take years to site, license and construct them.  Allison Macfarlane, an associate professor of environmental
science and policy at  George Mason University  and President
 Barack Obama ’s choice to succeed Jaczko, is an expert on the
subject of atomic waste who has argued that Yucca Mountain is
unfit for storing it. Nevertheless she should allow the
scientific review to find out for certain whether waste can be
safely stored there. To hasten the process, Congress should
provide funding so the review can continue.  If politics -- or geology -- won’t allow Yucca’s review to
be reopened, the NRC must move quickly to find an alternate
site, such the  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant  in  New Mexico , which
stores transuranic radioactive waste generated by the production
of nuclear weapons. Community officials in nearby Carlsbad have
expressed interest in expanding the site.  Jaczko was a combative leader who engaged in ugly, public
spats with his four fellow commissioners. If Macfarlane is
quickly confirmed as his replacement -- and here the  U.S. Senate 
could help by scheduling confirmation hearings as soon as
possible -- she should end the culture of bickering and get the
NRC to carry out the important business of ensuring nuclear
safety with speed.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Spain’s banking crisis ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  intervening in Syria ; Haresh Sapra on  stress-
test results ;  Amity Shlaes  on  corporate sexual harassment ; Luigi
Zingales on  competition and inequality ;  Steven Greenhut  on
 California referendums ; Matthew Schoenfeld on  staving off the
next AIG .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  