-- NFL Pro Bowl to Be Held in Hawaii Before Super Bowl After Blasts
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-30T20:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/nfl-pro-bowl-to-be-held-in-hawaii-before-super-bowl-after-blasts.html
The National Football League’s  Pro
Bowl  will be played in Hawaii on Jan. 27, the week before the
 Super Bowl , even after criticism about the level of play.  The all-star game will be televised on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,
the league and its players association announced today in an e-
mailed release.  The Pro Bowl drew criticism after last season’s game, when
fans in attendance booed a 59-41 victory by the American
Football Conference. The event’s future had been under
discussion between the league and the union.  “The players have made it clear through the NFL Players
Association that they would like the opportunity to continue to
play the Pro Bowl in Hawaii,” NFL Executive Vice President of
Football Operations Ray Anderson said in the release. “We will
support the players on this initiative to improve the Pro
Bowl.”  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said this year that the
quality of play in the game had to improve. Green Bay Packers
quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  said his National Football Conference
teammates “embarrassed themselves” with a lack of effort in
the January loss.  “We have had many discussions with the players in recent
years about the Pro Bowl and they recognize that the quality of
the game has not been up to NFL standards,” Anderson said. “We
look forward to working with the players toward the goal of
improving the competitiveness of this season’s game.  This will be the fourth consecutive Pro Bowl held in the
off week before the Super Bowl. January’s game was the most-
watched all-star game among the major North American sports
leagues during the 2011 season, according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  