-- NFL Retirees Can’t Sue Players Association Over Contract
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/nfl-retirees-can-t-sue-group-for-favoring-active-players.html
National Football League  retirees
can’t sue the players association over claims it favored current
players and rookies in negotiating a labor contract with the
league, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Court Judge Susan Richard Nelson in
 Minneapolis  yesterday dismissed the lawsuit, saying the National
Football League Players Association had no legal duty to the
retired players that could support the suit.  The court “recognizes and acknowledges the plight of
retired players and is empathetic to their concerns,” Nelson
wrote in her opinion. She said her conclusion that “there is no
genuine dispute” the court can resolve means she doesn’t need
to address the players association’s remaining defense.  The retired players sued last year, claiming current
players shortchanged them in negotiations with the league,
cutting back a commitment to increase pensions to pre-1993
retirees and changing post-career medical options. The retirees
sued as a group, seeking class-action status to represent all
retired NFL players. The retirees asked the court to give them
bargaining rights with the league.  Eller, Bednarik  Current players and the union have a “conflict of
interest” in representing retirees, former players said in the
complaint. Ex-players Carl Eller, Chuck Bednarik, Lem Barney and
25 others asked the judge to set aside issues related to
retirees in the current contract and require renegotiation.  Michael Hausfeld , a lawyer for the retirees, didn’t
immediately respond to a call or e-mail after regular business
hours yesterday seeking comment on the ruling. George Atallah, a
spokesman for the association, also didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The lawsuit named as defendants the association, its
 executive director ,  DeMaurice Smith , and players Tom Brady and
Mike Vrabel. Brady and Vrabel were among a group of players who
sued the league and its teams, claiming violations of U.S.
antitrust laws. Their lawsuit, filed in federal court in  St.
Paul , Minnesota, was dropped after players and the league agreed
on a new contract.  The case is Eller v. National Football League Players
Association, 11-cv-02623, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  