-- NHL Labor Standoff Looms as Devils Face Kings for Stanley Cup
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/nhl-labor-standoff-looms-as-devils-face-kings-for-stanley-cup.html
A  Stanley Cup  championship won’t
necessarily keep the  New Jersey  Devils or the  Los Angeles Kings 
from losing money, and the winner may have to wait a while to
defend its title.  The Devils, who missed an $80 million debt payment in
September and took a $10 million loan from the  National Hockey
League  this year, host the Kings in tonight’s opening game of
the best-of-seven Stanley Cup Final at Prudential Center in
 Newark , New Jersey. The finalists are among 18 NHL clubs that
lost money last season, according to a Forbes study.  As a possible work stoppage looms for the league, things
are so bad for the Devils, owned by Jeff Vanderbeek, a former
member of the executive committee at Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., that banks may seize the team and force a sale, said Rob Tilliss, founder of Inner Circle Sports, an advisory firm based
in New York.  “I don’t see why they wouldn’t use the hammer,” said
Tilliss, whose firm represents buyers and sellers of pro teams.  Vanderbeek didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
 Curt Ritter , a spokesman for CIT Group Inc., the team’s lead
lender, declined to comment on possible moves. Kings spokesman
Mike Altieri declined to comment on team finances.  League revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion television
contract with Comcast Corp.’s NBC, swelled to an estimated $3.2
billion this season from $2.2 billion in 2006, according to the
NHL.  Market Spread  Clubs still have a hard time turning a profit because too
many markets can’t sustain a team,  Andrew Zimbalist , a sports
economist at  Smith College  in Northampton,  Massachusetts , said
in a telephone interview. The situation has league and union
officials, agents and players girding for another lockout in the
NHL, which in 2004-05 became the first major professional sports
league to cancel a season over labor woes.  “Hockey is a difficult sport for most franchises -- other
than the Rangers, the Blackhawks, the  Red Wings  and the Canadian
teams, the general predicament is that teams lose money,”
Zimbalist said.  The Kings had revenue of $101 million and lost $2 million
last season, according to Forbes, a deficit that may be erased
with the team’s success this year.  Los Angeles  averaged 100
percent attendance at its 41 home games this season, and
Zimbalist said the deep playoff run may add “several million
dollars” in revenue, plus increased tickets sales the following
year.  Devils’ Finances  The Devils had $100 million in revenue and lost $6.1
million last season while facing $260 million in debt, roughly
144 percent of the team’s value, according to Forbes’s November
valuations.  The team missed an $80 million debt payment to lenders in
September and has worked out an extension, the New York Post
reported, without saying where it obtained the information. The
league loaned the team almost $10 million this year, the
newspaper said.  Among the other money losers cited by Forbes are the
 Washington Capitals ,  Nashville Predators  and  Phoenix Coyotes ,
who in 2009 were purchased out of bankruptcy by the NHL. The
league is close to selling the club to former  San Jose Sharks 
Chief Executive Greg Jamison.  The NHL, as required, notified the players’ association
this month of its intention to seek changes to the collective
bargaining agreement when it expires on Sept. 15.  Commissioner Gary Bettman said in a telephone interview
yesterday that he expects negotiations to begin “in the not-
too-distant future,” declining to disclose the financial health
of the league’s 30 teams.  “The message will be delivered first to the union,”
Bettman said. “We’ve managed over the last seven years to see
growth in the game.”  Disproportionate Growth  The growth of the NHL, while steady, has been
disproportionate, Tilliss said, with some teams seeing larger
gains than others. He said negotiations may hinge on a more
comprehensive revenue-sharing system and a narrower range for
player salaries -- a lower payroll ceiling that satisfies owners
and a higher floor that benefits players.  “You have various markets, some are under-performing and
some are over-performing, so you need a fair share that is going
to stabilize all teams in the league,” Tilliss said.  Hockey owners, Tilliss says, may seek an agreement similar
to the one in the  National Basketball Association , where a
lockout this season resulted in an agreement that gives 50
percent of revenue to the players, down from 57 percent.
National Football League players also accepted a reduced
percentage of revenue in their most recent labor talks, which
also came amid a lockout.  Cost to Players  If NHL revenue rises, a similar decline to 50 percent from
57 percent would cost the players more than $224 million per
year.  “The players need to be loaded for bear,” said former NBA
Players’ Association General Counsel Bob Lanza, now chair of the
sports and entertainment group at Hiscock & Barclay. “The deals
that the NBA and NFL were able to get set the standard. The
owners again will be willing to lose a season to get their
deal.”  Don Fehr, executive director of the NHL Players’
Association, was unavailable to comment immediately, said Andrew
Wolfe, a union spokesman.  No Paycheck  Agents are preparing players for life without paychecks.  Allan Walsh, who represents San Jose Sharks forward Martin Havlat at Octagon, said in an e-mail that he’s tailored clients’
cash flow to cover living expenses for an entire season. Jerry
Buckley, founder of Buckley Sports Management, whose clients
include Coyotes defenseman Keith Yandle, said some younger
players are waiting to buy homes until there’s labor peace.  “Players know what’s coming,” Buckley said in a telephone
interview.  In addition to shaving labor’s share of revenue, the owners,
like their basketball counterparts, might seek to limit the
allowable size and length of contracts.  “When an industry is hitting record-setting profits, the
 New York  Rangers and Los Angeles Kings are going far in the
playoffs and TV ratings are up on NBC, things are pretty good
from the owners’ perspective,” former NHLPA General Counsel Ian
Pulver, now an agent, said in a telephone interview. “Players
want to be treated with fairness and respect, and that’s the
bottom line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  