-- Obama’s Aide on Climate Change Seeking Oil, Gas Allies
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-05-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/obama-s-aide-on-climate-change-seeking-oil-gas-allies.html
Heather Zichal  spent her early days
in the Obama administration pushing a climate-change bill in
Congress that oil and gas companies helped to derail.  Now President  Barack Obama  has named Zichal, his deputy
assistant for energy and climate change, as a liaison to that
industry, and to make sure proposed rules don’t slow the surge
in U.S. natural-gas development.  With energy emerging as a central topic in the 2012
presidential race, efforts by the 36-year-old Iowa native may
help Obama blunt a Republican refrain that he’s abandoned
cheaper traditional sources of power in favor of renewable
energy such as wind and solar favored by Democrats.  “It’s hard to overstate how natural gas and our ability to
access more of it than ever has become a game changer,” Zichal
said in a speech at a May 14 event sponsored by the American
Petroleum Institute, a trade group critical of Obama’s energy
policies.  Among Zichal’s tasks is wooing  Jack Gerard , chief executive
officer of the oil group who has described administration
policies as “absurd” and “wishful thinking.”  Gerard in an interview said he has come to appreciate
Zichal’s candor, if not all of her political positions. At the
API event, Idaho native Gerard said they did have something in
common: their rural upbringing.  ‘Civil Conversation’  “We agree on a few things and we disagree on a lot of
things, but we can still have a civil conversation,” Gerard,
who supports Republican  Mitt Romney ’s candidacy for the White
House, said in an interview. Gerard and API said they welcomed
creation of Zichal’s task force on natural gas.  Zichal, picked last month to lead the multiagency  task
force , is trying to walk a middle ground. She says natural-gas
development is the “sweet spot” in the U.S. energy mix because
it’s both cheap and cleaner than other fossil fuels.  She told the biggest trade group for oil and gas companies
that while states should remain the “No. 1 regulator” --
echoing an industry argument -- U.S. rules can help reassure the
public that using water, sand and chemicals to free gas trapped
in rock is being watched. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has
boosted supplies, driving gas prices to their lowest point in a
decade.  Critics say the practice is a threat to groundwater and can
increase air pollution.  Milking Cows  Zichal, who joined the administration after advising Obama
on agriculture, energy and environmental issues during the 2008
campaign, says she gained a strong “land ethic” working on her
grandfather’s dairy farm, and learned the proper technique for
milking cows.  Zichal would dream up “new ways to recycle,” and insisted
her parents collect waste paper from the clinic where her dad
worked as a doctor and her mother as a nurse so she could make
bedding for the animals on her grandfather’s farm, Zichal
recalled in an interview.  Zichal, who describes herself as an “environmentalist
through and through,” went to  Rutgers University  in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , because she said it offered an
environmental policy major. As an aide to Senator  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat, and two New Jersey Democratic
congressmen, she worked on legislation to protect natural
resources such as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.  Midwestern ‘Straightforwardness’  Eric Washburn, a lobbyist and former congressional aide to
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle of  South Dakota , said
Zichal’s rural roots and unpretentious manner helped the 2008
campaign win over sportsmen and women, who typically vote
Republican and were sought by Democrats using environmental
initiatives.  “Heather has a Midwestern straightforwardness” and “a
lack of guile” that sportsmen appreciated, Washburn said in an
e-mail.  Zichal, as White House aide, is now reaching out to
executives with deeper loyalty and greater financial ties to
Republican causes. Oil and gas groups have spent millions of
dollars on political ads questioning Obama’s policies, including
the cap-and-trade bill Zichal championed before it died in the
Senate in 2010.  Speaking to the  American Petroleum Institute  conference on
fracking, Zichal said the administration “probably could have
been doing a lot more outreach from the beginning.”  She told the audience of officials from the industry,
Congress and states that oil and gas companies are “incredibly
important to our domestic energy portfolio.”  Supporting Jobs  Zichal says Obama’s backing of natural gas shouldn’t be
seen as dispensation to a well-heeled industry in an election
year.  The administration is promoting natural-gas development
because fracking provides access to new reserves of the fuel, in
turn creating new economic opportunities -- and jobs -- for
manufacturers such as chemical companies, she said.  “In an election year, they’re obviously trying to showcase
they are for jobs, whether they’re green jobs or from more
traditional sources, and they want someone out there who can
talk about those interests,” Washburn said.  Dave McCurdy , chief executive officer of the  American Gas
Association , a Washington-based trade group of gas utilities,
said Zichal’s “cred with the Democratic base” can reassure
environmental and health groups about fracking, as industry
executives count on her to make sure agencies don’t push
unnecessary rules that conflict with the president’s priorities.  Environmental Concerns  As Zichal cultivates the oil and gas industry, she also is
managing the administration’s sometimes uneasy relationship with
advocates for natural resources and public health, a Democratic
constituency.  Environmental groups were angered and frustrated by Obama’s
decision in September to postpone indefinitely a regulation to
tighten ozone standards,  Frances Beinecke , president of the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an interview. Zichal
heard many of those complaints.  Environmentalists are wary of Obama’s embrace of natural
gas, Beinecke said. While oil and gas producers look to the task
force as a way to minimize federal regulations, Beinecke is
hoping Zichal and her group ensure the standards strengthen
environmental and public-health standards.  Beinecke gives the administration and Zichal credit for
pushing back Republican efforts to weaken EPA clean air and
water rules.  “She’s very knowledgeable, and well-versed on the
issues,” Beinecke said.  Besides API and NRDC, Zichal has also met with officials
from America’s Natural Gas Alliance,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
and  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) , as well as groups like the American
Lung Association and the Environmental Defense Fund.  Jason Grumet, the president of the Bipartisan Policy Center
who advised Obama on energy issues during the 2008 campaign,
said Zichal’s skill at forging relationships among disparate
groups can benefit Obama.  “A lot of people who don’t trust each other trust
Heather,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  