-- Toll Buys Half of a 2,379-Home California Subdivision
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-05-30T22:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/toll-buying-half-of-a-2-379-home-california-subdivision.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, is buying half of a Southern California
subdivision approved for as many as 2,379 houses as demand for
new single-family properties begins to recover.  Toll will become a joint-venture partner with closely held
builder Shea Homes to develop the 387-acre (157-hectare) Shea
Baker Ranch in  Lake Forest , according to Douglas Yearley Jr.,
chief executive officer of the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
company.  “You have what we think is a spectacular opportunity,”
Yearley said in a telephone interview today. The project, about
12 miles (19 kilometers) from Orange County’s coast, has been
approved by the city council, he said.  Construction starts and orders for new U.S. houses, after
setting a record low in 2011, have picked up this year as the
job market improved and record-low  mortgage rates  made housing
more affordable.  New homes  sold at an annual pace of 343,000
last month, up 9.9 percent from a year earlier, the Commerce
Department said May 23. Builders  broke ground  on single-family
homes at an annual rate of 492,000 in April, a 19 percent jump.  Baker Ranch  The seller of the California land is Baker Ranch
Properties, a firm controlled by the family who once owned much
of the area that now comprises the city of Lake Forest, about 45
miles southeast of Los Angeles. Larry Tucker, co-managing member
of Baker Ranch Properties, declined to discuss the transaction.  Yearley declined to disclose the price of the sale, which
he expects to close in June or July.  “It’s currently in escrow,” Bob Yoder, Southern
 California  president for Shea Homes, based in Walnut,
California, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’re in
discussions how we’d best allocate the lots.”  Model homes are expected to open by January 2014, and the
first residences should be finished late that year, Yearley
said. About 80 percent of the residences will be single-family
homes, with the others multifamily, he said.  ‘Pretty Big Deals’  Toll spent $124 million on land in the quarter ended April
30, Yearley said during a May 23 earnings call, adding that he
expected to announce “some pretty big deals” in the coming
months.  “This was the biggest,” Yearley said in the telephone
interview.  The company ended the quarter with 39,500 lots owned or
optioned in 20 states.  “We are now seeing more good deals at more good prices on
average than we have for a long time,” Toll Chairman Robert Toll said about land purchases during the call. “We’re
opportunistic. If a good deal comes, we go. If a good deal
doesn’t come, then we sit.”  The average price of a Toll Brothers home contracted for
sale in the most recent quarter was $585,000. Yearley declined
to say how much its homes will cost in the new community.  New homes in Orange County sold for a median price of
$625,500 in April, up almost 17 percent from a year earlier,
according to San Diego-based research company DataQuick. The
number of new homes sold in the county fell 26 percent.  Pent-Up Demand  “There’s not much inventory now in Orange County,”
Richard Gollis, principal of the Concord Group, a homebuilding
and development consulting firm in  Newport Beach , California,
said in a telephone interview. “There seems to be pent-up
demand in good communities.”  Shea Baker Ranch, which received preliminary planning
approval from the Lake Forest City Council on May 15, is within
one mile of Great Park Neighborhoods, a master-planned community
for as many as 5,000 homes being developed by FivePoint
Communities Inc. The first Great Park homes are scheduled to go
on sale next year. Shea Baker Ranch also is less than two miles
from  Irvine  Co.’s Woodbury and Portola Springs communities.  “Great location,”  John Burns , chairman of John Burns Real
Estate Consulting Inc. in Irvine, California, said in an e-mail.
“It’s a big deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  