-- Homebuyer Interest in Foreclosures Increases in the U.S.
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/homebuyer-interest-in-foreclosures-increases-in-the-u-s-.html
Homebuyer interest in purchasing a
foreclosed property more than doubled in the past 2 1/2 years
even as the U.S. available inventory shrinks, according to a
Realtor.com survey.  The share of buyers who say they’re likely to purchase a
foreclosed home jumped to almost 65 percent from 25 percent in
October 2009, according to the telephone poll by Realtor.com,
the National Association of Realtors’ website. The survey was
conducted this month and the results were released today.  U.S. foreclosure  filings  fell to a five-year low last month
as lenders sought to avoid repossessing properties and a housing
recovery showed signs of taking hold, RealtyTrac Inc. reported
on May 17. The number of default, auction and seizure notices
sent to homeowners dropped 14 percent from a year earlier and
was the lowest tally since July 2007.  “Because prices are getting towards the bottom, people see
foreclosures as even a greater value because they’re usually
priced below market,” Steve Berkowitz, chief executive officer
of Campbell, California-based  Move Inc. (MOVE) , which operates the
Realtor.com website, said in a telephone interview.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities fell in the 12 months ended
March at the slowest pace in more than a year. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values dropped 2.6 percent from a year
earlier following a 3.5 percent decline in February, the group
reported yesterday.  Almost 56 percent of respondents in the Realtor.com survey
said they are concerned that major lenders will release
backlogged foreclosures onto the market and bring down values in
their markets.  A “gradually rising foreclosure tide” forecast by  Irvine ,
California-based RealtyTrac after a February settlement by the
nation’s biggest mortgage servicers over faulty documentation
practices has yet to materialize. Banks have been finding
alternatives to seizures, such as approving the sale of
distressed properties for less than the amount owed on them.  The Realtor.com survey of 1,004 adults was conducted from
May 4 to 6 and has a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  