-- London & Stamford to Set Up Central London Residential Venture
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-05-30T07:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/london-stamford-to-set-up-central-london-residential-venture.html
London & Stamford Property Plc (LSP) , co-
owner of one of the U.K.’s largest malls, plans to create a 200
million-pound ($312 million) venture with two partners to buy
homes in the center of the U.K. capital.  London  &  Stamford  will own 40 percent of the venture,
according to a statement today. Green Park Investments, its
Middle Eastern partner, will own 30 percent of the shares, while
the remaining 30 percent will be owned by an unidentified
partner, London & Stamford said.  Luxury-home prices in central London rose the most in 10
months in March, according to broker Knight Frank LLP. London &
Stamford’s new venture is close to buying homes valued at 150
million pounds and is also in talks with undisclosed banks about
loans with which to make purchases.  The company wants the U.K. treasury to eliminate a tax on
dividends paid from one real estate investment trust to another,
which would make the new residential fund more profitable.
London & Stamford today reported earnings per share of 4.4 pence
for the 12 months through March, up from 3 pence a year earlier,
and said it plans to raise the annual dividend.  “We continue to explore the possibility that ultimately
our Central London Residential Joint Venture can become a
residential REIT,” London & Stamford said in the statement.  The real estate investment trust may sell existing
residential assets, the statement showed. London & Stamford owns
homes in London areas such as Islington and Battersea.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will break its lease at the One
Carter Lane office building in the City of London which will
become vacant next March, according to the statement. The
building will then be refurbished and leased to a new tenant in
2014, London & Stamford said.  The London-based landlord plans to sell its 15.7 percent
stake in Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield, northern
 England , the statement showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 