-- London’s French Bankers Face Socialist Victory in Lawmaker Vote
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-05-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/london-s-french-bankers-face-socialist-victory-in-lawmaker-vote.html
French bankers in London, who dine at
the Michelin two-star  Connaught restaurant  in Mayfair and swim
at the nearby Royal Automobile Club on  Pall Mall , may soon have
a Socialist representing them at the National Assembly in Paris.  France will allow expatriates to take part for the first
time in the country’s parliamentary elections on June 3 after
creating 11 constituencies for citizens abroad. Socialist party
candidate Axelle Lemaire’s chance of victory in the district
that includes the U.K. were boosted after  Francois Hollande , who
called finance his “greatest adversary,” beat  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
in the May 6 election, taking 50.8 percent of the British vote.  “Because the presidential election was not even a month
ago, the logic would be that voters confirm their choice,
meaning the socialist candidate stands a good chance to win,”
Leendert de Voogd, Brussels-based head for politics at research
firm TNS, said in an interview. “That said, there was a big
anti-Sarkozy sentiment, and we have no idea on whether voters
abroad will actually make the effort to cast their ballot.”  French financial industry executives say a socialist
victory would be a surprise, because they had assumed those
who’d left France were fleeing a system of big spending,
benefits and taxes at home for a more entrepreneurial milieu.
French nationals registered to vote in the U.K., who previously
had only been able to take part in their presidential elections,
backed Sarkozy and his predecessor  Jacques Chirac  in the last
three ballots.  No ‘Safety Net’  “Maybe the French living in the U.K. are attached to the
French system and to a more favorable welfare system after
all,” Pierre-Antoine de Selancy, who moved to London with his
wife and three children in 2010, to start private equity firm,
17Capital. “If you’ve moved to London, it’s not because you
were counting on any safety net or substantial benefits.”  A victory for the Socialist candidate would show that the
U.K.’s French community, once dominated by math whizzes and City
dealmakers, has grown broader as it has increased in size. There
are between 300,000 and 400,000 French people in the U.K.,
according to French embassy estimates, making it the sixth or
seventh-largest French city. Their numbers began swelling in the
mid-1990’s, when the cross-Channel Eurostar rail service opened,
linking Paris and London in about three hours.  Lemaire, 37, a mother of two, has lived in London for the
past 10 years and is one of 20 candidates seeking votes from
French citizens in a constituency that includes the U.K.,
Ireland,  Denmark ,  Finland  and the Baltic states. Hollande took
53 percent of the vote in the constituency this month.  Sarkozy Stronghold  The U.K. has traditionally been a stronghold of Sarkozy’s
UMP party. In 2007, Sarkozy beat his Socialist rival Segolene Royal by more than 6 percentage points in the U.K.  “The sociological makeup of the French who live here has
changed,” Lemaire said in an interview. “There are fewer
traditional expatriates, fewer City workers. I meet people with
all sorts of jobs and all sorts of backgrounds.”  She is counting on the newer categories of residents to
deliver her victory. For many City workers, she represents
policies they reject.  Yann Duchesne, a private equity manager who has settled in
London and is a member of the Royal Automobile Club, a private
club, says he will vote for free-market advocate Gaspard Koenig
or UMP candidate Emmanuelle Savarit because he does “not want
Hollande to implement his economic measures.”  Christian Lucas, another London-based private equity
executive, said he wants “more support for startups as these
ultimately contribute meaningfully to  job creation  and economic
growth.”  Tax Levy  Taxes are a preoccupation for the finance industry voters.
Hollande has pledged to renegotiate fiscal conventions with
 Switzerland ,  Belgium  and  Luxembourg  to raise levies on tax
exiles. He plans a 75 percent levy on incomes of more than 1
million euros ($1.31 million).  “The French community in the U.K. has become a deep, large
and diverse group with all political sensitivities, increasingly
mirroring France,” said Jean-Francois Cecillon, who ran British
music label EMI Group Ltd.’s international operations and has
been in London for more than 22 years. “In the 1990’s, there
were 30,000 French people here, with a high concentration of
bankers. Now it’s grown to the equivalent of a big French city.
It’s not surprising to see a roughly 50-50 split between the
right and the left,” he said.  In  London , where the majority of the U.K.’s French
residents live, Sarkozy beat Hollande by 725 votes, helped by
support in South Kensington, an expensive and popular area for
bankers and wealthy families, while residents in the North of
the capital voted for his opponent.  Big Divide  Sarkozy got 57 percent of the vote in the city’s South
West, near the Lycee Charles de Gaulle, a French government-
owned school that teaches students the country’s national
curriculum in the mother tongue. In contrast, 60 percent of
those living near Kentish Town in the north, a less expensive
area, backed Hollande.  “I had perceived differences in  living standards  and
political orientations on the ground, but I hadn’t thought the
divide would be so big,” Lemaire said.  The average rent for a three-bedroom property in South
Kensington is 1,369 pounds ($2,139) a week, compared with 850
pounds a week for a four-bedroom apartment in Kentish Town,
according to real estate agent Foxtons.  Last Saturday at Parliament Hills near Kentish Town, the
farmers’ market selling vegetables, fish and organic meat,
buzzed in French.  Hampstead Heath  Benjamin Suzanne, who worked for a radio station in  France 
before moving to London three months ago, sells bread with his
wife, a midwife. Although he didn’t vote in the presidential
elections, he says he would have voted for the left.  Sandrine de la Plage, a photographer from Annecy who’s been
in London for 20 years, buys food for a picnic in Hampstead
Heath with her son, whom she sends to a new French school that
opened in the neighborhood last year. De la Plage, who voted for
the Labour party at the London mayoral elections, said she
doesn’t follow French politics.  The anti-Sarkozy votes that bolstered Hollande in the
presidential election will not repeat itself in the legislative
ballot, according to UMP candidate Savarit, 39, a mother of two.  “There are some champagne socialist expatriates in London
whose school tuitions and rents are paid for by their employers,
but I have a hard time believing the French in the U.K. overall
are on the left,” she said in an interview. “They value work,
risk-taking and oppose taxes on residents abroad. These aren’t
leftist behaviors.”  Front National  Sarkozy’s appeal to the far-right, anti-immigration Front
National voters toward the end of the campaign, turned even some
of his supporters against him, according to Severine Capra, a
working mother of three who lives in  Notting Hill .  “Among my friends who voted Sarkozy in the first round,
more than half voted Hollande or didn’t vote at all in the
second round because they couldn’t bear Sarkozy’s game with the
Front National,” she said.  Cities including Edinburgh and Glasgow backed Hollande with
more than two-thirds of the votes. Liverpool supported him with
70 percent and Ashford, the first Eurostar stop coming out of
the Channel Tunnel, voted for the socialist candidate as well.  There are 71,753 registered voters in the U.K. Only a third
voted in the presidential election.  Candidates in the legislative election are seeking to lure
voters by focusing on employment, taxation and education.  ‘Local Concerns’  “I want to address local concerns, such as taxation of the
French living abroad, pensions, schools,” Jerome de Lavenere Lussan, an independent candidate who started hedge-fund
consulting firm Laven Partners LLP, said at a debate at King’s
College last week. “On the national level, I want to promote
small and medium-sized businesses, more jobs, less public debt
and safer ecology.”  Olivier Cadic, a center-right candidate who started his
company in France when he was 20 and relocated it in the U.K.
because of lower costs, wants to help French entrepreneurs get
better access to investors in the U.K.  Lemaire says she backs more financial regulation while
denying Hollande may try to tax French Londoners.  “I discuss with those in the City who admit that the
causes of the 2008 crisis haven’t been dealt with,” she said.  Many French bankers in the City remain wary.  “The City was created by genius French mathematicians and
bankers,” Cadic said. “How can she represent them by
stigmatizing them?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  