-- One Simple Rule for U.S. Military Intervention
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/one-simple-rule-for-u-s-military-intervention.html
As demand starts to build on
President  Barack Obama  to “do something” about the deteriorating
situation in Syria, let’s review where the U.S. and its citizens
stand on the general question of using military force abroad.  On this issue, Americans are divided in strange ways. It’s
no longer a matter of hawks and doves. There are liberal hawks
and conservative doves as well as conservative hawks and liberal
doves.  Liberal doves oppose almost any use of U.S. power because
their mindset hardened during Vietnam. War kills children and
other living things. We can’t be the world’s policeman, and so
on. This sounds dismissive, but it’s not meant to be. In fact,
it’s more or less where I come out.  Then there are liberal “bleeding hawks,” who see a
humanitarian catastrophe developing in  Syria  -- or virtually any
place else in the world where there is strife of any kind -- and
think that the world’s only superpower (for the moment) must not
stand idly by. This is what we did for too long in the Balkans,
while thousands died.  Conservative doves have roots that go back further than
Vietnam, to the pre-World War II isolationism -- and sometimes
overt fascist sympathies -- of groups like America First and
people like Father Coughlin. This group is nourished by
pathological hatred of Democratic presidents from FDR through
Obama, and its members tend to reflexively oppose anything these
presidents propose or do on any topic, foreign or domestic.  America the Powerful  Conservative hawks, by contrast, reflexively favor almost
any use of American power because, well, it’s American and
powerful. That sounds dismissive, and it’s meant to.  This group includes the so-called neocons, and because most
of the action since the end of the Cold War has been in the
Middle East, they are sometimes suspected of carrying water for
 Israel . That’s unfair. An odd combination of macho and scaredy-
cat, they see peril to the U.S. everywhere, and want to stamp it
out.  This taxonomy leaves out the foreign policy “realists,”
mainly but not always Republicans (of the no longer extant
“Rockefeller” or “liberal” variety), and mainly but not always
anti-intervention. Self-described “realists” pride themselves on
their steely focus on national interests and power politics --
no idealism, here, please. Their high priest is George F. Kennan, who came up with the Cold War policy of “ containment .”  Another group in this debate that crosses party and
ideological lines might be called the new constitutionalists.
These people have noticed that the Constitution requires a
president to get  the approval of Congress  before going to war.  This provision was largely ignored during the  Cold War . It
was considered impractical when possible conflicts were likely
to be low-grade guerrilla wars, or top-secret CIA mischief, or
quick nuclear exchanges that would be over, with millions dead,
in 45 minutes. None of these styles of combat lent themselves to
a leisurely debate out of the 18th century.  Today’s wars, however, are perfectly suited to what the
Constitution requires: They are deliberate, highly optional
decisions made by the U.S. to initiate hostilities, after months
of television yak that is no substitute for a relatively
dignified senatorial debate. (The Constitution requires the
debate, not the yak.)  The situation in Syria is further complicated by the
familiar question of who’s the good guy. The bad guy is clearly
Bashar Al-Assad, another son of a dictator who has gone into the
family business. But his opposition is a mixture of unattractive
clerics and their followers, liberal reformers, and left-wing
radicals. Traditionally we have anointed a pro-U.S. figure as
our boy, such as Ngo Dinh Diem in  Vietnam , Arturo Cruz in
 Nicaragua , Ahmed Chalabi in  Iraq , or the current favorite,  Hamid Karzai  in  Afghanistan , and traditionally he disappoints us.  Maximum Force  Our guiding star in questions of intervention used to be
the (Colin)  Powell Doctrine , named for the admired retired
general. The Powell Doctrine held that the lesson of Vietnam is:
If you are going to intervene in some distant land, do so with
maximum force for a quick victory and the uncomplicated support
of the citizenry back home. This standard can almost never be
met (which may have been Powell’s point). It was, in effect, a
recipe for isolationism.  So the Powell Doctrine has been ignored: successfully in
places like  Kosovo , and somewhat less successfully in
Afghanistan and Iraq. In both these latter cases, we forgot
another supposed lesson of Vietnam, which is that to avoid a
“quagmire,” you need an “exit strategy” -- some way to get out
short of total victory, in case that latter option is not
available. But your exit strategy cannot be a “hard and fast
deadline,” as Obama has promised in Afghanistan and achieved in
Iraq, because that tells the bad guy that all he has to do is
hang on until Date X and he wins.  People used to make a great distinction between America’s
interests, America’s values and purely humanitarian concerns.
Intervention to protect the first was regarded as mandatory,
serving the second and third was not.  In practice, at least in the  Middle East , they all get
muddled. We have an interest in promoting our values. A Syria
without Assad, like a  Libya  without Gadhafi or an Iraq without
Saddam or an  Iran  without nuclear weapons, is a safer place for
Americans as well as a healthier place for the locals.  However, when weighing the pros and cons of some potential
use of U.S. military force in a distant land, we tend to credit
our good intentions as if they had been realized. One lesson of
recent interventions is that, even as the world’s greatest
superpower, we aren’t very good at these things. We squeezed
Iraq’s economy for a decade between the two Persian Gulf wars.
How many innocent lives did that cost? Developments in military
technology -- such as drones -- make intervention less costly in
blood for us and thus possibly make it easier to contemplate.
They do little to change the equation for the people we are
sincerely trying to help.  Just Because  Intervention never will be, and maybe never should be, an
all-or-nothing decision. There are goals that are worth
attempting, but may not be worth giving our all for.  We will never have logically consistent rules about such
things (to the frustration of people, including me, who tend to
equate logical consistency with justice and good sense). To
questions like, “Why Iraq but not Iran?” or, “Why are we
standing by while a Syrian dictator tears apart his own
country?” the answer is, “Just because.”  Decisions about using force will always be affected, if not
determined, by extraneous factors. Is it an election year? How
is the economy? Have there been a lot of these situations
lately? All these considerations affect a decision whether to
use military force even though they have nothing directly to do
with it.  Too often, when we weigh the costs and benefits of some
form of intervention, we take credit for our intentions, rather
than the results. Whether the invasion and occupation of Iraq
would have been worth the costs if we were leaving behind a
stable democracy as promised is a very different question from
whether the war was worth it as it actually turned out.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Spain’s banking crisis 
and  turmoil at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ; Haresh Sapra
on  stress-test results ;  Amity Shlaes  on  corporate sexual
harassment ; Luigi Zingales on  competition and inequality ;  Steven
Greenhut  on  California referendums ; Matthew Schoenfeld on
 staving off the next AIG .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 