-- Hong Kong Sells Luxury Site for More Than Analyst Estimates
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-31T01:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/hong-kong-sells-luxury-site-for-more-than-analysts-estimates.html
Hong Kong ’s  government  sold a housing
site in the Island South district for more than analysts
estimated, easing concerns that the city’s home prices may fall
on increased housing supply and the threat of a global slowdown.  Cheerwide Investment Ltd. paid HK$6 billion ($773 million)
for the 248,000 square-foot site on Deep Water Bay Drive, the
government said in a  statement  yesterday. The buyer is a unit of
closely held Nan Fung Development Ltd., according to a report on
the Hong Kong Economic Journal’s website that cites unidentified
people. The land was expected to fetch HK$5.4 billion, according
to the median estimate of three surveyors interviewed by
Bloomberg News.  China ’s gross domestic product expanded 8.1 percent in the
first three months from a year earlier, the fifth straight
quarterly deceleration, as Premier  Wen Jiabao  cracked down on
property speculation and exports were hurt by  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The  Hang Seng Index  has fallen 11 percent this month on
concerns the crisis in Europe may exacerbate China’s slowdown.  “The price is reasonable,” said Ringo Lam, a director in
the valuation department of AG Wilkinson & Associates. “That
probably reflects that, after all, developers and homebuyers
aren’t that skeptical about the market.”  Leung Chun-ying, who in July will take over as Hong Kong’s
new leader, has vowed to increase housing supply to quell public
discontent over a widening wealth gap in the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home. Hong Kong’s  home prices  have
gained more than 78 percent since early 2009 on record low
mortgage rates and an under-supply of new units.  Developers Drop  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the shares of
the city’s seven-biggest developers, declined 1.5 percent as of
9:48 a.m. local time. It has climbed 0.6 percent this year.  Mainland Chinese buyers made up 36.8 percent of all new
home sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9 percent
in the previous three months, according to figures compiled by
 Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200)  The number reached 53.9 percent in the
third quarter last year, Midland said.  Donald Choi, managing director at Nan Fung, didn’t return
calls from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  The government earlier this month sold a site on Repulse
Bay Road in Island South for HK$1.67 billion, compared with
surveyors’ estimate of HK$1.68 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  