-- Hong Kong Gold Trading in Yuan Drops 78% From January Record
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-05-31T03:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/hong-kong-s-gold-trading-in-yuan-slides-78-from-january-record.html
Hong Kong ’s yuan-denominated gold
trading slumped 78 percent from its January peak as bullion
prices tumbled, sales at jewelry retailers slowed and the
currency weakened, said the city’s century-old bullion bourse.  Average daily trading volume was 533 million  yuan  ($83.7
million) this month, compared with 2.38 billion yuan in January,
 Chinese Gold & Silver Exchange Society  President Haywood Cheung
said in a May 29 interview. Both months fell short of the 4.9
billion yuan target that Cheung announced when the contracts,
about 80 percent of which are designated for physical delivery,
were introduced in October.  Gold demand in China, the second-largest consumer, may
stagnate this year, as declining prices put off investors and
slower economic growth crimps sales, according to Lao Feng Xiang
Co., the nation’s largest maker of gold jewelry. The attraction
of holding yuan is also diminishing, with the currency having
retreated 1 percent versus the dollar this month, the biggest
loss since a peg ended in July 2005.  “Members aren’t willing to supply gold for physical
delivery when  gold prices  are low,” Cheung said. “Goldsmiths
are getting less  renminbi  because sales have slowed down. They
might opt to deposit the yuan at banks instead of buying gold.”  The precious metal is set for a fourth monthly decline, the
longest losing streak since 1999. Spot gold has fallen 6.2
percent this month to $1,561.93 an ounce as of 11:55 a.m. in
 Tokyo . The yuan-denominated gold contract in Hong Kong traded at
320 yuan per gram, or the equivalent of $1,424 an ounce,
according to data on the Chinese Gold Society’s website today.  Offshore Yuan Hub  The society is in talks with refiners in the  Middle East ,
 Switzerland  and the U.S. to boost the supply of gold available
for trading in yuan, Cheung said.  The yuan-denominated gold contract is part of Hong Kong’s
efforts to cement its status as China’s major offshore yuan
trading hub as  London  gears up to compete.  Hong Kong Exchanges
and Clearing Ltd. (388)  plans during the next quarter to introduce
yuan futures contracts that will be settled in the currency.  Yuan deposits  in the former British colony fell for a
fourth consecutive month in March to the lowest level since June
as predictions for appreciation were reined in. Analysts
forecast a 2012 gain of 1.8 percent now, a percentage point less
than at the start of the year, based on the median estimates in
Bloomberg surveys. This month’s sales of Dim Sum bonds, which
are denominated in the currency, are the lowest in 21 months and
the yuan touched this year’s low of 6.3731 per dollar today.  Safe Havens  “Yuan appreciation is no longer the key but where is the
best place for people to park their money?” said Cheung.
“Investors will again take gold, or even silver, as safe havens
as  Europe ’s debt crisis continues and there’s nothing to stop
the U.S. monetary easing.”  The Chinese Gold Society, started in 1910, plans to start
silver trading in yuan as soon as July, Cheung said, adding that
he expects demand for precious metals to rebound in the second
half. He estimates the gold price will climb from the third
quarter and test the record $1,921.15 an ounce in the final
three months of the year.  The Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange, backed by the world’s
largest lender, began trading gold futures last May and silver
contracts in July, both denominated in U.S. dollars. Those are
the only contracts available. It said in March that it’s
planning to offer gold, silver and copper futures contracts
denominated in  China ’s yuan.  Hong Kong Exchanges is bidding for the London Metal
Exchange, which handles more than 80 percent of global metals
futures. The bourse should lose government protection against
competition if it begins commodities trading, Hong Kong
Mercantile Exchange Chief Operating Officer William Barkshire
said in an interview this month.  “We fully support Hong Kong Exchanges’ bid for LME,” said
Cheung. “It’s more about competition. Winning LME will help
Hong Kong to develop commodity trading products for the Chinese
market and build a bigger pie for everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  