-- Monsanto Profit Forecast Tops Estimates as Seed Sales Climb
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-05-30T20:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/monsanto-says-profit-to-top-estimates-on-higher-seed-sales-1-.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, projected third-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates after sales rose in the U.S., Brazil and
Eastern Europe. The company also boosted its full-year forecast.  Profit will be $1.57 to $1.62 a share in the three months
through May, excluding costs from a legacy tax matter, St.
Louis-based Monsanto said today in a statement. The forecast
topped the $1.29 average of 16  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Monsanto said earnings in the year through August will be
$3.65 to $3.70 a share, excluding the tax issue, settlement of
pollution claims and discontinued operations. The company in
April  forecast  $3.49 to $3.54, while the average of 17 estimates
was $3.56. Earnings were $2.96 a share in fiscal 2011.  Unusually warm weather in the northern hemisphere during
the fiscal second quarter turned out to be only partly
responsible for rising sales this year, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  said today on a webcast. Demand for
the newest insect-fighting corn seeds exceeded projections,
while new herbicide-tolerant soybeans are at the top of the
expected range as farmers realized the value of those
technologies, he said.  “This is the second year in a row with earnings growth
north of 20 percent, which is very positive,” Jason Dahl, a New
York-based fund manager at Victory Capital Management, said
today in a phone interview. “They are still spinning off cash,
not cutting costs to get those results.”  2013 Prediction  Monsanto rose 2.2 percent to $76.41 at the close in  New
York .  The shares  have gained 9 percent this year.  Monsanto saw higher third-quarter sales of genetically
modified corn in  Brazil , soybeans and corn in the U.S., and
recorded better-than-expected gains in Eastern Europe, it said.
Grant said he expects the company will increase earnings by a
percentage in the “mid-teens” in fiscal 2013.  “The performance we saw in the early part of the year has
proven to be a powerful signal of even better results from some
key businesses,” Grant said. “This year has been important
confirmation of the momentum in our business.”  Monsanto said free  cash flow  in the current fiscal year
will be $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion, narrowing an earlier range
that dipped as low as $1.6 billion.  Monsanto is in talks with officials in  China  about boosting
seed production, particularly corn and vegetables, as part of
the company’s international expansion, Grant said on the
webcast. Monsanto can’t own more than 49 percent of a biotech
seed business in China, the world’s second-biggest corn grower,
because of the industry’s strategic importance, he said.  Monsanto said March 1 it plans to expand a venture with
China National Seed Corp., a unit of  Sinochem Corp. (SICHCZ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  