-- Moody’s Downgrades Danske Bank, Eight Other Danish Lenders
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-30T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/moody-s-downgrades-danske-eight-other-danish-financial-firms.html
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
the ratings of nine Danish financial institutions, including the
country’s biggest bank, Danske Bank A/S, saying loan books have
deteriorated and debt refinancing has become harder.  Danish banks suffer from “a weak operating environment,
pressurized asset quality and poor profitability,” the rating
company said late yesterday in a statement published out of
 London .  Danske Bank’s deposit rating was cut two steps to Baa1 from
A2, after Standard & Poor’s earlier yesterday cut the
Copenhagen-based bank’s long-term rating to A- from A. The bank
said in a separate statement that it “does not understand
Moody’s very negative view” of the Danish banking industry. It
had also questioned the reasoning for S&P’s downgrade.  “We have had a close dialog with Moody’s in recent
months,” Henrik Ramlau-Hansen, Danske’s chief financial
officer, said. “We are certain that Moody’s has heard our
arguments, but we do not think they are reflected in the rating
the bank has received.”  Denmark’s bank industry is still struggling to emerge from
the fallout of its 2010 bail-in package,  Europe ’s only
resolution framework that requires senior creditors to share
losses. A burst real estate bubble helped put the economy into a
recession last year and sent loan losses surging among many of
its regional lenders as agricultural loans soured.  Other Danish banks cut by Moody’s yesterday by two steps
included Jyske Bank A/S and  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  while  Spar Nord Bank A/S (SPNO) 
and  Ringkjoebing Landbobank A/S (RILBA)  were cut by one level.  Moody’s also lowered the rating of mortgage lender Nykredit
Realkredit A/S and its Nykredit Bank A/S unit, both by three
notches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  