-- Radwanska Beats Williams at French Open as Federer Sets Record
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-30T18:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/top-seed-azarenka-eases-into-third-round-of-tennis-s-french-open.html
Agnieszka Radwanska beat  Venus Williams  in the second round of tennis’s French Open, where
 Roger Federer  set a record with his 234th Grand Slam match
victory.  Radwanska, the third seed from Poland, won 6-2, 6-3 over
seven-time major winner Williams. The loss comes a day after
 Serena Williams , the No. 5 seed, was beaten in the opening round
by France’s Virginie Razzano. It marked the first time the
sisters both failed to reach the third round in a major
tournament they’d entered.  “She played really well, she chased down a lot of shots
and that’s what you have to do on this surface,” Venus Williams
said at a news conference. “Unfortunately, I wasn’t at my best
today.”  Top seeds Novak Djokovic and  Victoria Azarenka  advanced in
straight sets before play at  Roland Garros  in Paris was
suspended by rain about 8 p.m. local time with four singles
matches still in progress.  Federer defeated Romania’s Adrian Ungur 6-3, 6-2, 6-7 (6-
8), 6-3 to overtake  Jimmy Connors  for most wins at major
tournaments. The third-seed is looking to extend his record of
Grand Slam titles to 17 with his second victory in Paris.  “Because I have been around for so long I expect myself to
win, I can still manage to do that,” Federer told reporters.
“Whereas in the beginning when you think you’re good but you’re
maybe not that good yet, you get many more surprise losses.”  Radwanska dominated Williams in the hour-long match on the
main Court Philippe Chatrier. The 23-year-old converted all four
of her break chances and made just six unforced errors, compared
with 33 unforced errors and 17 winners for the American.  “I’m happy I played a good match from the start,”
Radwanska told reporters. “She was fighting until the end.”  Williams, 31, was playing her first major since being
diagnosed last year with Sjogren’s syndrome, an energy-sapping
autoimmune disease that left her barely able to lift her arms.  The Williams sisters, who’ve combined for 20 major singles
titles, have twice both lost in the third round at the  French
Open , in 2004 and 2008.  Djokovic beat Slovenia’s Blaz Kavcic 6-0, 6-4, 6-4 to run
his Grand Slam winning streak to 23 matches. The Serb is
attempting to become the first man to hold all four major titles
at the same time since  Rod Laver  in 1969.  “I’m happy with the game overall,” Djokovic said at a
news conference. “I think everything was working really well.
I’m feeling better and better every match.”  Azarenka of Belarus beat German qualifier Dinah Pfizenmaier
6-1, 6-1 in 55 minutes. That contrasted her three-set win over
Italy’s Alberta Brianti two days ago, when she was two games
away from becoming the first top-seeded female to lose her
opening match at the French.  “It was a different game,” Azarenka, who won the
Australian Open in January, said in a news conference.
“Definitely played much better today.”  Women’s eighth seed  Marion Bartoli  of  France  lost to
Croatia’s Petra Martic in three sets, while Ana Ivanovic, the
2008 French winner seeded 13th; U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur of Australia, the sixth seed; No. 15 Dominika Cibulkova
and No. 21 Sara Errani all advanced.  Sloane Stephens was the only one of the seven U.S. women in
action today to advance after a 6-1, 6-1 win over countrywoman
Bethanie Mattek-Sands. Ten Americans reached the women’s second
round, the most at the French Open in nine years.  France’s  Gilles Simon , the 11th seed, beat American wild
card Brian Baker in five sets to join No. 7 Tomas Berdych of the
 Czech Republic  and No. 9 Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina in
the third round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 