-- Orbitz Says Belmont Named Interim CFO to Replace Hammer
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-30T00:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/orbitz-says-belmont-named-interim-cfo-to-replace-hammer.html
Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , an online
travel agent, said Chief Financial Officer Russell Hammer
resigned last week and will be replaced on an interim basis by
David Belmont, vice president of financial planning.  Hammer resigned on May 23 and his last day will be June 1,
the Chicago-based company said in a filing today. Hammer, who
was previously CFO of  Crocs Inc. (CROX) , will return to the footwear
industry to take the same position at  Brown Shoe Co. (BWS) , according
to a separate release today.  Hammer is leaving amid a transition as Orbitz attempts to
lessen its dependence on flights and bolster hotel offerings to
vie with larger competitors such as  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , said
Tracy Young, an analyst at New York-based  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) 
Orbitz’s revenue from hotels rose 9 percent in the first
quarter, compared with a year earlier, while sales from flights
were unchanged, the company said in May.  Mike Nelson, president of Orbitz’s Partner Services Group,
also resigned on May 23, the company said. The team responsible
for global hotel relationships will report to Chief Executive
Officer Barney Harford, and the group that oversees U.S.
airline,  car rental , cruise and insurance partner relationships
will report to Chris Orton, president of Orbitz.com and
CheapTickets.  ‘Little Disruptive’  “It’s a company in transition, so this is a little
disruptive,” said Young in a telephone interview today. Young
has an underweight rating on Orbitz stock.  Orbitz jumped 12 percent to $3.85 at the close in  New York ,
before the company’s announcement. It was the biggest rise since
Dec. 6. Shares of Brown Shoe dropped less than 1 percent to
$11.89.  Orbitz posted a net loss of 6 cents a share in the first
quarter, compared with an 11-cent loss a year earlier. Revenue
increased 3 percent to $189.8 million, the company said in May.  While the management changes “came out of left field,”
they probably won’t be detrimental to the company’s effort to
strengthen relationships with hotels, said Brian Nowak, an
analyst at Nomura Securities in New York.  “The interim CFO is an internal hire who has been with the
company for multiple years, so I don’t know how much
incrementally it will make it difficult.”  Belmont will take up the post temporarily on June 2 until
the company appoints a permanent successor to Hammer. Belmont
will receive a $10,000 per month increase in base salary for
each month that he performs the role as well as a performance
bonus payment of $50,000, the company said.  Brown Shoe, the operator of the Famous Footwear chain, said
Hammer will replace Mark Hood as CFO on June 11.  Hammer’s decision to move to the shoe industry “makes
sense” because he previously held a position in the field,
Young said. “I don’t really read anything into it,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  