-- Osborne Seeks Investment Fund Backing for U.K.’s Small Companies
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-30T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/osborne-seeks-investment-fund-backing-for-u-k-s-small-companies.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  sought 500 million pounds ($776 million) of investment
from funds that will be matched by the U.K. Treasury to spur
lending to small companies.  Osborne will seek bids from five funds to manage the latest
tranche of the Business Finance Partnership. A further 100
million pounds will be loaned by  Vince Cable ’s Department for
Business, Innovation and Skills.  The plan allows the government to pass on “the benefits of
Britain’s creditworthiness to businesses and open up new options
to finance them” Osborne said in a statement released by his
office in London today.  The measures are part of Osborne’s 21 billion-pound credit-
easing plan announced last year that’s intended to funnel loans
to credit-starved small and mid-sized companies. The broader
program underwrites loans to companies, allowing banks to extend
credit at rates closer to those the government borrows at.  The  International Monetary Fund  urged Osborne last week to
use the government’s balance sheet to underpin lending in the
economy as part of a range of tools to help lift Britain out of
its first double-dip recession since the 1970s.  Earlier today, the European Union granted state-aid
approval for the expansion of the U.K.’s Enterprise Investment
Scheme, a tax break for investment in small companies, the
Treasury said.  ‘Higher-Risk Companies’  “These schemes form a key part of the government’s drive
to ensure access for businesses to a range of sources of
finance,” Treasury minister David Gauke said in a statement
released by his office. “The generous tax reliefs provide a
very real incentive to those considering investing in small,
higher-risk companies. The success of this type of company is
vital to the economic recovery.”  The program will be expanded to allow a 30 percent tax
break on investments of as much as 1 million pounds, the
Treasury said. Money can go to companies with no more than 250
workers instead of a previous limit of 50 employees. As much as
5 million pounds can be invested, up from a previous 2 million-
pound ceiling.  The Treasury said the plan means 800 companies will get an
extra 240 million pounds of investment by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  