-- House Clears Two-Month FEMA Flood Insurance Measure
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-05-30T23:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/house-clears-two-month-fema-flood-insurance-measure.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
voted to extend for two months the National Flood Insurance
Program one day before its scheduled expiration.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency contracts, required
for businesses and residences in flood-prone areas, would be
reauthorized through July 31 under the bill, H.R. 5740. The
legislation, approved today by voice vote in the House, has
passed the Senate and will be sent to President  Barack Obama  for
his signature.  David Miller , FEMA’s associate administrator for the
federal insurance and mitigation division, expressed concern
about the uncertainty of short-term extensions and the
possibility of a lapse. The program has $17.75 billion in debt
and a $20.7 billion credit limit, said agency spokesman Lars
Anderson. It couldn’t pay claims if it exhausted the limit,
Miller said in a May 16 telephone interview.  Hurricane Irene  cost about $1 billion in claims, and “a
number of smaller disasters” may drain the fund sooner than the
 Congressional Budget Office ’s estimate of a 2014 default, Miller
said.  An earlier version of the House measure would have expanded
private insurers’ role in the program. The language wasn’t
included in the bill that cleared the House today.  The chambers are working to send a longer-term
reauthorization to the president. The House passed a five-year
extension of the program July 12, 2011, and similar language
from the bill was included in a budget measure passed by the
House May 10.  The full Senate hasn’t considered a committee-approved
proposal to extend the flood insurance contracts for five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  