-- Toyota Judge Says He May Caution Jurors About Some Witnesses
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-30T20:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/toyota-judge-says-he-may-caution-jury-about-some-evidence-1-.html
The federal judge overseeing the
consolidated sudden-unintended acceleration lawsuits against
Toyota Motor Corp. said he may tell jurors to view testimony by
some of the carmaker’s trial witnesses with caution.  U.S. District Judge James Selna in  Santa Ana ,  California ,
said in a tentative ruling yesterday that he will tell jurors in
the first wrongful death and personal injury case scheduled for
trial that they should treat the testimony of Toyota personnel
who inspected a crashed 2008 Camry without plaintiffs’ lawyers
present “with greater caution than that of other witnesses.”  Lawyers for a Utah family, who sued after a November 2010
fatal accident, had asked for sanctions, including entering
default judgment against Toyota. The owner of the facility where
Toyota technicians inspected the car after the crash alleged
that the technicians removed a piece of plastic wedged in the
throttle body, according to the ruling.  “On the present record, the court cannot determine whether
there is a causal relationship between the plastic piece lodged
in the throttle body and the accident, or whether the piece
lodged in the opening as a result, not a cause, of the crash,”
the judge said. “In these circumstances, the court believes
that an evidentiary sanction is appropriate, but a modest one.”  Selna heard arguments on the plaintiffs’ request today. The
judge didn’t issue a final ruling at the hearing,  Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor Sales USA in Torrance,
California, said in an e-mail.  Event Data Recorder  Selna also said in his tentative ruling yesterday that he
may instruct the jury about Toyota’s downloading of the car’s
event data recorder after the crash without consent from the
family. Since there is no evidence the data was altered or
corrupted, there was no need to exclude the evidence, according
to the tentative ruling.  “This motion by plaintiffs’ counsel should be seen for
what it is: a baseless and desperate effort to dismiss clear and
convincing evidence that devastates their case,” Migliore said
in a statement. “This transparent attempt to raise doubts about
the vehicle inspection process by fabricating a continuous
stream of demonstrably false and misleading theories is entirely
without merit.”  The case is scheduled for trial Feb. 19. It covers the
claims of the families of two people killed in the crash. Their
Camry struck a rock wall when it exited the freeway and failed
to stop. The driver, Paul Van Alfen, and a passenger, Charlene
Lloyd, his son’s fiancee, died.  Van Alfen’s wife and son were injured in the 2010 crash.
The families have said the accident happened when the vehicle
unexpectedly accelerated and didn’t stop even after the driver
slammed on the brakes.  The cases are combined as In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 