-- Pakistan Says Doctor Who Hunted Bin Laden Convicted of Militancy
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 2012-05-30T23:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/pakistan-says-doctor-who-hunted-bin-laden-convicted-of-militancy.html
A Pakistani doctor who helped the
U.S. search for  Osama bin Laden  was sentenced to 33 years in
jail for conspiring with militants rather than assisting the CIA
track down the al-Qaeda leader, according to the full court
verdict released yesterday.  Shakil Afridi was imprisoned for colluding with the now
defunct militant group  Lashkar-e-Islam , which killed members of
the public and security forces in a series of attacks, the court
said in the five-page ruling given to reporters in  Peshawar .
Afridi’s May 23 jailing by a tribal court was earlier attributed
to his alleged work for U.S. intelligence and was condemned by
the Obama administration.  U.S. and Pakistani officials said Afridi ran a fake
vaccination program in Abbottabad, the Pakistani town where  bin
Laden  hid for as long as five years, in a bid to obtain a DNA
sample from those living in the compound where he was shot dead
by Navy SEALs in May 2011, according to the Washington Post.  The details of his sentencing made available yesterday for
the first time make no mention of the Abbottabad program, while
stating that allegations Afridi conspired with foreign
intelligence agencies were outside its jurisdiction.  The developments throw the Afridi issue into complete
confusion,  Talat Masood , a retired army lieutenant general and
security analyst, said in a phone interview from Islamabad.  “It shows Pakistan is dealing with such very delicate cases
in a very immature manner and it is creating problems for
itself, especially in foreign policy,” Masood said.  ‘No Truth’  Afridi’s brother, Jamil, in an interview criticized the
trial held under the so-called Frontier Crimes Regulations,
where government officials and tribal elders deliver verdicts
and those charged are denied legal counsel.  Jamil Afridi said there was “no truth in” the allegations
his brother helped in the search for bin Laden, and added that
the family would appeal against his detention.  The jailing of Afridi further strained already fragile
relations between the U.S. and  Pakistan .  The Senate Appropriations Committee unanimously voted to
reduce military aid to Pakistan by $33 million -- $1 million for
every year of the doctor’s sentence. Pakistan’s military was
humiliated by the unilateral U.S. raid that killed bin Laden, a
helicopter-borne strike it failed to detect.  In their latest dispute, the two countries have so far
failed to reach an agreement over closed NATO supply routes,
shut after a border air strike killed 24 Pakistani soldiers in
November.  Clinton Criticism  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last week
criticized the Pakistani court for jailing Afridi. “We think
his treatment is unjust and unwarranted,” Clinton said of
Afridi May 24 at the State Department.  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who chairs
the Senate Foreign Relations committee, said Afridi’s sentencing
will be hard for people in the U.S. to understand.  “Americans will have great difficulty knowing that one
year after the  United States  found and killed the most notorious
terrorist in modern history hiding on Pakistani soil, the most
visible action being taken to find out how he came to be in
Pakistan is the conviction in a Pakistani court of the physician
who helped the United States identify Osama bin Laden,” Kerry
said in a statement last week.  Lashkar-e-Islam was founded by militant leader Mangal Bagh
in Pakistan’s Khyber agency, where it forcefully implemented a
fundamentalist form of Shariah law, according to a 2008 profile
posted on the website of the  Long War Journal , a U.S.-based
website that monitors American counter-terrorism campaigns.  Shakil Afridi was once the top medical officer in the
Khyber region, the  Associated Press  said yesterday. He may have
been kidnapped for ransom by Lashkar-e-Islam in the past, the
 news agency  reported, citing a friend of the doctor who it
didn’t name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anwar Shakir in Peshawar at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  