-- Palm-Oil Shipments From Indonesia Seen Climbing on Ramadan
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-05-31T09:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/palm-oil-exports-from-indonesia-seen-climbing-on-ramadan-demand.html
Palm-oil  shipments from Indonesia,
the world’s largest producer, are poised to advance 9 percent
this month as importers increase purchases before the Muslim
fasting season of Ramadan starts in July.  Exports may gain to 1.63 million metric tons from 1.49
million tons in April, according to the median in a Bloomberg
News survey. Production will increase to 2.1 million tons from
1.9 million tons, while stockpiles were little changed at 1.85
million tons, the survey showed. Five plantation and refining
company executives contributed to the output survey and four
gave estimates for exports and inventories.  Prices have declined 15 percent from a 13-month high in
April on concern that demand in  China , the biggest consumer of
cooking oils, may weaken as the economy slows, and as  Europe ’s
debt crisis worsens. Exports from Malaysia, the second-largest
producer, gained 2.4 percent to 1.38 million tons this month,
Intertek said today. Price gains may boost revenues for
companies including  PT Astra Agro Lestari (AALI)  and  Golden Agri-
Resources Ltd. (GGR) , the world’s second-largest grower.  “Buyers from  Pakistan ,  Bangladesh  and the Middle Eastern
countries have started to increase stockpiles ahead of Ramadan
and Eid al-Fitr” festival, said Susanto, head of marketing at
the Indonesia Palm Oil Association. Consumption of cooking oils
climbs during Ramadan as followers break daylong fasts with
communal meals. Eid al-Fitr marks the end of the fasting month.  China, Europe  Futures dropped 0.4 percent to 3,099 ringgit ($976) a ton
on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange by 5:25 p.m. local time.
The price has plunged 11 percent this month, the most since
September 2009. China has no plan to introduce stimulus to
support growth on the scale unleashed during the global credit
crisis in 2008, state-run Xinhua News Agency has said.  The Chinese government “might have some stimulus measures
but they wouldn’t be big and there are concerns that demand
might suffer,” said Ryan Long, vice president of futures and
options at OSK Holdings Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . China may grow 8.2
percent this year, the slowest pace since 1999, a Bloomberg
survey shows, as Europe’s crisis curbs exports and manufacturing.  Analyst Pawan Kumar of Rabobank International expects
demand for palm oil, used to make everything from candy bars to
biofuels, to be sustained.  Population Growth  “Long-term demand for palm oil will continue to rise as a
result of  population growth  and economic development in emerging
Asian economies,” Kumar, the bank’s senior analyst in  Singapore ,
said in a report May 24. “Palm oil will see strong demand from
developed economies, driven by the industrial use of palm oil
products such as oleochemicals and biodiesel.”  Rabobank expects global vegetable-oil consumption to reach
as much as 180 million tons by 2020, of which about 68 million
tons will come from palm oil.  Malaysia  and Indonesia account for
about 89 percent of the oil’s global shipments.  Companies are increasing refining capacity in Indonesia to
benefit from a cut in export taxes for processed oil which took
effect last year, Adrian Foulger, head of food & beverage
research at Standard Chartered Plc, said May 8.  In October, Indonesia cut maximum export duties on refined,
bleached and deodorized palm oil to 10 percent from 23 percent.
The rate for RBD palm olein was reduced to 13 percent from 25
percent, while the highest tax for crude palm-oil exports was
set at 22.5 percent.  Lower Taxes  Exports of refined palm oil may rise this year to benefit
from the lower taxes, Sahat Sinaga, second deputy chairman of
the Indonesian Palm Oil Board, said May 28. Shipments will reach
about 5 million tons in the first half from 2.6 million tons a
year earlier, he said. Refining capacity will probably increase
to 25 million tons next year from 18.5 million tons as new
plants are built and existing operations are expanded, he said.  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s biggest palm-oil
processor, plans to spend more than $100 million to boost
refining capacity in the country by 50 percent, Chief Operating
Officer Martua Sitorus said on May 10.  Indonesia will keep the  tax rate  for crude palm-oil exports
unchanged at 19.5 percent in June, Deddy Saleh, director general
of foreign trade at the Trade Ministry, said today. The base
price to calculate the levy exporters must pay will be cut to
$1,098 a ton from $1,120 per ton in May, he said.  Indonesia’s production is set to climb 6.4 percent to 25
million tons this year, while exports may gain 9 percent to as
much as 18 million tons, according to the  Indonesia  Palm Oil
Association. Output may climb to 26.4 million tons in the year
that begins Oct. 1, from an estimated 25 million tons a year
earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s  Foreign
Agricultural Service  said April 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  