-- Panetta Heads to Asia to Back Allies, Avoid Riling China
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-05-31T02:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/panetta-heads-to-asia-to-back-allies-avoid-riling-china.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  is
heading to his first visit to Asia since the Pentagon said in
January it would “rebalance” military strategy toward a region
President  Barack Obama  has called critical to U.S. interests.  Panetta’s challenge is to assure the  Philippines , Vietnam,
Singapore and other nations in the region that the U.S. supports
them while stopping short of confrontation with China, according
to  Stephen Biddle , senior fellow for defense policy at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in  Washington .  “He’s walking a tightrope,” Biddle said in an interview.
Allies in the region want the U.S. to serve as a counterweight
as China becomes increasingly assertive in disputes over matters
such as mineral rights in the  South China Sea , he said. At the
same time, those countries have close economic ties to China and
don’t want to “get into a conflict with the other major power
in the region,” Biddle said.  Panetta arrived yesterday in Honolulu, headquarters of the
U.S. Pacific Command. He will meet with troops today before
traveling on to Singapore for an annual Asian security summit,
followed by two-day visits to  Vietnam  and  India .  The trip will be the first opportunity for Panetta to
explain fully how the U.S. strategy will be applied in practice,
according to defense officials who spoke to reporters on May 29
on condition of anonymity because many of the consultations will
be in private.  In January, the Pentagon released its strategic guidance
that cited U.S. economic and security interests extending from
the Western Pacific and  East Asia  to the Indian Ocean region and
 South Asia . It said the U.S. military will “rebalance toward
the Asia-Pacific region.”  Risk of Friction  In the absence of clarity, the strategy may be seen as an
effort to contain China, and such “a rivalry will increase
friction and conflict,”  Singapore ’s Defense Minister Ng Eng Hen
said at a conference in April in Washington.  Panetta portrayed the strategy as one of both wariness
toward China and collaboration in a speech May 29 to graduating
midshipmen at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland .  “China’s military is growing and modernizing,” Panetta
said. “We must be vigilant. We must be strong. We must be
prepared to confront any challenge. But the key to that region
is going to be to develop a new era of defense cooperation
between our countries, one in which our military shares security
burdens in order to advance peace.”  The U.S. strategy was described as a “pivot to new
realities” by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who said in a
 November article  in “Foreign Policy” magazine that it began a
long-term engagement with allies in the region.  ‘Gratuitously Offended’  Since then, U.S. officials  including Panetta  have said the
new strategy isn’t a pivot away from concerns such as turmoil in
the  Middle East  or from allies including the 27-state European
Union.  “Enlightenment was advanced when administration leaders
realized they had gratuitously offended European allies and
gratuitously provided Beijing’s hawks with ammunition to argue
that America was formally and openly instituting a policy of
containing China,” Leslie Gelb, president emeritus of the
Council on Foreign Relations in New York, wrote in a  May 20
article  on the Daily Beast website.  Panetta will speak at the annual Shangri-La Dialogue in
Singapore organized by the International Institute for Strategic
Studies, a London-based policy group. During the two-day
conference, Panetta also plans to meet with his counterparts
from Singapore, the Philippines, Thailand, Australia, Vietnam,
 Brunei  and India, the defense officials said.  Conference in Singapore  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, and Admiral Samuel Locklear, commander of the U.S.
Pacific Command, are also among U.S. defense leaders who will
attend the Singapore meeting, the officials said.  In Vietnam, Panetta will meet with his counterpart, Defense
Minister Phung Quang Thanh, to discuss implementing a defense
memorandum of understanding the two countries signed last year,
the defense officials said.  The  agreement  made in September calls for regular top-level
meetings as well as cooperation on maritime security, search and
rescue, peacekeeping activities and humanitarian aid and
disaster relief.  Closer military relations between the two countries,
including sales of equipment, are being held back because of
U.S. concerns about human-rights abuses in Vietnam, said Murray
Hiebert, a Southeast  Asia  analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington.  Vietnam Human Rights  Last year, Vietnam convicted 33 bloggers and rights
activists of crimes for expressing political and religious
beliefs, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said on Jan. 11.
Authorities arrested at least 27 other activists and held two in
detention for more than a year without trial, the group said.  Improved military relations with the U.S. would help
Vietnam gain better understanding of events in the South China
Sea, Hiebert said.  Vietnam and China have clashed over oil exploration rights
in the sea. China’s neighbors reject its map of the sea as a
basis for oil and gas development.  Oil reserves in the South  China  Sea may be as much as 213
billion barrels, according to Chinese studies cited in 2008 by
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  In India, Panetta plans to meet with officials led by Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Defense Minister A.K. Antony,
according to the Pentagon.  Goal in India  Panetta’s goal in India is to find ways for more routine
technical cooperation, the U.S. defense officials said.  India is the only country mentioned as a partner in the
Pentagon’s January strategy document and is one of the biggest
buyers of U.S. weapons. U.S. arms sales are a “big part” of
U.S.-India cooperation, Nancy Powell, the U.S. ambassador to
India said in a May 18 speech in New Delhi.  India may order as much as $8 billion in U.S. military
equipment, in addition to the $8 billion it already has
acquired, said Karl Inderfurth, who holds the Wadhwani Chair in
U.S.-India Policy Studies at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies.  India also holds more joint military exercises annually
with the U.S. than any other nation, about 50 a year, Inderfurth
said.  India has no intention of “putting all their defense eggs
in one basket,” said Inderfurth, who has served as the U.S.
assistant secretary of state for South Asian affairs. “Indians
have a view of strategic autonomy and have no desire to enter a
pact with the U.S.”  India has made clear to the U.S. that it will not be part
of any regional group or coalition aimed at containing China,
Inderfurth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Honolulu at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  