-- Pending Sales of U.S. Homes Decrease by Most in a Year
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-30T21:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-decline-by-most-in-a-year.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes fell in April by the
most in a year, indicating the U.S. housing recovery remains
uneven.  The  index  of pending home resales dropped 5.5 percent
following a revised 3.8 percent gain the prior month, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . The  median  forecast of 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for no change in the measure.  Mortgage rates at record lows failed to sustain the pace of
demand as some buyers may have waited for  home prices  to decline
further. Limited access to credit and persistent foreclosures
still weigh on housing, adding to concern it will remain a
source of weakness for the world’s largest economy.  “The pattern of demand is sluggish and volatile,” said
Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New York ,
who projected a decline. “Until the supply issue is resolved,
we could see further declines in prices and the housing market
will continue to hover around the bottom. It’ll be a gradual
improvement, we don’t expect anything stronger than that.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 4.3
percent to a rise of 3.1 percent. The Realtors group revised
March data from a previously reported gain of 4.1 percent.  Stocks fell after the figures and on concern  Greece  will
leave the euro. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 1.4
percent to 1,313.32 at 4 p.m. in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note tumbled 12 basis points to 1.62
percent at 5 p.m. after touching 1.6085 percent, the lowest in
 Federal Reserve  figures going back to 1953.  Three Regions Decline  Three of four regions saw a decrease, today’s report
showed. That included a 12 percent slump in the West and a 6.8
percent decline in the South. Pending purchases rose in the
Northeast.  Compared with a  year earlier , the index climbed 14.7
percent after a 10.5 percent gain in the prior 12-month period.  Pending home sales provide insight into actual contract
closings a month or two later. Purchases of existing homes,
which made up about 93 percent of the housing market last year,
are tabulated when the contract closes.  Other figures signal demand is improving. New-home
purchases, also logged when contracts are signed, climbed 3.3
percent to a 343,000 annual rate in April, a Commerce Department
report showed May 23.  April Sales  Data the previous day showed sales of existing homes
increased 3.4 percent to a 4.62 million annual rate, with gains
in all four regions.  The Realtors group revised this year’s forecast to 4.66
million previously owned home sales, up from 4.26 million in
2011. It projects 4.92 million purchases in 2013.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  is among the builders reporting growth
in orders. Second-quarter profit at the Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based company exceeded analysts’ estimates as orders surged 47
percent from a year earlier.  “We are feeling better than we have at any time in the
past five years,” Chairman Robert Toll said on a May 23
earnings call. “We would like to say we’re back, but we need a
little more confirmation. Nonetheless, it sure feels good
compared to the desert we’ve just crossed.”  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The average rate on a
30-year fixed mortgage fell to an all-time low of 3.78 percent
in the week ended May 24, according to Freddie Mac data going
back to 1971. The average 15-year rate held at 3.04 percent,
also a record low, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance
company said.  A real estate agents group’s affordability index, which is
based on a combination of resale prices,  household income  and
 mortgage rates , reached a record high in the first quarter, a
report showed this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  