-- PetroChina Needs Time on Shale Gas, Looks Abroad: Energy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-31T07:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/petrochina-needs-time-on-shale-gas-looks-abroad-energy.html
PetroChina Co. (857)  may take five years to
figure out ways to unlock the world’s largest natural-gas
reserves trapped in shale rock, meaning  China  must keep buying
overseas energy assets to fuel the second-biggest economy.  “We still have a long way to go in turning possible shale
resources into recoverable reserves,” Zhou Mingchun, chief
financial officer at China’s largest oil and gas company, said
in an interview in Beijing. PetroChina will pursue energy assets
“wherever and whenever they become available.”  China, estimated to hold triple the shale reserves of the
U.S., has yet to produce the fuel commercially because its
drillers lack technology and face tougher geology. Explorers
including  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  have bid for $100 billion of energy assets
from  Australia  to  Canada  since 2008, including so-called
unconventional resources, to boost reserves and gain expertise.  “We’ll need three to five years to develop a full-fledged
method to overcome a series of challenges, including looking for
gas and recovering gas, before we decide on the next step,”
Zhou said May 29 at the head office of the company thats ranks
as the world’s third largest by market value. “We’re taking a
proactive and cautious stance.”  PetroChina’s parent, China National Petroleum Corp., tapped
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for help in sinking the nation’s first
horizontal well last year. Ties were strengthened in February
when PetroChina agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in Shell’s
Groundbirch shale-gas project in Canada.  Fracking Know-How  Such alliances serve to transfer expertise on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, which involves blasting water, sand and
chemicals underground to release gas from sedimentary rock.  A lack of technology at home prompted state-run Cnooc and
China Petrochemical Corp. to invest more than $5.7 billion in
unconventional oil and gas assets overseas. China Petrochemical,
known as Sinopec Group, also held talks with  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  and its North American competitors about acquiring shale.  PetroChina has “no contact with Chesapeake in terms of
mergers and acquisitions,” Zhou said. Still, “both sides have
paid attention to each other,” he said, without elaborating.  China holds 25.1 trillion cubic meters of exploitable shale
reserves, the country’s Ministry of Land and Resources said
March 1, citing a nationwide survey.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration previously said
China may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet (36 trillion cubic
meters) of technically recoverable gas, 12 times the country’s
conventional gas deposits, according to an April 2011  report .
That’s almost triple the 482 trillion cubic feet in the U.S.,
according to a Jan. 23 estimate by the EIA. It didn’t give a
revised figure for China.  Shale Boom  China is seeking to emulate the U.S., where a shale boom
made it the world’s biggest gas producer and upended global
energy markets. The U.S. pumped 96 billion cubic meters in 2009,
overtaking  Russia  as the largest gas provider. Output surged to
142 billion cubic meters in 2010, causing prices to slump.  Shale formations in China are different from those in the
U.S. and techniques need to be adapted to its geology and
pipelines built to transport the fuel, said  Neil Beveridge , an
energy analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong.  “There’s tremendous potential, but the time now is really
about understanding their resources and how China can develop
them efficiently, instead of just throw money at the problem as
quickly as possible,” Beveridge said by telephone yesterday.
“The trick with shale is to get costs down to the point where
it’s attractive to develop.”  Collaborate With U.S.  PetroChina is working to clarify the size and geography of
Chinese shale resources and conducting experiments to develop
its engineering and technical skills, CFO Zhou said. The company
wants to boost cooperation with its U.S. peers to learn about
fracking technology, which is a “killer tool,” he said.  Shares in PetroChina, which trails only Apple Inc. and
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in market value, have gained 1.6 percent in
dollar terms in Hong Kong this year  compared  with a 9 percent
drop in the 63-company Bloomberg World Oil and Gas Index.  The company targets output of 1 billion cubic meters of
shale gas a year by 2015, PetroChina President Zhou Jiping said
March 29. China aims to pump 6.5 billion cubic meters annually
by 2015 and 60 billion to 100 billion cubic meters by the end of
the decade, the National Development and Reform Commission said,
citing a plan drafted by the National Energy Administration.  China’s output will reach 23 billion cubic meters in 2020,
short of the government’s target, according to the average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in February.  Sinopec Group will start pumping the nation’s first shale
gas from a project in Sichuan province next month, Caixin
magazine reported May 15, citing the company.  State Auctions  The government first auctioned exploration blocks last June
and awarded blocks to two of the six state-owned companies that
were invited. A second auction, delayed at least twice, will be
open to privately owned local producers. Overseas companies will
remain barred from bidding directly and can invest in ventures
led by local explorers.  Even as China’s three largest energy companies develop its
shale reserves, they continue to snap up assets globally.  PetroChina, Sinopec Group and Cnooc accounted for $68.3
billion of the $100 billion of overseas energy assets that
Chinese companies bid for since 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. PetroChina alone bid for $13.1 billion of oil and
gas fields and refineries, the data show.  “The expansion of international operations has always been
a very important and strategic direction,” CFO Zhou said. “We
will actively pursue opportunities wherever and whenever they
become available, as long as they fit our needs, conform with
our strategy and are reasonably priced.”  Imports Jump  PetroChina’s proven oil reserves totaled 11.1 billion
barrels in 2011, a 4.2 percent decline from 2006, company data
show. China’s oil imports surged 75 percent to 254 million
metric tons in the period, according to customs information.  “Judging by the steady rise in China’s oil imports over
the past decade, the acquisition pace had been too slow, too
cautious,”  Gordon Kwan , head of energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd., said by e-mail. “PetroChina should
leverage its huge balance sheet to do bigger deals in order to
meaningfully reduce dependence on foreign crude, and shale gas
is not the answer in the short term.”  Overseas Ambitions  PetroChina wants half its oil and gas output to come from
overseas by the end of the decade, Chairman Jiang Jiemin said in
March. Less than a 10th now comes from abroad. The company plans
to invest at least $60 billion by 2020 to buy foreign assets.  On top of efforts to acquire reserves and build a global
oil-trading business, PetroChina is seeking to forge alliances
with its counterparts in oil-rich nations to invest in ventures
in China, Zhou said.  The company is investing with Russia’s OAO Rosneft to build
a 13 million-ton-a-year oil refinery in China’s northern port
city of Tianjin. Russian companies will supply 70 percent of the
crude for the facility, former First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor
Sechin  said in September 2010.  “We are especially looking for opportunities to cooperate
with state-owned companies from resource-rich countries,” Zhou
said. “That way we can share our resources and control risks.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 