-- Peyton Manning Tops Tebow in Jersey Sales as Griffin III Trails
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-30T13:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/peyton-manning-tops-tebow-in-jersey-sales-as-griffin-iii-trails.html
Peyton Manning and  Tim Tebow  had the
biggest-selling jerseys over the past two months at the National
Football League store before either quarterback has played for
his new team.  Manning’s new jersey with the Denver Broncos was No. 1,
with Tebow’s uniform top with the  New York  Jets No. 2, in sales
between April 1 and May 28, according to NFLShop.com.  The next two biggest sellers were rookie quarterbacks who
also have yet to see game action with their clubs -- Robert Griffin III of the  Washington Redskins  and  Andrew Luck  of the
Indianapolis Colts. Their jerseys weren’t available until April
26.  Sales figures weren’t disclosed.  Manning, a four-time NFL Most Valuable Player, joined the
Broncos after he was released by Indianapolis, where he was
quarterback for 14 seasons. Manning missed the last season with
the Colts following neck operations.  Tebow, a Heisman Trophy winner at the University of
Florida, joined the Jets as backup to Mark Sanchez after he was
replaced by Manning in Denver.  Luck, from  Stanford University , was the first pick in
April’s NFL Draft as the Colts look for a replacement for
Manning. Griffin, the reigning Heisman Trophy winner at Baylor
University, was the second selection, going to the Redskins.  Eight of the top 10 jerseys belonged to quarterbacks -- the
 New York Giants  Eli Manning (5),  Green Bay Packers   Aaron Rodgers 
(6),  New England Patriots  Tom Brady (8) and Carolina Panthers
Cam Newton (9) -- according to NFLShop.com. Linebacker Patrick Willis of the  San Francisco  49ers (7) and safety Troy Polamalu
of the Pittsburgh Steelers round out the top ten.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  