-- Pfizer Cleared of Liability in Prempro Breast Cancer Case
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-05-30T16:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/pfizer-cleared-of-liability-in-prempro-breast-cancer-case.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  isn’t liable for the
breast-cancer death of a woman who died after taking menopause
drugs made by the company’s units, a Connecticut jury ruled.  Jurors in federal court in Bridgeport deliberated about
five hours over two days before finding Pfizer’s Wyeth unit
provided proper warnings about the health risks of its Prempro
hormone-replacement pill to Lynn Moss. The 62-year-old nurse
died in December 2006 “after a protracted battle with breast
cancer,” according to court filings.  “This verdict affirms the fact that Wyeth acted
responsibly by communicating accurately the risks and benefits
of its hormone therapy medicines,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Moss, a Danbury, Connecticut, resident, took all three
drugs over a seven-year period starting in 1993 to treat her
menopause symptoms, according to court filings. She was
diagnosed with  breast cancer  in 1999.  Evidentiary Rulings  Lawyers for Moss’s family, who pressed on with her lawsuit
after her death, said in an e-mailed statement today that they
were disappointed with the jury’s verdict.  “There is a great deal of evidence that was excluded from
this trial that we believe hampered the jury’s ability to
appropriately consider all of the issues,” Neal Moskow, one of
the family’s attorneys, said in the statement.  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now won 10 of 21
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York-based drugmaker got some of the verdicts
against it thrown out after trial or had the awards reduced. It
resolved some of the verdicts through settlements, while other
decisions are on appeal. Pfizer also has had cases thrown out
before trial and settled others.  Pfizer announced in May 2011 it had settled a third of the
pending Prempro cases and had set aside $772 million to help
resolve the claims.  Winning Streak  In his statement, Loder said the verdict in the Moss case
means Pfizer has now won eight of the last 10 cases that “have
reached a final trial verdict.”  The company’s win comes about a month after another
 Connecticut  jury ordered Pfizer to pay at least $4 million in
damages to a woman who developed breast cancer after taking
Prempro.  That jury, in federal court in  New Haven , found Wyeth
liable for causing Margaret Fraser’s cancer and awarded
compensatory and punitive damages. A judge is considering how
much Pfizer should pay in punishment damages, according to court
dockets.  The Moss case is Lynn Gardner Moss and Kenneth P. Moss v.
Wyeth, 04-cv-1511, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut
(Bridgeport).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; 
 John Dillon  in New Haven, Connecticut, at 
 j.dillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  