-- PGE Says Belchatow Carbon Capture Project Needs State Support
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-30T13:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/pge-says-belchatow-carbon-capture-project-needs-state-support.html
PGE SA (PGE)  said it’s in “no position”
to start a project that would trap and bury emissions from a
power plant in Belchatow without incentives.  “The construction of such plants without support in the
form of special certificates, similar to those used in renewable
energy projects, would be unprofitable,” Wojciech Ostrowski,
PGE’s chief financial officer, said today by e-mail.  Carbon-capture and storage projects in at least five
countries including  Canada , the U.S. and  Germany  have been
delayed or canceled in the last year. Environmental concerns and
questions about the technology’s economics have hampered
developments, and low carbon prices make it cheaper to run a
coal plant and buy emissions allowances than to build so-called
CCS plants.  The Parkiet newspaper reported on May 25 that PGE, Poland’s
biggest electricity producer, suspended its 600 million-euro
($747 million) investment in the carbon capture facility. PGE
planned to install equipment at an 858 megawatt lignite-fired
unit of the  Belchatow power plant .  “As long as such support is not ensured, we are in no
position to launch this project fully,” Ostrowski said.  Low CO2 Cost  “Power companies will be interested in the implementation
of CCS technology when the cost of storing CO2 underground is
lower than the cost of emission allowances,” Ostrowski said in
today’s e-mail sent on behalf of Lukasz Witkowski, a spokesman
at the company.  The cost of capturing and storing a ton of CO2 would be
about 60 euros to 65 euros at the company’s pilot project to
trial CCS at Belchatow, Ostrowski said. Permits on the EU
emissions trading system were trading at 6.53 euros a ton, down
63 percent from a year ago, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
today.  The technology known as CCS generates “huge costs” in
both the implementation and operation phases, Ostrowski said.  PGE’s CCS Project was selected to receive 180 million euros
of European Union funding under the European Energy Program for
Recovery. The company also sought funding from an EU contest to
support renewable and CCS technologies called the New Entrants’
Reserve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  