-- Philippine Peso Halts Two-Day Rally on Europe Woes; Bonds Gain
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-30T08:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/philippine-peso-halts-two-day-rally-on-europe-woes-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso fell, snapping a
two-day rally, on speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis will deepen
and damp demand for emerging-market assets. Bonds advanced.  The currency was poised for its biggest monthly loss since
September after  Spain  backtracked on a plan to bail out its
third-biggest lender. The government will report tomorrow that
 gross domestic product  increased 4.3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the most in 12 months, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty in the global economy and
investors are very cautious,” said Ricky Cebrero, head of
treasury at  Philippine National Bank  in Manila. “Domestic
economic fundamentals are intact and will support the peso.”  The peso slid 0.6 percent to 43.49 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. The currency has
lost 2.9 percent in May. The peso will strengthen to 42.50 by
the end of the year, Cebrero forecast. One-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 7.60 percent.  The Philippine currency posted its biggest gain in almost
six months yesterday as Moody’s Investors Service raised the
outlook on the nation’s Ba2 rated foreign-currency debt rating
to positive from stable. The peso remains broadly stable and the
nation has ample dollar liquidity, central bank Deputy Governor
Diwa Guinigundo said yesterday.  The yield on the 15 percent bond due March 2022 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.99 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  