-- Pissarides Says Euro Exit Would Aid Rich Greeks at Cost to Poor
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-30T12:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/pissarides-says-euro-exit-would-aid-rich-greeks-at-cost-to-poor.html
Nobel economics laureate  Christopher Pissarides  said wealthy Greeks would benefit at the expense of
poorer citizens were the country to exit the euro.  “A lot of Greeks” have withdrawn money and deposited it
with banks elswhere in the 17-nation currency zone, Pissarides
said in an interview in  London  today. If the country returned to
the drachma, the new currency would be so devalued they could
buy it cheaply on international markets with the cash they’d
exported, enabling them to buy more assets in Greece.  While poorer Greeks are equally able to appreciate the
 difficulties  facing their country, they’re not as able to shield
their funds from an exit from the common currency, Pissarides
said. They need to preserve quick access to their savings, which
isn’t as easy to do if it’s held at a foreign bank, and such
lenders may not always accept small deposits.  “It’s the wealthy who will benefit because that’s who’s
able to move their money abroad,” he said. “Wealthy Greeks
have already done it, whereas the small saver is not going to do
it.”  Greece  is due to hold second elections next month after a
May 6 ballot left politicians unable to form a government,
raising speculation the nation may exit the euro area.
Households and businesses pulled 34 billion euros ($42 billion)
from Greek banks in the 12 months ended in March, 17 percent of
the country’s total, according to the  European Central Bank .  Moving Money  Pissarides, who is a professor at the  London School of
Economics , said it’s also harder for small savers to locate
foreign banks willing to take their money, he said.  “Foreign banks do not always accept small deposits from
non-residents even though they’re part of the eurosystem,” he
said. “If you’re a small shop owner in  Athens  or one of the
smaller towns, how do you find a foreign bank to open a foreign
account, do you take your cash in hand and fly off to  Italy  or
 Switzerland  or wherever? It’s not that easy.”  Speaking at an Open Europe event earlier, Pissarides said
Greece would be better off if it could relax its austerity
program and get more help from bailout partners. In return, it
must push on with structural reforms. He said a euro exit would
be a “complete disaster,” describing a situation of empty
shelves in supermarkets, unpaid government workers and banks
without money.  “What are Greeks going to do? Obviously go out in the
street and burn the square,” he said. The impact on the poor is
“the worst outcome at all, it almost keeps me awake at night.”  The Nobel laureate said the dynamic of households removing
money from local banks applies to other countries in  Europe  that
are facing challenges from investors because of their public
finances.  “It’s happening in  Spain  as well,” Pissarides said.
“It’s the big risk in Spain, that money will leave the country
and banks will need to be recapitalized and find more money
internally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  