-- Polish First-Quarter GDP Growth Probably Slowed on Crisis
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-30T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/polish-first-quarter-gdp-growth-probably-slowed-on-crisis.html
Poland ’s economic growth was probably
the slowest in two years in the first quarter as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis damped demand for exports.  Gross domestic product  expanded 3.5 percent from a year
earlier, the lowest rate since the first three months of 2010,
after rising 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter, according to the
median estimate of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The European Union’s largest eastern nation, the only
member of the 27-nation bloc to avoid a  recession  in 2009, will
grow 2.7 percent this year, the EU’s quickest pace, the European
Commission forecast May 11. While Poland has relied on its 38
million consumers and EU-aided infrastructure spending to keep
growing, the country is being hurt by the slump in the euro
region, which buys 55 percent of its exports.  “Very good retail-sales data for the first months of this
year justify quite optimistic expectations about consumption,
while investments have slowed in comparison with the previous
quarter,”  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at  Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  in
Warsaw, said in a note. “Exports, similarly to the second half
of 2011, had a positive impact on economic growth, though the
scale of that influence was lower than in the last quarter of
the previous year.”  Deficit Targets  The government’s scope for stimulating the economy is
limited as Prime Minister Donald Tusk seeks to cut the  budget
deficit  to 2.9 percent of GDP this year from 5.1 percent in
2011. Additional infrastructure spending also declined with the
completion of sports facilities and road and railway upgrades
for the European soccer championships kicking off in Poland and
Ukraine next month.  The zloty declined 0.8 percent to 4.3955 yesterday against
the euro. After falling 12.2 percent against the euro in the
second half of 2011, the currency gained about 7 percent in the
first three months of this year.  Data in April showed the Polish economy is losing momentum.
Retail sales expanded 5.5 percent, the slowest annual pace since
July 2010. Industrial-output growth rose 2.9 percent, less than
half the level from a year ago, while employment and wages grew
at the slowest rate in almost two years. The government
forecasts GDP will rise 2.5 percent this year from 4.3 percent
last year.  Euro-Area Slump  With euro-area nations such as Spain and  Italy  slipping
into a recession after enacting austerity measures to fight the
debt crisis, Europe’s economy will fail to grow this year with
risks “tilted to the downside,” the Brussels-based commission
said on May 11. Unemployment at a 15-year high in the 17-nation
currency region will probably continue to depress demand for
Polish exports.  Poland’s “household-savings ratios have fallen very
sharply, suggesting that spending has been sustained by a
rundown in savings,”  Neil Shearing , an emerging-markets
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said by phone
yesterday. While Shearing estimated GDP to increase 4.3 percent
in the first quarter, “I wouldn’t be surprised that we’d see a
weaker number,” he said.  Polish inflation unexpectedly gained pace in April to 4
percent, remaining above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target
for the 19th consecutive month.  Core inflation , which excludes
volatile food and energy prices, accelerated on higher clothing
and housing costs, supporting arguments for more interest-rate
increases even as the economy slows.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its main rate by a quarter-
point to 4.75 percent on May 9, its first increase since last
June and the first such move in the EU this year. Governor  Marek Belka  said after the decision that the economy had avoided a
“significant” slowdown with inflation staying “stubbornly
high.” The bank didn’t rule out further tightening.  -- Editors:  Jeffrey Donovan , Alan Crosby  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  