-- Pound Slides to 4-Month Low Versus Dollar on Europe; Gilts Jump
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-30T15:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/pound-falls-to-4-month-low-versus-dollar-on-euro-links-concern.html
The pound weakened to a four-month
low against the dollar amid speculation the fallout from
Europe’s debt crisis is spreading and will harm the outlook for
the U.K. economy.  Sterling dropped for a third day against the yen as Nobel
laureate  Paul Krugman  said the U.K. government should drop its
commitment to fiscal cutbacks and boost spending to avert an
extended downturn. Gilts jumped, with five- and 10-year yields
dropping to records, after  Bank of England  Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said U.K. companies need to protect against the risk of a
euro breakup. The cost of insuring Spanish  government bonds 
against default rose to an all-time high.  “Sterling is going to increasingly feel the negative
effects coming from the euro region and the news about the
Spanish banking system,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European
currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “Sterling has a
lot of linkages to the euro region through the banking system
and via trade, so it will come under pressure as the situation
in the euro region intensifies.”  The pound fell 0.7 percent to $1.5538 at 4:13 p.m.  London 
time after dropping to $1.5523, the weakest since Jan. 23. The
U.K. currency slid 1.3 percent to 122.70 yen, and was little
changed at 79.83 pence per euro.  Morgan Stanley forecasts the pound will depreciate to $1.53
by year-end, Stannard said.  Default Swaps  The euro slumped to a two-year low against the dollar as
 Spain  struggled to bolster its banking system amid surging
borrowing costs. Credit-default swaps linked to Spanish
government debt climbed 23 basis points to 583 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “No one is trying to anticipate a euro breakup, but you
just can’t rule it out,” Fisher said according to an interview
in the Leicester Mercury. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  met on May 28 to discuss plans
to insulate the British economy from any escalation of the euro-
area debt crisis.  The  10-year gilt yield  fell 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 1.65 percent after declining to 1.637
percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling the data in
1989. The 4 percent bond due March 2022 gained 1.305, or 13.05
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 121.145.  Five-year note yields also declined to an all-time low, at
0.659 percent.  ‘Last Resort’  Officials should realize “this is the time for the
government to act as the spender of last resort,” Krugman said
yesterday in a speech at the London School of Economics. “If
you want to worry about debt and deficits, fine, but this is the
time, to quote  St. Augustine , to say ‘Oh Lord, make me chaste
and continent, but not yet.’”  The U.K. economy slid into its first  double-dip recession 
since the 1970s in the first quarter amid the financial crisis
in  Europe  and Cameron’s commitment to the biggest fiscal squeeze
since World War II.  The focus on reducing the U.K.’s ratio of debt to gross
domestic product doesn’t need to be the center of policy because
Britain, like the U.S., has the benefit of being able to borrow
in its own currency, Krugman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  