-- Premier League Soccer Teams Boosted by Foreign Broadcast Sales
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-05-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/premier-league-soccer-teams-boosted-by-foreign-broadcast-sales.html
The English Premier League was able
to use the overseas popularity of its soccer teams to increase
clubs’ combined revenue by 12 percent in the season before last
amid a sluggish U.K. economy.  Sales at clubs including  Manchester United  reached 2.27
billion pounds ($3.5 billion), driven by broadcast income from
abroad and sponsorship deals for bigger teams, according to
research by accountant Deloitte LLP.  Combined pretax losses were 380 million pounds, Deloitte
said in a news release, without providing a year-earlier figure,
as spending on player transfers surged 38 percent to a record
769 million pounds. While the Premier League is soccer’s biggest
championship by sales,  Germany ’s Bundesliga is more profitable,
Deloitte said.  “Top clubs in English football have continued to show
impressive revenue growth despite a difficult economic
climate,” Dan Jones, a partner in Deloitte’s Sports Business
Group, said in the release.  Matchday income rose 4 percent to 551 million pounds,
although half of the 20 elite clubs saw ticket revenue fall,
Deloitte said.  The combined operating profit of Bundesliga teams rose 24
percent to 154 million pounds for the period, the news release
said. That compares with a 19 percent decline to 68 million
pounds for the Premier League.  In English soccer’s second-tier Championship, revenue
increased 4 percent to 423 million pounds after an increase of
so-called solidarity payments to teams relegated from the
Premier League and the promotion of larger clubs into the
division.  The Championship’s games attract more spectators than
matches in  Italy ’s Serie A and  France ’s Ligue 1, Deloitte said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  