-- Providence Sets Deal to Curb Pensions, Prevent Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/providence-sets-deal-to-curb-pensions-prevent-bankruptcy.html
Providence Mayor Angel Taveras
reached a tentative accord with union leaders and retirees that
cuts pensions for workers including police and firefighters and
prevents bankruptcy for the Rhode Island capital.  The agreement is the latest to scale back public-worker
benefits in states and cities from  California  to  Maine  seeking
to curb pensions as costs have ballooned and investment returns
have soured even as retirees live longer. Providence needs
almost $1 billion to fulfill its contract promises after failing
to make required contributions to its retirement system.  “We believe that this is the deal that will save the
pension system and save the city of Providence,” Taveras, a
Democrat elected in 2010, said by telephone yesterday. “We
obviously think that this is a good deal and are cautiously
optimistic that it will be approved.”  The mayor of the smallest U.S. state’s biggest city has
pushed for concessions from municipal unions and greater
contributions from nonprofit organizations such as  Brown
University  as he seeks to stave off insolvency. Earlier this
month, Brown, the tax-exempt Ivy League school, agreed to
increase its payments in lieu of property taxes.  “Providence did the right thing and hopefully there is a
precedent here,” Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent who
signed a law that curbs the state’s pension costs, said
yesterday by telephone.  Follows Earlier Mandate  The agreement was reached a month after Taveras signed an
ordinance mandating similar changes, prompting threats of
lawsuits from unions and retirees. Opponents said the cuts would
break labor contracts.  The accord needs to be formally approved by union members
and retired workers as well as the City Council, the mayor said.  Under the agreement, the city would suspend annual cost-of-
living adjustments for current and future retirees for the next
decade, Taveras said in a statement. It would permanently end 5
percent and 6 percent annual increases given to about 600 former
firefighters and police, and cap all future pensions at 1.5
times the state’s median annual household income, or almost
$82,400, he said.  “This, I think, if approved, will take bankruptcy and push
it out to sea and hopefully we’ll never see that again,”
Taveras said by telephone. “But we still have more to do.”  Six-Figure Pensions  There are more than two dozen former public safety workers
collecting pensions of more than $100,000 this year, including
Gilbert McLaughlin, a fire chief who retired in 1991 at a salary
of $63,510, who gets the most, at $196,813, according to the
city. With a 6 percent cost-of-living adjustment, McLaughlin was
on track to get $700,000 a year if he lived to 100.  Lawmakers in  Rhode Island , with the second-highest  jobless
rate  in the U.S. in April at 11.2 percent, passed a similar
overhaul of the state pension system last year. The changes,
backed by Chafee, suspended cost-of-living increases and raised
the full  retirement age  for government workers and teachers. The
governor has pushed a bill to help other cities and towns in the
state make similar changes.  “The Legislature is still reluctant to take on municipal
issues so I’m not that optimistic as they wrap up their session
we’re going to get that package passed the way I want it,”
Chafee said yesterday.  Retiree benefits have been in the spotlight since August
when  Central Falls , the state’s smallest city, sought  bankruptcy
protection  after being overwhelmed by pension obligations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 