-- Trade Messaging Protocol, Miami Fund, Quantek: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-30T12:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/trade-messaging-protocol-miami-fund-quantek-compliance.html
FIX Protocol Ltd.,  the London-based
organization that owns the global messaging format for financial
trading, published a set of European guidelines on how banks
should report their equity trades.  Brokers and banks should tag their trades using FIX’s
standards so fund managers can tell on which exchange or
alternative trading system the order has been executed, FIX said
in a statement yesterday. The protocol would also enable them to
see whether the transaction occurred in a so-called dark pool,
where prices aren’t publicly disseminated, or a lit market.  The guidelines follow requests from fund managers seeking
transparency on where and how their trades were executed as
market structure and trading practices grow more complex,
according to FIX. Since the Markets in Financial Instrument
Directive legislation was introduced in 2007 to spur
competition, volume has spread across alternative venues such as
Bats Chi-X  Europe  that vie with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   The guidelines should also flag whether a trade was agency,
on behalf of a customer, or principal, on behalf of a bank’s own
account, and whether it was executed passively, by posting
liquidity, or aggressively, by taking liquidity, Chris Sims, co-
chair of the EMEA Business Practices Subcommittee at FIX, said
in an interview.  Under the Mifid rules, markets and brokers are permitted to
report transactions to any exchange, venue or third party, or
publish it on their own website. The European Union is now
reviewing the legislation.  Compliance Policy  FSB Agrees on Rules for Identifying Too-Big-to-Fail Insurers  Global regulators agreed on draft rules for identifying
insurance companies that should face tougher regulation because
their failure would roil global markets.  The  Financial Stability Board  endorsed a consultation paper
setting out a framework for selecting the too-big-to-fail
insurers,  Mark Carney , chairman of the FSB, said today after a
two-day meeting of the board in  Hong Kong . The measure extends a
2011 agreement by global regulators to impose stricter capital
rules and closer supervision on banks whose collapse could
threaten the global economy.  Deutsche Bank AG,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  were among 29 banks subject to the so-called capital
surcharge on globally systemic financial institutions agreed on
by the FSB last year. Banks will have to boost reserves by 1
percentage point to 2.5 percentage points above minimum levels
determined by international regulators.  The consultation paper will be published ahead of a meeting
of Group of 20 leaders in Mexico on June 18-19, according to the
FSB, which brings together regulators, finance ministry
officials and central bankers from the G-20 countries to devise
rules for the financial system.  The FSB confirmed a year-end deadline for agreeing on rules
for money-market funds and other so-called shadow banks. The
board also said that it will publish a report on banker pay next
month.  For more, click here.  Congress to Present Bill Repealing of Parts of Obama Health Law  The  House Ways and Means Committee  said yesterday that it
will hold a markup, or present for debate, amendment and vote,
on bills that would repeal part of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, BNA reported.  The bills would repeal the medical-device tax and the ban
on using pretax dollars in flexible spending arrangements to buy
over-the-counter medicines without a prescription, according to
BNA.  Both tax issues were created in the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. Republicans in Congress have criticized the
2.3 percent tax on manufacturers and importers of medical
devices, which was crafted to raise $20 billion to help pay for
the health-care overhaul legislation. The medical-device tax is
set to go into effect in 2013.  The change to require consumers to get a prescription
before they can use money in flexible spending arrangements to
buy over-the-counter medicines was also part of the health-care
overhaul. Republicans have argued that the change actually costs
the health-care system more money, because it requires people to
visit their doctor unnecessarily.  The health-care overhaul also capped the maximum amount of
money that individuals can put into their FSAs at $2,500, but
 House Republicans  haven’t announced an intention to roll back
that part of the law.  FSA Annual Funding Requirement Reduced by 18.6 Million Pounds  The U.K. Financial Services Authority cut its annual
funding requirement by 3.2 percent to 559.8 million pounds ($878
million), down from 578.4 million pounds, the regulator said in
an e-mailed statement.  The reduction is due to internal cost controls and the
return of a contingency fund set aside to deal with “extreme
macro-economic and regulatory events,” the FSA said in the
statement.  Taiwan Allows Banks to Accept China’s Bonds as Loan Collaterals  Taiwanese banks are allowed to take China government bonds
and certificates of deposit issued by Chinese financial
institutions as collaterals for Taiwan dollar-denominated loans,
the island’s  Financial Supervisory Commission  said in a
statement on its website.  Germany to Draft Rules on High-Frequency Trading, FTD Reports  Germany ’s governing coalition are drafting rules to rein in
high-frequency trading,  Financial Times Deutschland  reported,
citing lawmakers.  Market regulators should be able to bring a halt to such
trading based on mathematical models and have access to
algorithms, according to rules to be drafted by the end of June,
the newspaper said. A draft law should be prepared for later
this year, according to the newspaper.  Compliance Action  Miami Hedge Fund Misled Clients About Managers’ Stake, SEC Says  A Miami-based hedge fund and two of its executives agreed
to pay almost $3 million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims that
they deceived investors about their own stake in the fund and
failed to disclose conflicts of interest.  Quantek Asset Management LLC falsely represented that it
had “skin in the game” along with investors in a $1 billion
Latin America-focused hedge fund from 2006 to 2008, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in an
administrative order. Quantek, which made the claims in due
diligence questionnaires and so-called side-letter agreements,
also didn’t properly disclose loans to one of the executives and
its former parent company,  Bulltick Capital Markets Holdings LP ,
the SEC said.  Javier Guerra, 41, who was the lead principal of Quantek,
also agreed to a five year bar from the securities industry and
Ralph Patino, 46, Quantek’s former director of operations and
head of compliance, consented to a one-year bar, the SEC said.
The agency also sanctioned Bulltick, which agreed to a pay a
$300,000 penalty.  Guerra said in a statement that he resigned in October 2011
after helping return about $260 million to investors from the
fund, which was forced to liquidate amid global financial market
turmoil. Stanley Wakshlag, Patino’s attorney, said in an e-mail
“We are pleased to have resolved this matter and to have put it
behind us.”  Bulltick, which separated from Quantek in 2009, said in a
statement that the SEC didn’t allege any securities law
violations by any of its current personnel.  “The settlement with the SEC that is announced today
concludes the investigation as to Bulltick,” the company said
yesterday in the statement. “Bulltick cooperated fully with the
SEC at all times during the course of this investigation.”  Guerra, Patina, Quanta and Bull tick resolved the SEC’s
claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Chuo Mitsui Fine Sought in Insider Trading Case, Japan SESC Says  Japan ’s securities watchdog recommended Chuo Mitsui Asset
Trust & Banking Co. and Asoka Asset Management Ltd. be fined for
trading on inside information obtained from share sale
underwriters.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  is
seeking a penalty of 80,000 yen ($1,000) from Chuo Mitsui, a
unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , related to a  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  stock sale, it said in a statement
yesterday. Separately, the regulator said it’s asking for a
130,000 yen fine for Asoka Management related to a share
offering by  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202)   Japanese regulators have been probing trades related to
stock offerings in response to criticism from investors alleging
that leaks on financing plans are eroding market confidence.  Lead underwriters for the Nippon Sheet Glass offering
included  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
the SESC said. Underwriters for the Mizuho deal included Mizuho
Securities,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , JPMorgan and  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch, it said.  Canada Competition Bureau Says Tribunal Orders CCS Divesture  Canadian Competition Commissioner  Melanie Aitken  won an
order forcing CCS Corp. to sell off a hazardous-waste landfill
site, which she said marks the first such challenge since 2005
and sets a precedent for future disputes.  The ruling yesterday by the country’s competition tribunal
forces the company to sell the Babkirk site, an asset it
acquired when it bought Complete Environmental Inc.  “Today’s ruling sends a clear message to companies who
seek to eliminate competitive threats through acquisition,”
according to a statement from Aitken. “The Bureau has prevented
a multi-billion dollar company from entrenching its monopoly for
hazardous waste disposal in Northeastern British Columbia.”  Courts  BankAtlantic, Levan Lose Bid to Toss SEC’s Disclosure Fraud Suit  BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. (BBX)  and its chief executive officer
must face a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit
alleging they misled investors about the extent of the losses
the bank was facing because of a troubled loan portfolio.  U.S. District Judge Robert Scola in Miami ruled yesterday
that the SEC can proceed with allegations of disclosure fraud
and misrepresentations or omissions in earning statements and
investor conference calls. He dismissed parts of two out of the
seven counts in the lawsuit against the bank and CEO Alan Levan,
while giving the agency permission to amend its complaint.  The judge wrote in reference to one count that survived his
review that when viewed as a whole, the allegations go beyond
“severe recklessness and touch upon intent to deceive.”  The SEC said in its January complaint that BankAtlantic and
Levan made misleading statements in public filings and earnings
calls to hide losses on the Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based
bank’s commercial and residential land holdings and improperly
recorded loans they were trying to sell from the portfolio in
late 2007.  Eugene Stearns, an attorney for BankAtlantic and Levan,
didn’t respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment on
yesterday’s ruling.  During a hearing last month, Stearns argued that the suit
should be dismissed because the bank disclosed in filings and on
analyst conference calls that it was holding loans that would be
affected by a real estate downturn.  The case is SEC v. BankAtlantic BanCorp Inc., 12-cv-60082,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Hedge Fund Founder, Ex-Employees Must Pay $450 Million for Fraud  Hedge fund Weavering Capital (UK) Ltd.’s administrators won
a lawsuit to recover money from its founder Magnus Peterson and
other former employees involved in sham derivative deals that
caused its collapse.  Peterson and nine others, including his wife and deputy
investment manager Edward Platt, must pay $450 million, Judge
Sonia Proudman said.  Weavering’s lawyer Robert Anderson said recovery of the
money is “unlikely” because all of the defendants might find
themselves bankrupt “in the very near future.”  Weavering’s administrators at  MCR , a unit of  Duff & Phelps
Corp. (DUF) , sued Peterson and the former employees to recoup losses
caused when the fund collapsed in March 2009. Peterson told
investors he achieved returns of as much as 12 percent a year,
while he covered losses with fraudulent swap contracts,
administrators said at a London trial last year.  Peterson and Platt, his deputy investment manager, were
arrested by the U.K.  Serious Fraud Office , which decided last
year not to bring criminal charges. The pair represented
themselves today and couldn’t immediately comment because the
hearing was continuing.  JPMorgan Challenges U.K. SFO with UBS Over Milan Swaps Case  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Depfa
Bank Plc asked a London court to block U.K. prosecutors from
seizing documents that Italian authorities want to use at a
criminal trial over derivatives.  Julian Knowles, a lawyer for JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank and
Depfa argued that the U.K. Serious Fraud Office shouldn’t be
allowed to use “coercive measures” against the banks that
wouldn’t be available to prosecutors in Italy.  Prosecutors in Milan accused the four banks, which arranged
swaps for the city to restructure its debt, of misleading city
officials and earning 101 million euros ($126.7 million) in
hidden fees from the deals. The banks, which deny the fraud
charges, settled with the city government in March and agreed to
unwind its  interest-rate swaps , which adjusted payments on 1.7
billion euros of bonds sold in 2005.  The prosecutor leading the case used the accounts of an
Italian bank on a similar transaction to show that lenders set
terms in their favor in swap deals. A witness testified last
week during a trial in Milan over the derivatives sales that the
city’s swaps may have broken rules on how municipalities can use
derivatives, partly because they were used to raise funds
instead of hedging risk.  The U.K. Home Office received a request for assistance in
April of last year, which was passed to the director of the
Serious Fraud Office, Knowles said. The SFO isn’t investigating
the defendants or any of its employees, Knowles said.  The case is: The Queen on the application of UBS Limited v.
Serious Fraud Office, CO/3165/2012,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division.  Interviews  JPMorgan Seems ‘Out of Control,’ MIT’s Johnson Says  Simon Johnson, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and a senior fellow at the  Peterson Institute for
International Economics , talked about the European sovereign
debt crisis and his petition to have  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon removed from the Federal Reserve
Bank of  New York ’s board of directors.  Johnson, who spoke with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday,” also discussed the outlook for further
financial regulation.  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says Facebook Reached ‘Too Far’ and Fell Far  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and senior adviser to Goldman Sachs, said
“if you reach too far, you fall far, and that is exactly what
happened to Facebook.”  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Tom
Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Barnier Says Euro Zone Must Have Banking Union  European Union Financial Services  Commissioner Michel
Barnier discussed  Greece ’s financial crisis, the need for an EU
banking union and industry regulation.  He spoke in Paris with Bloomberg Television’s Caroline
Connan.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  House Cancels Hearing on NRC After Jaczko Successor Named  The House Energy and Commerce Committee has postponed a May
31 hearing on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission after President
 Barack Obama  nominated Allison Macfarlane to replace  Gregory
Jaczko  as chairman of the safety board.  Jaczko had announced his intention to resign following
confirmation of a successor. His fellow commissioners have
criticized his management style. Supporters said he was a strong
advocate for safety as head of the NRC. All five commissioners,
including Jaczko, were scheduled to testify at the May 31
hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 