-- Treasuries Yield Approaches Record on Debt Crisis Concern
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-30T11:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/treasuries-gain-as-euro-debt-concern-spurs-safety-demand.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note
yields to within two basis points of the record low, as stocks
slid and  Europe ’s worsening fiscal crisis increased demand for
the relative safety of U.S. debt.  The securities headed for a second monthly gain as
investors sought a haven amid signs of slowing economic growth
in Europe and the U.S., and as  China  damped speculation it would
provide large-scale stimulus to boost growth. Treasuries have
returned 2.6 percent since March, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show. Investors tracking the MSCI All-Country World Index
of  shares  lost 8.8 percent. Yields on seven-year notes fell to
an all-time low as Italian and Spanish bonds slumped.  “It’s that combination of concerns about Europe and a poor
tone to so-called risk markets, primarily equities,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in  London . “That’s underpinning Treasuries at the moment.
Everyone is now looking at the risk-reward skew and knowing that
they can’t sell it.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.69 percent at 7:15 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. They reached 1.68
percent, the lowest since Sept. 23, when the record-low 1.67
percent rate was set. The 1.75 percent security due in May 2022
advanced 17/32, or $5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 18/32.
Seven-year yields tumbled six basis points to 1.12 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares slid 0.8 percent,
reversing yesterday’s percent increase, and futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.9 percent.  Bund Yields  German bonds are outperforming Treasuries as the debt
crisis in Europe deepens, with the nation’s  two-year note yields 
at 0.02 percent. U.S. two-year notes yield 26 basis points more
than the German securities, the biggest  difference  since June
2010 based on closing market rates.  A report from the National Association of Realtors today
will probably show pending home sales in the U.S. were unchanged
in April after rising in March, a Bloomberg News survey of
economists showed. The figure is a leading indicator of
conditions in the real estate market because it tracks contract
signings.  Confidence among American consumers fell in May to the
lowest level in four months, the Conference Board said
yesterday. Reports this week may show the first-quarter
expansion in gross domestic product was slower than the
government estimated a month ago, while jobs growth quickened,
according to separate Bloomberg surveys.  Recapitalization Plan Criticized  Spain ’s borrowing costs climbed as the country’s central
bank chief, Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez, resigned a month
early amid criticism over the May 9 nationalization of Bankia
group. The  yield  on 10-year Spanish debt rose to the highest
since November, approaching the 7 percent mark that preceded
bailouts in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  It is “increasingly likely” that Spain will ask for
external assistance, David Mackie, chief European economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co, said in an e-mailed note to investors
today.  Italian securities also dropped as borrowing costs rose at
an auction and an index of economic confidence in the euro area
declined more than economists forecast.  Chinese stocks fell after the state-run Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday that the government won’t “roll out another
massive stimulus plan to seek high economic growth,” boosting
demand for the safety of  U.S. debt . “Current efforts for
stabilizing growth will not repeat the old way of three years
ago,” Xinhua said, without attributing the information.  In 2008, policy makers unveiled a fiscal stimulus of 4
trillion  yuan  ($586 billion at the time).  ‘Reducing Risk’  “More and more people are reducing risk,” said Kei Katayama, who invests in  U.S. government debt  in  Tokyo  at Daiwa
SB Investments Ltd., which has the equivalent of $62.4 billion
and is a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage. “There’s a
forced flight to quality.”  The Federal Reserve plans to buy as much as $5.25 billion
of Treasuries due from August 2020 to May 2022 today, according
to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website . The purchases are part of
the central bank’s program to replace $400 billion of shorter-
term debt in its holdings with longer maturities by the end of
June to support the economy by keeping down borrowing costs.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds from December 2008 to
June 2011. Policy makers are scheduled to hold a meeting next
month.  Slowing U.S. inflation will lead the Fed to do more to spur
the economy, said Ward McCarthy, the chief financial economist
at Jefferies & Co.  ‘Disinflationary Trend’  “We’re in a pretty significant disinflationary trend,” he
said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
 Betty Liu . “If you continue to see sluggish data and you
continue to see disinflation,” the Fed will “have no choice
but to pursue an accommodative stance,” he said. Jefferies is
one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the
central bank.  U.S. consumer prices rose 2.3 percent in April from a year
earlier, slowing from 3.9 percent in September, Labor Department
figures show.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, has narrowed to 2.11 percent from this year’s high of 2.45
percentage points in March. The average over the past decade is
2.15 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  