-- India Refiner Bonds Set for First 2012 Drop on Protests
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-05-31T05:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/refiner-bonds-set-for-first-2012-drop-on-protests-india-credit.html
Bonds of  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  are headed
for the first monthly drop this year on concern the state-run
refiner’s debt burden will increase after policy makers said
they won’t raise prices of diesel sold below cost.  The yield on the Mumbai-based company’s 4.75 percent dollar
debt due January 2015 rose 29 basis points to 3.75 percent in
May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on the 3.1
percent 2015 notes of Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s biggest
oil company, increased two basis points even as they dropped 13
basis points for Seoul-based SK Innovation Co.’s 3.93 percent
February 2015 securities.  The government won’t revise prices of regulated fuels
including diesel, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said this month
after an increase in gasoline rates triggered street protests in
a nation where 30 percent of the population lives below the
poverty line. Outstanding debt at Indian Oil, the country’s
biggest refiner, jumped 43 percent to 755 billion rupees ($13.6
billion) as of March 31 from a year earlier, Chairman R.S. Butola said this week, citing delays in receiving subsidies.  “As retail gasoline prices went up this month there was
great hope that diesel would follow,” Hemant Dharnidharka, head
of credit research in Bangalore at SJS Markets Ltd., said in an
interview on May 29. “But it looks like they won’t raise diesel
prices, and that is a big negative for Indian Oil and its debt
burden.”  Opposition Strike  Indian Oil, together with other state-run refiners  Bharat
Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL) , raised gasoline
prices by 11 percent on May 24. Opposition parties, led by the
 Bharatiya Janata Party , are planning a nationwide strike today
to protest the move, while the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the
government’s second-biggest ally, said the raise caused
“bitterness.”  The Trinamool Congress party, another coalition member that
has called for the increase to be rolled back, has been a source
of opposition to the government in the past. It stalled a plan
to raise rail fares, blocked the passage of an anti-corruption
law and scotched a proposal to allow foreign-direct investment
in pensions.  Opposition to the gasoline-price increase is gathering
momentum after government data showed inflation accelerated to
7.23 percent in April from 6.89 percent a month earlier.
Quickening prices are prompting global investors to seek higher
premiums to hold rupee-denominated debt, with the  extra yield  on
10-year notes over comparable  U.S. Treasuries  having widened 39
basis points this year to 691 basis points.  Political Will  The benchmark 8.79 percent securities due November 2021
rose today, with the yield dropping five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 8.47 percent.  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,
which some investors consider a proxy for the nation, is
climbing. Five-year credit-default swaps on the lender rose 48
basis points in May to 380 basis points, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay
face value if a company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  “There appears to be this lack of political will to take
the commercially logical call of raising diesel prices,”  Alok Deshpande , a Mumbai-based analyst at Elara Securities Ltd., said
in an interview yesterday. “This doesn’t augur well for the
state refiners as lower fuel prices means they will need to take
on more debt.”  ‘Credit Positive’  India  has been unable to take advantage of sliding crude
prices as the rupee’s depreciation makes imports more expensive.
 Brent crude , the benchmark for most of the fuel sourced into the
nation, has fallen about 14 percent this month to $103.15 a
barrel. The rupee lost 0.4 percent today to 56.4375 per dollar,
having weakened 6.6 percent in May.  The move to raise gasoline prices is “credit positive”
for Indian Oil, Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement on
May 29. The refiner’s outstanding debt will fall once it
receives reimbursement of 208 billion rupees for the three
months through March from the government as compensation for
selling fuels below cost, it said. Moody’s  rates  the company’s
long-term debt Baa3, the lowest investment grade.  “The company has to bear the burden of the subsidy and the
government closes that gap at intervals,” Philipp Lotter, the
Singapore-based associate managing director at Moody’s, said in
an interview yesterday. “Indian Oil does get compensated by the
government from time to time, and that helps them reduce their
debt and maintain their credit metrics.”  Revenue Loss  The yield on Indian Oil’s dollar notes was little changed
today and touched a three-month high of 3.77 percent on May 25.
Dollar-based investors in Indian corporate bonds earned 1.4
percent in the past year, the second-worst performance among 11
Asian markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  State-run refiners are free to set prices of  gasoline , and
the government regulates rates for diesel, cooking gas and
kerosene. While gasoline accounts for about 10 percent of Indian
Oil’s sales by volume, the other three fuels bring in more than
60 percent.  The three state-run companies lose more than 5 billion
rupees a day from selling fuels below cost, according to oil
ministry data. While the federal administration partly
compensates the refiners for the revenue forgone, they are
forced to borrow from the market to run their daily operations
as they receive the payments with a lag.  Indian Oil’s outstanding debt has almost tripled since
March 2007, having increased in four of the past five years,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the company’s
 earnings statements .  “We continue to lose money on diesel and kerosene, but
those prices are decided by the government,” Indian Oil’s
Butola told reporters on May 28 in  New Delhi . “Our debt levels
are rising every day, and it will soon come to a time when banks
will be wary to lend us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net 
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  