-- Restored Competition Will Lessen U.S. Inequality
-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2012-05-30T23:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/restored-competition-will-lessen-u-s-inequality.html
The U.S. middle class is squeezed by
the rising costs of college education and health care, and an
economy that increasingly rewards only superstars. Fixing these
problems requires introducing greater competition into each
area.  Academics: The most dangerous crony capitalists are those
who can wrap their requests for protection and subsidies in a
noble cause. The market for higher education is far from
competitive. Government subsidies and industry-controlled
accreditation make entry for new institutions extremely
difficult.  Consider accreditation. Vocational schools and for-profit
universities rely heavily on federal loans that enable their
students to pay tuition. But the federal government will provide
loans only to attend schools that have been accredited -- and
accreditation boards are typically staffed by the deans of
existing schools, who have an interest in protecting their
franchise.  Shielded Market Position  This shielded market position applies to nonprofit
institutions, too. Comparing a reputational study of
universities in 1906 with the influential  U.S. News & World
Report  school rankings for 2011, two education professors found
that only one private university, Cornell, had dropped from the
top 13. (By comparison, only one of the 12 top companies on the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  at the beginning of the same period
was still there at the end:  General Electric Co. (GE) )  This stasis is due less to the accreditation barrier than
to the superstar nature of the academic business. The schools
with the best reputations attract the best students, who, in
turn, attract the best faculty. But the stasis is reinforced by
huge government subsidies, even to the less exalted colleges.
Colleges have no reason to compete aggressively, including on
prices, which rise continuously.  The government subsidies come in many forms. In 2010,
universities received $2 billion in congressional earmarks.
Student loans are subsidized as well. According to the
 Congressional Budget Office , the federal direct-loan program
costs taxpayers 12 percent of the amount lent. With student
loans reaching $107 billion in 2010-2011, the total cost for
taxpayers that year was $13 billion. In addition, 8 million
students received  Pell Grants  in 2010, for a total of $28
billion. Including earmarks, the total amount of subsidies to
university education was $43 billion a year, even before we
start counting tax subsidies (for college funds); tax breaks
(for university endowments, for example); and subsidies
dedicated to research.  There are unintended consequences. The first is the effect
on the equilibrium price of the subsidized goods. Standard
microeconomic analysis tells us that when you subsidize demand
for a good whose supply doesn’t respond much to its price, there
is a small effect on the quantity of the good and a big effect
on its price. The supply of college educations is limited by
space constraints to the expansion of existing colleges and the
difficulty of starting new ones. So the effect of the subsidies
has been a limited increase in college enrollment -- but a
significant increase in price.  Distorted Credit  The second unintended consequence is a distortion in the
credit market. Because the government guarantees all student
loans, lenders have no incentive to restrict lending. All of the
burden of making the right decision falls on the borrowers.
Unfortunately, 18-year-olds aren’t particularly good at judging
the profitability of an investment without expert advice, and
when they do get such advice, it generally counsels taking the
largest possible school loan.  The stock of student loans has reached $1 trillion. The
fraction of borrowers in default rose from 6.7 percent in 2007
to 8.8 percent in 2009. The situation appears ripe for another
debt crisis, one in which  Sallie Mae  -- which originates,
services and collects student loans -- plays a role similar to
the one played by its cousin  Fannie Mae  in the last crisis;
colleges play the role of the banks profiting from the
subsidies; and students play the overleveraged homeowners.  A potential solution to this problem would be an equity-
financing contract. Students would promise the lender a fraction
of their future income or, even better, a fraction of their
increased income as a result of having attended college.  Such contracts would share the risk of failure across
students, with superstars who make large salaries helping pay
the cost of financing for less lucky ones. More important is
that they would provide lenders with an incentive to counsel
students, as they would profit from good educational investments
and lose from bad ones. This would create more informed demand
for the schools, which would exert pressure on them to contain
costs and improve quality.  Health care: In the U.S., health care isn’t purchased in a
free market. Most employees have little choice: They must buy
employer-provided coverage. This system distorts the choice of
employment opportunities and it hides the real cost of health
insurance from the true payers.  Further, even before President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable
Care Act became law, the system was significantly distorted by
government intervention, which boosted demand for services and
prices, along with industry profits. Only 15 percent of the
funds used to purchase  health insurance  is controlled by
beneficiaries, while 33 percent is controlled by employers and
52 percent by the government. While employees end up paying the
cost of this insurance through reduced wages, they fight
employers’ efforts at cost containment. Anticipating that they
must rebate part or all of any health-cost savings to workers,
employers have no incentive to contain costs.  Lower Quality  Not only has this avalanche of money failed to improve the
quality of health care; it may have worsened it. A recent study
shows that states with higher Medicare spending have lower-
quality care. There are certain simple, well-established
procedures, such as beta-blockers after heart attacks and eye
exams for diabetics, that are cheap, have desirable medical
benefits and rarely have any contraindication. States where more
physicians are general practitioners, as opposed to specialists,
tend to use these procedures more frequently. But states that
spend more on Medicare seem to have a higher ratio of
specialists to general practitioners than states that spend
less. One could conjecture that specialists routinely push for
more advanced and expensive treatments.  How did we end up in this mess? Most employed people who
are lucky enough to have health insurance are unaware of its
real cost, because the employer pays for the largest share of
the burden with pretax dollars. Greater visibility would lead to
more pressure to contain those costs.  Corporate governance: Reducing the cost of health care and
college would make increasing  economic inequality  in the U.S.
less painful but wouldn’t attenuate it. To take a step in that
direction requires fixing corporate governance, including the
attendant problems of outsize executive pay, heavy lobbying,
malfeasance, opaque management and cronyism.  In theory, companies are run by boards, whose members are
supposed to act in the interest of shareholders; if a board
member fails to do so, his reputation will suffer, and he will
receive fewer offers to join other boards, decreasing his future
income.  The trouble is that most board members care about their
reputation in the eyes of the people who nominate and elect
them. In elections for corporate boards, the number of
candidates equals the number of seats. The vote is public, so
investors who vote against management run the risk of
retaliation. To add insult to injury, the list of candidates is
chosen by the current board members. While most companies have a
nominating committee that excludes the incumbent chief executive
officer, candidates are usually vetted by him anyway. Dissenters
are generally ostracized and not renewed.  Weak Controls  Corporate corruption and fraud occur when controls are
weak, and controls are weak when the people in charge have no
incentive to challenge the CEO. Yes, many serious board members
do their jobs well, but they do so despite the incentives.  The way to fix this is to appoint board members who are
accountable to the shareholders. Currently this isn’t possible
because of regulation introduced by the Securities and Exchange
Commission to prevent politics from affecting corporate
decisions. During the  Vietnam War , many political activists
turned shareholder meetings into forums for protest, and even
today, politically engaged groups try to push their agendas at
the expense of shareholders.  As is often the case, a good reason provides cover for a
bad one: protecting the incumbent managers from competition.
Currently, incumbent boards have everything tilted in their
favor. For example, they can present a slate of board members to
be mailed to all shareholders at the company’s expense.
Shareholders have to mount a very expensive proxy fight.  A simple way to change this would be to make it easy for
shareholders to present some candidates to the board and reserve
some seats for them, as long as they gather a sizeable
consensus.  The high voting threshold for these seats -- it should be
at least a third of shareholder votes taken -- would keep them
from falling under the control of activists with little
ownership and a misguided agenda. While organizing is costly for
institutional investors, voting isn’t. Hence, while the barriers
to entry in the form of the percentage of shares required to
present a list should be low, the voting requirement should be
high. This is exactly the opposite of what the Dodd-Frank Act
has proposed: The barriers to entry are enormous while the votes
necessary to be elected are few.  ( Luigi Zingales  is professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, a
contributor to  Business Class  and a contributing editor of City
Journal. This is the second of three excerpts from his new book,
“A Capitalism for the People: Recapturing the Lost Genius of
American Prosperity,” which will be published in June by Basic
Books, a member of The Perseus Books Group. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Spain’s banking crisis 
and  turmoil at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  intervening in Syria ; Haresh Sapra on  stress-test
results ;  Amity Shlaes  on  corporate sexual harassment ;  Steven
Greenhut  on  California referendums ; Matthew Schoenfeld on
 staving off the next AIG .  To contact the writer of this article:
Luigi Zingales at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net . 