-- RIM’s Shares Plunge After Company Reports Surprise Loss
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-30T20:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/rim-s-shares-plunge-after-company-reports-surprise-loss.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the
struggling maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, fell 7.8 percent
after forecasting an operating loss for the first quarter and
hiring banks to advise on strategic options.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital Markets  have been
hired to help RIM evaluate options, including forging
partnerships, licensing its software and looking at “strategic
business model alternatives,” the Waterloo, Ontario-based
company said yesterday in a statement. RIM also is attempting to
streamline operations by reducing spending and headcount.  An exodus of customers to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android devices has taken a toll on RIM’s sales and
profit over the past year, putting pressure on  management  to
make changes. An operating loss would be the company’s first
since 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
had estimated an operating profit of $261 million for the
period, which ends June 2.  “They’re trying to telegraph that expectations are too
high and that the next few quarters are going to be very
challenging,” said  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian
Securities in  Boston .  RIM shares  fell to $10.35 at the close in  New York . The
stock has lost 76 percent of its value in the past 12 months.  Operating profit typically excludes costs such as interest
and taxes, as well as one-time items.  New CEO  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, who took over from
co-founders  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie  in January, said
he’s considering strategy changes after customer and market-
share losses led to five straight quarters of sales shortfalls.
Bloomberg News reported April 19 that RIM was close to picking
an adviser, with JPMorgan as the frontrunner.  “Bringing in a blue-chip bank at least gives you the seal
of approval that you’re doing the correct due diligence and
taking shareholder interest into account here,” said Thornton,
who has a neutral rating on RIM’s stock.  RIM is putting the final touches on its new BlackBerry 10
operating system and will release the first smartphone built on
the software later this year. If it pursues a strategic change,
the company would prefer to license its BlackBerry software, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last month. Barring
that, RIM would like to find a strategic investor, the person
said. RIM doesn’t plan to sell itself, according to the person.  ‘Long Shot’  Still, Kris Thompson, an analyst at National Bank Financial
in Toronto, said in a note that hiring bankers means RIM is for
sale. The company may struggle to attract buyers, though, said
 William Power , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in Houston.  “A potential buyer remains uncertain and potentially a
long shot,” Power said today in a note, reiterating his
“underperform” rating.  A takeover of RIM’s size would trigger a review by the
Canadian government, which must determine whether an acquisition
is in the national interest. Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s
government in 2010 rejected Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
$40 billion hostile takeover of  Potash Corp. (POT)  over concerns the
sale would cut jobs and  tax revenue .  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters today
in Ottawa that RIM is an “important” Canadian company and that
he hoped it would succeed with its restructuring.  Shrinking Headcount  For now, RIM’s market share continues to plummet. The
company’s piece of the global smartphone industry fell by more
than half to 6.4 percent last quarter, according to research
firm IDC. Android’s share jumped to 59 percent, and Apple’s iOS
operating system accounted for 23 percent.  “Our financial performance will continue to be challenging
for the next few quarters,” Heins said in yesterday’s
statement. “The ongoing competitive environment is impacting
our business in the form of lower volumes and highly competitive
pricing dynamics in the marketplace, and we expect our Q1
results to reflect this, and likely result in an operating loss
for the quarter.”  RIM has previously said it aims to save $1 billion in
operating costs this fiscal year by cutting its number of
manufacturing sites. It also is “reviewing its organizational
efficiency” across the company.  That may lead to job cuts of 2,000 to 3,000, assuming the
company will try to save 30 percent of that operating cost
through labor reductions, said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at
Northern Securities Inc. in Toronto. The move would add to the
2,000 announced about a year ago.  RIM’s lack of clarity on the number of job reductions
“makes it hard to figure out if they know or understand the
magnitude of what needs to be cut,” Thornton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  