-- Rinehart Says Disclosing Finances Hurts Negotiations
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-30T06:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/rinehart-says-disclosing-finances-hurts-negotiations.html
Gina Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest woman,
is fighting an Australian regulator demanding financial records
of her closely held company, widening efforts to maintain her
privacy after losing a separate battle with her children.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission ordered
Hancock Prospecting Pty to submit 2010 financial statements on
Aug. 9, more than a month after they were due under the
Corporations Act, according to correspondence obtained by
Bloomberg News under the Freedom of Information Act.  The move by Rinehart, whose net worth is estimated at $18.2
billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , came in
the midst of a family dispute over control of a trust that holds
almost a quarter of the voting shares of Hancock, an early
developer of Australia’s iron-ore mines. While Rinehart fought
three of her children to the country’s highest court in an
unsuccessful bid to keep details of the spat secret, the
children are still pressing for the trust’s financial details.  “There are some sensitivities with respect to lodging the
accounts in the context of the current matter involving Hope
Downs in the courts,”  David Clarke , a partner at HWL Ebsworth
Lawyers representing Hancock, wrote ASIC in a Sept. 11 e-mail.  Hope Downs is Hancock’s mining venture with  Rio Tinto
Group. (RIO)   Hancock Report  Hancock had promised to pay a minimum of 25 percent of the
 cash flow  after tax and interest from Hope Downs to the Hope
Margaret Hancock Trust, according to documents filed in the
children’s lawsuit. The first distribution was to have taken
place in January. Filing Hancock’s financial statements with
ASIC won’t impact the outcome of the case, Clarke wrote.  Hancock obtained a report from Lonergan Edwards &
Associates Ltd. that said public disclosure of financial
statements, combined with releases by  Rio Tinto , will enable the
calculation of the average selling price, cash cost and profit
margin at the operation. Perth-based Hancock appealed ASIC’s
order to submit the financial statements and a preliminary
hearing before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is scheduled
in the West Australian city June 13.  “Compliance with the financial reporting requirements
would be an unreasonable burden,” Tadeusz Watroba, a director
at Hancock, referred to as HPPL in the correspondence, wrote to
ASIC in an Oct. 11 letter. “It will allow customers,
competitors and suppliers to use the information disclosed to
HPPL’s competitive disadvantage.”  Reporting Requirements  Mark Bickerton, Hancock’s information manager, and  Gervase Greene , a spokesman for Rio Tinto, declined to comment.  ASIC declined to comment on discussions with Hancock beyond
an April 5  media release  that said relief for Hancock to lodge
statements had been denied and the matter was going to be heard
by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.  “ASIC has no further comment to make,” the regulator said
in an e-mail today.  Australia ’s Corporations Act requires all large proprietary
companies, typically those with revenue of more than A$25
million ($24.4 million) or at least 50 employees, to prepare an
annual financial statement and a directors’ report for
submission to ASIC. The law requires companies to submit
documents within four months of the end of the financial year.  Hancock wrote to ASIC on March 8, 2011, to say it was a
large proprietary company and was seeking “relief” from the
requirement to lodge accounts, according to a fax from the
mining company released in the documents to Bloomberg News.  Request for Exemption  The company supplied financial statements to ASIC on the
condition they not be disclosed. They were returned to the
company, according to a Nov. 24 e-mail released by the regulator
to Bloomberg.  Rinehart’s company, which was founded by Gina’s late
father,  Lang Hancock , said in the exchange of letters that a
section of the Act provided for a “grandfathering,” which
exempted private companies from filing the statements.  “HPPL has always been 100 percent owned by private
entities controlled directly by Mr. Hancock and Mrs. Rinehart,”
Watroba wrote. “In much the same way as other private family
groups in Australia who do not lodge their financial statements
with ASIC due to the grandfathering provisions.”  Hancock’s negotiating position would be affected by public
disclosure of its accounts amid a decline in iron ore prices and
weaker steel markets, HWL Ebsworth’s Clarke said in the Sept. 11
e-mail.  Reasons of Competition  “In a climate of increasing supply, higher production
levels globally and falling prices, there is an increasing
likelihood that customers will seek to adopt other less
favourable means of pricing,” he wrote. Clarke didn’t respond
to a request for further comment.  The Hope Downs mine, 100 kilometers (62 miles) northwest of
Newman in the state of Western Australia, has the capacity to
produce 31.4 million metric tons of iron annually,  according  to
Rio Tinto. The mine began operation in 2007.  The majority of Rinehart’s fortune is held in Hancock,
which owns stakes in some of the biggest coal and iron-ore
mining projects in Australia and holds rights to royalties on
revenue Rio Tinto gets from some of its Hamersley iron mines.
Rinehart is also a shareholder in  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)  and
 Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)   Hancock last filed its financial statements with ASIC on
Dec. 24, 2010, citing profit in the year ended June 30, 2009, of
A$225 million on revenue of A$738 million.  Dispute Over Trust  Gina Rinehart is fighting the lawsuit by three of her
children who have accused her of abusing her role in
administering a multibillion-dollar fund and have sought to have
her removed as trustee. Rinehart’s youngest daughter, Ginia, has
said the claims showed the greed of her siblings and has sided
with her mother.  Hancock’s chief financial officer, Jay Newby, had proposed
to change contributions to the children’s fund from a share of
Hope Downs’ cash flow to a fixed quarterly dividend, according
to a Sept. 4 e-mail to Hope Rinehart Welker, the youngest of the
three children suing their mother.  The fixed dividends would be paid, “in order to provide
the beneficiaries with some certainty of income,” according to
the e-mail.  Bianca Rinehart, who had sought accounting of the trust,
was told by Hancock’s Newby she could have the trust’s financial
statements provided she agreed that would be the last request
for trust information, according to court filings.  The children’s lawsuit is Hope Rinehart Welker v  Gina
Rinehart . 2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  