-- Rodgers Accepts Liverpool Job Offer as Clubs Discuss Reparation
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-05-31T02:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/rodgers-tells-swansea-he-wants-to-take-liverpool-coaching-job.html
Brendan Rodgers  may be appointed as
Liverpool’s new manager today after telling Swansea that he’d
like to accept the 18-time English soccer champion’s job offer.  Rodgers, 39, spoke to Liverpool’s U.S. owner Fenway Sports
Group yesterday about succeeding  Kenny Dalglish , who was fired
May 16 after the Reds’ worst season in 18 years, Swansea
Chairman  Huw Jenkins  said in a  statement  last night.  “Following on from discussions with Liverpool’s owners,
Brendan has informed us that he would like to take up their
offer to manage Liverpool,” Jenkins said. “We’re currently in
talks with the owners to agree compensation. We’re trying to
finalize that within the next 24 hours.”  Rodgers will sign a three-year contract and compensation
could be as much as 5 million pounds ($7.7 million), the  Daily
Telegraph  reported, without saying where it got the information.
Calls to Liverpool weren’t answered outside business hours.  Liverpool, which last won the English league title in 1990,
has spent about 100 million pounds on players since the start of
2011. It finished eighth in the Premier League last season, 37
points behind champion  Manchester City  and 17 points off a
Champions League qualification spot.  The Reds won the Carling Cup in February, their first
trophy in six years, and lost to Chelsea in the May 5 F.A. Cup
final. While Dalglish guided Liverpool to those cup finals, the
team lost 14 of its 38 league games.  Swansea drew 0-0 at Liverpool and won 1-0 when the teams
met in Wales on the final day of the season, leaving the Reds
with 52 points, their lowest tally since the Premier League
began in 1992.  Mentored by Mourinho  A native of  Northern Ireland , Rodgers was the youngest
manager in  England ’s Championship when he joined Watford in
November 2008 at 35. He’d worked under  Jose Mourinho  at Chelsea
before leaving for the second-tier team.  Rodgers, whose playing career was ended early by injury,
ran Reading’s youth team for nine seasons before moving to
Chelsea when Mourinho joined the west London team. He was
Chelsea’s youth-team manager for two seasons and then was
promoted to oversee the reserve team.  Rodgers coached Watford for seven months after leaving the
Blues and then joined Reading for a six-month stint until
December 2009.  He was hired by Swansea at the start of the 2010-11 season,
and the club defeated Reading in the playoff final at Wembley to
become the first Welsh team in the Premier League.  In Swansea’s first season in the top division since 1983,
the club finished 11th and had 14 shutouts.  Swansea’s Blessing  “Although we are very disappointed to lose such a talented,
young British manager, we didn’t wish to stand in his way,”
Jenkins said. “We wish Brendan every success.”  Rodgers’s appointment would continue a revamp at Liverpool.
Dalglish joined director of football Damien Comolli, head of
sports science Peter Brukner and communications director  Ian Cotton  in leaving as Fenway Sports Group -- which also owns
baseball’s  Boston Red Sox  -- restructures.  Liverpool this month posted a club-record loss of 49.4
million pounds for fiscal 2011. The loss was mainly related to
costs associated with plans for a 70,000-seat stadium that have
been scrapped and severance payments to ex-employees including
 Roy Hodgson , who was fired as manager after six months and
succeeded by Dalglish. Hodgson joined West Brom, leading the
midlands team to its highest finish in the Premier League this
season before being named England manager on May 1.  FSG, controlled by hedge fund trader John W. Henry, bought
Liverpool in October 2010 after lenders to former owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  forced a sale when the pair defaulted
on a loan linked to their 2007 buyout. FSG wrote off 200 million
pounds of debt owed by the previous administration.  Liverpool has struggled on and off the field as losses have
climbed to almost 100 million pounds during the past three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  