-- Romney Seals Republican Nomination With Victory in Texas
-- B y   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2012-05-30T16:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/romney-seals-republican-nomination-with-victory-in-texas.html
Mitt Romney  clinched the Republican
presidential nomination by winning yesterday’s  Texas  primary, a
victory that put him over the top in the delegate chase.  Romney now has at least 1,191 delegates, the  Associated
Press  reported, with 1,144 needed to secure the nomination and
challenge President  Barack Obama  in November’s election. Romney
began the day with 1,086 delegates, and won most of the 152 at
stake in the Texas vote.  The former Massachusetts governor had 69 percent of the
primary vote with 99 percent of precincts reporting.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas had 12 percent, followed by
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania with 8 percent and
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia with 5
percent.  “Our party has come together with the goal of putting the
failures of the last 3½ years behind us,” Romney said in a
statement issued last night by his campaign office in Boston.
“We will settle for nothing less than getting America back on
the path to full employment and prosperity.”  Obama called Romney this morning to congratulate him, the
president’s campaign said in a statement. Obama “said that he
looked forward to an important and healthy debate about
America’s future, and wished  Governor Romney  and his family well
throughout the upcoming campaign,” according to the statement.  Campaign Appearances  Romney campaigned yesterday in Colorado and Nevada, two of
the 10 or so states that polls show are the most competitive in
his matchup with Obama. The Republican finished the day at a Las
Vegas fundraiser with billionaire  Donald Trump , who is
persisting in questioning whether Obama was born in Kenya.
Obama, 50, released his long-form birth certificate in April
2011 that showed his birthplace to be Honolulu.  Republicans will formally nominate Romney, 65, at their
national convention Aug. 27-30 in Tampa, Florida. One of his
major tasks before his nomination is to select a running mate, a
process the campaign began last month.  Romney effectively locked down the nomination when
Santorum, who had emerged as his main rival in the Republican
race, announced on April 10 he was ending his candidacy.  Santorum, 54, and Romney battled for support throughout
much of January and February. Romney scored a crucial victory on
Feb. 28 when he won his native state of Michigan by 3 percentage
points over Santorum. Romney, who unsuccessfully sought his
party’s nomination in 2008, maintained his front-runner’s status
in this year’s race with primary wins March 6 in Ohio, March 20
in Illinois and April 3 in Wisconsin.  Sweeping Primaries  Romney declared the Republican race over on the night he
swept five primaries on April 24, including one in  Pennsylvania .
He has focused since then on Obama, offering himself as more
capable of guiding the nation’s economy than the president.  Five states, including California, conduct presidential
primaries on June 5, and the last of the contests occurs June 26
in Utah.  In the Texas Democratic primary, Obama faced three little-
known opponents. The president had 88 percent of the vote, with
99 percent of the precincts reporting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Frederick in Washington at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  