-- Russia Will Fight Tax Dodgers at Offshore Havens, Siluanov Says
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-05-30T14:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/russia-plans-tax-on-companies-off-shore-profit-vedomosti-says.html
Russia  is seeking to curtail
corporate use of  tax havens  as the government considers changes
to taxes on foreign profits by offshore-registered units,
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  The authorities plan to “reduce opportunities to evade
taxes, which includes the use of low-tax jurisdictions and
primarily offshores,” Siluanov told lawmakers in Moscow today.  Russia may overhaul rules on controlled foreign companies,
according to a three-year tax-policy outline published on the
 Finance Ministry ’s website. The government may levy the 20
percent corporate income-tax rate on undistributed foreign
earnings of companies controlled by Russian residents, the
ministry said in the document. The measure would combat efforts
to dodge taxes by Russian parents transferring profits to
offshore destinations, according to the document.  President  Vladimir Putin , who was inaugurated for his third
term in the Kremlin this month after serving four years as prime
minister, urged Russian entrepreneurs last December to
repatriate assets held in offshore accounts and said the
government may adjust legislation to facilitate the process.
Including the $42 billion estimated to have fled Russia in the
first four months, more than $346 billion in private capital
left since 2007, the last year of net inflows, central bank data
show.  Putin ordered officials on March 5 to prepare rule changes
requiring Russian residents to declare and pay taxes on income
earned from foreign assets, the  Vedomosti  newspaper reported
today. The Finance Ministry wants to draft a proposal on so-
called controlled foreign company taxes in June, the newspaper
said, citing an unidentified official. The legislation would be
restricted to legal entities and won’t apply to individuals and
company owners, according to Vedomosti.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  