-- Russia and China Warn Against Military Intervention in Syria
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-05-30T10:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/russia-and-china-warn-against-military-intervention-in-syria-1-.html
Russia and  China  warned against
outside military intervention in Syria following the massacre of
more than 100 people in the town of Houla that has been blamed
by Western countries on regime-backed militia.  “To raise the possibility of some kind of military
intervention is more the result of political emotions than
careful consideration,” Russian First Deputy Foreign Minister
Andrei Denisov told reporters today in the Turkmen capital,
Ashgabat.  Russia will use its veto in the United Nations Security
Council to block authorization for any military action in Syria,
Interfax reported, citing Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov. China, which also holds a veto, opposes military
intervention and regime change by force, Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Liu Weimin  said at a briefing in Beijing today. Russia
and China have blocked UN action against their ally Syria over
the 14-month conflict.  French President  Francois Hollande  didn’t rule out military
intervention in Syria, saying yesterday it would require
approval from the UN Security Council.  Speaking in a France2 television interview, Hollande said
he still wants a diplomatic solution to the Syrian crisis and
that he’ll seek to convince Russia and China to back stronger
sanctions. Hollande meets Russian President  Vladimir Putin  on
June 1 in Paris.  The U.S. and its allies yesterday expelled Syrian diplomats
to condemn the massacre of women and children in Houla.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  told UN special
envoy Kofi Annan that an “objective and impartial” inquiry
must be conducted into the killings. Syrian President Bashar al- Assad’s forces and foreign-backed rebels are both to blame,
Lavrov said a day earlier after talks in Moscow with his U.K.
counterpart  William Hague .  China believes the “incident” in Houla must be
investigated at once and the perpetrators held accountable, Liu
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Ashgabat at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  