-- Marcus Says South Africa’s Bank Mandate Brings Challenges
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-31T06:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/s-african-central-bank-mandate-brings-challenges-marcus-says.html
South Africa ’s new central-bank
mandate brings “difficult challenges” as policy makers aim to
support economic growth while maintaining  price stability ,
Governor Gill Marcus said.  The  Reserve Bank ’s actions are “consistent with the
flexible inflation-targeting framework,” Marcus said in a
speech in Johannesburg yesterday.  Marcus has kept the benchmark  lending rate  unchanged at 5.5
percent for a record 18 months to support the economy’s
recovery, even as higher  oil prices  and a weaker rand keep
inflation above the upper limit of the 3 percent to 6 percent
target range. In February, the government cut its economic
growth forecast for this year to 2.7 percent from 3.4 percent.  “There is an upside risk to inflation, primarily because
of a weakening exchange rate and there is a downside risk to
growth particularly because of all the things that are happening
in  Europe ,” Marcus said. “Therefore we remain ready to move in
either direction, should the need arise.”  Europe buys about a third of South Africa’s manufactured
goods and the central bank is monitoring for “contagion”
effects from the debt crisis in that region, the governor said.
The scale of the global economic crisis is “huge,” she said.  “Behind the scenes, I believe they remain more concerned
about what’s going on in Europe than inflation,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in  London , said by e-mail
yesterday. Another financial market shock “would be enough to
publicly admit the balance was tipping and so cut rates.”  Rand Weakness  The rand has slumped 10 percent against the dollar since
April 2 as investors sold riskier, emerging-market assets. The
currency was at 8.5290 per dollar as of 8:58 a.m. in
Johannesburg today.  The central bank will continue to buy foreign currency to
add to reserves, though it won’t try to influence the level of
the rand, Marcus said. Building reserves is a “challenge,” she
said.  Growth in unsecured lending in South Africa is cause for
concern, while the bank is also worried about rising debt levels
among consumers, the governor said.  “There is a potential concern about the possibility of an
excessive burden of  household debt ,” Marcus said. “There is
the risk that some households are becoming over-leveraged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  