-- San Jose Shows the Way Out of Public-Pension Sinkhole
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/san-jose-shows-the-way-out-of-public-pension-sinkhole.html
Democratic leaders in  California ’s
capital point to Silicon Valley’s economic rebound as proof that
their ham-fisted tax policies aren’t strangling business growth.
Yet  San Jose , the high-tech hub and California’s third-largest
city, is writing off those legislators in Sacramento as it
tackles the toughest budget issues on its own.  On June 5, San Jose voters will almost certainly pass a
 measure  that would give current city workers this choice: stay
in the current pension system and increase contributions to help
pay off the city’s unfunded pension liabilities, or choose a
lower-benefit option. Thanks to San Jose’s charter provisions,
officials say they can do what courts haven’t allowed in other
locales: pare benefits for current public employees.  Most pension-reform efforts elsewhere apply only to new
hires. Although those efforts are important --  San Diego ,
California’s second-largest city, is finally voting on a measure
to fix its disastrous system -- they will not stem short-term
fiscal crises. San Jose, facing pension obligations that have
soared 350 percent in a decade and now consume more than 20
percent of the general fund, has decided to attack the heart of
the problem. Mayor Chuck Reed, a Democrat, eked out a pension-
reform majority from a 10-member City Council with only one
Republican member and nine Democrats, who, Reed told me, range
from liberal to liberal.  Mayor Steps Up  Californians are used to rolling their eyes at the antics
of their politicians, but then along comes Reed, “the most
courageous leader in California,” in the words of  David Crane , a
Democrat who was Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s
economic adviser. Crane was referring to the mayor’s willingness
to take on a liberal sacred cow, public-sector unions.  “I’m not sure they have fought me every step of the way,
but I can’t remember any step they haven’t resisted,” Reed said
in an interview, referring to the unions. “There’s a difference
between being liberal and progressive and being a union
Democrat.” Reed the Democrat wants to stop pensions from
crowding out the other programs he cares about. The public-
service mentality has changed, he said. In police negotiations,
for instance, union officials rarely talk about the number of
officers or policing policy.  “It’s all about money, about enhancing an already generous
retirement,” he said. “The mentality has changed, at least at
the union level. It has eroded the public’s perception of people
in government serving the public.”  Reed points to strong backing for the measure, just as
statewide opinion polls show overwhelming support for pension
reform, even among registered Democrats. Reed’s council foes are
forced to give lip service to the idea of an overhaul, but they
find technical reasons why they don’t approve of this particular
approach. The unions aren’t fighting it so much as gearing up
for the inevitable legal battle.  Four hundred and sixty miles south, another battle over
pensions is unfolding. In San Diego -- far more conservative
than San Jose, but also with a Democratic voter majority -- the
unions aren’t bothering to fight the city’s ballot measure
either, certain as they are that it will pass on June 5.  “There’s no opposition whatsoever,”  Tony Krvaric , the
chairman of the county  Republican Party , told me. “There’s not
even a token radio buy.”  Instead, foes are focusing on the mayor’s race, in hopes of
electing an ally who will obstruct the city from carrying out
the changes, and on a legal strategy to derail the measure. They
have also  sought help  from a state board, which tried -- but was
overturned in court -- to determine whether the ballot measure
was an unfair labor practice.  Gathering Signatures  Councilman Carl DeMaio, a Republican, and his backers
couldn’t win council support to put a measure on the ballot, so
they started a signature-gathering effort. The tepid council
position is disturbing, given that San Diego is the place where
years of underfunding helped propel the issue into the national
consciousness.  The San Diego measure doesn’t go as far as San Jose’s for
current employees. Reformers there decided to base all the
pension changes on clearly established law so they would be
bulletproof against legal challenges.  San Diego’s measure aims specifically at pension spiking.
Employees are allowed to base their lifetime pensions not just
on their final year’s salary but also on add-ons such as
specialty pay and bonuses. The ballot proposal institutes
401(k)-style benefits for new non-public-safety employees and
for politicians. The city faces a $2.4 billion unfunded-pension
liability, and analyses suggest the ballot measure would save
almost $1 billion over 30 years. Union officials say this
projected savings comes mostly from the initiative’s five-year
cap on pensionable pay that can be overridden by a two-thirds
council vote.  The real vote to watch is for mayor, which is essentially a
three-way race. DeMaio faces a Democratic congressman, Bob Filner, and a Republican state assemblyman, Nathan Fletcher.
 David Brooks  of the  New York  Times has depicted DeMaio as an
“orthodox conservative,” but he is nothing of the sort. The
city’s first openly gay councilman, DeMaio is a fiscal hawk
disliked not only by unions but by the business establishment
because, as he told me, “I’m not for corporate welfare.”  Filner is the full-on Democratic union guy, but the unions
seem to be betting on the politically pliable Fletcher, viewed
as better able to beat DeMaio once the contest is winnowed down
to two candidates. Fletcher, endorsed by the police union,
bolted from the Republican Party right after it endorsed DeMaio.
Fletcher supports the pension measure, but this looks like
political cover from an establishment candidate whose changing
positions track his career ambitions.  Stall Strategy  Reformers are concerned that a Mayor Filner or Fletcher
would mean the slow death of resolve on the pension mess. A new
union-allied mayor, DeMaio said, can stretch the timeline for
carrying out the changes, or could possibly gut the measure in
the name of reaching a settlement to end the expected union
lawsuits.  The good news: These two large, Democratic-oriented and
economically vibrant cities are seriously tackling pension
reform. Perhaps someday state leaders in  Sacramento  will notice,
but Mayor Reed and Councilman DeMaio aren’t going to waste their
time waiting for them.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in Sacramento, California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Spain’s banking crisis 
and  turmoil at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  intervening in Syria ; Haresh Sapra on  stress-test
results ;  Amity Shlaes  on  corporate sexual harassment ;  Luigi
Zingales  on  competition and inequality ; Matthew Schoenfeld on
 staving off the next AIG .  To contact the writer of this article: Steven Greenhut in
Sacramento at  steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 