-- Saudi Star Offers Jobs to Overcome Criticism of Ethiopia Project
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-05-30T08:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/saudi-star-offers-jobs-to-overcome-criticism-of-ethiopia-project.html
Saudi Star Agricultural Development
Plc, owned by Saudi billionaire Mohamed al-Amoudi, said it plans
to overcome local opposition to its Ethiopian rice project by
offering jobs and training, a month after five people working on
it were shot dead.  Criticism by residents may subside when the 10,000-hectare
(24,711-acre) plot is developed and 5,000 jobs are created on
the farm in the southwestern Gambella region in about two years,
Saudi Star Chief Executive Officer Fikru Desalegn said in an
interview yesterday in  Addis Ababa , Ethiopia’s capital.  Ethiopia is leasing 4 million hectares of land to foreign
investors in regions including Gambella as part of a commercial-
farming drive. Advocacy groups such as the U.S.-based  Oakland
Institute  have said the program has resulted in rights
violations and forced the relocation of more than a million
people. The government says resettlement has been voluntary and
unrelated to the investment program.  Providing employment for residents of the Gambella will
“definitely teach the public it is very useful for them,”
Fikru said. Other benefits for the 13,000 residents of the area
will include investment in infrastructure such as roads and
vocational education by the company, he said.  Two Pakistanis and three Ethiopians employed by Ghulam
Rasool & Co., a closely held Pakistani engineering company, died
last month after being shot by unidentified gunmen while
building an irrigation canal for the project.  19 Killed  The attack occurred a month after opponents of the farming
plan shot and killed 19 students on a bus 20 kilometers (12
miles) from Gambella town on March 12, state-owned Ethiopian
 News Agency  reported. There is “suspicion” the same group
attacked the GRC workers, Federal Affairs Minister Shiferaw Teklemariam said last month.  Work has resumed on the Saudi Star project and the federal
police are guarding the area, Fikru said.  “All the culprits were caught,” Fikru said. “Things are
normalized. All our contractors are back to work.”  Saudi Star will start growing rice on 3,000 hectares of
land in January, a month later than planned because of the
attack. The company has a 10,000-hectare plot it leased in 2008
from the government for 138 Ethiopian birr ($7.78) a hectare
annually, Fikru said.  Rice is now being grown on 350 hectares and the company
expects to cultivate the whole area by mid-2014, he said.  Saudi Star’s lease may yield 4.5 metric tons of rice a
hectare and produce two harvests a year, said Fikru, formerly a
minister in  Ethiopia ’s federal government. As much as 45 percent
will be exported, mainly to  Saudi Arabia , he said.  Land Earmarked  About half of the land in Gambella has been earmarked for
investment, while nationwide, about a 10th of the total 4
million hectares set aside by the state has been leased,
according to the government.  Saudi Star, part of Ethiopia’s Derba Group, plans to lease
another 290,000 hectares in the Dima area of southern Gambella,
Fikru said. The projects may annually generate 17.3 billion
birr, Derba said in February.  The Oakland Institute says that as many as 70,000
indigenous Anuak and Nuer people have been evicted for investors
in Gambella and that the farms will increase local hunger.  “There was nobody in the 10,000 hectares,” Fikru said.
“We have not paid any compensation.”  A May 2011 environmental and social impact assessment of
the project by the National Engineering Services  Pakistan  and
Lahore-based Country Services Mapping Service Ltd. shown to
Bloomberg by Fikru said there were “no resettlement issues”
and that the project would improve local livelihoods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  