-- Schneider Said to Plan Revival of $1.3 Billion Sensors Sale
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-05-30T11:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/schneider-said-to-plan-revival-of-1-3-billion-sensors-sale.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the French
maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, is set to revive a
sale of its sensors unit after halting the plan last year amid
the  European debt crisis , people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Schneider plans to send information about the sale process
to potential bidders early June, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the process is private. Interested
buyers for the Custom Sensors & Technologies unit include buyout
firm TPG Capital LP,  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , Advent International
Corp., PAI Partners SAS and Cinven Ltd., they said. The division
may fetch more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), they said.  Schneider, based near Paris, last year suspended a plan to
sell the asset because a lack of debt financing would have
diminished potential offers, the people said. Schneider first
considered a sale of the division before the 2008 global
recession, people familiar with the plan said last year.  A spokesman for Schneider declined to comment.
Representatives of Advent, PAI, Carlyle, TPG and Cinven declined
to comment.  CST, based in Moorpark,  California , makes sensors that
react to changes in pressure or temperature and are used in the
automotive and aeronautics industries. The unit, created through
acquisitions in the last decade, employs about 4,700 people and
had $660 million in revenue last year, according to its website.  In 2010, the last year for which Schneider published
separate earnings number for CST before folding it into its
industry unit, CST had an operating margin before one-off items
of 16.4 percent on 433 million euros of sales.  In 2005, Schneider bought the sensor maker BEI Technologies
Inc. for $562 million, a year after purchasing Solectron Corp.’s
Kavlico unit, which makes measurement and control systems. It
bought French sensor maker Crouzet in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  