-- Sears Leads Drop in Retail Stock Ahead of Sales Report
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-30T21:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/sears-leads-drop-in-retail-stock-ahead-of-sales-report.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the department-
store chain controlled by hedge fund manager  Edward Lampert , and
 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  led declines in retail stocks ahead of
tomorrow’s industrywide monthly sales report, amid concerns the
European crisis will curb  consumer confidence .  Sears, based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , declined 9
percent to $52.34 at the close in New York, the biggest decline
since Dec. 27, and largest  drop  in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Abercrombie slumped 5.5 percent.  The  International Council of Shopping Centers , a trade
group tracking retailers, today cut its monthly U.S. same-store
sales forecast to 2 percent from 3 percent, citing weakened
consumer confidence leading to a slowdown in discretionary
spending. Concerns the European crisis may spread globally hurt
Sears in particular, because many of its customers seek loans to
buy appliances such as washing machines, said  Paul Swinand , an
analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  “They’re generally more affected by anything that’s
credit-sensitive,” Swinand said. “If there’s a global
contagion of Lehman proportions, then there’s a credit crunch,
then a liquidity withdrawal, anybody that needs to sell stuff
for housing or big appliances is going to get hurt worse.”  Out of the 32 companies in the  S&P 500 Retailing Index (S5RETL) , 30
recorded declines today, including J.C. Penney Co. and Limited
Brands Inc., owner of the Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain. The
index decreased 1.6 percent, compared with a 1.4 percent decline
for the  S&P 500. (SPX)   Global Stocks Drop  Global stocks slumped after  Italy  failed to meet its
maximum target at a debt sale,  Spain  struggled to bolster its
banks and a Greek poll showed increased support for anti-
austerity parties.  At Sears, domestic same-store sales may have declined this
month in the “high single-digits,” driven by weakness in
apparel, boutique firm Cleveland Research wrote in a note to
clients today.  Retailers are scheduled to report same-store sales, which
exclude recently opened locations, for May tomorrow. Sales are
anticipated to rise 1.8 percent, compared with a gain of 5.5
percent in May 2011, according to estimates compiled by Retail
Metrics Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  