-- Senate Democrats Outspent 3 to 1 on Ads by Super-Pacs
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-05-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/senate-democrats-outspent-3-to-1-on-ads-by-super-pacs.html
While the presidential campaign
commands the most attention, Senate Democrats are bearing an
early  television advertising  assault by Republican-leaning
groups that is reshaping those races.  Senator  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and former Virginia Governor
Tim Kaine, who is seeking a Senate seat, are being outspent by
at least a 3-to-1 ratio on television advertising as super
political action committees supporting Democrats struggle to
raise money and President  Barack Obama  and the national party
conserve resources for the fall election.  Brown and his allies have spent $2.5 million on television
advertising, compared with the $8 million spent by such
Republican groups as American Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies, a tax-exempt organization that doesn’t disclose its
donors, according to Democratic and Republican analysis shared
with Bloomberg News.  “These individuals, these billionaires, realize that small
numbers of people can have a huge impact,” Brown said in a
telephone interview. “It’s very one-sided,” he said. “This
outside money is bad for the system.”  The contrast is sharpest in  Virginia , where Kaine
supporters have spent $385,000, compared with $1.9 million by
such groups as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Congressional Vulnerability  The disparity could take a greater toll on House and Senate
Democrats than on Obama because his re-election committee, which
entered May with $115 million in cash on hand, is expected to
have enough money to get its message out to voters and counter
attacks.  “There’s so much oxygen being sucked up by the Obama
campaign,” said  Ken Goldstein , president of New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.
“Democrats are also not going to have the same kind of money
that Republican outside groups are going to have.”  Both Obama’s campaign and the  Democratic National Committee 
have declined requests to transfer funds to their House and
Senate party committees, according to the campaign and the DNC.
They are also reluctant to do that as presumed Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has shown early strength in
fundraising.  In April, the first month Romney and the  Republican
National Committee  were solely focused on raising funds for a
general election, they raised $40 million, almost matching the
$43.6 million that Obama and the DNC collected for the month.  Obama Withholds Cash  “Our top priority and focus is to secure the electoral
votes necessary to re-elect the president,” said Obama campaign
manager  Jim Messina , in an e-mail. “There’s no doubt that
Democratic campaigns face a challenging new political landscape
with special interests giving unlimited amounts to super-PACs.”  Since the start of the  Ohio  campaign, groups supporting
Republicans, including the chamber, have run 9,414 ads either
supporting the Republican nominee or attacking Brown while the
incumbent Democrat and his allies have aired 3,322 spots,
according to CMAG data.  Scott Reed, former campaign manager for then-Republican
Senator Bob Dole’s 1996 presidential bid who now heads the
chamber’s voter-education program, defended the advertising
blitz, saying Brown and others will be held accountable for
their support for the new health-care law. As for the uneven
spending levels, he said it won’t matter in the end.  Election Stakes  “It comes out in the wash at the end of the day in the
sense that Obama is a ferocious fundraiser-in-chief,” Reed
said. “There’s no question the pro-business and pro-growth
groups are spending early and more aggressively than ever
because they recognize the stakes of the election are so high.”  In Virginia, Crossroads GPS, which was formed with the help
of  Karl Rove , former political adviser to President  George W. Bush , and the chamber have aired 1,980 ads, compared with the
380 spots run by the Democrat-backed Majority PAC on Kaine’s
behalf.  One ad aired by Crossroads GPS says Kaine, as governor,
built a “reckless” spending record that includes turning a $1
billion surplus into a $3.7 billion shortfall, an assertion
disputed by independent fact-checking organizations.  According to Factcheck.org, “Kaine actually trimmed
spending to balance the budget, as required by state law.” The
Richmond Times-Dispatch wrote in an April 25 blog posting that
“In reality, Kaine worked with legislators to cut more than $5
billion to offset dwindling revenue and balance the budget.”  Jonathan Collegio, Crossroads’s spokesman, disputed the
fact checkers’ conclusions. “ Tim Kaine  clearly turned a
billion-dollar surplus into a 3 trillion shortfall,” he said in
an e-mail.  Balanced Budget Required  Under the Virginia constitution, governors are required to
balance the state budget annually and aren’t allowed to carry
deficits.  The outside groups have the potential to influence House
and Senate races because they’ll account for a greater share of
total spending, said  Anthony Corrado , a political scientist at
Colby College in Waterville,  Maine .  “By the fall there will be much more advertising by the
candidates and the parties, but at this time they largely have
the airwaves to themselves,” said Corrado.  The early assault isn’t confined to Virginia and Ohio.  In Missouri, Republican groups, including Crossroads GPS,
have spent $5 million more on 8,903 television ads than the $2.3
million Democrats have put behind 2,535 in support of Senator
Claire McCaskill’s re-election.  Republican John Brunner, a businessman who’s in a three-way
primary with former State Treasurer Sarah Steelman and
Representative Todd Akin, has also aired ads critical of
McCaskill.  Florida Ads  In  Florida , Republican Representative  Connie Mack , who is
also facing a primary challenge, and outside groups including
the chamber have run 6,464 spots with no response from the
Democratic incumbent, Senator  Bill Nelson , or his supporters.  One ad sponsored by Mack’s campaign claimed Nelson
supported spending tax dollars on research to see how monkeys
react under the influence of cocaine. According to Politifact,
“Mack’s claim is pretty bananas,” and is rated mostly false.  Nelson voted for large amounts of money for scientific
research but never directly voted to send money for a study of
monkeys on cocaine. The  National Institutes of Health  selected
the project at  North Carolina ’s Winston-Salem College for a
grant.  Another spot called “Nightmare,” which has run 2,337
times and is sponsored by the chamber, says 20 million people,
including senior citizens on Medicare, could lose  health-care 
coverage because of “Obamacare.” Politifact.com rated that
claim “pants on fire,” its highest level of falsity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  