-- Serbia Faces Threat of Debt Crisis, Fiscal Council Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-30T14:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/serbia-faces-threat-of-debt-crisis-fiscal-council-says-1-.html
Serbia  faces the threat of a public
debt crisis and needs to borrow an additional 2.5 billion euros
($3.1 billion) to finance its liabilities this year, the Balkan
nation’s Fiscal Council said.  The deficit in the first five months of the year totaled
about 80 billion dinars ($848 million), or between 7 percent and
8 percent of gross domestic product, the head of the Fiscal
Council, Pavle Petrovic, told reporters in Belgrade today.  “As a result, we have had an increase in the current-
account deficit, which has weighed on the dinar and this
direction of the deficits and debt gives a clear sign to foreign
investors who are financing this government that the situation
is not sustainable,” he said.  Elections on May 6 were inconclusive with neither of the
two biggest voter getters winning a majority. The former
Yugoslav republic’s political stalemate pushed the dinar to
record lows on concern a delay in forming a new administration
will halt progress on spending cuts and the renewal of the
country’s $1.3 billion international bailout loan.  The dinar weakened 0.66 percent today to 116.9638 per euro
at 3:48 p.m. in Belgrade. The dinar has fallen 10.2 percent to
the common currency this year, according to the Narodna Banka
Srbije calculations.  Mixed Measures  The  Fiscal Council , a three-member body monitoring the
nation’s budget performance, proposed a mix of measures to cut
spending and bolster revenue, including a 4 percentage point
increase in the  sales tax  to 22 percent, a freeze in public
wages and pensions and a cut in subsidies to avoid the crisis.
The moves would cut spending by about 1 billion euros through
the end of 2013, it said.  Serbia also needs to overhaul its pension system, raise the
 retirement age  for women to at least 63 years from 60 years and
cut at least 20,000 jobs, or 5 percent of the public-sector
workforce.  Without those measures, “a public debt crisis is possible
as soon as this year with uncontrolled dinar declines, a surge
in inflation, the employment drop and a significant drop in
 living standards ,” the council said in a statement, adding the
fiscal gap would reach 6.2 percent of GDP at the end of 2012 and
public debt would rise to 55 percent of GDP.  The fiscal consolidation program presented today is
“comprehensive, necessary and urgent because Serbia’s fiscal
situation is unsustainable,” said Zeljko Bogetic, the  World
Bank ’s lead economist for the Balkans. “Picking some of the
measures won’t yield results. Any responsible government must
accept this program” in its entirety.  Budget Deficit  Serbia’s budget gap was 6 percent of GDP in the first
quarter as economic activity contracted by 1.3 percent. That
compares with a full-year goal of 4.25 percent of GDP originally
set in the 2012 budget. Public debt reached 46.7 percent of GDP.
According to Serbia’s fiscal rules, the budget gap is limited at
4.5 percent of GDP and the public debt ceiling is 45 percent of
GDP.  With the proposed savings measures, which have been sent to
President-elect  Tomislav Nikolic  and all parliamentary parties,
the deficit may narrow to “around 5.5 percent of GDP” this
year and to between “3 percent and 3.5 percent in 2013,”
Petrovic said.  “The situation is very grave,” Petrovic said. The weaker
dinar “reflects the unsustainable situation in public
finances” and sticking with expansionary fiscal policies may
lead Serbia to a rise in borrowing costs, he said.  Serbia’s sovereign spread, according to JP Morgan Chase &
Co’s EMBIG index, has risen 81 points since May 3 to 572 points
on May 29, and yields on its Eurobond maturing in 2021 rose by
45 basis points in the same period to 7.01 percent.  “Uncertainty will prevail until a new government is
formed, but without fiscal consolidation the trend will be
difficult to change and the dinar weakening may become even more
drastic in the case of public debt crisis,” said Branko
Urosevic, an adviser to the central bank’s chief economist’s
office. “We are gradually approaching that crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  