-- Severn Trent Proposes Special Dividend After Outperformance
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-30T15:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/severn-trent-proposes-special-dividend-after-outperformance.html
Severn Trent Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest water company, plans to pay shareholders a special
dividend even after reporting a drop in full-year earnings.  The utility plans to return 63 pence (98 cents) on July 27,
the same day it pays an ordinary annual dividend of 70.1 pence a
share, according to a statement today. Severn Trent is targeting
a dividend increase equal to the retail  price index  plus 3
percent through 2015.  The company will return about 150 million pounds to
investors in the special dividend and spend an additional 150
million pounds on its water and waste networks, Finance Director
Mike McKeon said on a conference call. The payment is the result
of more efficent use of cash and improved debt, he said.  “We thought long and hard about this,” Chief Executive
Officer Tony Wray said on the call. “It’s fueled by the
outperfomance to date,” he said, adding that the company will
spend about 2.5 billion pounds in the five-year period to 2015.  The special dividend “was hoped for and will be popular,”
Angelos Anastasiou, an analyst at Investec Securities, said in
an e-mail.  Profit before tax for the year ended March 31 fell 38
percent to 156.7 million pounds from 253 million pounds a year
earlier, the Coventry, England-based company said.  Earnings from Severn Trent’s water business were broadly
flat due to higher operating costs, including an increase in
taxes, and greater spending on maintanence and repairs. The
company’s services business was negatively affected by
constrained municipal budgets in the U.S. and political
instability in Spain and  Italy .  Severn Trent gained 42 pence, or 2.5 percent, to close at
1,706 pence in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  