-- Siemens, Technicolor, Google, IBM: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/siemens-technicolor-google-ibm-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Supreme Court let stand a
jury verdict that will cost  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ’s ceramics
and plastics business more than $44 million in a patent fight
with a  Siemens AG (SIE)  unit.  Rejecting a Saint-Gobain appeal in a dispute over a crystal
used in medical-imaging devices, the justices yesterday refused
to question a federal appeals court ruling that upheld the
verdict. The appeals court also told a trial judge to consider
increasing the $44.9 million award to account for additional
products that infringed Siemens’s patent 4,958,080.  The Supreme Court rebuff came at the urging of the Obama
administration, which told the justices that the appeals court
reached the right conclusion.  The dispute was over the composition of crystals that
convert gamma rays into light to produce a three-dimensional
image of the body to test for diseases. Siemens, based in
Munich, makes crystals for its positron emission tomography, or
PET, tests. Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie,  France , produces
the crystals for products made by  Royal Philips Electronics NV. (PHG)   Siemens Medical Solutions USA was awarded $44.9 million
after it sued in 2007 over the sale of crystals for 61 scanners
made by Philips Medical Systems. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said the trial court should
have included a royalty award on 18 additional scanners. Philips
wasn’t named in the lawsuit.  Saint-Gobain is  Europe ’s biggest supplier of building
materials and Siemens is Europe’s largest engineering company.  The case is Saint-Gobain Ceramics & Plastics v. Siemens
Medical Solutions USA, 11-301.  Technicolor Dissects IPhones in Hunt for Patent Payoff  When  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s next iPhone hits store shelves,
 Technicolor SA (TCH) ’s engineers will rush to get the handset -- not
to make calls or play games, but to rip it apart.  Technicolor, an unprofitable French company that invented
the process for color movies used in “The Wizard of Oz” and
countless other classics, plans to cash in on its 40,000 video,
audio and optics patents to turn its fortunes around. The
company has a team of 220 people dissecting every new smartphone
and tablet from industry goliaths such as Apple,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  for patent infringements.  Google Inc., creator of the market-leading Android mobile-
phone technology, this month completed the $12.5 billion
takeover of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s mobile-phone
business and its 17,000 patents. Equipment vendor Ericsson AB
expects to increase revenue from its 27,000 patents, while rival
 Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  says it plans to generate several hundred
million euros this year alone from its 29,000 rights.  Prompted by surging demand for patents that regulate
functions such as sliding gestures on touchscreens or the
rendering of graphics for games and applications, lawsuits over
smartphone and tablet technology have been filed worldwide.  Patent licensing is Technicolor’s most profitable business.
The licensing division had a 76 percent operating profit margin
last year, helped by 1,200 contracts with television, computer
and handset makers  Third Point LLC and Apollo Management Holdings, which
together own 13.4 percent of Technicolor according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, have been pushing for a sale of the
company’s patent portfolio, Le Figaro newspaper reported April
19. Third Point and Apollo representatives declined to comment.  While the patent licensing business is lucrative, it often
takes time before a company can cash in. Patent negotiations
often last between one and four years, de Russe said.  The company is currently fighting in U.S. courts with
Taiwanese manufacturers over patents used in LCD computer
monitors, after it filed a complaint with the International
Trade Commission. The process was started after several years of
failed discussions.  “We’ve got a reputation for charging reasonable licensing
fees and preferring friendly negotiations,” Beatrix de Russe
said. She is a lawyer and the executive vice president of
 intellectual property  at Technicolor. “That doesn’t mean we
don’t drag people to court from time to time,” she said.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Google’s YouTube Wins French Case Over Copyrighted TV Clips  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing website won a French
copyright lawsuit filed by broadcaster TF1, which had sought
more than 140 million euros ($175 million).  YouTube can’t be held responsible for videos posted by
users because it merely hosts the content, the Paris Tribunal de
Grande Instance said in a ruling yesterday. The court dismissed
TF1’s claims and ordered it to pay YouTube 80,000 euros in
costs.  TF1 sued Google in 2008, seeking damages for broadcasts
illegally uploaded by users, including the Oscar-winning film
“La Vie En Rose” and “Grey’s Anatomy,” a U.S. medical drama
for which it holds the French broadcast rights. The case is
similar to a U.S. lawsuit by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  that seeks $1 billion
in compensation for illegal uploads of its programs.  Christophe Muller, Google’s head of YouTube partnerships
for southern Europe, said the decision meant Google could host
content posted by users “without fearing a giant liability.”  “The end result will be more videos posted on the net,
more revenue generated for creative artists, and more exposure
to a global audience for these artists,” Muller said in a blog
post.  Juliette Dumas, a spokeswoman for TF1 in Paris, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.
The decision can be appealed to a higher court.  Kim Dotcom Can Return to Luxury Mansion, New Zealand Court Says  Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom, accused of orchestrating
the biggest copyright-infringement conspiracy in U.S. history,
can return to his leased luxury mansion after a New Zealand
court relaxed bail terms.  The judge ruled yesterday that Dotcom was no longer a
flight risk, granting the removal of electronic tags the
Internet tycoon was required to wear, according to a report on
stuff.co.nz. Dotcom had been staying in a smaller home next to
the mansion in an Auckland suburb. Ministry of Justice
spokespeople were unable to obtain a copy of the ruling for
Bloomberg News.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment.  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his residence in late
January and spent four weeks in jail before being released to
await an extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.
When police raided the mansion in Coatesville, north of
Auckland, they seized 18  luxury vehicles , including a Rolls
Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink Cadillac.  The Dotcom mansion is valued at NZ$30 million ($23
million), according to an article on the stuff.co.nz website.
The property is also known as the “Chrisco mansion,” because
it was built by the founders of the Christmas hamper company,
Chrisco Hampers Australia Ltd.  Dotcom last month said that New Zealand politician John
Banks, leader of the one-seat ACT party in coalition with Prime
Minister John Key’s government, incorrectly reported that
donations of NZ$50,000 from Dotcom toward his failed 2010 bid
for the Auckland mayoralty were anonymous.  Dotcom then lampooned the politician in a rap song he
recorded at Crowded House singer Neil Finn’s recording studio in
Auckland, along with an accompanying music video.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  IBM Sets Guidelines to Prevent Data Loss on Employees’ Devices  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s “bring your own
device” policy has some downsides, Jeanette Horan, the
company’s chief information officer, said in an interview
published in the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s
Technology Review magazine.  She said many employees, who are using their own
smartphones and tablets, were “blissfully unaware” of
potential security risks some popular apps could pose, according
to Technology Review.  IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , has set up guidelines for
apps that should be avoided, including public file-transfer
services Horan said could potentially let confidential company
information out for public viewing, Technology Review reported.  All employee-owned devices used to access IBM networks must
be configured by the company’s information-technology department
so the memory can be purged remotely if the device is stolen,
Horan told Technology Review.  Trademark  Ownership Claim for ‘Hon’ Mark All a Mistake, Festival Head Says  Even though Baltimore restaurateur Denise Whiting abandoned
her attempts to register “hon” with the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  last year, promotional material for the annual
“ HonFest ” celebration of Baltimore’s favorite term of
endearment warned would-be users of the term that they were in
danger of trademark infringement, the Baltimore Sun  reported .  Festival paperwork for HonFest, which centers around
Whiting’s  Café Hon , warned that items bearing the word “hon”
without permission would be subject to confiscation as
counterfeit merchandise, according to the newspaper.  Lisa Davis, who headed “HonFest,” told the Sun it was all
a mistake and said the warning was included because she hadn’t
noticed it was still included in the promotional material.  Tissue Paper Rings Violate Olympics Marks, London Florist Warned  A London florist was told her display of five tissue paper
rings was a trademark violation and that she could be sued by
the committee organizing the London 2012 Olympic Games and Coca-
Cola Co., the games’ sponsor, This Is Staffordshire news website
 reported .  The florist said she had only intended to “help people get
into the Olympic spirit,” and “was just trying to support”
her nation’s team rather than advertise her own products,
according to the website.  A spokesman for the London Organizing Committee of the
Olympic and Paralympic Games said that each case of potential
infringement will be dealt with “on an individual basis,” but
the committee’s preference was for education about trademark
rights rather than litigation, the website reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 