-- Slovenia Wants Foreign Investors to Boost Bank Capital
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-30T10:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/slovenia-wants-foreign-investors-to-boost-bank-capital.html
Slovenia plans to sell stakes in
state-controlled banks to foreign investors to
raise capital at the institutions and reduce  government
spending , Finance Minister Janez Sustersic  said.  “Our plan is to recapitalize banks and look for private
investors that would be ready to step in, so the state can keep
a controlling stake,” Sustersic said in a phone interview
today. “Banks still represent a problem we haven’t solved.”  Slovenian state-owned lenders, including the largest Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., reported record losses last year as more
and more companies, especially from the ailing construction
industry, went bankrupt, forcing lenders to set aside cash to
cover bad loans. The trend may worsen as the export-driven
economy enters its second recession in three years
as demand slumps because of austerity measures at home and
across  Europe .  The worsening debt crisis in Europe and the shrinking
Slovenian economy are affecting business at the banks, which
should reduce dependence on funding from the  European Central
Bank , the Slovenian central bank said on May 14.  Nova Ljubljanska, which borrowed 1.2 billion euros ($1.5
billion) from the ECB to repay maturing debt, wants to raise 400
million euros in equity capital by the end of June to improve
its core Tier 1 ratio to above 9 percent. NLB continued to lose
money in the first quarter, when it reported 34.6 million-euros
loss on increased loan provisions.  Solution for Banks  “We will also have to find a solution for banks’
liabilities and not only for bad-loan provisions,” Sustersic
said. “It’s about non-bank investments such as the stake in
Mercator, because the bank isn’t the best option to manage such
a holding. We will do that on a case-by-case basis to see how
many of these investments can be sold.”  Slovenian banks own stakes in companies including in the
store chain  Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d.  after they seized the
holdings because their owners were unable to repay debt. NLB and
other investors in Mercator failed to sell a majority of the
Slovenian retailer to its Croatian competitor Agrokor d.d. after
opposition from the previous Mercator management and Slovenian
officials who claimed the sale would hurt the country’s food
business.  Slovenia embarked on savings measures to lower its debt
load, which more than doubled since 2007, when the country
adopted the European single currency. Sustersic has said the
government won’t provide funding to NLB after aid to the lender
last year widened the  budget deficit  to 6.4 percent of gross
domestic product.  “Slovenian banks in the past were recapitalized by a
required minimum and the balance sheets were cleaned by a
minimum and the similar story happened in each three-month
period,” Sustersic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  