-- Slovenian Economy Still Mired in a Recession, Survey Shows
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-30T12:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/slovenian-economy-still-mired-in-a-recession-survey-shows.html
Slovenia’s  economy  extended its
second recession in three years in the first quarter as export
and investment growth slowed, a survey of economists showed.  Gross domestic product shrank 1.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 2.8 percent annual drop in fourth
quarter, according to the  median estimate  of six economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The  statistics office  will publish its GDP
report at 10:30 a.m. in Ljubljana tomorrow.  “It looks like exports have slowed while investments may
have contracted at a slower pace than in the previous quarter,”
 William Jackson , an emerging-markets economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London  said before the report. Jackson
forecast the economy contracted 0.5 from the previous three-
month period.  Slovenia fell into a  recession  after austerity measures and
 Europe ’s debt crisis damped demand for its exported goods, the
main growth driver of the euro-region nation. The shrinking
economy complicates the government’s efforts to trim public
spending by about 800 million euros ($997 million) by year’s
end.  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa , which came to
power in February after early elections, is pushing to implement
spending cuts and tax increases to gain investor confidence and
lower the country’s borrowing costs as the debt crisis that
started more than two years ago in  Greece  continues to roil
markets.  No Options  “First, we need to consolidate public finances,” Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic said by phone today. “ We don’t have
options to boost the economy other than to spur domestic, and
especially, foreign investments. I expect we will see a
stabilization this year and the economy will yield better
results next year.”  Slovenia’s debt more than doubled since adopting the euro
in 2007 to 47.4 percent of GDP last year. The European
Commission sees the debt level advancing to about 55 percent
this year and 58.1 percent in 2013, it said in a May 11 report.  GDP will shrink 2 percent in 2012, according to an estimate
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
That compares with a 1.4 percent contraction forecast by the
European Commission and a 0.9 percent drop estimated by the
government’s economic institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  