-- Slovenian Trade Union Seeks Court Ruling on Austerity Moves
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-30T15:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/slovenian-trade-union-seeks-court-ruling-on-austerity-measures.html
Slovenia’s austerity measures are
under threat by another trade union, risking a delay in the
country’s plans to lower its debts.  “Due to unjust and unconstitutional provisions in the
austerity legislation we are demanding the  Constitutional court 
to decide on the matter,” the union representing soldiers and
other Defense Ministry employees wrote in an e-mailed statement
today. The austerity measures and the revised budget spending
were set to come into force on June 1.  Slovenia, whose public debt more than doubled since the
2007 introduction of the euro, pledged to cut spending by about
800 million euros ($994 million) this year to allay investors’
concern over its debt as the inconclusive vote in  Greece  sparked
renewed concern that the 17-member currency bloc may fall apart.  Two police unions, also critical of wage cuts, will
probably abandon their bid for a referendum on the austerity
program after reaching a deal with the government today, Finance
newspaper  reported , citing leaders of the groups Radivoj
Urosevic and Zoran Petrovic.  Lawmakers on May 11 adopted the reviewed budget spending
and other savings measures that foresee public-sector wage cuts
and reduced benefit payments as the euro-region nation seeks to
implement the so-called fiscal compact inspired by  Germany  just
as other European nations seek measures to boost economic
growth.  ‘Referendum Season’  “It’s referendum season here and everybody wants a piece
of the pie,” Andraz Grahek, head of asset management at KD
Funds LLC in Ljubljana, said by phone. “The current system is
jeopardizing the state’s ability to stabilize public finances.”  Slovenia is seeking to limit the scope for a referendum.
The main political parties in the former Yugoslav nation agreed
that results should only be recognized if more than 35 percent
of voters turn out, Finance reported, citing Prime Minister
 Janez Jansa .  Voters in Slovenia rejected pension changes in a referendum
last year that would have extended the  retirement age  to 65.
That decision and the intensifying debt crisis in  Europe  caused
a collapse of the government of then-Prime Minister  Borut Pahor 
in September. After that, Slovenia had its credit ratings cut
and saw its borrowing costs on the benchmark bond surge to over
7 percent.  Police unions demanded a popular vote on May 18 even though
the majority of public-sector unions endorsed the deal with the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  