-- United to Cut 1,300 Houston Jobs After Win by Southwest
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-05-31T17:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/southwest-wins-houston-council-support-for-flights-abroad.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
plans to cut 1,300 jobs and some service at Houston’s main
airport after the city backed  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ’s bid to
start international flights from a secondary facility.  The 10 percent reduction in seating capacity at George Bush
Intercontinental Airport includes dropping a planned route to
Auckland, United told employees in a memo yesterday. Most of a
$700 million terminal project is also “in significant doubt,”
Chicago-based United said.  United is retrenching in a city that a predecessor once
called home. It was formed in the 2010 merger between former
United parent UAL Corp. and Houston-based Continental Airlines
Inc., and Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek  moved from
Continental to United’s headquarters to run the new company.  “There is some bitterness that exists between the city of
Houston and United management, given the merger and the decision
to relocate in  Chicago ,”  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co.
analyst in New York, said today in an interview. “But this
certainly jibes with everything the company has been saying,
that there would be a cannibalization of Bush.”  Houston’s City Council rebuffed United in approving
Southwest’s $100 million expansion to add overseas flights at
William P. Hobby Airport. United, the world’s biggest airline,
said its busiest hub was imperiled by that plan, which was
supported by the city’s airport system and Mayor Annise Parker.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  “I am deeply disappointed that Mayor Parker and the City
Council have taken this action that harms United and Houston’s
international gateway at IAH,” Smisek said in the memo, using
the airport code for Bush Intercontinental.  Southwest is the world’s largest discount carrier and the
dominant airline at Hobby, with more than 90 percent of
passengers in the year ended in January. Council members voted
16-1 for Dallas-based Southwest’s plan to add flights there to
 Mexico , the Caribbean and  South America  in 2015.  United said the loss of connecting travelers to Hobby would
curb future growth at Intercontinental, wiping out projections
for traffic gains that would have turned some unprofitable
routes there into money-makers. The airline said that without
the promise of that business, it had to cut back.  “This will harm us and IAH, but IAH will continue to be a
strong hub for United,” Smisek said in the memo.
“Unfortunately, the city of Houston will suffer the
consequences of this decision for decades to come.”  Mayor’s Reaction  Because the competition from Southwest at Hobby airport
wouldn’t begin for at least three years, any personnel decisions
United makes “are based on other things, not the vote we
cast,” Parker said at a press conference yesterday after the
City Council meeting.  “For United to say there will be 1,300 people laid off
next week or so, that’s just not reasonable because nothing’s
going to happen until that terminal is built,” Parker said.
When United and Continental merged, “they committed early on
that we would be the largest hub of the largest airline in the
world, and that’s the commitment I expect them to keep.”  Jobs at Intercontinental will be eliminated over time, and
relocations and a voluntary departure program will be offered to
ease the blow, United said in the memo. The pullback in flights
will take effect with United’s fall schedule, the airline said.  Southwest declined to comment on United’s move, said Paul Flaningan, an airline spokesman. The carrier said earlier that
the council vote was “a monumental moment for Southwest and the
city.”  United’s View  United had said that allowing flights outside of the U.S.
from a secondary airport would drain passengers from
Intercontinental, putting Houston at a competitive disadvantage
to other cities that serve as major global gateways. About $600
million of a $700 million terminal upgrade project at
Intercontinental remains unfinished, United said.  “We didn’t announce anything new,”  Mary Clark , a United
spokeswoman, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “This is
part of what we have been saying all along would be the result
of international service starting from Hobby.”  United is set to be the first North American carrier to get
the delayed  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner, and had planned to fly
the initial plane between Houston and Auckland. Dropping that
flight may be part of a plan to have 787s replace older, less-
efficient jets rather than put them on new routes, said Wolfe
Trahan’s Keay, who rates United as outperform.  Dreamliner’s Role  “It’s possible this is as good an excuse as any to
classify more of the 787s for replacement instead of growth,”
he said.  Keay said he expects United will shift an existing Houston-
Lagos flight to a 787 from the larger  Boeing 777  used now.
“That is too big of an airplane for that route,” he said.  United rose 2.5 percent to $24.77 at 1:07 p.m. in  New York ,
while Southwest gained 1.4 percent to $8.99.  Hobby Airport is 12 miles (19 kilometers) from downtown, in
Houston’s southeast quadrant. While Intercontinental is almost
twice as far from the central business district, it’s closer to
newer business and residential areas on the city’s northwest
fringes.  Southwest, which agreed to pay for a new international
terminal at Hobby, said the city will benefit from more
travelers and local jobs. The airline still needs approval from
U.S. officials before it can begin international flights at
Hobby in 2015.  The $100 million international terminal at Hobby would
include five gates to support as many as 25 Southwest round
trips a day and facilities for  U.S. Customs .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 