-- South Africa to Debate Social Cohesion After Painting Furor
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-30T15:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/south-africa-to-debate-social-cohesion-after-painting-furor-1-.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said a summit on social cohesion will be convened in July to
examine ways to bridge divisions over race, ethnicity and
culture 18 years after the end of white segregationist rule.  South Africa  still has “challenges of poverty,
unemployment, landlessness and race, class and gender,” Zuma
told Parliament in  Cape Town  today. “These continue to be
defining features of how society relates and they can be a cause
of deep pain, disappointment and frustration.”  His announcement follows a national uproar over the Goodman
Gallery’s display of a painting depicting the president with his
genitals exposed that was published by the City Press newspaper.
The ruling  African National Congress  denounced the image, which
was defaced last week by two men who smeared paint over it, as
racially insensitive and an affront to Zuma’s dignity.  The party held a protest march at the gallery in northern
Johannesburg yesterday and called for a boycott of City Press.
It also filed a court case to force the gallery and the
newspaper to stop displaying the image. The boycott and lawsuit
were abandoned after the newspaper and the gallery bowed to the
party’s demands.  Zuma didn’t directly refer to Brett Murray’s painting,
“The Spear,” in today’s address. It depicts a man resembling
the president in a pose similar to the Soviet-era propaganda
poster of  Vladimir Lenin  with his genitals hanging out of his
unzipped pants.  “The president’s attention has been diverted from his
duties,” Lindiwe Mazibuko, the parliamentary leader of the main
opposition  Democratic Alliance , told Parliament. “Energy spent
on organizing a march to an art gallery and a legal challenge to
a work of satire has distracted from the serious work of
government. Representatives of the ANC and some of its ministers
are attempting to close down the space for freedom of expression
through bullying and intimidation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  