-- South Africa’s Credit Growth Slows as Spending Eases
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-30T07:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/south-africa-s-credit-growth-slows-as-spending-eases.html
South African credit growth slowed
more than expected in April as  consumer spending  eased and a
series of public holidays curtailed loan applications.  Borrowing by households and businesses rose 7.3 percent,
down from 9.2 percent in March, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank 
said on its website today. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 economists was 9 percent.  Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of
expenditure in  South Africa (SBK) , has led a rebound in Africa’s
biggest economy since a recession ended in 2009. The central
bank has kept the repurchase rate at 5.5 percent for a record 18
months to shore up a recovery that’s under threat from a debt
crisis in Europe.  “Until we see a marked improvement in the  property market ,
we won’t see any significant growth in credit,” Shireen Darmalingam, a Johannesburg-based economist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “The next couple of
months could be very challenging. I don’t believe today’s data
really has an impact” on  interest rates .  Economic growth slowed to an annualized 2.7 percent in the
first quarter from 3.2 percent in the previous three months, the
statistics agency said yesterday. Expansion of the wholesale and
retail industries eased to 3 percent from 5.2 percent, it said.  The broad M3 measure of money supply rose 6.2 percent in
April from a year earlier, compared with 6.7 percent in March,
the central bank said. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey
was 7.4 percent.  The rand was at 8.3578 per dollar at 9:09 a.m. in
Johannesburg, down from 8.3434 before the data was released.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  