-- Spanish Banking Rescue Should Become Example for Europe
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/spain-s-banking-rescue-should-become-example-for-europe.html
Europe ’s leaders can’t save their
currency union without figuring out a way to salvage the
region’s banks. Spain is a perfect place to start.  Perhaps no country better illustrates the mutually
reinforcing links among the euro area’s banking, sovereign-debt
and economic crises than Spain. Its banks are largely paralyzed
amid concerns about heavy losses on real estate loans that, by
various estimates, could require as much as 120 billion euros
($150 billion) in fresh capital to offset. Tight bank credit has
in turn deepened the country’s  economic slump , increasing banks’
potential losses and fueling fears that bailout costs will
overwhelm the Spanish government’s already stretched finances.
The longer the situation lasts, the worse it gets: Nervous
investors pushed  Spain ’s 10-year borrowing rate as high as 6.7
percent Wednesday, up from less than 5 percent in early March.  Spain’s response has been far from adequate. Government-
induced bank mergers haven’t reduced the system’s capital needs.
Last week, the country’s third-largest bank, Bankia SA, said it
would require 19 billion euros in fresh capital to cover losses
-- far more than the resources available in the country’s
bailout fund. A bank run of sorts has already begun: Central-
bank data suggest that, in the first four months of this year,
more than 100 billion euros in private money has fled Spain for
other euro-area countries, an amount roughly equal to a 10th of
the country’s annual economic output. A European Central Bank
 measure of deposits  in Spain’s banks declined by 31.5 billion
euros in April.  Downward Spiral  It’s imperative that Europe step in to break Spain’s fall,
lest the country’s problems topple the euro area’s banking
system. Europe’s banks have about 672 billion euros in claims on
Spain’s banks, government and companies, according to the  Bank
for International Settlements .  Germany ’s claims alone add up to
about 186 billion euros, or nearly half of German banks’
 aggregate capital .  How, then, can Europe draw the line at Spain? Dire as the
country’s predicament may seem, it offers an opportunity to
create a model for bank recapitalizations throughout the euro
area. One crucial element, as indicated Wednesday in a European
Commission proposal, would be to allow the euro area’s bailout
funds to provide capital directly to individual banks, a route
now closed to the rescue funds. The quid pro quo should be a
measure of European control over how the money is used, burden-
sharing among the banks’ creditors, the ejection of entrenched
management and steps toward a unified banking authority with the
power to take over failing banks anywhere in the euro area. In
short, the type of housecleaning and regulatory framework that
many European banks have been avoiding for decades.  Let’s say Spain’s banks need 120 billion euros in new
equity -- or capital -- to cover losses and restore confidence.
The first place to look for the money would be the banks’ own
subordinated creditors, whose claims aren’t secured against any
of the institutions’ assets. These investors, who received a
higher return to compensate for their low position in the
pecking order of creditors, have often been made whole in bank
bailouts. Instead, their claims should be converted into equity
-- a “bail-in” that could cut 30 billion euros or so off the
price tag of recapitalization.  Of the remaining 90 billion, the first 25 billion could
come from the Spanish government in the form of equity that
would protect other contributors from losses. The rest -- about
65 billion -- could come from the euro-area’s bailout funds. In
return, the funds would gain a presence on the boards of the
recipient banks. Voting power would allow them to make sure that
the managers responsible were replaced and that the compensation
of executives and shareholders stayed in check until Europe’s
money had been paid back.  Such a recapitalization plan would be a radical move for
the euro area. By accepting joint responsibility for injecting
capital into a single country’s banks, the nations of the
currency zone would be taking another step toward financial
federalism and collectively backed euro bonds. The sooner they
realize that this is the only viable direction to go, the
greater the currency union’s chances of survival.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  turmoil at the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission ;  Michael Kinsley  on  intervening in Syria ;
Haresh Sapra on  stress-test results ;  Amity Shlaes  on  corporate
sexual harassment ;  Luigi Zingales  on  competition and inequality ;
 Steven Greenhut  on  California referendums ; Matthew Schoenfeld on
 staving off the next AIG .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 