-- Spanish Bank Junior Bonds Suffer Heavy Losses on Rescue Bets
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-30T14:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/spanish-bank-junior-bonds-suffer-heavy-losses-on-rescue-bets-1-.html
Spain ’s biggest banks had the worst-
performing junior bonds this month on concern investors will be
wiped out in a rescue of the nation’s financial system.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  securities suffered the
most of any European bank subordinated bonds, losing an average
of 8.6 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Euro Financial Subordinated & Lower Tier-2 index. Notes of  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest lender, lost 5.7 percent, the
second-biggest decline.  Spain is wrestling with how to bolster its banks as 10-year
borrowing costs approach the critical 7 percent level and  Bankia
SA (BKIA) , the nationalized lender formed from broken savings banks,
requests 19 billion euros ($24 billion) of state aid. Holders of
junior debt sold by Spanish lenders would suffer first losses in
any rescue imposed on bondholders.  “The risk of subordinated bondholders absorbing losses has
increased in the last few weeks,” said Andreas Fischer, a  fund
manager  at Credit Suisse Asset Management in Zurich. “There is
a general negative sentiment on Spain, and subordinated bonds
are one of the portions most at risk.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Bilbao-based
BBVA’s 1 billion euros of 4.375 percent subordinated bonds due
2019 rather than government is holding at a record 788 basis
points after surging 200 basis points this month, Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices show. The yield-spread on Santander’s 6.5 percent
2019 securities has climbed to a record 826.5 basis points from
676 at the start of May, the prices show.  No Solution  “Because of the importance of the recapitalization of the
Spanish bank system, and in particular the issue of Bankia,
investors are wondering about the ability of the Spanish
government to solve this problem alone,” said Nicolas Gouju, a
fund manager at Groupama Asset Management in Paris. “While
there is no straight solution, the sub bonds are in danger
because of the potential for bail in.”  BBVA and Santander were among 16 Spanish banks downgraded
by Moody’s Investors Service earlier this month, with the
ratings company citing recession and mounting loan losses for
the sweeping cuts. Both banks had their ratings lowered three
levels to A3.  Cut to Junk  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , the Spanish lender whose credit
rating was cut to  junk  by  Standard & Poor’s  last week, had the
single worst-performing junior bond in the Bank of America
index. The lender’s 250 million euros of 8.25 percent bonds due
October 2021 lost investors 10.3 percent in May.  BBVA’s senior debt shed 1 percent this month, the fourth
worst-performing security in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EUR
Corporates, Banking, Type-Senior index. Santander’s senior bonds
lost 0.7 percent.  “The market is assuming that money may have to come from
bondholders, with sub bondholders feeling the most nervous,”
said Roberto Henriques, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“Institutional investors might have been more naturally exposed
to the two large commercial banks, so those are the bonds that
they’re selling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net 
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  