-- Spuds Add $12 to Pushkin’s $34 Stroganoff: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/spuds-add-12-to-pushkin-s-34-stroganoff-ryan-sutton.html
As commodities-rich Russians
transform Central Park South into a Little Moscow, caviar-and-
vodka venues have followed close behind.  You wouldn’t expect an iron-ore magnate to take the Q Train
to Brighton Beach, would you?  Carnegie Hall ’s Russian Tea Room, resurrected in 2006, was
the most prominent of the non-Brooklyn bunch. Now, 400 meters
away we have Brasserie Pushkin, boasting a serious level of
Russian street cred and some sky-high prices.  The Pushkin’s flagship is a Moscow landmark whose original,
ornate wood interiors suggest the tsarist era and the food
speaks to  Russia ’s love affair with  France . In the 110-seat
Manhattan branch, dry-ice desserts and $34 king crab penne evoke
Russia’s oligarch-era.  Pushkin’s black sturgeon caviar is listed at $135, an
aggressive price considering the Michelin two-starred Marea,
just a few blocks away, asks $90-$120 for such luxuries. What
passes for “affordable” in Moscow, one of the most expensive
cities in the world, doesn’t necessarily work in  New York , one
of the gastronomic capitals of the world.  Beefy Borscht  Borscht, studded with short ribs, beets and dill, is
fantastic. It’s also $18, a lot for soup. Pair it with an entree
of Siberian dumplings ($22), tender little bites of veal, pork
and lamb encased in dough. You’ll spend over $50 after tax and
tip.  The same dinner costs around $20 at Veselka, the venerable
Ukrainian diner in the East Village, where service is friendly
and efficient.  Good luck trying to hail down the staff at Brasserie
Pushkin when you need your check.  Those waiters hover around your table with “French-style”
service while you try to eat. They struggle with the arcane and
useless art of employing a fork and spoon to serve salad Olivier
one quenelle at a time to one guest at a time. It’s agony to
watch.  It’s also depressing to eat. Olivier is traditionally a
cheap brunoise of potatoes and ham, bound by mayo and speckled
with peas. Mari Vanna, in Gramercy Park, serves a fine version
for $12. Brasserie Pushkin’s mediocre variation is $22; it’s
made with thin-sliced chicken breast (reasonably tasty),
crawfish tails (flavorless) and osetra caviar (undetectable).  Mealy Risotto  Beef tartare ($22) is laden with so much quail egg that it
becomes a slimy mush of raw beef.  Risotto ($12), undercooked and mealy, is served cool enough
to prevent the gritty parmesan topping from melting.  Veal blintzes taste like a tuna fish sandwich ($19) that’s
been microwaved. Just as bad are the pirozhki, filled with a
meaty crumble as tasty as a $1 McDonald’s hamburger. And the
signature pojarasky cutlet has all the flavor and texture of a
chicken McNugget. It’s $35.  Stroganoff ($34), strips of sour cream-sauced tenderloin,
come with potatoes in Moscow.  In New York, the pommes puree is $12 extra. Cha-ching!
Ukha, a fish soup silken with the oils of pike, salmon and
sturgeon, is fine as long as you don’t pour in the accompanying
side of ginger vodka, imparting to your $18 bowl an unwelcome
alcohol sting.  Pine-Nut Vodka  Small carafes of excellent cranberry or pine nut-vodka,
$30, properly accompany such fare. Fancier types will opt for
$45 flutes of Laurent-Perrier Champagne; I’ll make do with
Roederer at $18.  Black roast beef, a poorly named dish, turns out to be a
thin and succulent strip of short rib ($18).  Follow up with sterlet in crawfish sauce ($46), whose
hideous black spine you’re expected to remove yourself; the
waiters must be tired from spooning all those quenelles. The $48
dry-aged ribeye boasts as much flavor as you’ll find at a proper
steakhouse.  Strawberry tea jelly is a fine dessert; crude dulce de
leche ice cream-layer cake is not.  How about something more traditional, like blini with jam?
Sorry, the spongy pancakes are only advertised with the pricey
caviar. Maybe  Mikhail Prokhorov  gets a kick out of that. I
didn’t.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: How much you got?  Sound Level: Around 70 decibels. Not terrible.  Date Place: If you’re Prokhorov.  Inside Tip: Stellar house-infused vodkas.  Special Feature: Salmon caviar for $29.  Back on My Own Dime: Not likely.  Brasserie Pushkin is at 41 West 57th St. Information: 1-
212- 465-2400 or  http://www.brasseriepushkin.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on books and  James
Russell  on design.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 