-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Grenada (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-30T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-grenada-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Grenada:  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission led by Ms. Nita Thacker
visited Grenada during May 7-17 for the 2012 Article IV consultation.
This consultation is a bilateral discussion which the IMF typically has
with its members, once a year. During this Consultation, a staff team
visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and
discusses with officials the country’s economic developments and policies.
The mission met with Finance Minister Nazim Burke, Permanent Secretary
Timothy Antoine, other senior government officials, the opposition leader
and members of his team, representatives of the business and financial
sectors, and labor unions. At the end of the mission, Ms. Thacker issued
the following statement:  “Following two years of consecutive decline, there are signs that a
fragile recovery may be underway. Real GDP grew by 1.1 percent in 2011
and is expected to reach 1½ percent in 2012, on the back of a continued
growth in agriculture and a gradual recovery in tourism stay-over arrivals.
Inflation is expected to stay broadly stable at about 3 percent in 2012.
However, the fiscal situation deteriorated in 2011, in part, reflecting
revenue shortfalls due to the extension of various temporary tax exemptions.
Private sector credit growth remains sluggish as banks continue to remain
cautious and tighten lending standards given the increase of nonperforming
loans. The current account deficit is expected to remain around 25 percent
of GDP, reflecting high food and fuel prices. Looking ahead, significant
downside risks remain. These include the high public sector debt level and
budget financing constraints, high current account deficits and net external
liabilities, and financial sector vulnerabilities, including potential
spillovers from the region.”  “Discussions focused on three policy areas: (i) restoring sustained growth
and generating employment; (ii) resuming fiscal consolidation to put debt on
a firm downward trajectory and to build a growth-oriented budget; and (iii)
strengthening the financial sector. Ambitious reforms in these areas are
essential to create jobs, boost medium term growth, and reduce poverty.”  “Grenada faces a sizeable competitiveness gap. During the past years,
increases in production costs--including from higher energy costs and
wages, and lower productivity--have put downward pressure on profit
margins and stifled investment. Achieving higher growth and sustained
employment generation will therefore require the steadfast implementation
of key structural reforms. Some measures for improving the business
climate, including implementation of ASYCUDA World, have been implemented.
Other key reforms that need to be implemented include wage discipline to
reflect productivity combined with efforts to enhance labor skills,
improving flexibility of labor and product markets, facilitating access
to credit, fostering small enterprise development, addressing high energy
costs by using alternative sources, better exploiting the linkages between
the agricultural and tourism sectors, and more effective monitoring and
implementation of efficiency-enhancing reforms at stateowned enterprises.  “On the fiscal front, the high public sector debt combined with budgetary
rigidities and limited sources of financing are key challenges and
underscore the urgent need for more lasting and significant fiscal
consolidation. The authorities are committed to generating primary
surpluses of at least 1½-2 percent of GDP over the medium term to put
debt on a sustained downward trajectory and achieve debt sustainability
through a combination of revenue and expenditure measures. Addressing
existing budgetary rigidities on current spending, in particular with
respect to the high wage bill, will strengthen the budget’s pro-growth
orientation and create space for capital expenditure. On the revenue side,
reducing and streamlining tax incentives and exemptions could generate
fiscal space for much-needed investments in infrastructure and other
development priorities to ensure sustained growth and create buffers
against future shocks.  “Ongoing efforts to strengthen the financial sector could benefit from
further improvements in monitoring and forceful action to address
weakening of credit portfolios, low profitability, and the rising level
of nonperforming loans, both at banks and  credit unions . Potential
spillovers from regional financial markets should continue to be
monitored.  “Upon its return to  Washington , the mission will prepare a report, to be
discussed by the IMF’s Executive Board, tentatively scheduled for July 2012.
The mission thanks the authorities for their warm hospitality, candid
discussions, and close cooperation during its stay in Grenada. The mission
also thanks all other stakeholders for taking the time to discuss various
issues.”  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 