-- Storm Beryl Wasn’t Much Help for Southeast Drought
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-30T21:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/storm-beryl-wasn-t-much-help-for-southeast-drought.html
Tropical Depression Beryl’s soaking
rains were swallowed up by parched soil in  Florida  and  Georgia 
and won’t be enough to relieve drought conditions, state
climatologists said.  Beryl, 40 miles (64 kilometers) west of Cape Hatteras,
North Carolina, with winds of 40 mph, degenerated into a post-
tropical cyclone as of 5 p.m. local time today, the  National
Hurricane Center  said in its last advisory on the system. Beryl
was moving northeast up the North Carolina coast and will be
back in the Atlantic by tomorrow.  “Tomorrow, the sun will come out,” said Dan Kottlowski,
lead hurricane forecaster for  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania .  While the system dropped as much as 15 inches (38
centimeters) of rain on parts of Florida after going ashore near
Jacksonville on May 28, it won’t slake the state’s parched soil.  “The soils were so dry the rivers and the ground water
aren’t responding that much,” said David Zierden, state
climatologist based at  Florida State University  in Tallahassee.
“It certainly isn’t enough to bring us out of drought or make
up for deficiencies we have been accumulating for two years.”  Beryl’s heaviest rains have been close to the coast and
haven’t reached interior regions of Florida, Georgia,  South
Carolina  and  North Carolina , Kottlowski said.  Dry Southeast  Central and northern Florida, as well as parts of  Alabama ,
Georgia and South Carolina, are currently listed as having
extreme or exceptional drought, the two worst categories on a
five-step scale, by the  U.S. Drought Monitor  in Lincoln,
 Nebraska .  “The exceptional areas that really needed it didn’t get
it,” said Bill Murphey, Georgia’s chief meteorologist and
climatologist in Atlanta. “The bottom line is southwest Georgia
and around Macon didn’t benefit much from this system.”  When the national drought status is updated tomorrow,
Zierden said Florida may improve by one category because of
Beryl.  Zierden said the biggest benefits will be for agriculture,
as the rains will moisten topsoil and help hay production. He
said the rainfall may also help lower the wildfire risk in some
areas. Florida is the second-largest orange producer after
 Brazil .  Kottlowski said the top of Beryl is moving faster than its
surface winds, stretching the storm out and tearing at its
structure. There’s a slim chance it will regain strength once it
gets over the Atlantic, he said.  “Because of the fact it’s strongly tilted, it’s just
barely an organized tropical system,” Kottlowski said by
telephone before the last NHC advisory on Beryl. “The hurricane
center has almost buried the hatchet there and we won’t argue
with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  