-- Stress Tests Don’t Have to Cause a Run on Banks
-- B y   H a r e s h   S a p r a
-- 2012-05-30T23:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/stress-tests-don-t-have-to-cause-a-run-on-banks.html
U.S. and European banking regulators
are conducting stress tests to determine whether financial
institutions have enough capital to sustain losses as a result
of adverse economic conditions.  A critical question is whether these results should be made
public, and if so, at what level of detail. The answer is that
regulators should be mindful of significant pitfalls.  There is a compelling case for publicly releasing stress-test results. Disclosure would enhance market discipline by
allowing outsiders to better price a bank’s risks. This, in
turn, would prevent bank insiders from engaging in excessive
risk-taking behavior.  Disclosure also would improve financial stability by
reassuring outsiders that systemically important banks are
adequately capitalized and have the ability to survive a future
crisis. And it would bolster the discipline of regulators by
exposing them to greater external scrutiny.  These benefits, however, may not be fully realized if
stress-test results aren’t properly handled.  Banks have opaque portfolios whose underlying risks are
hard to evaluate. Simply disclosing the performance of these
portfolios under adverse scenarios without any understanding of
the underlying risk exposures of the bank may induce perverse
incentives. This is because a bank’s insiders could choose
inefficient portfolios to maximize their institution’s chances
of passing the stress test rather than maximizing the bank’s
long-term value.  To minimize such incentives, my colleague  Itay Goldstein ,
at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, and I have
devised a few recommendations.  Bank Exposure  For market discipline to work, stress-test results should
be accompanied by detailed disclosures of a bank’s exposure by
asset class, country and maturity. The market can then do its
own math by evaluating the stress tests’ outcomes in light of
the bank’s risk exposure.  If such detailed disclosure isn’t feasible,  we argue  that
it might be better not to release the results of individual
banks, but only to disclose results aggregated across the banks.
Of course, the benefit of market discipline would be lost.
However, aggregated disclosures would minimize perverse
incentives while still providing the benefit of financial
stability.  Perverse incentives could also be mitigated by not
revealing to a bank’s insiders the stress-test model used by the
regulator. Not knowing how they would be graded would make it
harder for insiders to game the test.  Disclosure also may harm market discipline by causing
market participants to overreact to bad news. Banks operate in
environments that are inherently fragile and prone to contagion
in the sense that if some creditors lose confidence and “run,”
others might do so, too.  In such environments, disclosure of stress-test results --
especially if the news is bad -- may serve as a signal that
coordinates the actions of all the market participants. Suppose
a bank receives a poor grade on the stress test and this result
is disclosed to the public. This poor grade probably reflects
the bank’s poor condition, yet, given that this poor grade is
observed by all  market participants , it also provides
information about how they might react to the bad news.  Market Overreaction  For example, if a market participant thinks that after
seeing the bank’s poor grade other market participants might
withdraw their money from the bank, she might withdraw her
money. If all market participants think the same way about the
other participants, such a “run” becomes self-fulfilling. Note
that this overreaction wouldn’t occur if the stress test
perfectly reflected the bank’s condition. In that case, market
participants wouldn’t care about the behavior of others as they
would know exactly how to react to the bank’s poor grade. The
potential for overreaction to the disclosure only occurs because
stress tests are inherently imperfect measurements of a bank’s
condition.  To alleviate such overreaction, regulators should
complement the disclosure of any bad news about a bank with a
description of the corrective actions to be taken so that the
coordinating role of disclosure is minimized and panic isn’t
triggered.  Furthermore, individual bank results must be disclosed only
when the results are sufficiently precise and reliable. If this
isn’t feasible, the regulator should disclose aggregated results
across banks, which have the advantage of being less likely to
be wrong as idiosyncratic errors are averaged away in estimating
bank conditions. Again, if the goal is to promote financial
stability, this is a viable solution.  Disclosure can harm market discipline by reducing the
incentives of market participants to produce private
information. Banking regulators rely on two sources of
information in determining the financial condition of a bank:
the data gleaned from the market price of a security of the
bank, and that collected by the regulator during the supervisory
process.  The market price of a bank’s security aggregates the
information of market participants who have monetary incentives
to trade on their information and opinions. Disclosing stress-test results might adversely reduce the incentives of market
participants because they lose some of their informational
advantage and therefore produce less information and trade less
aggressively. This, in turn, degrades the information role of
the stock price and impedes the ability of the regulator to
learn from market prices.  Disclosing aggregated information of stress tests will also
alleviate this problem. Such disclosure still conveys the
benefit of financial stability without drowning out signals
about individual banks from the market participants.  (Haresh Sapra is professor of accounting at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business, and a contributor to
 Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Spain ’s banking crisis
and  turmoil at the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  intervening in  Syria ; Amity Shlaes on  corporate
sexual harassment ;  Luigi Zingales  on  competition and inequality ;
 Steven Greenhut  on  California referendums ; Matthew Schoenfeld on
 staving off the next AIG .  To contact the writer of this article:
Haresh Sapra at  Haresh.Sapra@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 