-- Sunrun May Raise $100 Million by Debt Sale, IPO: Chief
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-05-30T19:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/sunrun-may-raise-100-million-by-debt-sale-ipo-chief.html
Sunrun Inc. , the leading provider of
residential solar-power systems in the U.S., plans to raise $100
million through debt or an initial share sale, adding to the $60
million in funding investors awarded it last week.  “We view this as really early days,” President Lynn Jurich said in an interview. “This has the potential to be a
huge energy company.”  The $100 million will be spent on purchasing solar panels,
Jurich said. Panel prices slumped 21 percent as supply grew by
more than half in 2011 from 2010, mainly because of a glut from
Chinese manufacturers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This has benefited Sunrun, which purchases the equipment,
configures it for residential use and then leases the system to
homeowners for 20-year terms.  Less than 0.1 percent of U.S. houses today are topped with
panels, a number that’s expected to climb to 2.4 percent by
2020, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. Like all solar
companies, Sunrun gets a tax credit for 30 percent of the cost
of a system it installs. State incentives are also available.  “Solar as a service is tracking exceptionally well,” said
Steve Vassallo, a general partner at Foundation Capital in  Menlo
Park , California, which invests in Sunrun. “All the bankers are
chasing them. It’s enthusiasm about growth.”  San Francisco-based Sunrun said May 23 that it raised $60
million to invest in software development that can make solar
projects more efficient and less costly. The company has raised
about $145 million in venture financing since its 2007
inception, Jurich said.  ‘Facebook Disaster’  Sunrun is discussing additional fundraising options with
U.S. Bancorp,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Jurich said. Previous investors include U.S.
Bancorp, Foundation Capital, Madrone Capital Partners LP,  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) ,  Sequoia Capital  and  Accel Partners .  Jurich said the IPO option will hinge in part on the
performance of rival SolarCity Corp., which said last month it
would sell shares. As a group, IPOs in North America that began
trading this year have slumped 4.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Facebook Inc. shares have tumbled 26
percent since they began trading on May 18.  “There will be a push-back because of the Facebook
disaster as well as the reliance on government subsidies,” said
 Tom Taulli , who runs IPOPlaybook.com in  Newport Beach ,
California. Still, companies that lease or install panels “can
benefit from the lower prices,” he said.  U.S. Bancorp spokesman Tom Joyce, Wells Fargo spokeswoman
Elise Wilkinson and Goldman spokesman Michael DuVally declined
to comment. JPMorgan spokeswoman Kristen Chambers didn’t return
e-mail and telephone requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  