-- Suu Kyi Arrives in Thailand in First Trip Abroad for 24 Years
-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n
-- 2012-05-30T03:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/suu-kyi-arrives-in-thailand-in-first-trip-abroad-for-24-years.html
Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi will visit Burmese migrant workers in  Thailand  today as
part of her first overseas trip in 24 years.  Suu Kyi will also visit a  Unilever (UNA)  plant outside Bangkok,
before speaking June 1 at the  World Economic Forum  on East Asia
conference, according to a schedule provided by the Thai
government. She will meet Burmese refugees near Myanmar’s border
with Thailand before returning to Yangon on June 3.  Suu Kyi, who spent 15 years under house arrest, became a
lawmaker this month after her National League for Democracy
party won 43 seats in April 1 by-elections, a sign that the
country formerly known as Burma is opening up after five decades
of dictatorship. Concerns over the treatment of political
prisoners and ethnic minority groups led the U.S. to ease
financial sanctions without eliminating them.  “While I do believe that Aung San Suu Kyi’s willingness to
make this trip to Bangkok points to her own and the NLD’s
comfort with their current position, the reforms that will
really count in Myanmar still remain ahead of us,”  Michael Montesano , a visiting research fellow at the Institute of
Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore , said yesterday by e-mail.  The Nobel Peace Prize winner refused to leave Myanmar for
years, including in 1999 when her husband was dying in England,
fearing that she wouldn’t be allowed to return.  Myanmar President  Thein Sein , who declined an invitation to
attend the WEF event, took power 14 months ago and has won
praise for freeing political prisoners, loosening media
restrictions and persuading Suu Kyi to stand for parliament. The
easing of U.S. and European sanctions, bolstered prospects for a
nation the  International Monetary Fund  said in January could be
“the next economic frontier in  Asia .”  South Korea Deal  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  pledged earlier this
month to increase aid to Myanmar and the two countries agreed to
enhance cooperation on energy and developing resources.  Such agreements may help boost economic growth to 7.7
percent a year in 2016-2020, from 4.8 percent last year, should
the generals remain in control and continue with limited
reforms, the Economist Intelligence Unit said in an April
report. Lawmakers are revamping the financial system and Thein
Sein signed a preliminary cease-fire with the country’s largest
armed rebel force in a move to end the world’s longest civil
war.  “How Myanmar’s government, its people, and to some degree
outsiders handle such events will do much to determine their
impact,” Montesano said. “The time has come to focus on the
concrete details of what is under way on both the economic and
political fronts rather than to dwell on the sustainability of
the reform process as a whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  