-- Swedish GDP Growth Unexpectedly Accelerates on Spending
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-07-30T08:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/sweden-escapes-recession-as-growth-returned-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Sweden ’s expansion unexpectedly
accelerated in the second quarter, growing at the fastest pace
since the end of 2010, as consumers in the largest Nordic
economy boosted spending and exports increased.  Gross domestic product  grew 1.4 percent through June, after
advancing a revised 0.9 percent the previous quarter, Stockholm-
based  Statistics Sweden  said today.  Annual growth  was 2.3
percent, up from 1.5 percent in the first quarter. The expansion
was estimated to be 0.2 percent in the quarter and 0.6 percent
in the year, according to the median estimate of 13 economists
in a  Bloomberg survey .  Policy makers at the Swedish Riksbank indicated in the
minutes of their July 3 meeting that they’re seeking to
reconcile an “unexpectedly strong development” of the local
economy” with “increased concern” about the euro area. The
central bank held its main rate at 1.5 percent, after two cuts
since December, and signaled it may ease once again by year-end.  “We’re seeing a very strong export development, and that’s
positive, but also household consumption surprises on the
upside,” said Magnus Alvesson, head of economic forecasting at
Swedbank AB. “We’ll see a slowdown going forward, in the
autumn, as a result of the problems we’re seeing in  Europe , but
of course, the credibility of that forecast diminishes
somewhat” after today’s report, he said.  Krona Surges  The krona surged 0.9 percent to 8.3897 per euro and rose
0.5 percent to 6.8321 per dollar as of 10:04 a.m. in  Stockholm .
The yield on Sweden’s two-year notes increased three basis
points to 0.91 percent.  The GDP data strengthens Swedbank’s forecast that the
Riksbank will keep its key rate at 1.5 percent through the rest
of the year, Alvesson said.  Household spending in the economy home to appliance maker
 Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , grew an annual 0.8 percent, while exports rose
1.7 percent as imports declined 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, the agency said. Investments rose 1.8 percent.  Sweden, one of only 12 nations ranked AAA at the three
biggest credit rating companies, emerged as a haven from
Europe’s crisis as the government cut debt and the economy in
2010 rebounded at the fastest pace in the European Union. The
government this month raised its budget forecast to indicate
balanced finances this year, and Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said the financial strength creates scope for investments that
will “lay the foundations for higher growth.”  Balanced Budget  The government expects to run a  balanced budget  this year
and a 0.4 percent surplus of GDP next year. The central bank
this month raised its growth forecast for this year to 0.6
percent from 0.4 percent, and lowered next year’s estimate to
1.7 percent from 1.9 percent. The economy grew 3.9 percent last
year. About 70 percent of Swedish exports are bound for Europe.  Surveys last week showed the economy was in some areas
performing better than estimated. An index measuring  consumer
confidence  rose to 5.6 in July from 3.1 the previous month, the
National Institute of Economic Research said. A manufacturing
confidence index improved to minus 2 from minus 5. Data from
 Statistics Sweden  showed the number of employed rose 48,000 in
June from a year earlier, pushing the seasonally adjusted
unemployment rate down to 7.5 percent from 7.8 percent in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  