-- Swiss Stocks Drop; Actelion, Swatch Fall, Novartis Gains
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-30T15:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/swiss-stocks-drop-as-spanish-default-risk-rises-to-record.html
Swiss stocks  declined, snapping three
days of gains, as the European Commission called for direct aid
to troubled euro-area banks and the cost of insuring against a
Spanish sovereign-debt default rose to a record.  SHL Telemedicine Ltd. (SHLTN)  slid after reporting a first-quarter
loss.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  and Swatch Group AG also declined.  Novartis
AG (NOVN) , Europe’s biggest drugmaker, gained.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slipped 0.2 percent to 5,902.82 at
the close in Zurich. The Swiss equity benchmark has  retreated
6.9 percent from this year’s high  on March 16. The broader Swiss
Performance Index dropped 0.4 percent today.  “What we are looking at now is a crisis of confidence and
when you get a crisis of confidence, of course, equities
suffer,”  Peter Dixon , a global equities economist at
Commerzbank AG in  London , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “Spain is the big thing which everybody is
concerned about at the moment and  Spain  is a problem of a much
bigger order of magnitude than anything we’ve seen so far.”  The commission, the European Union’s executive arm,
proposed that the euro’s permanent bailout fund inject cash to
banks instead of channeling the money via national governments.  Credit-default swaps linked to Spain’s debt climbed 29
basis points to 589.5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments climbed 7.8 basis points to 319.3. An increase
signals worsening perceptions of  credit quality .  Spain’s Bonds Slide  The country’s five-year notes extended their decline,
driving the yield on the securities to more than 6 percent for
the first time since Nov. 30.  Spanish bonds slid as the Financial Times reported that the
 European Central Bank  had rejected the Spanish government’s plan
for Bankia SA. The ECB denied it had blocked the plan.  “Contrary to media reports published today, the European
Central Bank has not been consulted and has not expressed a
position on plans by the Spanish authorities to recapitalize a
major Spanish bank,” it said in a statement.  Switzerland’s KOF  leading economic indicator  unexpectedly
increased in May, according to the Zurich-based institute.  In Greece, an opinion poll showed most people want the
terms of the European Union-led international financial rescue
eased, even as they acknowledge that failure to abide by the
austerity measures may force the country to leave the single
currency. Another poll showed the anti-austerity Syriza
coalition in first place with 30 percent. Greece holds another
general election on June 17.  Previously Owned Sales  In the U.S., a report showed that  pending house sales 
slumped in April by the most in a year. The  median forecast  of
42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey had called for no
change. Sales increased a revised 3.8 percent in March.  SHL Telemedicine sank 4.7 percent to 7.45 Swiss francs. The
Israeli provider of heart-monitoring services that trades in
Switzerland reported a first-quarter loss of $1.5 million.  Actelion, the country’s largest biotechnology company,
slipped 2.8 percent to 37.63 francs.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest watchmaker, dropped
2.7 percent to 374.10 francs after a 5 percent jump yesterday.  Transocean Ltd., the world’s largest offshore-rig
contractor, tumbled 4 percent to 40.44 francs.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the Cartier
brand, slid 2 percent to 56.60 francs.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the  world’s second-biggest cement maker ,
retreated 1.6 percent to 53.55 francs as construction shares
fell on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Novartis added 0.7 percent to 50.55 francs for the biggest
contribution to the  SMI’s advance .  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said
Europe’s largest drugmaker is unjustly undervalued.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 7.7 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  