-- Syria Massacre Fuels UN Debate on Sanctions, Monitors
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-05-31T12:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/syria-massacre-fuels-un-debate-on-sanctions-monitors.html
The Houla massacre in Syria is
fueling debate about whether the United Nations should take
actions such as imposing sanctions and expanding its monitoring
mission, neither of which is likely to force Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad to yield to his opponents.  The worst atrocity in the 15-month uprising against Assad
is raising tensions within the UN Security Council over how to
quell the violence in Syria, exposing rifts over the UN observer
force as well as the continuing impasse on sanctions.  U.S. Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice told reporters that if
the Security Council can’t agree on additional measures, Western
nations and others supporting the Syrian opposition may
emphasize actions outside the council’s authority.  “We may be beginning to see the wheels coming off this
bus,” Rice said yesterday after a council briefing on Syria.  The mass killing in Houla, where women and children
accounted for 83 of the 108 deaths, has produced symbolic
responses, such as the ejection of top Syrian diplomats from
Western capitals. It hasn’t broken a deadlock in the UN Security
Council, where veto-wielding Russia continues to block attempts
to impose more economic pressure on a country slipping into
civil war.  “Our attitude to sanctions frankly continues to be
negative,” said Russian Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin.  While the U.S. has publicly raised the possibility of
expanding the numbers of observers in Syria, UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and his team are opposed on safety grounds.  Safety Concerns  The Security Council is unlikely to want to override him,
according to a UN diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity
because of the sensitivity of the issue. In addition, any deaths
of observers might force the mission to be withdrawn without a
back-up plan in place.  The UN has 291 unarmed military observers and 89 civilian
watchers to oversee a peace plan crafted by UN Special Envoy
Kofi Annan. The mission is scheduled to meet its full contingent
of 300 military observers by today, and its 90-day authorization
will be reviewed in July.  The UN has no “Plan B” to end the crisis in Syria, Ban
told Turkey’s NTV news channel in an interview today. Annan’s
initiative to halt the fighting and assist a political
transition hasn’t yet collapsed, he said.  ‘Decisive Stance’  Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu told NTV in an
interview from Istanbul that the “UN needs to take a decisive
stance to prevent a civil war.”  “Annan’s effort was very good willed, but for it to
succeed there needs to be a serious counterpart,” he said.
“The Houla massacre showed that there is no such counterpart,”
he added.  Kuwaiti Foreign Minister, Sheikh Sabah Khalid Al Hamad Al-
Sabah, said at a China-Arab meeting in Tunisia today that he
hoped China would double its pressure on Syria to stop the
violence and implement the Annan peace plan. The Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said a further 10 people have
been killed so far today, adding to the 10,000 the UN says have
died during the conflict.  The UN’s observers have reduced violence in the areas where
they were present, though the “frustration” of Syrians has
sometimes “taken the form of threats” against the monitors,
damage to their vehicles, and restrictions on their movements,
Ban said in a May 25 report to the council. The observers played
a role this week in documenting the atrocities in Houla.  Obama Talks  “We’d like to see as many as possible,” State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said of the observers at a briefing
yesterday in Washington.  U.S. President Barack Obama discussed the violence in Syria
yesterday with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President
Francois Hollande and Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, the
White House said in a statement.  During a video teleconference, Obama and the European
leaders talked about “their shared perspectives on the
importance of ending the violence of the government against its
own people and the urgency of achieving a political
transition,” the White House said.  Annan, who visited Assad in Damascus in the aftermath of
the Houla massacre, is running out of time to bring the
government and the opposition into a political dialogue that
could eventually persuade Assad to step aside.  His progress will be the focus of a June 7 briefing to the
Security Council, which he will make in person in New York for
the first time since he was named peace broker.  Worst-Case Scenario  Monitors are only a means to an end -- the start of a
political process -- and there is urgency to know if a dialogue
will ever start, according to a Western diplomat who spoke on
condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.  In New York, Rice said a worst-case scenario is that the
“council’s unity is exploded, the Annan plan is dead, and this
becomes a proxy conflict with arms flowing in from all sides.”  Should that happen, the international community is “left
with the option only of having to consider whether they’re
prepared to take actions outside of the Annan plan and the
authority of this Council,” she told reporters.  Annan’s deputy, Jean-Marie Guehenno, told the council
yesterday that, while negotiations between two sides are the
only way forward, any engagement is impossible following the
tragedy in Houla, according to a UN diplomat present at the
briefing who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions were private.  Pro-Government Militia  More than 5,000 Syrians, mostly women and children from the
scene of the weekend massacre, were found on May 29 without food
or water by a joint team of the Red Cross and Red Crescent.  According to UN estimates, the killings in the Houla region
of western Syria left 108 people dead, including 49 children.
Most of the victims died in their homes and entire families were
summarily executed by gunmen at close range, the UN Office of
the High Commissioner for Human Rights said May 29, citing
witnesses and survivors.  The UN says pro-government shabiha militiamen were
responsible for the slaughter, a version supported by the U.S.
and European nations on the Security Council. The Assad
government blamed the deaths on foreign-backed terrorist groups.
Russia, its ally, continues to say the circumstances remain
unclear and it is waiting for an investigation to be completed.  Russia routinely brings up the specter of al-Qaeda to
deflect responsibility for violence from forces loyal to Assad,
as well as warning against the risk of outside military
intervention every time Western powers suggest further steps to
challenge Assad’s non-compliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  