-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Increased in April, Bank of England Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-30T08:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-k-mortgage-approvals-increased-in-april-bank-of-england-says.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose in April
as record-low  interest rates  helped sustain some property demand
during the seasonal spring buying period.  Lenders granted 51,823 loans to buy homes, compared with a
revised 51,067 the previous month, the  Bank of England  said
today in London. Economists forecast that approvals would gain
to 50,100 from an initially reported 49,860 in March, based on
the median forecast of 20 economists in Bloomberg survey. The
April total is still about half the monthly average in the
decade to 2007 before the financial crisis struck.  Property research company Hometrack Ltd. said this week
that the housing market may remain under pressure as rising
unemployment and concerns about the euro area undermine  consumer
confidence . In a sign of caution among Britons, today’s report
showed that net lending on credit cards plunged the most in
almost six years in April.  “Mortgage approvals are very low compared to long-term
norms,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
London, said before the data were released. “Serious worries
over the situation in  Greece  and how this could hit the U.K.
economy may well lead to increased caution over buying a house
and damp prices.”  Net mortgage lending increased by 1.14 billion pounds
($1.78 billion) in April from March, today’s report showed. The
Bank of England held its  benchmark interest rate  at 0.5 percent
this month, when it also decided to stop expanding its stimulus
program.  Consumers  The April mortgage approvals total compares with 58,610 in
January, when the  property market  received a boost as first-time
buyers took advantage of a  tax exemption  on purchases of some
homes before it ended in March. Hometrack said this week that
while  house prices  rose 0.2 percent in May, economic concerns
will probably keep demand and prices “in check” this year.  Net  consumer credit  rose by 268 million pounds in April,
while credit card lending fell by a net 118 million pounds, the
most since August 2006, the Bank of England said.  In a separate report, the central bank said M4  money supply 
rose 1.1 percent in April from the previous month and was down
3.8 percent from a year earlier.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases was up 3.8
percent in the three months through April on an annualized
basis, the central bank said. That compares with 7.1 percent in
the three months through March. The gauge excludes financial
companies that specialize in intermediating between banks, such
as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  