-- U.K. Doctors Vote for Strike for First Time Since 1975
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-30T12:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-k-doctors-vote-for-strike-for-first-time-since-1975.html
U.K. doctors will stage a partial
strike on June 21, the first such step since the mid-1970s,
after voting for action to resist proposed changes to their
pensions, the British Medical Association said.  Doctors working for the state-run  National Health Service 
will postpone most non-essential work on June 21 and may do so
for other 24-hour periods, the BMA, the doctors’ trade union,
said today. About half of the 104,544 doctors eligible to vote
in the ballot for action took part.  “We have consistently urged the government to
reconsider,” Hamish Meldrum, the chairman of the BMA’s
governing council, told reporters in London. “We would much
prefer to renegotiate a fairer deal instead of having to take
the industrial action.”  Doctors working for the NHS are fighting plans for them to
retire at 68, in line with other workers. The BMA says their
pensions are properly funded and sustainable, in contrast to
others in the public sector, and that a cap on employer pension
contributions agreed four years ago means taxpayers don’t have
to shoulder any more of the cost of their retirement.  Dan Poulter, a doctor and lawmaker from Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party , said doctors “have taken
the wrong decision.”  “Industrial action will harm patient care,” Poulter said
in a statement released by the Conservatives. “The public will
simply not understand why doctors have called for  strike action 
over pensions that private-sector workers and many other
frontline NHS workers can only dream of.”  The government is also facing protests from other public-
sector workers over moves to make them work longer and pay more
into their pension plans. It’s been in conflict with health-
service staff over plans for an overhaul of the way the NHS is
managed, giving more control to family doctors, that was
approved by Parliament earlier this year.  Doctors last withdrew their labor in 1975, when consultants
worked to rule over a contractual dispute, and junior doctors
worked no more than 40 hours a week. It’s the first time doctors
have been balloted on action since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  