-- U.K. Energy Policy May Fail to Meet Carbon Goals, IEA Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-30T11:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-k-energy-policies-may-fail-to-meet-climate-goals-iea-says.html
The U.K.’s energy policies may fail
to deliver nuclear power and renewables needed for the nation to
meet its goals for reducing greenhouse gases, the  International
Energy Agency  said.  Britain’s new electricity generation capacity is coming
mainly from natural gas fired plants, the Paris-based agency,
which advises 28 nations, said today in a report. The government
should spur an “efficient mix of new, cleaner generation, more
efficient use of existing infrastructure and more flexible
demand,” the IEA said.  The report underscores pressure on Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to overhaul the power market in a way that
both stimulates investment in new generation capacity and keeps
power prices from rising too quickly. The IEA said Britain needs
110 billion pounds ($173 billion) invested in in the industry by
2020 to meet electricity demand.  For the British economy to cut its carbon intensity, “huge
private-sector investments in energy infrastructure are
needed,” IEA Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven said.
“Consumers must be certain that they are paying for the most
cost-effective solutions.”  U.K. utilities must replace 12 gigawatts of aging coal and
oil-fired plants and 7 gigawatts of atomic reactors by 2020, the
IEA estimated. Parliament is considering a draft energy bill
that would guarantee returns for nuclear and renewable power.  British Response  “Without the process of market reform, it would not be
possible to deliver” the U.K.’s climate and renewables targets,
Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  told reporters today in London.
“We happen to be at a time when we need to rebuild our
electricity infrastructure in any case, and we need to do it in
a low-carbon way.”  Those rules would add to the climate change law that came
into force in 2008. It requires the nation to reduce  greenhouse
gases  34 percent from 1990 levels by 2020 and by 80 percent by
the middle of this century. The IEA said those rules have made
the U.K. a “world leader in climate change response.”  “The U.K. consistently plays a constructive role in
international climate policy, and its domestic policies enhance
its credibility,” Van der Hoeven said.  Energy Targets  Britain is targeting 31 gigawatts of installed wind power
capacity by 2020, up from 6.6 gigawatts today.  “Deployment of renewables will need to increase sharply
over the next decade to meet the indicative level of more than
30 percent of electricity by 2020,” the IEA said in its report.  The country also must replace five of its nine atomic
plants, which provide 20 percent of its power. The U.K. can get
as much as 50 percent of its power by burning  gas , which has
almost doubled in price in three years, boosting calls for
nuclear expansion.  EON AG (EOAN) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  in the past year all withdrew
plans to build nuclear reactors in the U.K., leaving  Electricite
de France SA (EDF) ,  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  with
proposed projects.  The IEA report was prepared before the government published
a draft bill on May 22 outlining an overhaul of the country’s
electricity market to spur investment in cleaner forms of
energy. The proposed rules would guarantee prices for low-carbon
electricity and pay producers for providing back-up supply when
renewables fall short.  Three of the measures proposed by the government -- an
emissions performance standard for new plants, a minimum price
for emissions called the carbon floor price, and contracts
setting long-term prices for power known as contracts for
difference -- are “more than is strictly necessary” and risk
increasing costs for business, the IEA said.  IEA Recommendations  The IEA recommended the government:  -Complete its  electricity market  reform to “reduce
uncertainty” for investors and utilities.  -Work to introduce mandatory fuel efficiency standards for
heavy-duty vehicles.  -Raise consumer awareness about its Green Deal program to
insulate homes and make them more energy efficient.  -Spur more competition in the electricity market.  -Encourage the exploitation of domestic oil and gas
production.  -Develop a national roadmap for the deployment of  carbon
capture  and storage and continue to push the development of four
demonstration plants.  -Improve the effectiveness of financial support for
renewable energy, and maintain investor confidence as the
country moves from its renewable obligation mechanism to a
system of contracts for difference that set a guaranteed price
level for low-carbon electricity.  -Set “robust and transparent” methodologies for the
contracts for difference, and clarify how the contracts will
differ between technologies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  