-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Increases for First Time in Four Months
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-k-consumer-confidence-increases-for-first-time-in-four-months.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  rose in May
for the first time in four months as Britons became more
optimistic about the economic outlook and slowing inflation
eased pressure on shoppers, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  An index of sentiment gained 2 points from April to minus
29, the London-based research group said in an e-mailed report
today. The gauge is down from minus 21 a year earlier. A measure
of Britons’ outlook for the economy over the next 12 months rose
7 points to minus 26.  Inflation slowed to the least in more than two years in
April, while retail sales rebounded in May after poor weather
damped demand the previous month. Still, the U.K. is back in a
recession and the turmoil emanating from the euro-area debt
crises threatens to put the economy under further pressure.  “While this rise is indeed positive,  consumer confidence 
remains mired in the very negative position it has been in for
almost 18 months,” Nick Moon, GfK Social Research managing
director, said in a statement. “Even though optimism about how
the economy will perform” has improved, “it is still
significantly down on where it was this time last year.”  An index of shoppers’ assessment of the economy over the
previous year slipped 1 point to minus 58 and a measure of the
climate for making major purchases dropped 2 points to a seven-
month low of minus 32, GfK said.  The report showed a gauge of Britons’ assessment of their
personal financial situation over the next year climbed 4 points
to minus 9. GfK interviewed 1,998 people from May 4 to May 13.  A separate report from Incomes Data Services today showed
U.K. wage growth slowed in the three months through April. The
median pay settlement was 2.8 percent compared with 3 percent in
the first quarter, the London-based pay researcher said in the
report, which covered 107 deals for 2,359,303 workers. Inflation
eased to 3 percent in April from 3.5 percent in March.  The Engineering Employers Federation and JAM Recruitment
said pay growth at manufacturers accelerated to 2.8 percent in
the quarter through April, the fastest in more than three years.
The data cover 191 pay settlements affecting 34,090 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  