-- U.S. Aviation Official’s Plane Severed in Mid-Air Collision
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-30T22:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-s-aviation-official-s-plane-severed-in-mid-air-collision-3-.html
A small plane owned by a U.S.
aviation official was sliced into pieces when it collided with
another aircraft over  Virginia  on May 28, an accident
investigator said today.  The U.S.  National Transportation Safety Board ’s medical
adviser, James Michael Duncan, 60, died along with another
person in the plane when it plunged to the ground and caught
fire, Jon Lee, an investigator with the  Transportation Safety
Board  of Canada, said in a phone interview.  Lee was called in to oversee the investigation to avoid a
conflict of interest, according to an e-mailed  statement  from
the NTSB. The other plane was owned by Thomas Proven, an
accident investigator for the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration , the FAA said in an e-mailed statement.  Proven, 70, survived after his plane crash-landed in
Sumerduck, Virginia, Corinne Geller, a spokeswoman for the
Virginia State Police, said in an interview. He was flying a
Piper Cherokee PA-28, Lee said.  Duncan, a physician who lived in Bethesda,  Maryland , was
the NTSB’s chief technical adviser for medical issues,  Kelly
Nantel , an agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. He previously
served as chief of space medicine at  NASA , according to that
agency’s website.  Tail Severed  The passenger in Duncan’s plane was Paul Gardella Jr., 57,
of Burke, Virginia, Geller said.  Investigators haven’t reviewed radar data or interviewed
Proven, so they don’t know the paths the planes were on or how
high they were when the collision happened, Lee said.  The rear of Duncan’s Beechcraft  Bonanza BE-35 , a single-engine
plane that can carry as many as six people, was found away from
the main wreckage, Lee said. That suggests the tail section was
torn off by the impact, he said.  Evidence indicates the front section and wings fell almost
straight down into a wooded area, and that the plane caught fire
after it hit the ground, he said.  Because U.S. government employees were involved, NTSB
Chairman Debbie Hersman, after consulting FAA acting
Administrator Michael Huerta, asked the TSB in  Canada  to handle
the investigation, the NTSB said in the release.  The U.S. safety board, an independent agency that reports
directly to the White House, determines the cause of aviation
accidents and makes non-binding safety recommendations. The FAA
regulates the aviation industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Rohner at 
 mrohner@bloomberg.net  