-- Common Ground Seen Holding U.S. Back From Cliff: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-30T21:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-s-may-avert-plunging-over-fiscal-cliff-in-2013-economy.html
The U.S. will avoid plunging off a
fiscal cliff in 2013, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, as lawmakers find enough common ground in budget
negotiations to avert a recession.  This so-called cliff includes the expiration of  income-tax 
cuts first enacted under President  George W. Bush , the end of
payroll-tax reductions and automatic decreases in government
 expenditures , which would clip a combined 3 percentage points
from growth if allowed to kick in next year, according to the
economists surveyed. Instead, compromises will limit the damage
to 0.8 point, sustaining the expansion, the survey showed.  “Forecasters are pretty sanguine at the moment,” said
 Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who estimates the  fiscal drag  will shave
1.5 percentage points from growth next year. “While there will
be a lot of brinksmanship and some tumult in financial markets
as policy makers grind through this, at the end of the process
they’re going to scale back that cliff significantly.”  Investors today focused on the situation in Europe as
concern grew about  Greece ’s future in the euro and the health of
Spanish banks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.4
percent to 1,313.32 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  A report today showed economic confidence in the euro area
declined in May to the lowest level in 2 1/2 years, and  China ’s
state-run news agency yesterday said the country had no plans to
introduce stimulus measures to support growth on the scale of
those unleashed during the depths of the global crisis in 2008.  Probable Compromises  Tax breaks will probably be extended for most Americans and
cuts in spending will be restrained, helping the world’s largest
economy expand 2.4 percent next year, according to the median
forecast of 46 analysts surveyed from May 22 to May 24. Gross
domestic product will grow 2.3 percent this year, according to
the median forecast of a larger survey taken earlier this month.  “If you go over the cliff, it’s a virtual certainty that
we will have a recession in 2013,” said  David Greenlaw , a
managing director at Morgan Stanley in New York. “You have this
strange situation, which is almost unprecedented, where you have
a big, big change in policy if there is no action taken. It’s
not the case where policy makers need to come up with something
new. They just need to address what is automatically going to
happen.”  The Bush-era tax cuts that were extended under the Obama
administration and the temporary reduction in the Social
Security payroll tax are among provisions that wrap up at year-
end. More than $1 trillion in automatic budget cuts over the
next 10 years are also slated to begin in 2013, and emergency
and extended  unemployment benefits  will dry up.  Hit to Growth  The expiration of the programs means about $650 billion
would evaporate from the economy, Greenlaw calculated. He
projects lawmakers will extend the Bush tax cuts for most income
brackets and reduction in  government spending  will be delayed,
which would shave growth by 1 percentage point, he said.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said in a  report  this month
that absent a compromise, the economy would probably fall into
recession in the first half of 2013, contracting at a 1.3
percent annual rate. A pickup in the third and fourth quarters
would lead to a 0.5 percent gain in gross domestic product for
the full year, the CBO said.  Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected that Bush-
era tax cuts will be extended for a majority of Americans, with
the possible exception of top income earners. The scheduled
spending cuts, known as sequestration, will also be delayed or
made smaller, they survey showed.  Allowed to Lapse  The 2 percentage point payroll tax cut and emergency and
extended unemployment benefits will, at the same time, probably
be allowed to lapse, according to the survey.  History suggests lawmakers will not allow disputes to tip
the economy into a recession. Over the past year-and-a-half,
Congress has gone to the brink in negotiations over raising the
debt limit and also funding the federal government. Each time,
after much debate, policy makers have backed away from the edge,
passing compromise legislation to keep the government running.  “The fiscal cliff case goes back to what happened last
summer,” said  Maury Harris , the chief economist at UBS
Securities LLC in  New York . “They kicked the can down the road.
To me, the model of last summer is you postpone.”  Harris was among seven economists in the survey who project
fiscal policy will not hurt economic growth. Polls show the
economy is a more important election issue than the  budget
deficit , he said.  Government Gridlock  The presidential election may deepen the divide between the
executive and legislative branches, which would increase the
likelihood of a stalled decision-making process, Morgan
Stanley’s Greenlaw said.  The threat of gridlock in  Washington  has also raised
concern among policy makers at the  Federal Reserve , including
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who referred to the looming impasse as
a fiscal cliff.  “If no action were to be taken by the fiscal authorities,
the size of the fiscal cliff is such that there’s, I think,
absolutely no chance that the Federal Reserve could or would
have any ability whatsoever to offset that effect on the
economy,” Bernanke said during an April 25 press conference.  Such uncertainty combined with  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis gave central bankers “a quite reasonable case” for
maintaining borrowing costs near zero through 2014, he said.  Congress needs to aim for long-run fiscal sustainability in
a way that doesn’t endanger the short-term economic recovery,
Bernanke said.  2012 Outlook  The lack of clarity surrounding the shift in government
policies may influence companies before next year, said  Michael Hanson , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in New
York, who’s incorporated a slowdown into forecasts for 2012.  “A lot of people see the fiscal cliff as a 2013 story, but
you don’t board up the windows when the hurricane is there, you
board up the windows in anticipation,” Hanson said. “It’s a
very clear, well-defined deadline when the fiscal cliff hits.”  Such ambiguity is among the “headwinds” holding back the
recovery, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley said today.  “The uncertainty about how Congress and the Administration
will address the 2013 federal ‘fiscal cliff’ is likely to
inhibit hiring and investment by business,” Dudley said in the
prepared text of a speech in New York. He said the expansion
will probably continue at a “moderate” pace and that
additional stimulus likely won’t be needed unless the economy
falters.  Spending Cuts  Preferred Systems Solutions is among government contractors
already coping with delayed procurements and agency cost-
cutting, said Scott Goss, president and chief executive officer
of the Vienna, Virginia-based engineering and information
technology provider. One intelligence agency asked Goss to lower
his charges on an existing 10-year contract.  “I’m feeling more of a pinch and squeeze than I ever have
before,” Goss said in an interview last week. “As soon as they
start these massive cuts they’re going to impact the economy.
They can’t just cut it like that. If they did, it will be
devastation of biblical proportions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  