-- U.S. Treasury Sanctions Syrian International Islamic Bank
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-30T17:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-s-treasury-sanctions-syrian-international-islamic-bank.html
The U.S. strengthened efforts to
restrict the Syrian government’s access to international capital
by adding another bank to the list of those facing sanctions.  The U.S. designated the Syria International Islamic Bank
“for acting for or on behalf of” the Commercial Bank of Syria
and providing services to the Syrian Lebanese Commercial bank,
both of which are subject to U.S. and international sanctions.  The  United Nations  estimates that as many as 10,000 people
have died during the Syrian violence, which began with peaceful
protests and has led to a conflict involving heavy weaponry. The
UN has sent a team of monitors who are seeking to calm the
fighting so that talks can begin on implementing a peace plan
proposed by envoy  Kofi Annan .  The action will add to economic pressure on the government
of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad “by closing off a key
evasion route,”  David Cohen , the Treasury’s undersecretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence, said in a statement. The
U.S. “will continue to close off the Assad regime’s access to
the international financial system.”  Even though the regime has yet to comply with the six-point
ceasefire plan brokered by Annan, the Obama administration does
believe the sanctions are working, according to an
administration official who wasn’t authorized to speak to the
news media.  ‘Silver Bullet’  U.S. officials are of the opinion that there isn’t one
“silver bullet” sanction that will push the regime to comply
with the Annan plan, the official said. Instead, they see the
combination of multiple countries’ sanctions as increasing the
pressure on the Assad regime, the official said.  A meeting of the  Syria  Sanctions Committee of the Friends
of the Syrian People on June 6 will offer an opportunity to
explore which sanctions have been most effective and what other
measures can be taken, the official said.  While the government of Qatar is also taking
“corresponding actions,” today’s designation will not target
the Qatari investors who hold investments in Syria International
Islamic Bank, the Treasury said.  “What Treasury is attempting to do is essentially
financially strangle the regime,” said  Mark Dubowitz , a
sanctions specialist who has advised Congress and the Obama
administration. After large banks are sanctioned, a government
targeted by the U.S. will look for “workarounds,” or other
“financial channels” through which it can move money.  ‘Another Pops Up’  “Some people call this a game of whack-a-mole,” said
Dubowitz, executive director of the Washington-based Foundation
for Defense of Democracies. “You hit one and another pops up. I
think that’s the wrong analogy. This is an example of trapping
the regime in a spider’s web, where the regime struggles to get
free the more it entraps itself.”  From 2011 to 2012, the Syria International Islamic Bank has
“surreptitiously facilitated financing worth almost $150
million on behalf of the Commercial Bank of Syria,” the
Treasury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  