-- U.S. Ambassador to Russia Apologizes After Kyrgyz Bribe Row
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-05-30T07:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-s-ambassador-to-russia-apologizes-after-kyrgyz-bribe-row-1-.html
U.S. Ambassador in Moscow Michael McFaul apologized for comments during a speech to students in
which he accused  Russia  of bribing Kyrgyzstan to close a U.S.
air base used for Afghan operations.  Russia’s Foreign Ministry chastised McFaul, a former
Stanford University professor in his first diplomatic posting,
for breaching protocol and “unprofessional” behavior by
spreading “blatant falsehoods through the media.”  “Maybe I shouldn’t have spoken so colorfully and
bluntly,” McFaul said in an e-mailed statement. “On that, I
agree and will work harder to speak more diplomatically.”  The latest spat over McFaul, who was accused by state
television and pro-government lawmakers of stirring up unrest in
Russia in January by meeting opposition activists days after
taking up his new post, reflects increasingly strained U.S.-
Russia ties.  President  Vladimir Putin  skipped the Group of Eight summit
hosted by his U.S. counterpart  Barack Obama  this month to signal
his displeasure at American criticism of Russian elections, a
senior lawmaker, Alexei Pushkov, said May 14.  The former Cold War foes are also at odds over Western
efforts to oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, a bid by U.S.
lawmakers to sanction Russian officials for human rights abuses
and a planned U.S. missile-defense shield in  Europe .  Putin, who was re-elected to a third Kremlin term in March,
stepped up anti-American rhetoric during the campaign, when he
was facing down protests by tens of thousands of people over
alleged fraud in December parliamentary elections.  ‘Won’t Be Diplomatic’  Kyrgyzstan, the only country in the world that hosts
Russian and U.S. military installations, decided in 2009 to
evict the U.S. from its Manas air base after receiving a $2
billion aid package from Russia. The Kyrgyz government later
that year reversed the decision when the U.S. raised the rent to
$60 million a year from $17.4 million to keep the facility, used
to supply troops in  Afghanistan .  “I won’t be diplomatic, I’ll say openly that your country
paid off Kyrgyzstan to kick the Americans out of Manas,” McFaul
was quoted as saying in a May 25 lecture at the Moscow Higher
School of Economics by the state news service RIA Novosti. He
added that the U.S. also “offered a bribe” to Kyrgyzstan,
“but 10 times less.”  In March, McFaul apologized for calling Russia a “wild
country” after journalists from state-run NTV channel followed
him to a meeting with a human-rights activist in Moscow.  ‘Doesn’t Mince Words’  The U.S. State Department said the “irony” of the Russian
criticism of McFaul, who as Obama’s Russia adviser devised a
policy to “reset” ties between the two countries, was that his
speech had focused on the benefits of better relations.  “He speaks plainly, he speaks clearly, he doesn’t mince
words,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday. “He’s not a professional diplomat, and I think that
for the Russian government, the fact that he speaks clearly when
things are going well and he speaks clearly when they’re going
less well is something that they’re having to get used to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  