-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Europe Woes as Home Data Disappoint
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-30T20:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-s-stock-futures-decline-as-facebook-gm-rim-retreat.html
U.S. stocks fell, putting the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on pace for its worst month since
September, as housing data disappointed and concern grew about
Greece’s future in the euro and the health of Spanish banks.  A measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes sank 4.9 percent.
 Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  slumped 9 percent, pacing declines in
retail stocks, ahead of tomorrow’s industrywide monthly sales
report.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  dropped 7.8 percent after
forecasting a surprise operating loss and hiring banks to advise
on strategic options.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  retreated 2.3 percent,
extending its decline since it went public to 26 percent.  The S&P 500 slid 1.4 percent to 1,313.32 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 160.83 points, or
1.3 percent, to 12,419.86. The Russell 2000 Index dropped 2
percent to 762. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index soared 15 percent to 24.14 for the biggest rally since
March 6. About  6.4 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 5.5 percent below the three-month average.  “It’s a high-anxiety market,” said  Hayes Miller , who
helps oversee about $48 billion as the Boston-based head of
asset allocation in  North America  at Baring Asset Management
Inc. “We’re not anywhere near the end of Europe’s debt crisis.
In the U.S., economists are making the point that if housing
were to stabilize, consumption could grow. The question is:
what’s going to allow the housing market to stabilize?”  Global equities tumbled, U.S. Treasury 10-year yields slid
to a record and the euro weakened to a two-year low. The number
of Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned homes
fell in April by the most in a year. An opinion poll showed most
Greeks want to see the terms of a financial rescue revised.  Spanish Debt  Costs to protect Spanish government debt with default swaps
climbed to a record. The  European Central Bank  denied it has
rejected a plan floated by the Spanish government to
recapitalize Bankia group, saying it hasn’t been approached. The
Spanish government itself has backtracked on an idea to
recapitalize Bankia by injecting sovereign debt into its parent
company that, according to the Financial Times, could then be
used as collateral to borrow from the ECB.  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis drove the S&P 500 down
6.1 percent so far in May. Financial, commodity and technology
companies have fallen at least 7.2 percent in the period. The
gauge is on pace for a second straight monthly decline,
following the best first-quarter gain since  1998. (SPX)   “What you’re seeing is worry about how this really plays
out and whether Europe has the ability to even solve the problem
at this point,” said Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee about
$14.7 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  Biggest Losses  Commodity, financial and industrial shares fell the most
among 10 groups in the S&P 500 today.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  slid
3.2 percent to $7.20.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, dropped 3.5 percent to $8.58.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the
biggest maker of construction equipment, decreased 2.5 percent
to $90.18. The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index of companies most-
tied to the economy lost 2.5 percent. Homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
fell 6.7 percent to $26.82.  Thirty of 32 companies in the  S&P 500 Retailing Index (S5RETL) 
retreated, sending the gauge down 1.6 percent. The International
Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group that tracks
retailers, today cut its monthly U.S. same-store sales forecast
to 2 percent from 3 percent, citing weakened  consumer confidence 
leading to a slowdown in discretionary spending.  Sears lost 9 percent to $52.34 for the biggest drop in the
S&P 500.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  slumped 3.6 percent to $48.82.  Macy’s Inc. (M) 
fell 1.8 percent to $38.30.  RIM Slumps  RIM sank 7.8 percent to $10.35, the lowest level since
2003. An exodus of customers to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Google
Inc.’s Android devices has taken a toll on sales and profit,
putting pressure on  management  to make changes. An operating
loss would be the company’s first since 2004.  Facebook lost 2.3 percent to $28.19, after yesterday
slipping below $30 for the first time. The recent slide in the
stock that has cost investors $25 billion may not end until the
shares drop another 20 percent, leaving the company’s valuation
on par with competitors that also do business over the Internet.  The company is trading at 29.5 times its projected 2014
profit of $2.69 billion,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The
stock would have to dive to $23.07 to match the average price-
to-earnings ratio for the  Nasdaq Internet Index (QNET)  based on
estimated earnings in the next 12 months, according to the data.  Investors have  pummeled  the shares, citing concern over
growth prospects for the largest social-networking service.
Shareholders filed lawsuits that said the company and its
underwriters overpriced Facebook at $38 a share. The IPO gave
Facebook a higher multiple than 99 percent of the S&P 500.  ‘Significant Premium’  “It could fall quite significantly because it was priced
at a significant premium,”  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley
& Co., said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Such stocks,
when they go out of favor, tend to fall before stabilizing.”  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  sank 4.6 percent, the most since November, to
$39.59. The largest online marketplace dropped after an analyst
said second-quarter sales may miss estimates due to a slowdown
in U.S. e-commerce spending growth. Sales for the quarter ending
in June will be $3.33 billion, according to a projection today
by Investment Technology Group Inc. That’s less than the average
$3.37 billion analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  Pep Boys -- Manny, Moe & Jack (PBY)  plunged 20 percent to $8.89,
the lowest level since August. The auto-parts chain slumped
after ending its proposed $1 billion sale to Gores Group LLC,
which questioned the deal earlier this month following lower-
than-expected earnings.  Washing Machines  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  gained 0.5 percent to $63.13. The shares
surged as much as 4.2 percent earlier today as the U.S. Commerce
Department proposed duties of as much as 71 percent on large,
residential washing machines made in South Korea, concluding
that government subsidies for the goods undercut U.S. producers.  Monsanto Co. (MON)  rallied 2.2 percent to $76.41. The world’s
largest seed company said third-quarter profit will exceed
analysts’ estimates on rising sales in the U.S., Brazil and
Eastern Europe. The company also boosted its full-year forecast.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable company, gained 1.2
percent to $579.17. Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said that
television is an area of “intense focus” for the company as it
seeks to add products that can build on the success of Macs,
iPhones and iPads.  “This is an area of intense focus for us,” Cook said of
TV in an on-stage interview yesterday at the D10 conference in
Rancho Palos Verdes, California. “We’re going to keep pulling
this string and see where it takes us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  