-- U.S. Sets Duties as High as 26% on Wind Towers From China
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-31T08:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/u-s-proposes-duties-as-high-as-26-on-china-wind-tower-imports.html
The U.S. Commerce Department set
duties from 13.74 percent to 26 percent on imports of wind
towers from China used by the energy industry, siding with U.S.
manufacturers including  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)   The agency released preliminary results yesterday of its
investigation into a complaint from the Wind Tower Trade
Coalition, which claims its members are harmed by subsidies on
products from China. In addition to Broadwind of Naperville,
Illinois, the group includes  Otter Tail Corp. (OTTR) ’s DMI Industries,
Katana Summit LLC and a unit of  Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN)   The decision is a “positive step,” Daniel Pickard, a
lawyer with Wiley Rein LLP in Washington who represents the
coalition, said in a phone interview. The finding is “where we
expected it to be,” he said. Broadwind deferred all comments to
Pickard.  Broadwind closed little changed at 29 cents in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, and rose as much as 9.5 percent after the
announcement. The shares are down 57 percent this year.  The wind-tower case highlights growing tension between the
U.S. and China on economic and renewable-energy issues ahead of
the U.S. elections in November. The Commerce Department on May
17 announced tariffs of 31 percent to 250 percent on Chinese
solar-product imports, after companies including the U.S. unit
of  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  said the products were sold below production
cost. China on May 25 said it filed a complaint against U.S.
anti-subsidy duties with the World Trade Organization in Geneva.  Following Rules  The U.S. is “not going to stand by when our competitors
aren’t following the rules,” President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday at a ceremony to sign a bill reauthorizing the U.S.
Export-Import Bank, which promotes sales of American exports.
“We’ve brought trade cases against China at nearly twice the
rate of the previous administration,” he said.  China and the U.S. have extensive business ties and it’s
natural that there are frictions, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Liu Weimin  told a regular briefing in Beijing today.
“Resorting to protectionism will not solve these frictions,”
he said.  Shanghai Taisheng Wind Power Equipment Co. and Titan  Wind
Energy  (Suzhou) Co., which make wind towers, both fell for the
first time in four days. Shanghai Taisheng dropped 1.8 percent
and Titan gave up 0.9 percent at 11:29 a.m. in Shanghai.  Steel Cylinders  In a separate decision yesterday, the U.S. International
Trade Commission determined that American producers have been
harmed by imports of high-pressure steel cylinders from  China .
The Commerce Department on May 1 set anti-dumping duties of 6.62
percent to 31.21 percent on imports of tanks used to transport
liquefied or compressed gas, as well as duties of 15.81 percent
to counter Chinese government subsidies for the products.  “It’s a long, slow escalation of trade and currency wars
as we race to the bottom,”  Theodore O’Neill , an analyst with
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York, said as China lodged its
WTO complaint.  The Commerce Department yesterday set duties of 13.74
percent for CS Wind China Co. and several affiliated companies,
and 26 percent for Titan Wind and its affiliates. The rate is
19.87 percent for other Chinese exporters and producers.  Cash Deposit  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection will start collecting a
cash deposit from importers based on yesterday’s decision, the
agency said in a statement. The payments will be refunded if a
final determination, scheduled for August, reverses the
preliminary finding.  “This could be a short-lived victory for Broadwind” and
U.S.-based wind-tower makers if Congress doesn’t renew the
production tax credit for wind energy that expires this year,
 Christopher Blansett , an analyst with JP Morgan Securities LLC
in  San Francisco , said in an e-mail.  The U.S. in 2010 imported utility-scale wind towers from
China valued at $222 million, according to the Commerce
Department.  The agency’s decision covers countervailing duties, imposed
to compensate for government subsidies.  Separately, the wind-energy group said that competitors
from China and Vietnam have unfairly undercut their prices on
the steel towers and rotor blades used for commercial  wind
turbines . Towers from China are sold for 64 percent less than
the domestic price, and units from Vietnam sell for 59 percent
less, according to the wind group’s petition in December.  The Commerce Department’s preliminary decision in the anti-
dumping investigation is scheduled to be released during the
third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  