-- Lufthansa Vies With Air France for Low-Cost European Cure
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-31T11:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/lufthansa-vies-with-air-france-for-low-cost-cure-to-europe-woes.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  may shift a
swathe of flights to a new low-cost division operating as many
as 90 jets as the German carrier follows Air France-KLM Group in
seeking to end years of losses on European routes.  The unit, with the working name Direct4U, would combine
short-haul flights not based at Lufthansa’s two main hubs with
discount arm Germanwings, reducing expenses while maintaining
service standards and prices, according to Chief Executive
Officer Christoph Franz and details given in a staff newsletter.  Lufthansa’s plan aims to turn a profit on shorter trips
that don’t feed passengers onto lucrative inter-continental
services. Air France says it will simplify European flights and
cut routes that lose cash, and British Airways owner  IAG (IAG)  has
created Iberia Express to lower the break-even point in  Spain .  “Short-haul wasn’t contributing even in the good times and
high fuel prices have sharpened airlines’ attention to that,”
said  Gerald Khoo , an analyst at Espirito Santo in  London  with a
“neutral” rating on Lufthansa. Net income at airlines will fall
to $3 billion in 2012 from $7.9 billion last year as fuel costs
increase, the  International Air Transport Association  predicts.  Ryanair Skeptical  At IAG, or International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
which posted a 249 million-euro first-quarter loss, CEO  Willie Walsh  said in a May 24 interview that margins in the industry
have become “unacceptable” and that a new approach is required.  Michael O’Leary , CEO of  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, said May 21 that mainline carriers
aren’t equipped to operate a low-cost model and that the current
experiments will fail, like others in the past 15 years. The
Irish carrier said its own earnings will likely fall this year
as a slowing European economy prevents it from increasing fares
sufficiently to make up for surging jet-fuel costs.  Lufthansa is seeking 1.5 billion euros in cost savings
through 2014 after its first-quarter loss widened to 381 million
euros. The German company has scrapped a plan to buy  Finnair
Oyj (FIA1S) ’s catering operations after freezing new investments as part
of the cost-cutting program, the Nordic carrier said today.  Shares of Cologne-based Lufthansa were trading 0.3 percent
higher at 8.56 euros as of 12:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt , paring their
decline this year to 6.8 percent, while IAG is down 4.6 percent
and Air France-KLM has lost 14 percent. That contrasts with
gains of almost 15 percent at Ryanair and 27 percent at Luton,
England-based EasyJet Plc, Britain’s largest discount carrier.  Pay Grades  Lufthansa is “talking concretely” about revamping short-
haul flights away from Frankfurt and Munich, Franz said May 24.  The plan requires a 90-strong fleet with about 36  Airbus
SAS (EAD)  A320-series planes from Germanwings, 30 more from Lufthansa
Direct, provider of main-brand short-haul flights away from the
two hubs, and the rest from Eurowings, which operates  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  CRJ900 regional jets, said a union official with knowledge
of the plan who wouldn’t be named because details aren’t public.  While pilots moving over from Lufthansa won’t be paid any
less, new recruits would join on lower rates, he said.  Employees were first notified about the changes last month
in a letter from board member  Carsten Spohr , who wrote that an
“organizational merger” of Lufthansa Direct and Germanwings
would focus on Dusseldorf, Berlin, Hamburg, Stuttgart and
Cologne and “create a uniform shared fleet in order to finally
cap losses being made in decentralized traffic.”  Job Cuts  There are no plans at the moment to use the Direct4U name
on planes or to extend the model to Frankfurt and Munich, Franz
said in the interview, while adding that that can’t be
completely ruled out. The possibility also remains that some
workers could be moved to Germanwings contracts, he said.  In a recent message to staff, Europe’s second-biggest
airline said it aims to cross-leverage competencies rather than
transform the short-haul network into a no-frills operation.  “The plan is not somehow to copy the business model of low-
cost carriers, but to combine the cost advantages of Germanwings
with the operational and network strengths of Lufthansa,” it
said May 25 in the “Lufthanseat” newsletter. “Savings will
not be made at the expense of customers, but for customers.”  Lufthansa said May 3 it would cut 3,500 office jobs, or 20
percent of the total, and that number will include positions
eliminated by the short-haul integration. The German carrier
added yesterday that as many as 1,000 posts may also be lost at
the LSG Sky Chefs inflight-catering unit, the world’s biggest.  Smaller Fleet  Franz is working on the short-haul makeover after  Air
France (AF)  said May 24 it would reduce its European business to
three units to help deliver more than 2 billion euros in annual
savings and lift productivity by 20 percent after parent Air
France-KLM Group suffered a 597 million-euro first-quarter loss.  The Brit Air, Regional and Airlinair brands, which operate
regional aircraft to smaller cities, will become one division,
leisure flights from Paris Orly airport will be operated by
discount unit Transavia and Air France’s own short-haul brand
will introduce a new no-frills class.  Aircraft utilization will also be improved, with 34 planes
likely to be cut from the short-haul fleet by 2014 with no
impact on capacity, Air France said. The number of surplus staff
is to be indicated next month after labor talks end, it said.  IAG, the European No. 3, is seeking a return to profit at
its Spanish division through less-generous contracts at Iberia
Express. The aim is to cut pilot pay by 62 million euros, or one
fifth, while improving productivity 25 percent as Iberia seeks
to match profitability levels at sister company British Airways.  CEO Walsh said that in seeking a lower cost base, IAG will
avoid repeating mistakes such as the creation in 1997 of Go, a
no-frills carrier sold to 3i Group and later bought by  EasyJet. (EZJ)   “When BA created Go the intention was to be competitive
against Ryanair and EasyJet, but it started competing with BA,”
Walsh said. “Now where we create these airlines they’re very
focused and we’ll avoid that unhealthy cannibalization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  