-- Hungary Fails to Ensure Central Bank Independence, ECB Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-05-30T13:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/hungary-fails-to-ensure-central-bank-independence-ecb-says-1-.html
Hungary’s disputed central bank law,
which stalled bailout talks last year, fails to meet “all the
requirements for central bank independence” and threatens
investor confidence, the  European Central Bank  said.  Hungary needs “stability-oriented” monetary policy as
well as “market confidence in the full independence of the
central bank,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in a report
published on its  website  today.  “The government should actively seek to improve foreign
investor sentiment by adopting international best practices on
central bank independence and respecting the existing contracts
between private parties in the implementation of government
policies,” the ECB said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is seeking to revive aid
negotiations with the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union, which broke down last year after the
institutions said new regulations didn’t guarantee monetary-
policy independence. Amendments to the central bank law, which
lawmakers are scheduled to vote on June 4, partially disregard
ECB concerns, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor said
yesterday.  ‘Address Concern’  “The government will have to address concern over
executive control at the central bank moving to the MPC, which
seems to have caused consternation at the IMF, EC and indeed
ECB,” Tim Ash, a London-based economist at the Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc, said in an e-mail today.  The forint weakened 0.5 percent to 299.31 per euro by 3:16
p.m. in Budapest, extending this month’s decline to 4.2 percent.
The yield on the three-year government bond rose 8 basis points
to 8.425 percent, the highest in five weeks.  The government’s “strong commitment to engage in all
policy issues relevant to macroeconomic stability” is a
prerequisite for EU-IMF financial assistance, the ECB said.
“Fiscal governance remains problematic in  Hungary  and is
weakening investor confidence in the transparency,
predictability and sustainability of Hungarian fiscal
policies.”  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
recommended today the lifting of cohesion fund sanctions against
Hungary citing government measures to consolidate public
finances. A meeting of EU finance ministers on June 22 will take
the final decision on the recommendation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  