-- Hunt’s Career Hangs on Defending Relations With Murdoch Lobbyist
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/hunt-s-career-hangs-on-defending-relations-with-murdoch-lobbyist.html
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
will spend today defending his handling of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s bid for
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , with his career hanging on
his testimony.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  appointed Hunt to rule on the
7.8 billion-pound ($12.1 billion) takeover in December 2010,
after Business Secretary Vince Cable had been recorded telling
undercover journalists he had “declared war” on News Corp.
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch . Last month, one of Hunt’s aides
resigned after News Corp. released e-mails and texts showing
he’d been in constant communication with a company lobbyist
during the bid.  Fending off opposition calls for his own resignation, Hunt
has argued he should be allowed the chance to defend himself. A
whole day at the inquiry into media ethics headed by Judge Brian Leveson has been set aside for his testimony, twice the amount
allotted to the four other Cabinet ministers to be questioned in
 London  this week.  “His problem is what appears to have been active
collaboration with News Corp.,” Carl Gardner, a former
government lawyer and legal commentator, said in an interview.
“Those e-mails show his office working with News Corp. to try
to change Ofcom’s view,” Gardner said, referring to the
broadcast regulator, which had to make a recommendation on the
deal to Hunt.  As Leveson turns his inquiry’s focus to politicians,
Cameron’s government has found itself in the spotlight, with a
third of his Cabinet, including himself, due to give evidence.
One aide described the process, with ministers questioned under
oath by a trial lawyer, live on television, and their e-mails
and  text messages  published, as a nightmare.  ‘Veiled Threats’  It is also highlighting tensions within the coalition
government. Yesterday Cable defended his own behavior toward
News Corp., telling the inquiry he had been “seriously
disturbed” after colleagues passed on “veiled threats” from
the company that his Liberal Democrat Party would be “done
over” if he made the wrong decision on the bid.  Cable has previously said his hostility toward News Corp.
was vindicated when the company shut down its News of the World
newspaper last July, after reports it had hacked the phone of a
murdered schoolgirl, prompting Cameron to set up the Leveson
probe. The company dropped the BSkyB bid shortly afterward.  Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg , the deputy prime
minister, has repeatedly contrasted his and Cable’s attitude
toward Murdoch with that of Cameron’s Conservatives. Clegg told
a meeting on May 29 that until the phone-hacking scandal
erupted, “almost the entire political class competed to bow and
scrape in front of Rupert Murdoch.”  ‘Daddy,’ Papa’  While Cable refused any meetings with News Corp. when he
had responsibility for the bid, e-mails and text messages
released to Leveson show the lobbyist, Fred Michel, in constant
contact with Hunt and his aide,  Adam Smith . Hunt and Michel,
whose wives gave birth in the same hospital, exchanged texts
referring to each other as “Daddy” and “Papa,” even after
Hunt was given responsibility for the bid and said all
communication should go through Smith.  Robert Jay, the lawyer for the inquiry, said on May 24 that
Michel had made 191 phone calls and sent 158 e-mails and 799
text messages to Department of Culture, Media and Sport
officials, 90 percent of them to Smith. Jay said Michel’s
internal e-mails referred to Hunt’s office being supportive of
the bid in a way that wasn’t made public, including saying News
Corp.’s concessions in the deal meant it was “game over” for
those who opposed it.  Hunt and Smith both chose to use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s web-mail
service rather than their official e-mail accounts to discuss
the bid. Hunt’s office hasn’t returned calls asking why. One
text message showed Smith asking Michel to send a document to
his Google account, rather than his official one.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  