-- Venezuela Beats Greece as Least Competitive Nation, IMD Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-30T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/venezuela-beats-greece-as-least-competitive-nation-imd-says.html
Venezuela  was the only nation to
score worse than Greece in an  annual survey of global
competitiveness by the IMD business school  showed.  Venezuela placed last among the 59 countries because its
lack of “an effective legal environment” and lack of
“competency in government,” according to IMD, which is based
in Lausanne,  Switzerland . Greece ranked 58th, scoring lowest in
executives’ perceptions of “competency of government” and
“research and development” culture.  The survey of 4,200 executives shows how Greece has lost
ground in the two years since the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  provided the first of two bailouts
as the country sank into a sovereign debt crisis. While
Venezuela holds the same ranking as last year, the eastern
Mediterranean nation has dropped from 46th position in 2010 and
56th slot in 2011.  “It comes down to governance and predictability,”
Stephane Garelli, director of the IMD’s World Competitiveness
Center, said in an interview. “Businesses can handle almost
everything provided the rules are clear and they know what they
can and can’t do.”  The challenges facing  Greece  include the need to
“establish institutional reforms to shrink the size of the
public sector” and to “eliminate corruption” and re-establish
confidence in the political system, IMD said in the report.  Euro Exit Discussed  Concern about Greece’s prospects has increased since last
month’s elections when turned against parties following the
terms of its bailout, prompting European policy makers to openly
discuss the possibility of ejecting the nation from the 17-
member euro club. That threat has generated concern about a run
on Greek banks. A second ballot is scheduled for June 17.  By contrast, Ireland and Portugal, the other two euro
countries that have received financial assistance since the debt
crisis began, ranked 20th and 41st in the survey, with Ireland
advancing by four places from last year and Portugal falling by
one.  Spain  was in 35th position.  No euro-area nation placed in the top five, with Germany
coming closest at No. 9.  Hong Kong , the U.S. and Switzerland led
the beauty contest, followed by Singapore, Sweden, Canada and
Taiwan.  “U.S. competitiveness has a deep impact on the rest of the
world because it is uniquely interacting with every other
economy, advanced or emerging,” Garelli said. “No other nation
can exercise such a strong pull effect on the world. Europe is
burdened with austerity and fragmented political leadership,
while a south-south bloc of  emerging markets  is still a work in
progress,” he said.  The U.K. ranked 18th, while France took the 29th position
in the survey and  Italy  came in at No. 40.  Japan  was 27th, four
places behind China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  