-- Venus Williams Retains Olympic Chance After French Open Loss
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/venus-williams-retains-olympic-chance-after-french-open-loss.html
The Olympic quest continues for Venus Williams after a historic loss at the French Open.  The American was ousted in the second round in Paris
yesterday, a day after  Serena Williams  lost her opening match.
It added up to the worst performance for the sisters in a major
tennis tournament.  Still, Venus Williams stayed on course for what she said
was her primary goal -- a berth in the London Games this July.  “This tournament for me was all about getting to the
Olympics,” she said after a 6-2, 6-3 loss to third-seeded
Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland. “If that happens for me, I think
the chances are good, then I come out a victor.”  Williams is ranked 53rd, and her first-round win in Paris
will push her to around No. 48, according to the women’s WTA
tour. The Olympic tennis tournament will be at the All England
Club, where Venus has won five Wimbledon singles titles and four
doubles crowns with Serena. The London Games start July 27.  Britain’s  Andy Murray , seeded fourth, plays Finland’s
Jarkko Nieminen today at Roland Garros. Defending men’s champion
 Rafael Nadal  of Spain faces Denis Istomin of Uzbekistan, and
defending women’s champion  Li Na  of China meets Stephanie Foretz
Gacon of France. Women’s second seed  Maria Sharapova  of Russia
plays Ayumi Morita of Japan.  Williams was playing in her first major since she was
diagnosed last year with  Sjogren’s syndrome , an energy-sapping
autoimmune disease that left her barely able to lift her arms.  Match Statistics  She had 33 unforced errors and 17 winners, compared with
six errors and 14 winners by Radwanksa. Williams signed
autographs, and then waved to the crowd and smiled as she left
the court.  Life has changed since the 31-year-old was diagnosed last
year with Sjogren’s. The condition forced Williams, a seven-time
Grand Slam singles champion, to withdraw from the  U.S. Open  and
rethink her priorities. After  New York , she dropped out of the
top 100 and didn’t play again until March.  The top four American women will make the cut for the
London Games, provided they’re ranked inside the top 60 on June
11, the day after the  French Open , according to the WTA.
Williams will remain the third-highest American woman, provided
U.S. player Varvara Lepchenko, who is ranked 61st in the world,
doesn’t make the quarterfinals in Paris. Lepchenko has never
moved past the second round of a major.  Wimbledon Advantage  Sjogren’s syndrome, which is mainly found in women, can
cause extreme fatigue and joint pain and affect internal organs,
according to Arthritis Research U.K. Although not life
threatening, it can lead to inflammation in the muscles and
lungs, make patients feel lethargic and cause dryness in the
mouth and eyes.  Williams will have a shot at success on the fast grass
courts of Wimbledon, according to 18-time Grand Slam champion
 Chris Evert .  “If Venus is going to do well at any Grand Slam, it’s
going to be Wimbledon, where she moves very nicely on the
grass,” Evert said on an ESPN conference call last week.
“She’s very comfortable, she’s won there so many times, and the
points are shorter.”  Williams said yesterday she’ll be back next year in Paris.  “With my ranking now, I’d definitely get in next year,”
she said. “This is only the beginning for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 