-- Venus Williams Follows Serena With Early French Open Loss
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-30T18:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/venus-williams-follows-serena-with-early-french-open-loss-1-.html
Venus Williams  was ousted in the
second round of the French Open a day after her sister Serena
lost her opening match, the worst performance for the American
pair in a major tennis tournament.  Williams was beaten by third-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of
 Poland , 6-2, 6-3, on the main Court Philippe Chatrier at Roland
Garros. The 53rd-ranked woman had been playing in her first
major since she was diagnosed last year with  Sjogren’s syndrome ,
an energy sapping autoimmune disease that left her barely able
to lift her arms.  Even with today’s loss, Venus Williams probably gained a
berth in the Olympics in  London  by winning one match.  The Williams sisters, who hold a combined 20 major singles
titles, exited the 2008  French Open  in the third round, and the
2008 Australian Open in the quarterfinals. They went out in the
last eight in Paris in 2004, and both lost at Wimbledon in the
last 16 a year ago.  Venus had 33 unforced errors and 17 winners. Radwanska made
six errors and hit 14 winners. Venus signed autographs and then
waved to the crowd and smiled as she left the court.  “I was just ready for the match,” Radwanska said. “Of
course when I saw the draw I wasn’t very happy, because Venus as
a second round, it’s not easy. But I won.”  Earliest Loss  Twenty-four hours before Venus’ defeat, Serena, the
oddsmakers’ title favorite, was handed the earliest loss of her
Grand Slam career by  France ’s Virginie Razzano, who beat the 30-
year-old 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 in the opening round. Serena, the
champion in Paris a decade ago, squandered a 5-1 lead in the
second-set tiebreak against an opponent ranked 111th in the
world and struggling with cramps in the last game of the match.  “It is disappointing,” Serena said in a news conference.
“But it’s life. Things could be a lot worse.”  If it wasn’t for the  London Olympics , Venus wouldn’t even
be at Roland Garros.  Life has changed since the 31-year-old was diagnosed last
year with Sjogren’s. The condition forced Williams, a seven-time
major singles champion, to withdraw from the  U.S. Open , and re-
think her priorities. After  New York , Venus dropped out of the
top 100 and didn’t play again until March.  “I wasn’t really ready to come back but I had to come back
so I could play the Olympics and I needed points,” Williams, a
three-time Olympic gold medalist, told reporters at the Rome
Masters shortly before the French Open.  Olympics at Wimbledon  The Olympic tennis tournament will be held at the All
England Club, where Venus has won five singles titles and four
doubles titles with Serena. The London Games start July 27.  Like Venus, Serena has struggled with health problems in
recent years. After winning her 13th major title at Wimbledon in
2010, she was away from the tour for almost a year. After two
foot operations that she said were the result of accidentally
walking through glass in a restaurant in  Germany , Serena had
treatment for blood clots in her lungs in February 2011.  “I almost died and Venus is struggling herself,” Serena
said after losing to Razzano.  Venus is ranked 53rd, and her first-round win in Paris will
push her to around No. 48, according to the women’s WTA tour.  The top four American women will make the cut for the
London Games, provided they’re ranked inside the top 60 on June
11, the day after  Roland Garros , according to the WTA. Venus
will remain the third-highest American woman after the French
Open, provided fellow U.S. player Varvara Lepchenko, who is
ranked 10 spots above Venus, doesn’t make the quarterfinals in
Paris. Lepchenko has never got past the second round of a major.  Illness  Sjogren’s syndrome, which is mainly found in women, can
cause extreme fatigue and joint pain and affect internal organs,
according to Arthritis Research U.K. Although not life-
threatening, it can lead to inflammation in the muscles and
lungs, make patients feel lethargic and cause dryness in the
mouth and eyes.  After her first-round win in Paris, Venus said she is
taking each day as it comes.  “It’s a big accomplishment for me to be here right now,”
she told reporters. “I just learned how to live with this. It’s
different. I have a lot to learn still. A lot of it I have to
figure out. It’s physical and emotional and all kinds of
different things, mental,” she added.  Venus will have a shot on the fast grass courts of
Wimbledon, according to 18-time Grand Slam champion  Chris Evert .  “If Venus is going to do it well at any Grand Slam, it’s
going to be Wimbledon, where she moves very nicely on the
grass,” Evert said on an ESPN conference call last week.
“She’s very comfortable, she’s won there so many times, and the
points are shorter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 