-- Veolia Loses Bid to Block RWE Sale of Berlin Water Stake
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-05-30T13:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/veolia-loses-bid-to-block-rwe-sale-of-berlin-water-stake-1-.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  lost a German
court bid to block  RWE AG (RWE)  from selling its share of the
companies’ joint stake in Berlin’s water utility to the
city government.  The Berlin Regional Court rejected the suit after hearing
arguments in the case. Presiding Judge Hartmut Gieritz said the
joint-venture agreement didn’t bar either side from selling
their respective stakes. He also rejected Veolia’s argument that
RWE acted in bad faith by seeking to sell to the city of Berlin
which also sets rules for water pricing.  “The agreement protects Veolia by forcing any new
shareholders to assume all the duties that RWE now has -- and
that’s about it,” said Gieritz. “If the parties would have
wanted to bar the city of Berlin from ever acquiring such a
stake, they should have made that plain in the language of the
agreement.”  RWE, Germany’s second-largest utility, and Veolia in 1999
acquired 49.9 percent in the  BWB Wasserbetriebe  water company,
Germany’s largest, for 1.7 billion euros ($2.1 billion).
Berlin’s city government said last year that RWE offered to sell
its 24.95 percent stake for about 800 million euros. Berlin is
trying to regain control of the 150-year-old city water supplier
to curb water charges.  Veolia spokeswoman Marie-Claire Camus declined to
immediately comment on the ruling.  Stirred Protest  The utility’s part privatization had stirred protest
among Berlin citizens who in 2007 started an initiative which
eventually forced the government to hold a referendum for
disclosing the terms of 1999 agreement. The initiatives claim
the deal is responsible for high water costs for consumers. The
city passed a law in 2010 allowing disclosure and the agreement
was posted on the Internet.  Last month,  Germany ’s antitrust regulator told BWB that its
water charges are too high and should be cut on average by 20
percent. For the period of 2012 to 2015, BWB should lower prices
by a total of about 292 million euros, the cartel office said.
BWB has said it’s calculating it prices according to the
applicable local laws.  Today’s case is LG Berlin, 99 O 50/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 