-- Verizon Doubles FiOS Broadband Speeds in Race With Cable
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-30T20:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/verizon-doubles-fios-broadband-speeds-in-race-with-cable.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, doubled the speed of its most
expensive FiOS broadband Internet  service , seeking an edge
against cable providers.  Verizon will begin offering five speeds of service next
month, topping out at 300 megabits per second, according to a
statement today. Pricing will be announced in June, the New
York-based company said.  The new top speed, up from a previous high of 150 megabits,
is designed to let consumers handle multiple Internet devices
and more bandwidth-hogging applications. Still, most home
Internet customers probably won’t notice the difference when
they reach that level, said Jonathan Atkin, an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York.  “Once you get beyond 25 to 50 megabits, it’s all
marketing,” said Atkin, who expects Verizon’s stock to perform
in line with its peers. “Speed speaks to people at a visceral
level. It makes sense that Verizon would try to highlight their
advantage and get people to switch to their service.”  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable provider, offers a
rate of as much as 105 megabits.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the
fifth-largest cable carrier, offers speeds of up to 50 megabits,
with an “ultra” package that boosts it to 101 megabits.  The higher speeds also will help customers stream high-
definition videos, play live multiplayer video games and use
tablet computers, said Verizon, which ranks second to AT&T Inc.
in U.S. phone customers.  Verizon shares  fell  less than 1 percent to $41.42 at the
close in New York. The stock has climbed 3.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  