-- Vietnam to Publish State Company Results After Scandals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-31T02:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/vietnam-to-publish-state-company-results-after-scandals.html
Vietnam ’s state-owned companies are
set to begin publishing audited earnings for the first time as
the government improves oversight and tries to reassure
investors following losses and corruption scandals.  All state-owned companies will have to publicly post
results online at least once a year under rules expected to be
signed by Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung within the next few
weeks, Dang Quyet Tien, deputy head of the finance ministry’s
corporate-finance department, said in a May 29 interview in
 Hanoi . In some cases, financial statements will be required
quarterly, he said.  “It’s a fundamental change,” Tien said. State-owned
companies will be required to publish information including
sales, profit, losses, debt, return on assets, return on equity,
 cash flow  and salary ranges, he said. Unlisted state companies
only compile earnings once a year and there is no requirement to
release the data publicly.  The regulations, which will probably come into effect in
the second half, will also detail ministries’ responsibility
over companies as well as potential penalties, Tien said.
Vietnam is stepping up scrutiny as police seek an ex-head of the
nation’s biggest shipping line accused of mismanagement and
after eight shipyard executives were jailed for losses in March.  “It would be great if the government could begin to impose
discipline on these firms, through transparency and forcing them
to announce to the world exactly how they make their money,”
said Jonathan Pincus, a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist at the
Harvard Kennedy School’s Vietnam program. “The public tolerance
for very risky speculation in the state sector is zero at this
point.”  Downgrades  Concerns about a lack of financial transparency contributed
to  Standard & Poor’s  downgrading Vietnam to BB-, three levels
below investment grade, in December 2010. Moody’s Investors
Service cut its rating on the country to B1, four below
investment grade, the same month.  The police said this month they are looking for Duong Chi
Dung after the ex-chairman of Vietnam National Shipping Lines
fled his home in Hanoi on May 17. Dung, who has been suspended
from his current post as head of the Vietnam Maritime
Administration, is accused of “intentionally violating state
regulations on economic management, causing serious
consequences,” according to a posting on the government website
last week, citing Col. Tran Duy Thanh, head of the economic-
crime investigation bureau.  Dung and two other former executives at the ship and port
operator, known as Vinalines, were involved in falsifying
contracts that raised the cost of a floating dock to $24.3
million from $14 million in 2007, according to a May 22 posting
on the government website.  “The Vinalines case has created pressure on the government
to move faster with rules to scrutinize companies,” said Nguyen
Duc Kien, deputy head of the National Assembly’s economic
committee. “It had discussed this before, but hadn’t done
much.”  Former executives at Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group
were imprisoned for as long as 20 years in March after a probe
into the company’s near collapse in 2010 under $4 billion of
debt. Vietnam Electricity Chairman Dao Van Hung was also fired
in February after the power company lost 11.5 trillion dong over
two years, according to postings on the government website.  “We are concerned when we hear stories, reports about
problems in the state enterprise sector,” Victoria Kwakwa, the
 World Bank ’s Vietnam country director, said May 28. “You need
to ensure accountability. You need to have clear targets for
performance that SOEs are held accountable for. You need modern,
clear management and governance.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  