-- Visa Beats JPMorgan as Cards Wage War on Cash: Riskless Return
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-30T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/visa-beats-jpmorgan-as-cards-wage-war-on-cash-riskless-return.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
biggest bank-card networks, produced better risk-adjusted
returns than 81 publicly traded U.S. financial firms as the two
benefit from a long-term global shift to electronic payments.  Shares of Visa and MasterCard outperformed every company in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index during the past year,
according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. Visa, based
in San Francisco, returned 1.59 percent after adjusting for
price swings in the 12 months ended last week, helped by a
volatility that was lower than that of two-thirds of the stocks
in the index. MasterCard climbed 1.18 percent.  The networks route payments and guarantee settlement, and
both have more than  doubled revenue  in the past six years amid a
consumer shift from cash to electronic payments that shows no
signs of abating. They don’t lend money, avoiding the profit
squeeze banks face from record-low rates, and they’re subject to
less regulatory scrutiny than lenders or insurers, insulating
their stocks from sharper price swings, analysts said.  “They are very sophisticated toll collectors,” said
Darrin Peller, an analyst with Barclays Plc. “It’s a very
profitable group that’s very capable of managing and controlling
their earnings power.”  Visa and MasterCard aren’t included in the S&P sub-index,
though they’re frequently compared to financial-services firms.
 Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the credit-card lender that also
owns a payments network, had the index’s second-highest risk-
adjusted return after Simon Property Group Inc., the
Indianapolis-based real estate investment trust.  Apple, JPMorgan  Visa and MasterCard are part of the 70-company S&P 500
Information Technology Index, and ranked second and third for
risk-adjusted returns after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , based in Cupertino,
 California .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which earlier this month reported a
$2 billion loss tied to trades on illiquid credit derivatives,
had risk-adjusted returns of negative 0.43. The New York-based
lender, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, was 35 percent more
volatile than Visa and 11 percent more than MasterCard.  Five of the six largest U.S. lenders were among the worst
performers in the S&P financials index for risk-adjusted
returns. JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc.,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  ranked 62nd, 70th
71st, 76th and 77th, respectively. Only  Wells Fargo & Co ., which
ranked ninth, had a positive risk-adjusted return.  ‘Places to Hide’  “Financial-dedicated investors have been looking for
places to hide,” said Benjamin Hesse, who manages five
financial-stock funds and leads a team of 15 analysts at Boston-
based Fidelity Investments. “In general, the payment networks
have seen their model improve the most in financial services.”  Erica Harvill, a Visa spokeswoman, JPMorgan’s  Joseph Evangelisti  and MasterCard’s James Issokson declined to comment.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has taken stakes
in Visa and MasterCard as investment manager Todd Combs, who ran
a hedge fund focused on financial stocks before joining
Berkshire in 2010, builds his portfolio. Berkshire owned almost
2.9 million Visa shares and 405,000 MasterCard shares as of
March 31, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said in a regulatory
filing.  American Express  Buffett, the billionaire who said he invests in companies
with durable competitive advantages, also is the biggest
shareholder of credit-card lender and payments-network operator
 American Express Co. (AXP)  New York-based AmEx’s risk-adjusted return
for the year ended May 25 was 0.38 percent, ranking it 13th out
of the 81 firms in the S&P financials index.  The  Federal Reserve  completed rules on debit-card fees and
processing last year as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. That helped
to reduce volatility for Visa and MasterCard as it eliminated
uncertainty that had persisted since the law was enacted a year
earlier, according to Alison Williams, a senior analyst with
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman, New Jersey.  U.S. banks, meanwhile, are still haggling with regulators
over Dodd-Frank provisions including the so-called Volcker rule,
which limits lenders from making bets with their own money. The
new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is reviewing lending
practices and global regulators are weighing stricter capital
standards.  ‘Regulatory Clarity’  “There’s a lot more regulatory clarity for this industry
as compared with broader financials,” Williams said of the
payment networks. “These companies that don’t lend and don’t
make money through the use of their balance sheet are not going
to have the same risk to returns.”  An increase in  consumer spending  in  emerging markets  such
as Brazil and India has fueled profit growth for Visa and
MasterCard, which also are benefitting as governments embrace
electronic payments to boost tax receipts and fight corruption.
Visa agreed in December to assist Rwanda in developing a
payments system, an initiative that may help Chief Executive
Officer Joseph W. Saunders, 66, fulfill a goal of generating
more than half of the firm’s revenue outside the U.S. by 2015.  MasterCard CEO Ajay Banga, 52, whose company reaped 60
percent of its revenue abroad last year, has repeatedly reminded
investors of his “war on cash.”  Consumers worldwide spent $11.2 trillion on credit and
debit cards last year, an increase of more than 18 percent from
a year earlier, according to the Nilson Report, an industry
newsletter based in Carpinteria, California. Visa and MasterCard
accounted for $7.81 trillion of those purchases.  Room for Growth  Even in the U.S., whose payment system is more mature that
those in the developing world, there’s more room for growth.
Card- and electronic-based payments are projected to account for
69 percent of all U.S. consumer payments in 2015, up from 61
percent in 2010 and 50 percent in 2005, according to Nilson.  About 85 percent of the world’s payments are still made in
cash and checks, MasterCard said in a Sept. 15  presentation .  Visa posted net income of $1.29 billion on revenue of $2.58
billion for the three months ended March 31 and forecast annual
earnings-per-share growth as high as the “low twenties,” the
company said in a statement. MasterCard’s first-quarter profit
surged 21 percent to $682 million.  The networks still may be forced to trim their fees and
defend their market dominance as regulators worldwide continue
to scrutinize their business models and smartphones change the
competitive landscape.  Mobile Wallets  Apple, Google Inc. and EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit are
developing so-called mobile wallets to capture spending flows.
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  also are working to start
a mobile-payments venture, the Wall Street Journal reported in
March. Retailers, who accused Visa and MasterCard of being an
unregulated duopoly that gouges merchants, helped push through
the U.S. debit regulations. Visa this month disclosed a U.S.
antitrust probe into its pricing for debit-card transactions.  Visa, MasterCard and card-issuing banks also are defendants
in a federal antitrust lawsuit alleging price-fixing on credit-
card transactions, and U.S. lawmakers have considered
legislation similar to the debit-card caps. Last week,
MasterCard lost a court challenge seeking to overturn a European
Union decision that the company’s cross-border card fees
violated antitrust rules.  Still,  analysts predict  further gains. Visa may report
revenue will climb 9.3 percent to $2.82 billion for the three
months ending March 2013, while MasterCard’s may advance 13
percent to $1.99 billion, according to the average estimates of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  As card spending climbs, the networks can generate profit
margins of more than 90 percent on each additional purchase
since the technology is already installed, said Peller, the
Barclays analyst. That means steady profits, he said.  For Visa and MasterCard, “if I was allowed to, I would put
both stocks in my personal account and forget about them for the
next four or five years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  