-- Vulcan Materials Founding Family Sues Over Sale Halt
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-30T18:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/vulcan-materials-founding-family-sues-over-sale-halt.html
Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) ’s founding
family sued the 103-year-old gravel-maker and its top managers,
accusing them of “gross mismanagement,” in part for rejecting
a $4.7 billion sale to competitor  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)   Glenn Ireland II and William C. Ireland Jr. sued Vulcan’s
board and Chief Executive Officer  Don James , claiming that in
addition to rejecting the  Martin Marietta  offer, they made a
series of “disastrous, poorly vetted decisions” that loaded
the company with too much debt and cut its value by more than
half. The case was filed in state court in Birmingham, Alabama,
on May 25.  Last year, after Vulcan’s board rejected its offer, Martin
Marietta sued in state court in  Delaware  seeking approval to
make a hostile bid. This month a Delaware Chancery Court judge
halted the bid for four months, ruling that Martin Marietta
violated a confidentiality agreement. Tomorrow, Martin Marietta
lawyers are scheduled to ask the Delaware  Supreme Court  to
overturn that ruling.  The Ireland family’s case is a so-called derivative lawsuit
that would return any money won to the company’s coffers. The
family is also seeking an order to force managers to restart
negotiations with Martin Marietta.  ‘Without Merit’  “We believe the suit is entirely without merit,” Vulcan
spokesman Jamie Tully said, declining to answer specific
questions about the lawsuit or the rejected Martin Marietta
deal.  Later this week, an Ireland family trust that owns about
1.5 percent of the company will join the  Alabama  lawsuit, said
Guy K. Mitchell Jr., son-in-law of Glenn Ireland.  Other family members, many of whom still live in the
Birmingham area, where Vulcan is based, back the lawsuit,
Mitchell said.  In the Delaware lawsuit, James, the chairman of Vulcan,
testified that in 2010 he had envisioned a friendly “merger of
equals.” The talks foundered before Martin Marietta CEO Ward Nye disclosed the hostile bid, with a major sticking point being
who would run the new company, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. said in a 139-page opinion.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , offered
to exchange half a share for each share of Vulcan and pay a
quarterly dividend equal to 20 cents a Vulcan share.  Glenn Ireland, 86, is one of four members of the family
that took Vulcan public in a merger with Vulcan Detinning Co. in
1956. He had worked for several predecessor companies of Vulcan
starting in 1947 and later served on the board. William Ireland
is the son of one of the four founders of  Vulcan Materials .  The Alabama case is Ireland v. James, CV 2012-901655,
Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama (Birmingham). The
Delaware case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  