-- War Funds Face Automatic Cuts in January, Pentagon Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-05-30T20:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/war-funds-face-automatic-cuts-in-january-pentagon-says.html
Funds for war operations, including
in  Afghanistan , face automatic cuts in January if Congress and
the White House don’t agree on ways to reduce the deficit,
according to a Pentagon spokeswoman.  The Pentagon reversed earlier statements that the war
spending, known as overseas contingency operations (OCO)
funding, wouldn’t be subject to automatic cuts. The cuts called
sequestration were mandated under the Budget Control Act of
2011, which created a special congressional committee and
required automatic reductions when it failed in November to
agree on ways to cut the deficit.  “Upon further review of the law and after consultation
with the Office of Management and Budget, the department now
agrees that OCO funding is not exempt from sequester,”
Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins, a Pentagon spokeswoman,
said today in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg Government.  The prospect of cuts in funds for U.S. forces at war may
add urgency to efforts to pass legislation averting the
automatic reductions that would cut total Pentagon spending by
$55 billion in fiscal 2013.  The administration has requested
$88.5 billion in war funding for the fiscal year, which begins
Oct. 1.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  wrote to Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, in November, saying that war-time
funding isn’t directly affected by the sequester.  “The November statement was an error,” Robbins said. “At
that time, the department believed that since overseas
contingency operations (OCO) funding could not trigger a
sequester, it would also not be subject to sequester.”  The application of the new sequester procedures to war
funding wasn’t “straightforward,” she said, because the Budget
Control Act amended old sequester procedures that predated the
existence of overseas contingency accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  