-- Wealth ‘Destruction’ Hurting Australian Consumer Spending
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-05-31T01:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/wealth-destruction-hurting-australian-consumer-spending.html
Australia ’s drop in  household wealth 
since 2007 is to blame for weak consumer sentiment, said Richard Goyder, managing director of  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , the nation’s
biggest private employer.  The decline in Australian  house prices  and retirement funds
in the past five years, as well as economic turmoil in the U.S.
and  Europe , had given households a “window on a more uncertain
world” and made them more reluctant to spend money, he said in
an interview in Sydney yesterday.  “There’s been a really big destruction of wealth since
2007,” Goyder said. “If they’ve got an opportunity, people are
saving more money.”  Ebbing  consumer confidence  and declining prices prompted
rival retailer  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , the country’s largest listed
department store company, to forecast a 15 percent decline in
net income in the year through July. Instead of spending,
Australian  households  are saving money at more than twice the
rate of their U.S.  counterparts . Consumer sentiment has recorded
a negative reading in eight of the past 11 months.  “People are looking on a very regular basis at their
superannuation statements, reading headlines about what their
houses are worth,” Goyder said, referring to the retirement
funds held by all Australian employees. “People are more
cautious, understandably more cautious.”  Still, Australia’s unemployment rate is one of the lowest
among major economies and  interest rates  have been cut by a
percentage point since November.  Falling Rates  Wesfarmers shares rose 0.9 percent to A$29.20 at 10:51 a.m.
in Sydney today, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index declined
1.1 percent.  The retailer, Australia’s second-largest, also owns
chemicals companies, coal mines and an insurer.  Goyder on April 29 called on the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
to cut  interest rates  at its May 1 meeting. The central bank
this month lowered the overnight cash rate target to 3.75
percent from 4.25 percent, the deepest cut in three years.  The step by the central bank came as growth in  China  slowed
more sharply than some had expected.  Chinese demand for Australia’s resources including coal and
iron ore had helped ensure the country was the only major
developed economy to avoid a recession in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis.  Australian consumer sentiment hit its third-highest level
on record in January 2010, amid lackluster growth in other rich
countries and 75 basis points of interest rate increases from
the country’s central bank.  Retail Slump  The outperformance has faded. Australian retail sales
unexpectedly fell in April for the first time in 10 months,
dropping 0.2 percent from a month earlier to A$21.2 billion
($20.7 billion), according to the  Australian Bureau of
Statistics .  Australian house prices declined in the three months
through March in the longest losing streak in at least a decade.  An index measuring prices for established houses in eight
major cities dropped 1.1 percent last quarter from the previous
three months, when it fell a revised 0.7 percent, the Australian
Bureau of Statistics said in a May 1 report.  Wesfarmer’s bigger competitor  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  has said it
intends to sell its Dick Smith electronics division and close
about 100 of its outlets to focus on the grocery business.  Dick Smith was in a “very challenged area” where
competition from overseas was hurting profitability, Goyder
said.  Final bids for the chain are due June 1, the Australian
Financial Review newspaper reported yesterday, without saying
where it got the information.  Goyder had previously said he was open to offers for
Wesfarmers’ mines after last year agreeing to sell its Premier
coal assets to Yancoal Australia Ltd.  There has been a “relative lack of approaches” for
Wesfarmers’ Curragh coal mine, one of the world’s largest
producers of coal used to make steel, Goyder said.  “We’ve had very few concrete proposals, if any” for the
mine, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  