-- White House Unveils Initiative to Fight Computer Viruses
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-05-30T15:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/white-house-to-unveil-initiative-to-fight-computer-viruse.html
Internet-service providers and
financial-services companies would share data about networks of
infected computers known as botnets under a pilot program
announced today by the Obama administration.  The White House also unveiled a voluntary set of principles
developed by an industry group to prevent and detect botnets and
a consumer-education campaign about the computer viruses.  Botnets are networks of infected computers that can be used
for malicious purposes, such as stealing information, generating
spam or flooding corporate or government systems with unwanted
traffic that can cripple websites. To build a botnet, hackers
send out programs, often disguised as links or hidden in e-mail
attachments, that infect a computer when opened.  “The issue of botnets is larger than any one industry or
country,”  Howard Schmidt , the White House cybersecurity
coordinator, said in an e-mailed statement. “This is why
partnership is so important.”  More than 5 million systems worldwide were infected with
botnets between January and March of 2012, Michael DeCesare, co-
president of McAfee Inc., a security software unit of  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , said at a White House event on botnets today led by
Schmidt.  Voluntary Principles  Schmidt, who is preparing to step down from his post, was
joined at the event by  Homeland Security  Secretary Janet Napolitano and Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  The Homeland Security and Commerce departments in September
sought comments on a voluntary industry program, saying that
botnets have emerged as an increasing threat during the past
several years.  The voluntary  principles  announced today include
coordinating across sectors and confronting the problem
globally. They were developed by the Industry Botnet Group,
comprising trade groups including the Business Software Alliance
and TechAmerica.  A financial-services Information Sharing and Analysis
Center established in 1999 is developing the botnet pilot and
will announce details in the next month,  Bill Nelson , the
center’s president, said in an interview. He declined to name
pilot participants. The center, which works with the U.S.
Treasury and Homeland Security, has more than 4,000 members,
including top banks and credit-card companies, he said.  Cybersecurity Legislation  President  Barack Obama ’s administration opposed a bill
passed by the U.S. House of Representatives last month that
encourages the government and companies to voluntarily share
information on cyber threats, saying the measure doesn’t do
enough to protect the nation’s critical systems and would erode
privacy safeguards for consumer information.  The push for cybersecurity legislation has intensified
following attacks last year on companies including New York-
based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, and
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company.  The White House supports a bill sponsored by Senator Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, that would put the
Department of Homeland Security in charge of regulating
cybersecurity of the nation’s vital systems such as power grids
and transportation networks.  Napolitano at the White House event today said she’s
hopeful the Lieberman bill will move to the Senate floor in the
next month or so.  The House bill is H.R. 3523. The Lieberman bill is S. 2105.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 