-- Widening Secret Patents Seen as Costing Inventors’ Rights
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-05-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/widening-secret-patents-seen-as-costing-inventors-rights.html
Congress is asking whether sensitive
patent applications should be kept under wraps to protect them
from economic espionage, a question that implies curbing the
ability of inventors to promote their ideas globally.  Secrecy provisions have for decades been reserved for
innovations with national security importance. Congress ordered
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to consider whether similar
restrictions should apply to inventions with implications for
“economic security.”  When inventors’ U.S. applications are secret, they are
unable to patent their ideas in other countries. That alters a
bargain, established in the U.S. Constitution, giving inventors
a limited monopoly on their ideas in exchange for exposing
knowledge to the world and allowing others to build on it.  “It’s ridiculous, absurd,” Bob Stoll, who ran the
agency’s patent operations from late 2009 until Dec. 31, said in
an interview. “We have an economically valuable patent we don’t
want our companies to secure in China, in  Europe , in  Australia 
or anywhere else in the world? It flies in the face of what our
country should be trying to do.”  The directive to the patent office was part of a spending
bill enacted in November. The provision, added by the House
Appropriations subcommittee led by Virginia Republican Frank Wolf, called for a review of whether patent secrecy should be
extended to cover inventions “that could potentially impact
economic security,” according to a Federal Register  notice .  The patent office, which hasn’t taken a position, is
collecting comments through June 19.  $398 Billion  “While PTO has a fairly defined procedure for dealing with
national security patents, they haven’t strategically rethought
what is sensitive patent data in the 21st century,” said Thomas
Culligan, Wolf’s legislative director.  Hackers and illicit programmers in  China  and  Russia  are
pursuing American technology and industrial secrets,
jeopardizing an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research
spending, according to a November  report  from the U.S. National
Counterintelligence Executive.  The report called China the world’s biggest perpetrator of
economic espionage and said the theft of sensitive data in
cyberspace is accelerating. Areas cited as most targeted include
pharmaceuticals,  information technology , military equipment and
advanced materials and manufacturing processes.  Forfeited Rights  Along with examining whether expanded patent secrecy is a
good idea, the patent office is also asking who would be
responsible for identifying applications to be kept under wraps,
what criteria would be used, and what types of inventions would
qualify. It also has to look at how it would affect inventors’
ability to obtain patents outside the U.S.  Applications usually are made public after 18 months, a
standard followed in most developed nations. If applications are
kept secret, at the inventor’s request or by U.S. determination,
the owners can’t seek patents in other countries.  “There would be challenges relative to treaty obligations
that we have, and those would have to be worked out,” David Kappos, director of the patent office, told a House Judiciary
subcommittee on May 21.  There were 5,241  secrecy orders  in effect in fiscal 2011,
most established by the Defense Department, according to a
patent office report given to the Federation of American
Scientists, a non-partisan agency founded by the developers of
the Manhattan Project to research issues that include reducing
threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.  Some inventions can remain secret for decades.  One
application for a radar system developed by the Navy in 1948
didn’t become a patent for 45 years.  Patent Vault  The patent office looks for key words in applications to
determine if something might be of interest, and passes those
applications to the Army,  Air Force , Navy and other defense
agencies. If flagged, the applications are reviewed by examiners
with security clearances and placed in a vault, with an annual
review by the defense agencies to see if the secrecy order can
be lifted and a patent issued.  There’s no appeal if an application is declared a secret,
although some owners can get compensation if they can prove the
invention has market value. Some applications are so sensitive
that they’re sealed with access only to defense agencies, said
Paul Fucito, a patent office spokesman.  ‘You’re Stuck’  “No applicant is very happy about having their application
placed under a secrecy order,” said Don Pelto, a patent lawyer
with Sheppard Mullin in  Washington , whose firm represents
defense companies. “There’s no way for the applicant to have
that secrecy order lifted. You’re stuck. If the same stuck-ness
applies to this potential new rule, applicants are in a heap of
trouble.”  Manufacturers aren’t willing to give up foreign patents
even if they are tipping off rivals or counterfeiters, said
Stoll, now a lawyer at Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP in Washington.  “Commercial espionage is rampant and everyone’s trying to
get a leg up on the leaders in the market,” he said. “But
secret patent applications are fraught with peril and would harm
the  United States  in the long run.”  It takes, on average, 34 months to complete an application,
or 16 months after it’s made public, and even longer in
semiconductors or electronics. Wolf is concerned that foreign
entities could use that gap to get information that would put
the U.S. at an economic disadvantage, Culligan said in an
interview.  “It may be some cutting-edge technology, game-changing
technology, and we’re exposing it at 18 months with no
protections,” Culligan said.  Published Applications  Websites are dedicated to gleaning the next  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  product based on their published applications, and
rival companies routinely check patents to see what the
competition is up to.  “No one knows if what’s in a published patent application
is going to be a blockbuster -- it takes marketing and skill,”
Pelto said. “Nearly every patent applicant is hoping their
invention becomes economically significant. That’s part and
parcel of the patent procedure in the U.S.”  Economic espionage is mostly aimed at technology and
business strategy earlier than the patent stage, Willy Shih, a
professor of management practice at  Harvard Business School  who
studies industrial competitiveness, said in an interview.  “The much more interesting stuff, the really good stuff,
is probably not patented yet,” Shih said, calling patents a
trailing indicator of economically valuable data.  Trade Secrets  Relying on legal protections for  trade secrets , in which
inventions aren’t patented, is one route for companies that
don’t want to expose their inventions to rivals.  DuPont Co., which kept trade secrets related to the
manufacture of Kevlar, an anti-ballistic fiber used in police
and military gear, accused  Korea ’s Kolon Industries Inc. of
stealing that information, winning a $919.9 million jury verdict
last year against the company.  Expanded patent secrecy won’t stop economic espionage
because foreign hackers are penetrating corporate  computer
networks  to steal information, Rick Holland, a Dallas-based
information-security and risk analyst with Forrester Research
Inc., said in an interview.  “It’s a lose-lose,” Holland said. “It’s not effective
and is putting organizations in a bad spot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  