-- WikiLeaks’ Assange Loses U.K. Top Court Extradition Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-30T14:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/wikileaks-s-assange-loses-u-k-top-court-extradition-appeal-1-.html
Julian Assange, founder of the anti-
secrecy website WikiLeaks, lost a U.K. Supreme Court appeal to
block his extradition to Sweden to face rape claims after
questioning a technicality of his detainment 18 months ago.  The court today  rejected Assange’s argument  that the
Swedish prosecutor who investigated the sexual assault claims
and issued a European arrest warrant for him in 2010 wasn’t a
“judicial authority” under  European Union law .  Assange’s lawyer  Dinah Rose  said she may seek to re-open
the matter by challenging the court’s handling of the case. She
claimed the 5-2 decision in London was unfairly based on the
court’s interpretation of a “precise point” of law that wasn’t
argued during a hearing in February. If she pursues that route,
it would be the first such challenge of a U.K. top court ruling.  While Assange, 40, wasn’t in court today, dozens of his
supporters attended the hearing and protesters holding signs
surrounded the court’s entrance. Britain’s Crown Prosecution
Service agreed not to return him to  Sweden  until June 13, and
his legal team was given  14 days to file  a challenge, the
court’s spokesman Ben Wilson said after the hearing.  The claims by two women that Assange sexually assaulted
them became public around the same time he posted classified
U.S. military and diplomatic cables on the  WikiLeaks website ,
creating controversy for U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration. Assange, an Australian, claimed Sweden
fabricated the arrest warrant to assist the U.S. in punishing
him for the breach.  ‘Come to Sweden’  “Now for Mr. Assange, I think the best is really to
cooperate, to come to Sweden to settle the matter and await the
decision if the prosecutor wants to go to trial,” said
 Christoffer Wong , a lecturer in international law at Sweden’s
Lund University. “Of course there may be a way he can delay or
obstruct the transfer if he chooses out of principle to do so.”  Assange, arrested in  London  in December 2010, may also
appeal to the  European Court  of Human Rights, which would have
two weeks to respond, according to the CPS, which represents
Sweden in the case.  Assange is accused of failing to use a condom with one of
the women and having sex with the other while she was asleep.
The women, both supporters of WikiLeaks, let Assange stay at
their homes during a speaking tour in Sweden in 2010. The U.K.
Court of Appeal ruled in November that he should return to
Sweden to face the claims. He hasn’t been charged with a crime.  EU Member Countries  The British appeal doesn’t involve the substance of the
rape claims and focuses on  Europe ’s practice of honoring arrest
warrants issued from any EU member country. Assange argued only
a judge should be allowed to issue European warrants.  Rose said the judgment today against Assange appeared to
hinge on the court’s interpretation of the Vienna Convention on
the Law of Treaties, and the way EU member states appointed
authorities to issue warrants.  “The contexts permit the issuing judicial authority to
have different characteristics from the executing judicial
authority and, indeed, for the phrase ‘judicial authority’ to
bear different meanings at the stage of execution,” according
to the judgment.  Eleven EU member states appointed a public prosecutor as
the issuing judicial authority for fugitives sought for
prosecution, while others designated judges, according to the
ruling. If the difference hadn’t been intended, the countries
would have fixed the discrepancy by now, it said.  Assange’s request to appeal to Britain’s top court was
initially refused by the Court of Appeal in February. The
 Supreme Court  said it would hear the case anyway after agreeing
a clarification of the law was needed.  The case is: Assange (Appellant) v. The Swedish Prosecution
Authority (Respondent), U.K. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  