-- Women Win in Venture Capital When They Don’t Sue
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-05-30T23:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/women-win-in-venture-capital-when-they-don-t-sue.html
Kleiner Perkins  Caufield & Byers is
anti-woman.  That’s the position of Ellen Pao, a junior partner at the
venture capital firm who filed a lawsuit in San Francisco
Superior Court contending “discriminatory treatment of Plaintiff
and other female employees, specifically in advancement and
compensation because of their gender.” Pao is also saying she
was sexually harassed and that after she complained to higher-
ups she suffered retaliation.  The greater question here isn’t whether certain executives
at Kleiner Perkins treated  Pao  poorly. That’s entirely possible.
This column isn’t suggesting otherwise. The question is whether
such a lawsuit is pro-woman -- whether its consequences will be
good for women in the specific field of venture capital on a net
basis, as they say in business schools. The answer is: probably
not.  You can make the case that Pao’s action may work against
women who want to be entrepreneurs.  There are two kinds of companies in the U.S.: square ones
and wild ones. The former have the advantage that they follow
many rules; their disadvantage is that they aren’t always
creative. The wild type, common in  venture capital , does
everything differently, starting with the open office.  Over the years, creative rebels have often behaved poorly
in their creative workplaces. Do most of us approve? Hardly.
Nobody likes, say, the way the great creator of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Steve Jobs , treated many colleagues.  Growth or Responsibility  But creative environments boast an advantage: They
contribute more growth than the old dinosaurs. The venture
capitalists give money to entrepreneurs, including women. As the
cowboy firms age, they tend to develop their own culture of
responsibility. It’s their returns and their optimism that lured
top students such as  Pao  in the first place.  A brilliant electrical engineer, Pao didn’t go straight
from college (Princeton, class of 1991) to a job with a
Midwestern manufacturer or the U.S. Department of Labor. She
aimed higher:  Harvard Law School ,  Harvard Business School  and
then venturesome companies such as  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. and  Kleiner
Perkins . If these workplaces were wild, there was glamour in
wildness.  Her action may reduce the very kind of access she enjoyed
for those who followed her. Setting Kleiner Perkins aside,
consider the rest of the sector. Human-resources specialists
aren’t idiots. They see how much Pao, still merely alleging, is
costing a firm such as Kleiner Perkins: time, image and
distraction from its main work, finding value. Other businesses
will work harder to avoid a litigious hire. They will scour
candidates’ resumes for similarities to Pao’s. Her husband,
Alphonse Fletcher Jr., had filed lawsuits. Any job candidate
with a record of suing, or with a litigious spouse, will get a
cooler reception. Starting last week. In other words, some
highly qualified candidates will be excluded. Will HR
departments admit what they are doing? Never.  Pao complains that Kleiner Perkins excluded her from top-
level meetings. At venture capital firms across the U.S.,
executives are probably rejiggering their e-mail and chat
settings to be sure that every junior partner at the Pao rank
gets CC’d. But there are still some meetings, alas, to which
everyone isn’t invited. Management’s main response will be to
ensure that next time the junior partners don’t even know those
meetings exist. That is exactly the opposite of the open office.  Global Divide  The same trade-off between “safe” and “creative” exists
among countries. Apparently it is difficult for a nation to be
both intensely fair and intensely friendly to entrepreneurs.
Compare the two premier surveys on entrepreneurship and gender
fairness, the  World Bank ’s  Doing Business  survey, and Unesco’s
highly regarded  Global Gender Gap Report .  Singapore , Hong Kong and  China ,  New Zealand , the U.S.,
 Denmark ,  Norway , the U.K., and South Korea rank at the top in
the 2011 edition of the World Bank survey. Less highly ranked
for “doing business,” according to the same survey, are  Finland ,
Ireland, Iceland, Canada, Australia and  Japan . Business
confronts more hassles in these countries.  Yet the very same countries that rank lower on the
entrepreneurship charts star when it comes to gender equality.
Iceland, Finland,  Sweden  and Ireland are top countries in the
2011 update of Unesco’s survey. Singapore, No. 1 for business
opportunity, ranks 57th of 135 countries, below Jamaica,
Namibia, Russia and Honduras on the gender-gap index. The U.S.
ranks fourth when it comes to doing business, but only 17th when
it comes to measuring the gender gap.  In the U.S., litigation isn’t great for growth and  job
creation . The tort system, according to  estimates  by the
consulting firm  Towers Watson (TW) , cost the country $264.6 billion
in 2010. When you leave out the Gulf of Mexico oil spill,
generally such tort costs are slightly down, in part because
states have changed laws after recognizing the financial burden
of lawsuits.  A case such as Pao’s might do more damage in the venture-
capital sector than elsewhere. Such action forces the U.S.
venture capitalists over a bit on the spectrum toward safety,
and away from risk. It makes the old VC firms more like the
public sector or traditional American corporations.  This isn’t to say that sexism or sexual harassment is
acceptable, or that Pao should tolerate it, or that Kleiner
Perkins shouldn’t take action against wrongdoers. It is to
suggest that there is a cost to remedying the problem with
showcase litigation.  Pao may think her legal action will create opportunities
and top jobs for the next generation of girls. In fields such as
the one she chose, there might be more jobs if there were fewer
discrimination lawsuits.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Spain’s banking crisis 
and  turmoil at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  intervening in Syria ; Haresh Sapra on  stress-test
results ;  Luigi Zingales  on  competition and inequality ;  Steven
Greenhut  on  California referendums ; Matthew Schoenfeld on
 staving off the next AIG .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 