-- Zoo Shows Local Bond Sales Expand as Economy Grows: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-30/zoo-shows-local-bond-sales-expand-as-economy-grows-muni-credit.html
Municipal debt is poised to trail
Treasuries for two consecutive months for the first time since
September as a growing U.S. economy spurs local governments to
increase borrowing.  Localities from  Massachusetts  to Oregon are taking on bonds
for uses such as roads and public buildings, helping boost
issuance to a combined $64 billion for the past eight weeks, the
biggest wave since 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. New
debt comprised 44 percent of sales this month, the most since
December, according to John Hallacy at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. The remainder went to refinance higher-cost securities.  Almost three years after the recession’s end, interest
rates close to  four-decade lows  and confidence in the economy
are coaxing states and cities to sell more securities for
capital projects. The U.S. probably added jobs in May for a 20th
straight month, the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey shows.  “At some point you have to rebuild the bridges and put
money into these things,” said  Robert Miller , senior portfolio
manager in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , for Wells Capital
Management, which oversees $28 billion in munis. Especially in
the past week, “we saw a lot of deals coming into the market to
take advantage of rates,” he said.  Capping Returns  Increased issuance has helped cap muni returns. The $3.7
trillion market for local debt has earned 1.8 percent since
March 31, compared with 2.6 percent for federal debt, according
to Bank of America indexes. For all of 2012, munis are still
beating Treasuries, by about 4 percent to 1.3 percent.  States and cities have sold about $141 billion of debt this
year, up from $77 billion in the same period of 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. About 63 percent of the 2012 sales
have been for refinancing, according to Hallacy.  Metro, the regional government for the Portland,  Oregon ,
area, sold $140 million of bonds last week. Proceeds will go
toward work including an expanded elephant habitat at the Oregon
Zoo, said Margo Norton, Metro’s director of finance and
regulatory services. Also this month, Massachusetts issued about
$419 million for transportation projects such as refurbishing
the Longfellow Bridge connecting Cambridge and  Boston .  Investors and issuers “are getting more confidence that
the economy is on the mend,” said Hallacy, Bank of America’s
head of municipal research in New York. “The real laggard,
housing, is starting to establish a real bottom. A lot of
economic activity is linked to that.”  Treasuries Lead  Home values in 20 U.S. cities fell in March at the slowest
annual pace in more than a year. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of
property values fell 2.6 percent from a year earlier after a 3.5
percent drop in February, the group said yesterday.  Federal debt has led a fixed-income rally since March as
investors sought shelter from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Treasury
yields traded close to record lows yesterday after Spain said it
may need to sell bonds to rescue Bankia group.  “The Treasury trade has been a fear trade with everything
that’s going on in  Greece ,” Miller said. “They’ve run and
munis just haven’t run as much as they have.”  The  yield  on benchmark 10-year Treasuries reached as low as
1.71 percent yesterday, approaching the record 1.6714 percent
set in September. The  interest rate  on top-rated munis maturing
in 10 years is about 1.91 percent. As a result, the  ratio  of 10-
year muni yields relative to Treasuries is about 109 percent,
close to the highest this year.  Cheaper Bonds  A higher ratio means munis are cheaper relative to
Treasuries. Investors such as Gary Pollack at Deutsche Bank AG’s
private wealth unit in New York said this month they saw that as
a signal to consider buying local debt.  Local-government yields are still close to the lowest since
the 1960s, even after  interest rates  rose the past two weeks.
Twenty-year general obligations  yield  3.81 percent, according to
a Bond Buyer index.  Falling interest rates helped  Pennsylvania  when it sold
$950 million in bonds last month, its biggest issue for capital
projects since 2010, said Rick Dreher, director of the bureau of
revenue, cash flow and debt, in an interview. The state achieved
its lowest-ever borrowing costs for its general-obligation debt,
he said.  “Nobody likes to incur debt by issuing bonds,” said Colin MacNaught, assistant treasurer for Massachusetts, in an
interview. “Particularly to support public safety and for a
vibrant economy, you need to have roads and bridges and
railroads. All that infrastructure needs to get done.”  Following are pending sales:  CITIZENS PROPERTY INSURANCE CORP.,  Florida ’s state-run real
estate insurer, is set to sell $1.25 billion of debt as soon as
June 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will
help finance insurance coverage for residents. The debt will be
insured by Assured Guaranty Ltd. (Added May 30)  The  NEW YORK  CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to
issue as soon as next month $1 billion of debt backed by future
 tax revenue , according to the city’s Office of Management and
Budget.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the debt AAA. (Added May 30)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  