-- 
Abbott Inflammation Drug Reverses Kidney Decline in Diabetics, Study Finds

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-06-24T14:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/abbott-inflammation-drug-reverses-kidney-decline-in-diabetics-study-finds.html
An experimental drug from  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  and Reata Pharmaceuticals Inc. reversed the decline
of kidney function in diabetics in a study that doctors say may
lead to a new way of treating chronic kidney disease.  The trial of 227 patients found that Abbott and Reata’s
drug bardoxolone methyl boosted kidney performance by about 30
percent over a year, said  David Warnock , a nephrologist at the
 University of Alabama  at Birmingham and senior researcher on the
study published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine.  No
existing drug produces such improvement, he said.  Twenty-six million Americans suffer from chronic kidney
disease and about 500,000 are on dialysis, Warnock said. Blood
pressure drugs such as ace inhibitors and angiotensin receptor
blockers, the standard treatment now, slow the progression of
the disease. If proven effective in a bigger trial, bardoxolone
may become the first in a new class of medicines that preserve
kidney function and delay the need for dialysis by reducing
inflammation in the kidney, he said in a telephone interview.  “We don’t have anything to offer these patients today that
will change the course of the disease,” said Warnock, who is a
consultant for closely held  Reata,  based in Irving,  Texas .
“Here we have a drug that may change the whole ballgame.”  Chronic  kidney disease  associated with diabetes is the
leading cause of renal failure, according to the study.  Study Findings  In the trial, also being presented today at the  European
Renal Association-European Dialysis and Transplant Association
Congress in Prague , kidney patients already on blood pressure
medicines got either bardoxolone or placebo for a year. Patients
on bardoxolone had rapid improvements in kidney-filtering
ability that were sustained for a year, the study showed.
Patients who got placebo didn’t improve. Side effects of
bardoxolone included muscle spasms.  The results were from the second of three stages of testing
generally required for U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval. This month, Abbott and Reata said they began a  1,600-
patient, final-stage study  that will assess whether bardoxolone
keeps diabetic kidney patients alive and off dialysis. Results
are due in 2013.  The treatment has the potential to be a “multibillion
dollar drug globally,” said Phillip Nalbone, an analyst at
Wedbush Securities.  “This is the first thing in a very, very long time that
has looked promising” for chronic kidney disease, he said in a
telephone interview.  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , paid Reata $450
million last September to acquire most rights to the drug
outside the  United States . Tokyo-based drugmaker Kyowa Hakko
Kirin Co. holds rights in many Asian markets.  ‘Unique’ Medicine  Abbott became interested in bardoxolone after seeing a
poster of Reata’s early trial results several years ago at a
scientific meeting, said James Stolzenbach, an Abbott vice
president.  “We spent some time talking to Reata, and the more we
investigated it, the more interested we got,” he said.
Bardoxolone “is very unique.”  Reata originally licensed the drug from  Dartmouth College 
in Hanover,  New Hampshire , and the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center in Houston as a treatment for cancer, not
kidney disease, said Warren Huff, Reata’s chief executive
officer, in a telephone interview.  When Reata researchers conducted a trial in advanced cancer
patients, “we kept noticing that the renal function improved in
all these patients,” he said in a telephone interview. “It was
somewhat serendipitous.”  That led Reata to start studying the medicine in kidney
patients, Huff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 