-- 
Madoff Trustee Demands $19 Billion in Damages From JPMorgan in New Lawsuit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/madoff-trustee-demands-19-billion-in-damages-from-jpmorgan-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. should pay a
minimum of $19 billion in damages for its role in Bernard Madoff’s fraud,   Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating the con
man’s firm, said in a revised lawsuit.  The sum represents Picard’s latest estimate of principal
lost by all Madoff investors by the time the Ponzi scheme
collapsed in December 2008, according to the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan . JPMorgan, Madoff’s
primary banker, could have stopped the fraud if it had passed on
its suspicions to regulators, he said in his suit.  Picard previously sought $5.4 billion in damages, plus
$1 billion in transfers and fees from the second-biggest  U.S.
bank .  JPMorgan “was an active enabler of the Madoff Ponzi
scheme,” Picard’s lawyer,  David Sheehan , said in a statement.
JPMorgan “not only should have known that a fraud was being
perpetrated, they did know,” he said.  Picard, who has filed 1,000 suits claiming $90 billion for
Madoff investors, first sued JPMorgan in  bankruptcy court  in
December. He alleges the bank ignored signs of fraud as billions
of dollars flowed from Madoff’s account at the bank to
investors, and didn’t pass on its knowledge that the broker-
dealer was underreporting cash and bank loans, and neglecting to
disclose assets and liabilities.  ‘Legitimate Business Purpose’  In a 2005 report, the Madoff firm should have reported
$100 million in securities and only reported $72.2 million.
JPMorgan would have known because the $100 million was
collateral for a loan it made to the firm, according to the
complaint. JPMorgan also “knew” that money flowing through the
Madoff account “could not have been linked to a legitimate
business purpose, and this fact should have been flagged by both
JPMC personnel and its automated monitoring system,” Picard
wrote.  JPMorgan bankers “could see that money customers deposited
into BLMIS’s main account was not used to buy or sell
securities,” said Deborah Renner, another of Picard’s lawyers,
referring to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  “They could see that it was merely transferred to other
customers, in patterns serving no legitimate business purpose,”
she said. “They could see that Madoff’s regulatory filings were
materially inconsistent with BLMIS’s actual finances. Yet, as
alleged, they allowed the fraud to continue.”  ‘Contrary’ to Allegations  “Contrary to the trustee’s allegations, JPMorgan did not
know about, or in any way become a party to the fraud
orchestrated by  Bernard Madoff ,”  Tasha Pelio , a spokeswoman for
the bank, said in an e-mailed comment.  Picard’s latest complaint is “meritless and is based on
distortions of both the relevant facts and the governing law,”
she said. “At all times, JPMorgan complied fully with all laws
and regulations governing bank accounts.”  JPMorgan had asked U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in
 New York  to dismiss Picard’s suit, amended in April to add names
of JPMorgan bankers who discussed the possibility Madoff was
running a Ponzi scheme. JPMorgan said Picard was misusing the
law to sue for damages, and “never alleges facts showing that
anyone at JPMorgan knew that Madoff was a crook.”  McMahon took the case away from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland  in May, after JPMorgan argued that Picard was
hired to liquidate the Madoff firm and has no legal right to
mount a class action and claim damages for the  Ponzi scheme ’s
investors. She said she will decide if the trustee is entitled
to sue the bank for damages.  In his complaint, Picard said Madoff investors  Norman Levy 
and  Carl Shapiro  moved money through Madoff’s account at
JPMorgan in irregular transactions that should have been red
flags warning of possible fraud. According to Picard, Levy
transferred more than $83 billion in and out of Madoff’s main
JPMorgan Chase account from 1998 to 2001.  ‘Actual Knowledge’  Asking McMahon to dismiss Picard’s suit, JPMorgan said the
trustee hadn’t alleged facts showing anyone at the bank
suspected fraud based on money flows in Madoff’s account, and
hadn’t shown the bank had “actual knowledge” of the fraud, or
aided it. To show JPMorgan was “complicit” in Madoff’s crimes,
Picard would need “particularized facts,” the bank said.  “Suspicions of wrongdoing are not enough” to hold the
bank liable for someone else’s fraud, JPMorgan said.  When Picard defended his right to sue, McMahon said he
“misses the point.”  ‘One Day’  Picard wrote to McMahon on June 14, saying he would amend
the suit. “Why must I wait until June 24 for a new complaint?”
McMahon wrote at the bottom of the letter, filed in court. “I
will OK this schedule but will not add ONE day to it in the
future.”  Picard faces other challenges in Manhattan district court.
Judge Jed Rakoff said yesterday he will rule by the end of July
on  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s request to dismiss the trustee’s
$9 billion lawsuit against the London-based lender and so-called
feeder funds. Rakoff also is scrutinizing Picard’s suit against
 Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , a defendant with Bank Medici AG and
founder Sonja Kohn in a $59 billion case.  The trustee said in April he had recovered $7.6 billion for
investors, or about 44 percent of an estimated $17 billion in
principal lost in the Ponzi scheme since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.
Most of that isn’t available for distribution, he has said.
Picard and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged
more than $175 million in fees.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison.  The case is Picard v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Linda Sandler} in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 