-- 
AirAsia Tops IndiGo Record Order as Asia Dominates Air Show

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-06-24T12:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/airasia-tops-indigo-s-record-order.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  placed an order for 200
Airbus SAS A320neo planes, surpassing a record contract
confirmed by Indian carrier IndiGo a day earlier, as Asian
airlines dominated the Paris Air Show.  The AirAsia deal, worth $18 billion at list prices,
followed IndiGo’s order for 180 A320 and A320neo planes. Go
Airlines (India) Ltd., Cebu Pacific and PT Garuda  Indonesia  also
agreed to orders or commitments for another 127 A320-family
planes during the exhibition.  “All the growth is in the Asia-Pacific,” said Neil
Hansford, Chairman of Strategic Aviation Solutions, a Sydney-
based industry consultant. “You aren’t seeing all that many new
orders in  Europe , and you sure aren’t seeing many new orders in
the  United States .”  The Asian A320 deals helped Toulouse, France-based Airbus
announce more than 16 times as many firm orders as Boeing Co. at
the show and contributed to the A320neo becoming the fastest
selling new airliner in history. Chicago-based Boeing Co. has
yet to decide whether to upgrade its rival 737 aircraft or
design a completely new jet.  AirAsia, the region’s biggest low-cost carrier, became
Airbus’s largest airline customer in the single-aisle market
with its Paris order. The Sepang, Malaysia-based carrier has
ordered a total of 375 A320-series aircraft, including 89
already in service, according to Airbus.  AirAsia Dominance  The carrier rose 4.1 percent to 3.29 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur trading, helped by a drop in  oil prices  yesterday that
pushed up airline shares across the region. The airline has
risen 30 percent this year, the best performance among the 31
members of the Bloomberg World Airlines Index.  “AirAsia will retain its dominance in the low-cost carrier
market in  Asia ,” said Firdaus Hisham, a Kuala Lumpur-based
analyst with Macquarie Securities Ltd. “There could be one or
two concerns about overcapacity, but at the same time, Asia is a
fast-growing market.”  Asia-Pacific international travel may expand 7.6 percent a
year through 2014, compared with growth rates of about 5 percent
in  North America  and Europe, according to the  International Air
Transport Association .  India Growth  IndiGo  firmed up a previously announced order for 150
A320neos and 30 of the existing version of the A320. GoAir,
another Indian budget carrier, confirmed a deal for 72 A320neos
it first revealed last week.  “There are millions on trains in  India  that will move to
air travel,” said Hansford. “The Indian market could grow
fivefold so long as the middle class keeps growing.”  AirAsia has its main base in  Malaysia , ventures in Thailand
and Indonesia, and a long-haul affiliate. The carrier flies to
more than 20 countries, according to its  website . Chief
Executive Officer Tony Fernandes and partners bought the then-
unprofitable airline about a decade ago.  AirAsia now has “the ability to meet the huge growth
potential offered by the Asian market,” Fernandes said
yesterday at an air show press conference.  Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.,
plans to introduce the A320neo, which features new engines, from
late 2015. The planemaker is promising efficiency gains of 15
percent versus existing narrow-body aircraft.  Leap-X Engines  AirAsia will power its A320neos with the Leap-X engine from
CFM International, a venture of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran
SA. (SAF)  Two engines go on each aircraft, giving the order a value of
about $4.8 billion based on list prices. The Leap-X competes
with the geared turbofan from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt
& Whitney unit.  Airbus had a record air show, with 418 firm orders valued
at $44 billion. The A320neo, with a list price of $91.2 million,
attracted a total of 667 orders and commitments worth almost $61
billion, taking the model’s overall total to 1,029.  Boeing had orders and commitments for 142 planes worth more
than $22 billion at the show. Its orders included a contract for
10 737s from Malaysian Airline System Bhd. Bombardier Inc., the
third-biggest planemaker, also won a contract for as many as 30
of its new CSeries plane from Korean Air Lines Co. at the show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  