-- 
Taiwan Dollar Completes Weekly Gain on Local Data, Greek Rescue

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-06-24T08:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/taiwan-dollar-completes-weekly-gain-on-local-data-greek-rescue.html
Taiwan ’s dollar posted a weekly gain
after data showed export orders and industrial production in May
rose more than economists forecast, adding to signs economic
growth is on track.  The currency snapped a two-week decline as the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares climbed today after European Union
leaders pledged to stabilize the euro-area economy, vowing to
stave off a Greek default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of budget cuts next week.
Factory output increased 7.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with the median estimate of 5.9 percent in a
Bloomberg survey, a report showed yesterday.  The local data “is good news for Taiwan’s economy and
sends positive signs that trade within the Asian region is still
healthy,” said Christopher Gothard, head of foreign exchange at
Brown Brothers Harriman ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. “This market continues
to be dominated by comments and news leaking out from the
European situation.”  The  Taiwan dollar  advanced 0.1 percent this week to
NT$28.962 against its U.S. counterpart as of the 4 p.m. local
time close, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency declined
0.1 percent from yesterday.  Export orders climbed 11.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, data showed June 20, compared with the 9.5 percent gain
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted.  The yield on the 1.375 percent bond due March 2021 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, today to 1.52 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The rate rose four basis
points this week.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, gained two basis points today and this
week to 0.36 percent, according to a weighted average compiled
by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  