-- 
Takeda, Glaxo Diabetes Treatments Raise Risk of Eye Disease, Study Finds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-24T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/takeda-s-actos-glaxo-s-avandia-raise-risk-of-eye-disease.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s Actos,
the world’s best-selling diabetes treatment, and  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc. (GSK) ’s Avandia raise the risk of an eye disease that can lead to
blindness, a study shows.  People taking the drugs have a 3 to 6 times increased risk
of developing diabetic macular edema, a condition in which the
retina thickens and swells, according to a study of more than
100,000 people to be presented Sunday at the  American Diabetes
Association ’s  annual meeting  in  San Diego .  Diabetic eye disease  is the most common cause of blindness
in working-age Americans, according to the National Eye
Institute. Macular edema damages the retina and can eventually
cause blindness. The best way to prevent the side-effect of
diabetes is to keep blood sugar under control, according to the
National Eye Institute.  “Patients at high risk of sight-threatening DME should
avoid” the class of drugs including Actos and Avandia, the
study authors, led by  Richard Donnelly  at the University of
Nottingham, wrote in their study abstract. High-risk patients
include those who have poor control of their blood sugar and
those with a previous history of macular edema.  The drugs are known to increase the likelihood of fluid in
the lungs, called pulmonary edema, and swelling from fluid in
the legs.  Actos may raise the risk of bladder cancer in patients who
take the medicine more than a year, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a June 16 safety announcement. The
medicine has sales of 387.9 billion yen ($4.8 billion) in the
fiscal year ended in March, according to Bloomberg data.  The treatment from  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda became the
market leader after a 2007 study showed a 43 percent higher risk
of heart attacks with Avandia from London-based Glaxo. Avandia’s
sales declined to $680 million in 2010 after a high of about $3
billion. The FDA said in May that Glaxo’s medicine will be
pulled from retail pharmacies in the U.S. and available only
through a special program beginning in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 