-- 
Sabre Loses Bid to Stop American Airlines From Seeking Order on Listings

-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/american-airlines-can-seek-court-order-in-fight-with-sabre-over-listings.html
Sabre Holdings Corp. can’t stop  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines from seeking a court order barring
Sabre from listing the carrier’s fare and flight data below that
of rivals in displays for travel agents, a  Texas  judge said.  Judge Don Cosby in  Fort Worth  yesterday ruled that Sabre
can’t stop American from requesting an injunction. He rejected
Sabre’s argument that federal law preempts the Texas state
court’s authority to keep it from giving preference to other
airlines’ information.  The Texas court case is part of a broader dispute spurred
by American’s push to provide data directly to travel agents
rather than going through a company such as Sabre, which
compiles the information from airlines and distributes it to
travel agents. Some airlines want to use their own technology to
customize offerings for travelers and boost revenue.  Travelers booking through an online travel agent usually
pick the airline listed highest on the screen that meets their
schedule and fare preference. So-called biasing can hurt an
airline by listing its results last, even when it best meets the
traveler’s search criteria. The same goes for travel agents
looking for a flight to meet a customer’s requirements.  American has filed antitrust claims against Sabre, the
largest U.S.-based so-called global distribution system, and
against Travelport Ltd. US Airways Group Inc. has sued Sabre to
block alleged anticompetitive actions. The U.S.  Justice
Department  said in May it was investigating possible antitrust
violations by such data distributors.  Schedule Information  At Fort Worth-based American’s request, the court issued a
Jan. 10 order temporarily prohibiting Sabre from “de-
preferencing” the airline’s schedule information on Sabre’s
distribution system. American said last week at a hearing that
the order had expired. American has requested a hearing to seek
a new injunction.  The companies agreed in January to try to resolve their
differences out of court. The agreement expired on June 1
without a settlement.  Sabre, based in South Lake, Texas, said in court papers
that it hasn’t taken any subsequent steps to disfavor display of
American’s fares.  Nancy St. Pierre, a Sabre spokeswoman, said yesterday’s
ruling is “one step in the process.”  “Really our goal is to get a new distribution agreement
with American,” she said in a phone interview.  Ryan Mikolasik, a spokesman for American, said in an
e-mail that the company was pleased with the ruling.  The case is  American Airlines  Inc. v. Sabre Inc.,
67-249214-10, 67th Judicial District Court, Tarrant County,
Texas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 korosec@sbcglobal.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  