-- 
Americans See Debt Threat as They Reject Tax ‘Scare Tactics’

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/americans-see-debt-threat-reject-tax-scare-.html
Americans say that the $14.3
trillion  U.S. debt  threatens the economy and that entitlement
programs may go broke even as they dismiss as “scare tactics”
the arguments offered by Republicans and Democrats who are
debating a solution.  Their sentiments in a Bloomberg National Poll suggest that
the public is open to the recommendations of the majority of
President Barack Obama’s  debt commission . Members of the group,
which included current and former members of Congress and White
House officials, called for revenue increases and spending cuts
that would have shaved deficits by $3.8 trillion over the next
decade.  More than 60 percent of those surveyed say that interest on
the debt may lead to a recession and that the rising costs of
Medicare and Social Security represent real dangers, according
to the poll conducted June 17-20.  At the same time, the poll found that most Americans aren’t
swayed by the arguments Republicans and Democrats make to
advance their competing remedies for debt reduction and
strengthening the financial stability of entitlement programs,
viewing them as empty rhetoric. Among the rejected assertions
are that either spending cuts or tax increases would cause a
double-dip recession or would lead to continued joblessness.  “They always spin things one way or another and you can’t
really trust it,” says Richard Klimczuk, 58, an independent
voter living in  Cleveland . “Democratic and Republican sides are
both doing it. We have real problems in this country, but
they’ll just say things to get people worried so things turn out
the way they want them.”  Scaring Each Other  Taken together, the results show that while Americans are
concerned about the country’s fiscal condition and that of
cherished social programs, they don’t trust either party’s
assessment of what’s needed to address those issues.  “The level of trust of politicians is frankly at an all-
time low, and it’s at an all-time low because both sides have
recognized how to scare the living hell out of the other,” said
Frank Luntz, a Republican polling expert and message strategist.
“The tragedy of it is, people know they’re in the middle of a
crisis, but politics has so poisoned the well that voters don’t
want to drink from the fountain of knowledge.”  Public skepticism extends to the negotiations in  Washington 
between the White House and congressional Republicans to reach a
deal on reducing spending and raising the nation’s debt limit.
In the past, Congress has lifted the debt ceiling to allow the
government to borrow more money without debate. This year,
Republicans are using the once pro-forma vote as an opportunity
to press for spending reductions, an issue that normally is
negotiated separately.  Low Bond Yields  For all the concern about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year  U.S. Treasury  note was 2.91 percent in  New
York  yesterday, below the average of 7 percent since 1980 and
the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Fifty-one percent of poll respondents say they aren’t
convinced the U.S. could default on its obligations unless
Congress raises the debt ceiling. They say that’s a scare
tactic, compared with 43 percent who say default is a real
danger.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said he will run
out of options for staving off a default by Aug. 2 if Congress
and the White House don’t reach an agreement on spending levels
and raise the legal borrowing limit by then. Obama has also been
sounding the alarm. Those messages, however, aren’t breaking
through with about half the public even while Wall Street
investors and economists have said a default would be
debilitating to the economy.  Biggest Skeptics  Republicans are the most skeptical about the specter of a
default, with 61 percent deeming it a scare tactic and only 34
percent calling it a real danger. Still, even Democrats aren’t
convinced; they are split, with 49 percent calling it a real
danger and 46 percent saying it is a scare tactic. Independents
are also divided on a potential default, with 46 percent
believing it is a genuine risk and 47 percent disagreeing.  The poll tested 10 statements on economic dangers often
cited by public officials, asking respondents whether they
consider each a “real danger” or more of a “scare tactic.”
Majorities of respondents consider six as scare tactics -- three
of them Democratic messages and three voiced by Republicans.  Real Threats  In contrast, respondents coalesce around what they deem
three real threats -- all of which affect them in personal ways.  On Medicare, 62 percent see a real danger that the program
would go broke if not dramatically overhauled, compared with 35
percent who say that’s a scare tactic. Sixty-six percent see
Social Security going broke without changes as a genuine threat,
compared with 31 percent who call it a scare tactic. And
respondents see the prospect that interest on the debt could
drag the economy into a recession as a real danger rather than a
scare tactic by 66 percent to 31 percent.  “Every year you’ve got more and more people getting on the
government bill and more borrowing, and now we have less and
less people paying in,” said Jason Gibson, 28, a truck driver
from Romulus,  Michigan . “You get too many people on one side of
the ship, it’s going to tip.”  Public sentiment fractured when the poll tested the
partisan solutions to those dangers.  Only 27 percent say -- as some Democrats have argued --
there is a real danger of a double-dip recession if  government
spending  is cut, compared with 67 percent who don’t. A greater
proportion, 37 percent, say there’s a real danger that spending
reductions will lead to an increase in the  unemployment rate ,
compared with 59 percent who call that a scare tactic.  Tax Increases  On the Republican stance on tax increases, 40 percent say
it is a real danger they could lead to a double-dip recession
compared with 54 percent who say it isn’t. Thirty-nine percent
say there’s a real danger the jobless rate won’t go down if
taxes are raised, while 56 percent say that is a scare tactic.  “What this shows is that politicians’ claims just aren’t
credible on a lot of issues; we’ve done a lot of damage,” says
Karlyn Bowman, a public opinion expert at the  American
Enterprise Institute . “The messages that do seem to have sunk
in are that Social Security and Medicare are in trouble -- that
these programs that we care deeply about are in very serious
trouble -- and people really are spooked about the idea of a
continuing recession, and what it would mean for them.”  Split on  China   Respondents are evenly split on the bipartisan claim that
China and other countries will stop lending money to the U.S.
government if deficits aren’t significantly reduced, with 48
percent saying that is a real danger and 48 percent calling it a
scare tactic. Republicans are more likely to see the issue as a
danger, with 55 percent identifying it that way, while 55
percent of Democrats call it a scare tactic. Independents are
divided, with 49 percent saying an end to foreign investment in
the U.S. is a real danger and 46 percent disagreeing.  The public dismisses a charge that emerged during the
debate over the overhaul of the health-care system: that the
U.S. will become a socialist economy.  Sixty-five percent say the accusation is a scare tactic,
while 31 percent of respondents say it’s a real danger. A slim
majority of Republicans, 51 percent, backs the assertion, as do
58 percent of respondents who identified themselves as
supportive of the Tea Party. Still, 46 percent of Republicans
say it’s a scare tactic, along with 67 percent of independents
and 79 percent of Democrats.  The poll of 1,000 adults was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  