-- 
Anti-Obama American Crossroads Group Raises $3.8 Million So Far This Year

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/american-crossroads-group-raises-3-8-million-so-far-this-year.html
American Crossroads , a political
group that intends to spend millions of dollars on
advertisements to oppose President  Barack Obama ’s re-election,
has raised $3.8 million this year, mostly from three long-time
Republican donors,  Federal Election Commission  reports show.  That amount doesn’t include the donations to American
Crossroads’ sister organization,  Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies . Crossroads GPS, which is organized under a different
 tax code  and doesn’t disclose its donors, said yesterday it will
spend $20 million over the next two months on television ads
criticizing Democrat Obama’s economic policies.  The largest donation to the American Crossroads, $2
million, came from a trust controlled by Jerrold Perenchio,
former chairman of New York-based Univision Communications Inc.
 Robert Rowling , chief executive officer of TRT Holdings Inc., of
Irving, Texas, contributed $1 million. Each gave more than $1
million to the group last year.  Texas  home builder Bob Perry, who gave $7 million last
year, donated $500,000. Perry was a top donor in 2004 to Swift
Boat Veterans for Truth, which questioned Democratic
presidential nominee  John Kerry ’s war record.  The two groups intend to raise at least $120 million for
the 2012 election cycle to counter what Crossroads President
Steven Law called the “limitless” fundraising powers of Obama.  Ad Campaign Planned  The announcement of the $20 million advertising campaign
shows that Crossroads GPS is raising more money than its sister
organization. On June 27 the group will begin running ads in 10
states including Iowa, Florida and  Virginia  showing rising
unemployment and gas prices and saying: “Obama’s $830 billion
stimulus failed.”  At a breakfast meeting with reporters, Law said the groups
don’t intend to back a candidate for the Republican presidential
nomination. Instead, they will run ads critical of Obama during
the Republican primary season.  “Our mission is very clear and focused on putting
attention on the president’s record,” Law said. “The Obama
camp, with its virtually limitless financial resources, will be
active prior to the time that a Republican nominee is chosen.
One of the roles we can effectively play is to be a factor
during that time.”  Rove’s Role  Republican strategist Karl Rove helped start the Crossroads
groups last year after the  Supreme Court  ruled, in  Citizens
United  v.  Federal Election Commission , that corporations and
labor unions can spend unlimited amounts of money advocating the
election or defeat of political candidates.  The two groups raised $71 million in 2010 and spent much of
the money on ads attacking Democratic candidates for the House
and Senate, an effort credited with helping Republicans retake
the House and narrow the partisan margin in the Senate.  The Crossroads groups’ goals for 2012 are to unseat Obama
and take control of the Senate, said Mike Duncan, the chairman
of American Crossroads and former chairman of the  Republican
National Committee .  “Not content with the grave economic crisis he left our
country with,  Karl Rove  now wants to stop President Obama from
fixing it,” said  Bill Burton , a former Obama spokesman who
heads independent Democratic fundraising group Priorities USA.  American Crossroads is a political group registered with
the FEC and must disclose its donors. Crossroads GPS is
organized as a non-profit social welfare organization that can
keep its donors’ identities secret as long as it spends less
than half its budget on politics.  Ads in 40 Districts  Law said Crossroads GPS has been spending money on ads in
40 congressional districts on such issues as taxes, the deficit
and the national debt. That advertising, which isn’t connected
to an imminent election, is part of the organization’s social
welfare mission, he said.  Although Crossroads’ investment in the 2010 midterms turned
out to be a success, financial superiority doesn’t always
translate into victory in elections.  American Crossroads spent $690,366 on a May special
election in an upstate New York congressional district in an
unsuccessful attempt to elect the Republican nominee, Jane Corwin, FEC disclosures show.  Democratic PAC  A new Democratic-leaning political action committee, House
Majority PAC, reported spending $373,568 on the race on behalf
of the winner, Kathy Hochul. The group raised $800,000 overall.  Like American Crossroads, House Majority PAC can accept
unlimited donations. Its biggest givers through June 13 included
the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, a labor union that donated $200,000; Donald Sussman,
founder of Greenwich, Connecticut-based Paloma Partners, who
contributed $150,000; and  George Soros , chairman of  New York- 
based Soros Fund Management LLC, who gave $75,000, FEC reports
show.  Hochul won the Republican-leaning district even though they
were outspent by both of her opponents. She spent $1.6 million,
helped by a $250,000 personal loan. Corwin lent her campaign
$2.8 million and spent $3 million, while businessman Jack Davis,
the Democrats’ 2004 and 2006 congressional nominee running as
the Tea Party candidate, spent $2.5 million, all from his own
pocket.  Hochul overcame her opponents’ financial advantage by
campaigning against Corwin’s support for a Republican proposal
to turn Medicare into a system of private insurance coverage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in  Washington  at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  