-- 
Amtrak Targets Easing of New York-Philadelphia Delays by End of September

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-06-24T18:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/amtrak-targets-easing-of-new-york-philadelphia-delays-by-end-of-september.html
Amtrak  and commuter-train riders who
suffered three service delays between New York and Philadelphia
this week may see hold-ups linger while the national passenger
rail service finishes some power-system repairs over the next
three months.  “If I were to say we won’t have any more service
disruptions over the summer, I would be doing everyone an
injustice,” Clifford Cole, an Amtrak spokesman based in New
York, said by telephone. “What we’re doing now, we believe,
will help diminish the possibility of service disruptions.”  Hundreds of thousands of passengers were stranded this week
because of computer and electrical-equipment failures in a power
system that was mostly built during the Great Depression. Forty
of 82 electrical substations between Washington and  New York 
will be running on new equipment by the end of September, Cole
said. The $25 million project is funded by grants from President
Barack Obama’s 2009 stimulus package.  Substations take power from 138,000-volt overhead
electrical lines, lower it to 12,000 volts and send it to wires
above the tracks to power the trains.  In 2002, Amtrak started the project to replace transformers
and other equipment at the substations, some more than 75 years
old, on the south end of the Northeast Corridor, between
Washington and New York, said Steve Kulm, a spokesman for the
rail service.  Amtrak replaced all transformers and circuit breakers
between Wilmington,  Delaware , and Washington and between
Philadelphia and Hackensack,  New Jersey , Kulm said. The company
upgraded the power system between New York and  Boston  in the
1990s, he said.  Trenton, Brunswick  Amtrak, which was awarded $450 million after Florida
rejected $2.4 billion in high-speed rail grants, is directing
some of those funds to improving the electrical system in New
Jersey between Trenton and  New Brunswick , Kulm said.  The railroad, which is partially funded by Congress, would
need to invest $5 billion to $7 billion to bring the Northeast
Corridor, mainly the south end, back up to “good working
condition,” said Mortimer Downey, deputy U.S. secretary of
transportation under  Bill Clinton  from 1993 to 2001. The power
system hasn’t “had much maintenance” since it was set up in
the Great Depression, Downey said.  “There’s just a lot of work,” said Downey, a senior
consultant in Washington with engineering and construction firm
 Parsons Brinckerhoff .  Lawmaker Resistance  There’s been resistance from lawmakers for about 15 years
to giving Amtrak the money it needs to fully modernize the
Northeast Corridor, said Martin Robins, director emeritus of the
Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at  Rutgers University  in
New Brunswick, New Jersey.  “They are paying attention to it, but Amtrak is subject to
the whims of the federal policy makers and the Congress,”
Robins said.  A Republican-controlled Congress cut Amtrak funding from
1995 to 2006. President  George W. Bush ’s administration proposed
removing the Northeast Corridor from Amtrak’s control in 2005.  This week, a fire at a substation in New Brunswick shut
down operations on June 21 from 1 a.m. to 6:30 a.m. Service
between New York and Philadelphia was disrupted twice at peak
travel times on June 23: between about 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. because
of a computer failure and from roughly 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. because
of insufficient power to operate the trains.  ‘Long Day’  At the Trenton Transit Center last night, Elaine Arkin, a
health consultant, was on Track 4 awaiting Amtrak Train 127,
running to  Washington  from New York. The train, scheduled to
depart at 5:02 p.m., was 90 minutes late, according to the
overhead screens.  “It’s been a long day,” Arkin, of Washington, said at
6:35 p.m.  New Jersey Transit and the  Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority  both operate commuter rail service on
Amtrak’s system.  This week’s service delays affected riders on three New
Jersey Transit lines and three Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority, as well as Amtrak passengers between
Trenton and  New York City .  New Jersey Transit commuters using the North Jersey Coast
line and the Midtown Direct service into New York Penn Station,
as well as the Northeast Corridor between Trenton and New York
City, were affected, Penny Bassett Hackett, a spokeswoman for
 New Jersey Transit , said by telephone.  An average of 160,000 roundtrips on weekdays are made on
the three New Jersey Transit lines that were affected, Bassett
Hackett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  