-- 
Manipulation Under Jaczko Stopped Work on Yucca, Official Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-24T03:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/manipulation-under-jaczko-stopped-work-on-yucca-official-says.html
Senior managers under  Gregory Jaczko , chairman of the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission ,
manipulated information to halt work on a nuclear waste dump at
 Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain, an agency technical official said.  “Some senior managers contributed to the manipulation of
the budget process and information to apparently make sure that
the Yucca Mountain project would be left unfunded even if the
license application was still before the NRC,” Aby Mohseni,
acting director for licensing and inspections at the regulatory
agency’s high-level waste repository safety division, said in
remarks prepared for a congressional hearing today.  NRC officials are scheduled to testify before a House
Energy and Commerce subcommittee on the license application for
Yucca Mountain, which President Barack Obama’s administration
has sought to withdraw. The administration also terminated its
requested funding for the facility, located about 100 miles (161
kilometers) from  Las Vegas .  A report this month by the agency’s inspector general said
Jaczko selectively provided information to colleagues in order
to keep plans for the waste repository from advancing.  Republicans, who want to revive plans for the facility,
have accused Jaczko of blocking Yucca for political reasons,
which he has denied. Jaczko, who was appointed by Obama, is a
former adviser to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat and a longtime opponent of the project.  “We were unprepared for the political pressures and
manipulation of our scientific and licensing processes that
would come with the appointment of Chairman Jaczko in 2009,”
Mohseni said.  The NRC inspector general’s report didn’t say that Jaczko
broke any laws in winding down the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  