-- 
Apax’s Cengage Buying National Geographic’s School-Publishing Unit

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-06-24T15:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/apax-s-cengage-buying-national-geographic-s-school-publishing-unit.html
Cengage Learning Inc., the
educational company owned by  Apax Partners  LLP, agreed to buy
the National Geographic Society’s school-publishing unit in a
deal that includes expanded use of the non-profit’s content.  Cengage Learning is acquiring a digital and print education
brand that includes an elementary science curriculum, National
Geographic Explorer magazines and Hampton Brown’s literacy and
language programs, the Stamford, Connecticut-based firm said
today in an e-mailed statement. No financial terms were
released.  The deal will expand distribution of National Geographic
content, including images, maps, videos and articles, to schools
and libraries globally. Cengage and National Geographic, already
partners in English-language instruction programs, have
collaborated to produce education materials since 2007.  “National Geographic is a prime example of an institution
that has preserved the best of its remarkable heritage while
transforming itself into a truly global, 21st-century
organization,” Cengage Chief Executive Officer Ronald Dunn said
in a statement. The deal combines “their esteemed brand and
content with our scale, educational-publishing expertise and
existing relationships.”  Cengage Learning, formerly Thomson Learning, was acquired
by British buyout-firm Apax Partners for about $7.1 billion in
2007. The company develops teaching materials for colleges,
schools, libraries and corporations, and provides print and
electronic publishing. Cengage has annual sales of about $2
billion and 5,500 employees, according to its website.  Founded in 1888, Washington-based National Geographic is a
non-profit corporation that funds science and education programs
and produces its namesake magazine, television channel and other
media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  