-- 
Billionaire Jarislowsky Endorses Maple’s Hostile Bid for TMX

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-24T16:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/maple-group-receives-endorsement-for-tmx-bid-from-stephen-jarislowsky.html
Billionaire investor Stephen Jarislowsky prefers the bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X) , which owns
bourses in Toronto and Montreal, from a group of Canadian banks
and pensions instead of  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s
agreement to purchase the company.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp ., a group of 13 Canadian
financial-services companies, said Jarislowsky supports its
proposed C$3.73 billion ($3.79 billion) takeover of TMX. The
group didn’t say whether Jarislowsky is a TMX shareholder.  “I am delighted with the emergence of the Maple Group,”
Jarislowsky, chief executive officer of Montreal-based
Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., said today in a statement from Maple
Group. “It attests to a broad consensus within  Canada ’s
financial community.”  Jarislowsky had a net worth of C$1.85 billion last year,
making him the 28th-richest person in the nation, according to
Canadian Business magazine. Maple Group released his comments
before shareholders vote on the deal on June 30, and two days
after the consortium boosted its offer to C$50 a share from
C$48, hours after the London exchange and TMX agreed to pay a
special dividend to shareholders to win their support.  Maple doesn’t know if Jarislowsky Fraser owns TMX shares, a
spokeswoman said. The group does “welcome his support,” she
said. Jarislowsky wasn’t immediately available to comment
because his offices in  Montreal  are closed for the St. Jean
Baptiste holiday.  Jarislowsky’s endorsement follows recommendations by
shareholder advisory firms Institutional Shareholder Services
and Glass Lewis & Co. that TMX shareholders should vote for the
LSE bid.  “I believe that the deal needs to go through if you want
to see growth at the Toronto Stock Exchange,” Renee Colyer, CEO
at Toronto-based consulting firm Forefactor, said of LSE’s
agreement. “It’s one of the best ways that an exchange can
grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  