-- 
Apple Files Patent Suit Against Samsung in Seoul, Escalating Legal Dispute

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-06-24T08:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/apple-files-patent-suit-against-samsung-electronics-in-s-korea.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a patent lawsuit
against Samsung Electronics Co. in  South Korea , escalating the
legal dispute between the two companies regarding designs and
technologies used in their best-selling mobile devices.  The maker of the iPhone filed a suit with the Seoul Central
District Court on June 22, according to a case record on the
court’s website, which doesn’t provide details of Apple’s
claims. Online news provider MoneyToday reported that Apple is
alleging that Samsung’s Galaxy S smartphone copied the iPhone 3
design.  The dispute began in April when Cupertino, California-based
Apple sued Samsung in the U.S., claiming the Galaxy products
“slavishly” imitated the designs and technologies used for the
iPad and iPhone. Samsung, which supplies memory chips for Apple,
retaliated with lawsuits in Seoul, Tokyo, Mannheim, Germany and
the U.S.  “We will continue to actively defend and protect our
intellectual property,” Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said
in an e-mailed statement.  When contacted by Bloomberg News today, Steve Park, a
Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, referred to the company’s
earlier statements. The company said on April 18 that Samsung
“blatantly” copied its technologies and designs.  Apple’s April 15 complaint claims Samsung is infringing
seven patents related to the way Galaxy devices’ touch screens
understand user gestures, including selecting, scrolling,
pinching and zooming. Samsung is also copying three patents on
the design, including the flat black face of the iPhone and
iPad, according to Apple.  As part of that suit, Samsung had asked a federal judge in
the U.S. to order Apple to turn over samples of Apple’s
forthcoming iPads and iPhones. It lost that bid on June 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ; 