-- 
Artificial Pancreas Works While Diabetes Patients Sleep, Yale Study Shows

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-24T21:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/artificial-pancreas-works-while-diabetes-patients-sleep-yale-study-shows.html
A computer-controlled device
designed to mimic the human pancreas by sensing and regulating
glucose controlled the blood sugar of Type 1 diabetics at night
better than a traditional insulin pump, a study showed.  The  study of 12 people  showed that 86 percent of patients
using the so-called artificial pancreas had blood sugar at
recommended levels at night, according to researchers at Yale
University in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . When the same 12 people
used the insulin pumps requiring them to get up and activate the
equipment, the percentage of patients achieving recommended
blood sugar levels dropped to 52 percent. The data will be
presented tomorrow at the American Diabetes Association  annual
meeting  in  San Diego .  The findings are leading researchers closer to the goal of
creating a device that can act like the pancreas, which senses
when the body needs insulin and delivers it without a person
being aware, said  Stuart Weinzimer , the study’s head researcher.
Such a device can improve the ease and effectiveness of managing
blood sugar, a difficult task that diabetics must do several
times a day -- before meals, and sometimes at night.  “The person ideally doesn’t have to be involved in taking
the insulin at all,” said Weinzimer, an associate professor of
pediatric endocrinology at  Yale University  School of Medicine.
Diabetic patients wake up multiple times a night to check their
blood sugar, he said.  For Type 1 diabetics, whose bodies don’t produce enough
insulin, night-time is especially dangerous because the patients
aren’t awake to monitor their blood sugar, he said.  Simple Algorithms  The patients in the study were hooked to a Medtronic Inc.
glucose monitor, which sent a signal to a laptop computer,
Weinzimer said. The computer ran algorithms to determine how
much insulin, if any, to release, and then sent a signal to the
patients’ insulin pump while they slept in a hospital.  Although the study used a laptop, the algorithms are simple
enough that they could be run on a smaller device, Weinzimer
said. As the technology progresses, the monitor and the pump
will be combined, he said.  The study also examined what happened when patients
exercised during the day, and found that walking briskly on a
treadmill for an hour provided an additional benefit.  At night, patients using the pancreas-mimicking pump had
blood sugar levels within target 72 percent of the time,
compared with 52 percent of those who also exercised but used
insulin pumps.  “Exercise is obviously part of a healthy lifestyle,”
Weinzimer said. “But for patients with diabetes, it can have
unexpected effects on blood sugar. It hits at nighttime, when
your surveillance is limited.”  Less Hypoglycemia  The study in exercise showed two incidents of  hypoglycemia ,
abnormally low blood sugar, when the patients were on the
monitoring device, compared with eight when they pumped their
own insulin on sedentary days. When patients exercised, there
was one incident of hypoglycemia at night on the artificial
pancreas, compared with 14 with the insulin pump.  Weinzimer hopes to be able to set up a system for patients
outside of a hospital environment about years from now. His
current focus is increasing the accuracy of the blood glucose
sensors, to make that feasible, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 