-- 
Harvard’s Homosexualists; Joely Richardson Unstrung: N.Y. Stage

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/harvard-s-homosexualists-side-effects-sex-lives-new-york-theater.html
The Harvard men in “Unnatural
Acts” at off-Broadway’s  Classic Stage Co.  don’t speak of gay
pride or gay power. The year is 1920; outed “homosexualists,”
as they were sometimes called, faced humiliation and expulsion.  In 2002, Harvard Crimson reporter Amit Paley successfully
fought the administration to release transcripts from what was
referred to as the “Secret Court, 1920.” “Unnatural Acts” is
based in part on that reporting.  Conceived and directed by Tony Speciale, the play focuses
on 10 men, most of them undergraduates. The Harvard
administration’s inquisition and the pressure to name names
foreshadows the communist witch-hunts of the 1950s. An all-male
cast depicts both the victims, who are initially ecstatic in
their secret lives, and their dimly lit interrogators.  Speciale and five of the actors are among those credited
with writing this powerful polemic that only occasionally
becomes overwrought. The ugly story -- and an epilogue telling
what became of the protagonists -- help explain the university’s
determination to keep that star chamber’s proceedings secret.
(Boroff)  Through July 10 at 136 E. 13th St. Information: +1-866-811-
4111;  http://www.classicstage.org  Rating: ***  ‘Side Effects’  Like her late sister, Natasha, Joely Richardson exudes a
to-the-manner-born ease on stage that can take your breath away.  In “Side Effects,” Michael Weller’s wrenching drama of
marriage and its discontents, she plays Melinda Metz, a former
New York flower child transplanted to the Midwest through her
marriage to Hugh, a stick-in-the-mud with political aspirations.  Her struggle with bipolar disease threatens to derail his
campaign, but so does the sense of dislocation that leads her
into an affair.  It takes some time, in David Auburn’s thoughtful staging,
for the brittle sinews to finally snap as the marriage falls
apart. But when they do, Hugh and Melinda let it rip with a
cruel torrent that only the most intimate anger can inspire.  Cotter Smith has a nuanced, sinister elegance as the
ambitious, somewhat devious Hugh. Watching Richardson, you’ll
sense her mother,  Vanessa Redgrave , in every perfect covert
gesture and in the natural delivery of lines that can slice
through to the bone. “Side Effects” is Weller’s best play
since “Spoils of War.” Don’t miss it. (Gerard)  Through July 3 at the Lucille Lortel Theatre, 121
Christopher St. Information: +1-212-352-3101;
 http://www.mcctheater.org  Rating: ***1/2  ‘Sex Lives’  In Michael Mitnick’s “Sex Lives of Our Parents,” a
prescient young woman at the brink of wedlock tries to unravel
the mystery of her mother’s enduring but unhappy marriage to her
father.  It’s a journey her mother is none too thrilled to take with
her, leading to a revelation that’s tipped off early and
unsatisfyingly resolved in Davis McCallum’s appealingly
whimsical production.  Daniel Jenkins and Lisa Emery reminded me of the McFlys,
Michael J. Fox’s parents in “Back to the Future” -- a once gay
young girl who settled for safety with the nerdy nobody who
adored her, while knowing firsthand that life had more to offer.  Virginia Kull beautifully conveys the growing panic of a
young woman realizing that she’s about to make a big mistake.
Ben Rappaport is sweetly befuddled as the bewildered fiance. I
look forward to Mitnick’s next play. (Gerard)  Through July 3 at the McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway
at W. 76th St. Information: +1-246-4422;  http://www.2st.com 
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard and Philip Boroff are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 