-- 
Stocks Slump as 10-Year Note Yields Hit 2011 Low

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-24T21:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/asian-stocks-rise-treasuries-drop-on-eu-support-for-greece-oil-rebounds.html
U.S. stocks and the euro retreated
for a third day as concern about Italian banks kept Europe’s
debt crisis in focus and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  led technology shares
lower. Italian, Irish and Spanish bond yields surged, while the
rates on Treasury notes decreased to 2011 lows.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.2 percent to
1,268.45 at 4 p.m. in New York to leave it down 0.2 percent for
the week. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.1 percent, erasing a
1.2 percent rally, and the euro sank 0.6 percent to $1.4177.
Italy’s 10-year yields climbed to a record above German rates as
the cost to protect European sovereign debt reached a record.
Corn, silver and energy products led commodities lower.  Technology shares led the  S&P 500 ’s decline after Oracle’s
unexpected drop in hardware sales, while banks were the biggest
drag in  Europe  after Moody’s Investors Service said it may
downgrade 13 Italian lenders. Declines in those groups and
commodities overshadowed faster-than-forecast growth in U.S.
durable-goods orders and European leaders’ pledge to support
Greece if the nation approves austerity measures.  “There’s anxiety in the market,” said Kevin Caron, a
market strategist in Florham Park,  New Jersey , at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., which has $115 billion in client assets.
“You’re going to go from headline to headline. When you look at
Europe, you have Greece, you have the Italian banks. This theme
is going to be playing for a while. In the U.S., the economic
figures are consistent with an anemic recovery.”  Retreat Since April  The S&P 500 has lost almost 7 percent from a three-year
high on April 29, and Treasury yields have decreased to their
lows for the year, as investors fixated on Europe’s debt crisis,
disappointing economic data and the end of the  Federal Reserve ’s
$600 billion bond purchase program this month. The retreat has
threatened the S&P 500’s advance for the year, leaving it up
less than 0.9 percent in 2011. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities
has lost 15 percent since April 29.  Government data today showed the  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.9
percent pace in the first quarter, marking the start of what the
Fed projects is a temporary slowdown in the recovery. Orders for
durable goods climbed 1.9 percent in May, Commerce Department
data showed, topping the 1.5 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Fed policy makers lowered their economic growth forecasts
this week and said they will complete a second round of bond
purchases at the end of the month as planned. While their
statement did not address a potential third round of so-called
quantitative easing, known as “QE3” among investors, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press conference on June 22 that the
central bank could take additional stimulus action if economic
conditions warranted.  Not Much Cheaper  “The question is, would adding more do much more?” Fed
Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “Would adding more liquidity do much
more? Would bringing rates down even further do much more? The
2-year note is within four basis points of an all-time low,
money can’t get much cheaper than it currently is.”  More than 10.1 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges as of 5 p.m., the highest since March, as investors
bought and sold shares to match Russell Investments’ annual
changes to its equity indexes. Russell says about $3.9 trillion
is benchmarked to its global stock-market measures.  Two-year yields slipped one basis point to 0.33 percent
today compared with a low of 0.31 percent in November. Ten-year
yields lost 4 basis points to 2.87 percent today, the lowest
since November.  Oracle, Micron  Oracle slumped 4.1 percent to pace losses in 70 of 74
technology companies in the S&P 500.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the
largest U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, sank 14 percent for
its biggest drop since 2008 after third-quarter sales and profit
fell short of analysts’ estimates. Accenture Plc, the world’s
second-largest technology-consulting company, advanced 2.4
percent after raising its forecasts.  The Stoxx 600 has fallen for eight straight weeks, the
longest stretch of declines since 1998. The retreat has dragged
its valuation to 12.5 times the reported earnings of its
companies, the cheapest since 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Greek 10-year bond yields fell for a third day this week,
down 10 basis points at 16.78 percent, compared with a record of
almost 18 percent on June 16. EU leaders vowed to stave off a
Greek default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes
through a 78 billion euro package of budget cuts next week,
pledging to do whatever it takes  to stabilize the euro economy.  Stabilizing the Euro  “We have agreed that there will be a new program for
Greece,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters at an
EU summit in Brussels today. “This is an important decision
that says once again we will do everything to stabilize the euro
overall.”  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  slid 1.6 percent to the
lowest level since Nov. 30. UniCredit SpA, the nation’s biggest
bank, led losses with a 5.5 percent slump.  Moody’s said yesterday it may downgrade Italian lenders
because they would be vulnerable if the government’s rating is
cut. Moody’s said last week Italy’s ratings may be reduced
because of slowing economic growth and the potential for the
sovereign crisis to drive the country’s borrowing costs higher.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index  of default
swaps on 15 governments climbed 3.3 basis points to a mid-price
of 242.25. The yield premium, or spread, investors demand to
hold Italy 10-year  government bonds  instead of benchmark German
bunds increased seven basis points to a euro-era record of 214
basis points, or 2.14 percentage points. Spain’s 10-year yield
increased five basis points to 5.68 percent and Ireland’s was up
18 basis points to 11.97 percent.  ‘Dress Rehearsal’  “The problem with Greece was that the EU decided that
Greece could not go back to the capital markets next year, it
would need a second bailout package,”  Marc Chandler , global
head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
 New York , told Bloomberg TV. “They’re going to realize Ireland
can’t go to the capital markets next year either. This is really
a dress rehearsal,” he said. “Later it’s going to be Ireland.  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds from default rose
for a third day to the highest since October as investor concern
mounted that Europe’s debt crisis will slow the global economic
recovery. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2.6 basis points to
a mid-price of 101.13 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Corn, Silver  Corn, silver, gasoline and Brent crude lost more than 1.5
percent to lead losses in 15 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI.
New York-traded copper rose 1.5 percent to $4.1155 a pound,
trimming this week’s drop, after the increase in durable goods
orders revived prospects for manufacturing and metals demand.  Brent oil declined to a four-month low of $105.22 a barrel
and touched $103.62, extending yesterday’s losses triggered by
the International Energy Agency plan to release 60 million
barrels of emergency stockpiles. New York crude increased 14
cents to $91.16.  “The principal message is to the financial segment of the
trading community to get this price down because it’s being
perceived as doing damage to the global economy,” said Mark Gilman, oil and gas analyst at Benchmark Co. in New York, in an
interview with Bloomberg TV.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.9 percent.  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.2 percent, the most in four
months. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in an opinion piece in the
Financial Times that “the overall price level is within a
controllable range and is expected to drop steadily.”  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  increased 1.7 percent and India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index added 2.9 percent after
yesterday’s decline in crude  oil prices . Turkey’s  ISE National
100 Index (XU100)  climbed 0.8 percent and Russia’s Micex Index jumped
1.6 percent, while Brazil’s Bovespa slipped 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  