-- 
Asian Currencies Decline on Greek Debt, Outlook for U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-06-24T22:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/asian-currencies-set-for-weekly-decline-on-greek-debt-fed-growth-outlook.html
Asian currencies completed a weekly
decline as concern that Greece will default and a cut to the
growth outlook for the world’s largest economy damped demand for
emerging-market assets.  The  Federal Reserve  said June 23 the  U.S. economy  will
expand 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from April’s
forecast of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent. European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet said June 22 risk signals for
financial stability in the euro area are flashing “red” as
Greece’s debt crisis threatens to infect banks. Overseas
investors pulled $360 million from South Korean, Taiwanese and
Thai equities in the first four days of the week.  “Uncertainty on the global growth outlook remains,” said
 Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at  Barclays Capital .
“I think the next point to watch will be June 28 when we have
the Greek parliament looking to pass the privatization
program.”  Thailand’s baht dropped 0.3 percent for the week to 30.67
per dollar in Bangkok. India’s rupee declined 0.3 percent to
44.9975, Malaysia’s ringgit slipped 0.5 percent to 3.0450 and
Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.1 percent to 8,600. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, dropped 0.2 percent.  European Union leaders pledged June 23 to stabilize the
euro-area economy, vowing to stave off a Greek default as long
as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of
budget cuts next week. Papandreou assured European leaders he
would deliver the cuts they are demanding in exchange for the
next installment of emergency loans and a new rescue package, a
Greek government official said.  Thai Election Concern  The baht has weakened 1.1 percent this month, the worst
performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies, as exchange
data showed global funds sold $812 million more Thai shares than
they bought on concern elections slated for July 3 will spark
instability.  “The election campaign has been heating up,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a currency trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in
Bangkok. “Investors will stay on the sidelines from here at
least until we have a clearer outlook for the post-election
situation.”  The poll may represent the final chance to rid the country
of the “venom” of fugitive former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra ,
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said June 23 in a speech to
5,000 supporters in Bangkok.  Won Rallies  South Korea’s won was little changed this week after
gaining 0.2 percent last week as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
regional equities gained 1.3 percent yesterday. The currency was
at 1,082 per dollar yesterday.  “The market is relieved about the  Greece  situation for now
as they are making one positive step forward,” said Cho Young
Bok, a currency trader at Daegu Bank in Seoul. “Most people
think the won is undervalued, but the authorities are protecting
the downside” near 1,070 levels, he said.  Elsewhere, the  Singapore dollar  declined 0.2 percent for
the week to S$1.2372 against its U.S. counterpart. The
Philippine peso climbed 0.3 percent to 43.457, Taiwan’s dollar
strengthened 0.2 percent to NT$28.90 and  China ’s yuan was little
changed at 6.4739.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  