-- 
Asian Stocks Post First Gain in Eight Weeks on Europe Optimism

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-24T23:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/asian-stocks-post-first-gain-in-eight-weeks-on-europe-optimism.html
Asian stocks climbed, driving the
region’s key benchmark index to its first advance in eight weeks,
as concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt earnings of exporters
and banks eased and the  Federal Reserve  said it is prepared to
provide further stimulus to the U.S. economy if needed.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by market
value, increased 3.5 percent in  Tokyo  through the week.
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , the nation’s largest lender,
gained 3.3 percent in Sydney. Foster’s Group surged 13 percent
as SABMiller Plc said it will continue to pursue Australia’s
biggest brewer after the company rejected its A$9.5 billion ($10
billion) offer.  Air China Ltd. (601111)  led a rally among airlines as oil
futures fell.  “The high oil price was a massive constraint on a fragile
recovery, so anything that takes the froth off the energy market
is positive for growth,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based
strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100
billion under management. “With Greece, they’ve managed to kick
the can further down the road, but any progress in avoiding
contagion to the rest of  Europe  is going to be welcomed.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2 percent to 132.24 this
week, snapping its longest series of weekly losses since 2004,
as European Union leaders pledged to stabilize the euro-area
economy and stave off a Greek default as long as the country’s
parliament passes a package of budget cuts.  The seven-week slump amid speculation Greece will default
on its debt payments and signs the U.S. economic recovery is
faltering exceeded a six-week streak of declines in the
aftermath of the September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  ‘Uncertainty Lies Ahead’  “The progress over the past few days on Greece has been
welcome,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of
investment markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $150 billion. “We’re still a
long way from a resolution of this issue, and I suspect further
volatility and uncertainty lies ahead. Investors therefore
remain cautious and conservative.”  Stocks advanced even after the Fed cut its growth forecast
for the  U.S. economy  on June 22. The central bank said it would
complete $600 billion in bond-buying as scheduled this month.
While the outlook for employment and inflation is better than it
was before the latest bond purchases, Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said policy makers would be “prepared to take additional action,
if conditions warranted.”  Market Oversold  Toyota added 3.5 percent to 3,285 yen. Samsung Electronics
Co., which gets 20 percent of sales from Europe, climbed 4
percent to 852,000 won in  Seoul .  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which
operates container facilities at Greece’s Piraeus port, advanced
4.8 percent to HK$13.88 in  Hong Kong .  Commonwealth Bank of Australia rose 3.3 percent to A$51.13
in the week.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s
biggest lender by market value, climbed 3.9 percent to 376 yen
in Tokyo. Smaller rival Mizuho Financial Group Inc. advanced 5.8
percent to 128 yen.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 3.5 percent this
week. South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 2.9 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index increased 2.2 percent, while  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 3.9 percent.  “The news out of Greece is good for a bounce in markets,
particularly as they are very oversold,” said  Shane Oliver ,
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages about $98 billion in Sydney. “There is still a lot of
water to go under the bridge before Greece gets a new bailout
package, and uncertainty still remains about the strength of the
global economic recovery. It could remain a volatile ride for a
while yet.”  Foster’s, Korea Express  The MSCI Asia-Pacific index lost 6.1 percent since the peak
in May, dragging valuations of stocks in the benchmark index to
13.2 times estimated earnings on June 20, the lowest since April
20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foster’s Group surged 13 percent to A$5.21. SABMiller, the
world’s biggest brewer by volume, said on June 21 it will
continue to pursue the Australian brewer after Foster’s rejected
the A$4.90-a-share offer. The London-based brewer may have to
raise its offer by 8.2 percent to A$5.30 share to secure a
friendly takeover, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Korea Express Co., a logistics company, jumped 19 percent
to 137,000 won in Seoul after Samsung SDS Co., a computer
networking company, said it will make a joint bid with
steelmaker Posco.  Airline shares rallied after oil futures dropped for a
fourth week, after the International Energy Agency’s decided on
June 23 to release 60 million barrels of oil over the next month,
half of from the U.S. reserves.  ‘Airlines Face Challenges’  Air China, the world’s biggest carrier by market value,
jumped 11 percent to HK$7.76 in Hong Kong.  China Airlines Ltd. (2610) ,
Taiwan’s largest airline, gained 6.7 percent to NT$19.05 in
Taipei. All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s No. 1 carrier by sales,
rose 5.3 percent to 260 yen in Tokyo.  “In the short-term, oil prices falling alone is a positive
factor for airlines,” said Danny Yan, a fund manager at Haitong
International Asset Management, which oversees $600 million.
“However, airlines still face challenges. The decision to
increase oil supply is only temporary.”  Li & Fung Ltd., the world’s biggest supplier of clothes and
toys to retailers, jumped 13 percent to HK$16.06 after Deputy
Chairman  William Fung  said on June 23 its customer Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. may benefit from a flagging U.S. economic recovery.
The stock was upgraded to “buy” from “sell” at Samsung
Securities Ltd. and to “buy” from “hold” at Deutsche Bank AG.  Among stocks that dropped,  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  slumped 10
percent to 8.75 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur trading after bigger
rivals CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and Malayan Banking Bhd.
scrapped talks to acquire the nation’s fifth-biggest lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 