-- 
Latvia Considering More Bond Sales Abroad, Prime Minister Dombrovskis Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-24T11:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/latvia-considering-more-bond-sales-abroad-prime-minister-says.html
Latvia wants to tap international
bond markets later this year or at the beginning of 2012 after a
successful sale of $500 million in government debt earlier this
month, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  The country, which got a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.7 billion)
rescue loan from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  in 2008, is working to lower its  budget deficit  next year
and reduce inflation to levels that would allow adoption of the
euro in 2014. The Baltic nation’s economy will grow at least 3.3
percent this year after shrinking 18 percent in 2009, according
to government estimates.  “We don’t want to borrow anymore from the international
loan package we’re receiving from the IMF and the European
Commission and instead meet our financing needs from the
market,” Dombrovskis said today in an interview in Brussels.  Latvia’s first international offer since receiving the
rescue package in 2008 was seven times oversubscribed and the
yield on the 10-year dollar-bond was 5.491 percent. That’s
around a third of what investors are demanding for Greek debt
and less than half of yields for 10-year bonds of Portugal and
Ireland, two other euro members that have received EU bailouts.  The government is waiting for an “appropriate moment given
what is happening on the market, the electoral calendar and some
other factors,” Dombrovski, who was in Brussels for a two-day
EU  summit , said.  President Valdis Zatlers last month called  Latvia ’s first
referendum to dismiss parliament after lawmakers refused to lift
the immunity of a legislator when investigators sought to search
his home. The plebiscite will be held on July 23, followed by
elections about two months later if it is approved by voters.  “It’s very early to say exactly that it’ll be Eurobonds,
or dollar-bonds, or Samurai bonds,” Dombrovskis said. “We’re
also looking toward Asian markets, but this depends on market
situation and we will explore different options.”  The Latvian government has cut spending and increased taxes
as it plans to narrow its budget deficit to about 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product next year from a record 9.7 percent in
2009. Latvia’s financing needs will peak in 2014-2015,
Dombrovskis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporters on this story: 