-- 
Tax Break for Mortgage Debt Is Ready for the Wrecking Ball: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/tax-break-for-mortgage-interest-payments-is-ready-for-wrecking-ball-view.html
Americans think differently about
housing now: Developers have cut back on speculative projects
and mortgage bankers view lending standards more soberly.
Another important change in attitudes emerged this week when
people were asked how they feel about giving up the ability to
deduct mortgage interest from their personal income taxes.  Forty-nine percent of respondents in a Bloomberg National
Poll said they were willing to abandon the mortgage tax break if
it meant lower overall tax rates. Only 45 percent opposed the
switch. That’s a sharp contrast with polling patterns of prior
years, when the public showed 2-to-1 support for keeping the
mortgage deduction. The Bloomberg poll of 1,000 adults conducted
June 17-20 has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage
points.  This change in sentiment creates a rare opportunity to fix
a  tax-policy mistake  that the American public and its political
representatives have defended tirelessly. The case against the
deduction is strong. It is costing the  U.S. Treasury  $104.5
billion this year. It showers most of its benefits on wealthy
people in high tax brackets who were going to buy homes anyway,
while offering too little for strivers in the lowest tax
brackets.  Worst of all, this tax break makes taking on unsustainable
levels of personal debt too attractive. It can goad people into
buying homes they can’t afford. It also encourages them to keep
borrowing against the real estate they have, creating shaky  home
equity loans . Instead of making homeownership more affordable,
the mortgage deduction may create housing bubbles and, in some
places, inflate  home prices  so new entrants are priced out of
the market.  Flipping Houses  During the housing boom, none of these objections carried
much weight. The chance to get rich by being a small-time
housing speculator was too attractive. With the taxman’s
implicit support, many people stretched to buy big houses that
they expected to be rewarding long-term investments. More daring
souls tried to get rich  with repeated buying, selling and more
borrowing.  As long as the housing market kept rising over the past two
decades, periodic calls to rein in mortgage tax deductibility
went nowhere. Polls showed there was little desire to shed the
break, even among renters who didn’t benefit from it. After all,
a booming housing market meant renters could aspire to be the
home-flippers of tomorrow.  Middle-Class Shift  Now, however, taking on heavy mortgage debt is seen as a
road to ruin, not riches. One of the Bloomberg poll’s most
striking findings is that a narrow majority of people earning
$50,000 to $99,000 a year favors ending the tax break.
Traditionally, that section of the middle class has cherished
the benefit. Now, the poll shows that only people earning
$100,000 or more solidly defend the mortgage deduction.  Last year, the bipartisan fiscal commission led by  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles  proposed modest curbs in mortgage-
interest deductibility, to be phased in over seven years, as a
way of narrowing the  budget deficit . That time frame seems
ample. The U.S. can start by reducing the maximum amount of
eligible mortgage debt to half the current $1 million. After
that, full deductibility can yield to ever-smaller partial
deductions.  Public jitters about losing a cherished benefit can be put
to rest by lowering overall tax rates to offset the impact of
the fading mortgage deduction. By using a five- to 10-year
phase-in, the U.S. could gradually move toward a more equitable
tax system without creating sudden upheaval in people’s
finances.  Germany’s Example  The  housing lobby  claims that ending the mortgage deduction
could send home prices skidding and make it harder to recover
from the four-year housing crisis. Such alarmist talk shouldn’t
block action forever. Britain dismantled its mortgage tax breaks
gradually, over 30 years, and home prices did just fine.  Germany 
erased its breaks more rapidly, without any deleterious
consequences. Housing markets from  Canada  to Australia function
without mortgage-interest deductibility.  Getting rid of the mortgage deduction is one of the most
effective elements of any plan to lower overall tax rates or
narrow the deficit. That process should begin in earnest. This
is a rare opportunity to make the most of public willingness for
change.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 