-- 
Baidu to Buy Majority of Travel Site Qunar for $306 Million

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-24T20:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/baidu-to-invest-306-million-in-china-search-engine-qunar.html
Baidu Inc., owner of  China ’s most-
popular search-engine, said it agreed to buy a majority stake in
China travel site Qunar for $306 million.  The purchase will close in the third quarter, Beijing-based
Baidu said in a statement today. The deal will be financed by a
third-party loan, it said.  Baidu is boosting spending on technology and stepping up
investment to extend its dominance of the search-engine market
in China into other services such as online commerce and video.
The company is becoming “more active” in investing in
technology firms, seeking out electronic-commerce, mobile and
social networking assets, Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Li
said in an April interview.  “Travel has long been one of the top categories on Baidu,
and the number of travelers in China has been growing very
rapidly,” Li said in today’s statement. “So this is a market
of obvious strategic importance to us.”  Qunar.com, which means “Where do you want to go?” in
Chinese, was founded in February 2005 and is headquartered in
Beijing. It provides information on flight tickets, hotels,
packages, visa and other travel service, real-time price query
and comparative information services, according to its website.  In March, Baidu said it was among a group of investors that
paid a total of $50 million for a stake in Anjuke Inc., a
Shanghai-based property-listings site.  Tencent’s Purchase  Baidu’s shares fell 54 cents to $128.68 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has gained 33 percent
this year. The company’s stock has more than tripled in U.S.
trading since main rival  Google Inc. (GOOG)  announced plans in January
2010 to pull its search engine out of China.  Baidu’s purchase follows a May 17 announcement that  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company, bought an $84.4
million stake in ELong Inc. to expand in online travel. Tencent
acquired a 16 percent stake in ELong to become the online-travel
company’s second-biggest shareholder behind  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)   Both Elong and Qunar compete with  Ctrip.com International
Ltd. (CTRP)  in China’s online travel market.  Qunar was co-founded by Fritz Demopoulos, Chenchao Zhuang
and Douglas Koo. Demopoulos is stepping down as chief executive
of Qunar, to be replaced by Zhuang, the statement said.  Qunar was backed by venture capital firms GSR Ventures of
Beijing; Mayfield Fund and GGV Capital both of  Menlo Park ,
 California ; and Tenaya Capital.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
accounted for 19.2 percent of China’s search market by revenue
in the first quarter, declining from 19.6 percent three months
earlier, according to research company Analysys International.
Baidu’s market share rose to 75.8 percent from 75.5 percent,
according to Analysys.  Google has been losing share in China’s search-engine
market since the  Mountain View , California-based company said
last year it was no longer willing to comply with Chinese
regulations to self-censor Web content. The company shut its
Google.cn service and redirected Chinese users to an unfiltered
site in  Hong Kong .  --Edmond Lococo, with assistance from  Mark Lee . Editors: Anand Krishnamoorthy, Lisa Rapaport  To contact Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  