-- 
FDIC’s Bair Says Banks Have ‘Plenty of Capacity’ to Lend

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-24T19:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/bair-says-banks-will-have-plenty-of-capacity-to-lend-with-capital-rules.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said banks will be able to meet higher
capital standards with retained earnings and have “plenty of
capacity to lend.”  “The fact is that the capital requirements U.S. banks now
face are mostly the same as those that were in existence before
the crisis,” Bair said today in a speech at the  National Press
Club  in Washington. “The reason banks are not lending more is a
combination of risk-aversion on their part and reduced borrower
demand. They have plenty of capacity to lend.”  Bair, who supports international efforts to impose tougher
capital requirements on systemically important financial firms,
said resistance to the proposed changes reflect what she has
called “amnesia” amid recovery from the financial crisis.  “Some banking industry representatives are claiming that
higher  capital requirements  will raise the cost of credit and
could derail the economic expansion,” Bair said. “This is a
terrific example of the sort of static, short-term thinking that
got us into this mess in the first place.”  “There is a lot of recent research that shows higher
capital requirements, in the range that we are talking about,
will have a very modest effect,” she said.  Risk Retention  Bair also backs a Dodd-Frank Act mandate that issuers of
mortgage-backed securities retain 5 percent of the credit risk
from pooled loans sold to investors.  “Risk retention is necessary to give issuers a long-term
interest in the performance of the underlying mortgages,” said
Bair, who has participated in joint-agency rulemaking on the
measure with regulators including the  Federal Reserve .  Lobbying against an exemption for so-called qualified
residential mortgages made her regret that Congress had included
it, she said.  “Given the controversy that has surrounded this rule, I
have to say I regret that Congress carved out an exemption for
ultra-safe mortgages,” Bair said. “This small extra cost is
the price we must pay in the short term to put a little equity
behind these mortgages, to ensure that incentives are properly
aligned, and to avoid a costly repeat of the mortgage crisis.”  She also called on the Europeans to muster “the will to
take action” on the continent’s economic crisis, saying Greek
debt may need to be restructured.  “You just need to bite the bullet sometimes,” Bair said.
“It takes political courage to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  