-- 
Fed Chief Bernanke Public Approval Falls to Lowest With Too-Slow Economy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-24T13:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/bernanke-public-approval-falls-to-lowest.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s standing with the public has slid to its lowest level
in almost two years of polling on the issue, even as faith in
the Federal Reserve holds up.  Bernanke is viewed favorably by 30 percent of those polled,
compared with 26 percent who view him unfavorably; the remainder
are unsure. In September of 2009, Bernanke enjoyed 41 percent
approval and 22 percent disapproval. The Fed itself is viewed
favorably by 42 percent of voters, little changed from previous
surveys.  The Bloomberg National Poll, conducted June 17-20, shows
that the reputation of Bernanke, who led the central bank
through the longest U.S. recession since the Great Depression,
has slid lower as the unemployment rate has remained stuck near
9 percent or higher for 26 consecutive months.  “It’s a reflection of the fact that most Americans still
don’t feel the economy is in recovery,” said Greg Valliere,
chief political strategist at Potomac Research Group in
 Washington . “If a team is doing poorly, the quarterback gets a
disproportionate share of the blame.”  The survey also shows a politically polarized view of the
central bank chairman. Bernanke is viewed favorably by 24
percent of Republicans and unfavorably by 32 percent. Those
numbers are flipped with Democrats, 36 percent of whom view him
positively and 16 percent negatively.  Central bankers can’t be influenced by concerns about the
popularity of their actions, said  Richard Fisher , president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.  Assigned a Job  “Fortunately we are not politicians -- we’re just assigned
a job and whether it makes us popular or unpopular is not the
issue,” Fisher said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television. “We are not in this business for popularity.”  Bernanke, 57, himself a registered Republican, became
chairman of the Fed in February 2006, after being appointed to
head the central bank by President  George W. Bush . He was
renominated by President  Barack Obama  and confirmed for a second
term in January 2010.  The poll was conducted before the central bank’s meeting
June 21-22 in which policy makers confirmed the end of their
$600 billion bond-purchase program and renewed a pledge to hold
interest rates near zero for an “extended period.”  Central bankers also cut their forecasts for growth this
year and next and raised their estimates for unemployment. In a
press conference yesterday, his second since becoming the Fed’s
chairman, Bernanke said that “we don’t have a precise read on
why this slower pace of growth is persisting.”  Stronger Headwinds  “Some of these headwinds may be stronger and more
persistent than we thought,” said Bernanke, the former head of
the Princeton University economics department, who also served
as chairman of Bush’s  Council of Economic Advisers .  “Two years ago he walked on water -- he extricated us from
financial crisis and prevented a return to the Great
Depression,” said Alan Levenson, chief economist of T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. in Baltimore, which has almost $510 billion in
assets under management, including those of more than 1 million
retail investors.  “Now he’s saying unemployment is unacceptably high, but
he’s not having as much success with that,” Levenson said. “To
the man on the street, he had it going in 2009 but lost his
touch.”  Second Round  In November of 2010, the Fed began the second round of its
quantitative easing program in an attempt to boost growth, avert
deflation and bring down the  unemployment rate .  “It was a devil’s choice,” said survey respondent Marcus
Wax, 21, a student at the University of  North Dakota . “His
motives were right, but I don’t really agree with the actions
he’s taken.”  “Our problems are really beyond monetary policy,” said
Wax. “All the free money he’s pumping out right now -- where’s
it going to go afterwards?”  During Bernanke’s tenure, the central bank confronted a
financial crisis that led to the collapse of Wall Street firms
such as Bear Stearns Cos, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
American International Group Inc. In the course of the 18-month
recession that followed, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
57 percent from its record in October 2007.  Emergency Lending  The Federal Reserve undertook $3.3 trillion in emergency
lending during the crisis and cut  interest rates  to a range of
zero to 0.25 percent. To support the housing market, it launched
a plan to purchase $1.43 trillion in housing debt.  In December 2009, Bernanke was dubbed Time Magazine’s
“Person of the Year” for being the “mild-mannered man” who
“prevented an economic catastrophe.” The  S&P 500  began to rise
in March 2009 and has since climbed 90 percent.  “More than any other person on the face of the earth, he
helped us avoid a total meltdown, but there’s a disconnect
between people in the markets and American voters,” Valliere
said. Bernanke’s insistence that inflation is low or transitory
“flies in the face of most Americans’ focus on gasoline and
food -- they see someone who is not plugged into ordinary
Americans’ concerns,” Valliere said.  For Americans earning less than $25,000 a year, more view
Bernanke unfavorably -- 24 percent -- than favorably -- 21
percent. For those earning more than $100,000, Bernanke is
viewed positively by 42 percent and negatively by 27 percent.  Two-thirds of Americans in the Bloomberg Poll say the
nation is on the “wrong track,” and 44 percent say they are
worse off now than at the beginning of 2009. Fifty-five percent
expect children will have a lower standard of living than their
parents do today.  The poll, conducted by  Des Moines , Iowa-based Selzer & Co.,
is based on interviews with 1,000 U.S. adults. It has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  -- With assistance from Michael McKee in  Dallas . Editors:
Christopher Wellisz, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  