-- 
Anschutz Buys Out L.A. Hotel Partner, Creating Teachers’ Pension Fund Loss

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/billionaire-anschutz-buys-out-l-a-hotel-partner-at-loss-to-teachers-fund.html
Philip Anschutz, who seeks taxpayer
support for a $1.4 billion downtown  Los Angeles  football stadium
complex, bought out a partner in his nearby hotel and condo
project at a loss to investors including state teachers.  California State Teachers’ Retirement System , the nation’s
second-largest pension plan, is an investor in a MacFarlane
Partners fund that sold its money-losing interest last month in 
the Anschutz-led Ritz-Carlton and JW Marriott hotels and 
attached condominiums at the L.A. Live  project , according to 
Ricardo Duran, a spokesman for the pension fund.  “It was sold at a loss, I don’t know how much,” Duran
said in an interview yesterday.  The investment was made through MacFarlane Partners Urban
Real Estate Fund II, which raised $1 billion from pension plans,
insurance companies and a foundation in 2007, according to a
MacFarlane  press release  at the time. Calstrs, with $154 billion
in assets,  committed  $300 million to the fund in December 2006,
Duran said.  The Urban Real Estate fund has 90 properties and 14
investors, according to Gregory M. Vilkin, managing principal
and president of MacFarlane Partners. He declined to comment on
the sale price and whether it lost money.  MacFarlane, the San Francisco-based investment firm,
resigned from its work on behalf of the nation’s largest pension
fund, the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , in
October 2009. MacFarlane co-managed the fund’s  $900 million 
investment in  LandSource Communities Development LLC , a housing
venture that declared bankruptcy in 2008.  Football Plan  Anschutz’s firm, AEG Worldwide, has asked the Los Angeles
City Council to approve a plan to build a $1.4 billion football
stadium and convention-center expansion that involves the city
issuing $350 million in municipal bonds for the convention-
center portion of the project. Part of the existing center would
be torn down.  AEG seeks to attract at least one National Football League
team to the city, which lost the Raiders after the 1994 season.
Revenue from the stadium and convention center addition, along
with assurances from AEG, will be enough to repay the bonds,
according to  Michael Roth , a spokesman for the company.  “We stand by our commitment that this project will not
cost the taxpayers or the city’s general fund any money,” Roth
said in a June 20 e-mail. He had no comment yesterday on the
MacFarlane transaction.  A  committee  of five city council members has been holding
hearings on the AEG proposal, the next of which is scheduled for
June 30. AEG has given the city a July 31 deadline to decide on
its plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  