-- 
Biofuel Maker Kior Raises $150 Million in Initial Share Sale

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-06-24T01:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/biofuel-maker-kior-raises-150-million-in-initial-share-sale.html
Kior Inc., the biofuels developer
backed by billionaire  Vinod Khosla , raised $150 million in a
U.S. initial public offering, pricing its shares below the
forecast range.  The Pasadena, Texas-based company sold 10 million shares at
$15 each after offering them at $19 to $21 apiece, it said today
in a statement. Proceeds will partially fund the company’s
second commercial plant in Newton, Mississippi, according to its
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Kior, which originally filed to raise as much as $100
million in April, processes wood and non-food agricultural
biomass into a renewable crude oil that can be converted using
standard refining equipment into substitutes for gasoline and
diesel fuel.  The technology combines proprietary catalyst systems with
“well-established fluid catalytic cracking, or FCC, processes
that have been used in crude oil refineries to produce gasoline
for over 60 years,” Kior said in its IPO prospectus.  Its first plant, a $190 million facility in Columbus,
 Mississippi , is currently  under construction  and expected to
produce 11 million gallons of biofuel per year after beginning
production in the second half of 2012. Successive facilities may
be larger, Chief Executive Officer Fred Cannon told Bloomberg in
August.  Kior, which sold all of the shares in the offering, has
posted net losses totaling about $66 million since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loan Guarantee  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
led the offering. Underwriters have a 30-day option to purchase
an additional 1.5 million shares to cover any overallotments,
according to the filing. The shares will start trading tomorrow
on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker KIOR.  The company plans to build larger production facilities,
including the Newton plant, beginning in the third quarter of
2012 that may cost $350 million each, according to its filing.
Those will be designed to process about 1,500 tons of feedstock
per day, about three times as much as the Columbus plant, and
will be located in Mississippi,  Georgia  and Texas.  In February, Kior said it received a term sheet for a loan
guarantee from the U.S. Energy Department to support a $1
billion project to build four bio-refineries that together would
produce about 250 million gallons of fuel a year.  Venture Backers  The initial Columbus plant will have built-in capability to
convert crude oil to transportation fuels, though as Kior adds
production capacity it plans to build plants in clusters around
centralized refining stations. That strategy will enable the
company to “more effectively allocate our fixed costs and stage
our capital program to reduce the capital intensity of our
commercial expansion,” it said in its filing.  Kior is funding the Columbus plant with existing cash and a
$75 million interest-free loan from the Mississippi Development
Authority. The company raised more than $180 million in  venture
capital  before the IPO, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  Kior’s backers included  Khosla Ventures , the  Menlo Park ,
California-based  investment company  founded by Khosla, Artis
Capital Management LP, Alberta Investment Corp., and Dutch
company Bioecon BV, which originally developed the biofuel
conversion process.  Before the offering, Khosla Ventures owned 32.5 percent of
Kior’s Class A stock and 74.8 percent of its Class B stock,
which together represented 73 percent of total voting power.
That is not expected to change significantly for the foreseeable
future, Kior said in its filing.  Catchlight, Chevron  The offering included Class A shares only. Each Class A
share is entitled to one vote, and each Class B shares is
entitled to 10 votes. Holders of Class B shares can convert them
at will into Class A shares on a 1-to-1 basis. They will
automatically convert under certain circumstances, Kior said in
its prospectus.  Catchlight Energy LLC, a joint venture of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , will provide forestry waste that Kior will use
at the Columbus plant. In April, Catchlight agreed to buy fuel
from that facility, and Hunt Refining Co. agreed to a similar
deal in March.  Kior said June 22 that former U.S. Secretary of State
 Condoleezza Rice  will join the company’s board starting in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  