-- 
Black & Veatch Targets 10% Annual Growth in Revenue in Asia

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-24T05:42:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/black-veatch-targets-10-annual-growth-in-revenue-in-asia.html
Black & Veatch Corp. , a U.S.
developer of energy and water infrastructure, targets an annual
growth rate of 10 percent in sales in  Asia  as demand for less
polluting fuel sources rises in the region.  Revenue in Asia will increase from about $200 million a
year currently, Hoe Wai Cheong, managing director of energy for
Asia, the  Middle East ,  Europe  and  Africa  at Black & Veatch, said
in a phone interview today.  Global sales  reached $2.7 billion in
2009, according to the privately held company’s website.  Asian countries including China are building more natural
gas projects to rely less on oil and coal, which are more
polluting, and planning water-treatment plants to conserve
supplies. Black & Veatch aims to have projects outside the U.S.
form 50 percent of its revenue in the next two to three years,
Chief Executive Officer Len Rodman said in June 2009.  “The gains in revenue will be from across our business
scope, ranging from water, gas to environmental projects,”
Cheong said from Beijing today.  Black & Veatch won projects to design and build two
liquefied natural gas plants in  China ’s northern Shaanxi
province to provide fuel for automobiles in the region,
increasing the number of its LNG projects in China to five, the
company said on June 22.  In May, the Overland Park, Kansas-based company was named a
technical consultant for Dubai’s plan to generate electricity
using clean coal. Black & Veatch has also implemented  solar -
power projects in countries including Canada and  Thailand .  The company helped design and build the Sembcorp Changi
NEWater Plant in  Singapore  that started commercial operations in
2009.  --Wang Ying. Editors: Ryan Woo, Indranil Ghosh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 