-- 
Blues Beat Waratahs 26-13 to Advance to Super Rugby Semifinals

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-24T10:12:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/blues-beat-waratahs-26-13-to-advance-to-super-rugby-semifinals.html
The Auckland Blues beat the New
South Wales Waratahs 26-13 to advance to the Super Rugby
semifinals.  Winger Lachie Munro scored a 24th-minute try and kicked
three penalties and a conversion to lift the Blues, seeking a
fourth title in the southern hemisphere’s elite provincial
competition, to the win in the first qualifying final at
Auckland’s Eden Park.  Auckland’s opponent in the final four will be determined
tomorrow when the third-ranked Canterbury Crusaders host South 
Africa’s Sharks, who ended the regular season in sixth place, 
in the second qualifier. Auckland finished in fourth spot.  The highest-ranked playoff winner will face  South Africa ’s
Stormers in  Cape Town  on July 2, while the lowest-placed winner
plays the table-topping  Queensland Reds  in Brisbane. The final
is July 9 and will be hosted by the team that finished highest
in the regular season.  “We’ll see what the result is tomorrow,” Blues fly-half
Stephen Brett said in an interview with Fox Sports. “We’d like
to go to Brisbane, it’s a big trip to South Africa.  While the Reds, Stormers and Sharks have never won the
title, the Blues and Crusaders have 10 championships between
them. South Africa’s Bulls and the Canberra-based ACT Brumbies
are the only other winners.  The Blues dominated possession to score 16 unanswered
points and take control of the match after trailing 8-7. The
Waratahs got tries from Tom Carter and Lachie Turner, while
 Kurtley Beale  added a penalty. Lock Ali Williams finished off a
six-pass move from one side of the field to the other for the
Blues’ other try in the 63rd minute and Luke McAlister added a
penalty to his earlier conversion with two minutes remaining.  The competition this year split into Australian,  New
Zealand  and South African conferences and added the Melbourne
Rebels as the 15th franchise.  To contact the reporter on this story: Dan Baynes in Sydney at
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher
Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 