-- 
BNP Paribas Cutting Peso Bond Sale Deepens Two-Month Slump: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-06-24T21:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/bnp-paribas-cutting-peso-bond-sale-deepens-two-month-slump-mexico-credit.html
Mexican corporate bond sales are
slowing to a one-year low as flagging U.S. growth and concern
 Greece  may default reduce the allure of emerging-market assets.  Offerings in the local market totaled $1.6 billion in June
and May, the smallest amount since the two-month period ended
June 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. BNP Paribas
SA,  France ’s largest bank, cut an offering this week to 1.2
billion pesos from a planned 3 billion pesos as the Greece
crisis crimped demand for higher-yielding debt.  Investors are turning to the safest assets as the  Federal
Reserve  cuts its U.S. growth forecast and Greece struggles to
meet terms for aid. The extra yield investors demand to own the
Mexican government’s peso bonds due in 2024 instead of similar-
maturity  U.S. Treasuries  widened 12 basis points since the end
of May to 374, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The global environment is less accepting to the placement
of slightly riskier assets,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin
American fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “People are so preoccupied with the
potential for more tremors coming from the European sovereign
situation. That’s the limiting factor.”   Cemex SAB, the Monterrey-based cement maker, scrapped a
$650 million bond offering in international markets yesterday,
two days after Brazilian oil and gas services company San
Antonio Internacional Ltd. shelved its sale.  Debt Crisis  BNP Paribas sold the bonds on June 20, according to a
company filing with the Mexican stock exchange. New York-based
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  spokeswoman Megan Stinson didn’t immediately reply
to an e-mail or voicemail for comment.  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 15 it may lower the
credit ratings of French banks, including BNP Paribas, because
of their investments in Greece.  Measures proposed by the Greek government to complete a 78
billion-euro ($111 billion) austerity package required to win a
bailout were endorsed by officials from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund , said a person familiar with the
matter. Yields on Greece’s bonds due 2019 surged 359 basis
points in the past month to 18.15 percent.  “A lot of foreign companies that had planned to sell debt
in pesos have had a lot of trouble doing so,” Araceli Espinosa,
a debt analyst at  Scotia Capital  in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “The principal factors have been external,
and if you look at the fundamentals, if we have lower growth in
the U.S., you will have lower growth in Mexico and fewer
issuances.”  Growth Outlook  The pace of the economic expansion in the U.S., which buys
80 percent of Mexico’s exports, has been “frustratingly slow,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 22. Fed officials this
week cut their growth forecasts for the  U.S. economy  this year
and next. The world’s biggest economy will expand by 2.7 percent
to 2.9 percent this year, down from April’s forecasts of 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent, based on the median range of
projections.  A finance ministry press official didn’t immediately return
a call for comment.  Corporate offerings in the local market will pick up in
the second half of the year as the European crisis eases and
growth in the Mexican economy accelerates, said Guillermo Rodriguez, who helps manage about $5.5 billion at Corp. Actinver
SAB.  “The market is going to turn around in the second half of
the year once the noise from Europe ends,” Rodriguez said in a
telephone interview in Mexico City. “Corporate risk is going to
be very attractive again.”  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was little changed at
150 at 5 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 115, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements.  The peso dropped 0.3 percent to 11.9001 per dollar.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February were unchanged at 5.04 percent.  The slump in local corporate bond sales in June follows a
record start to the year. Offerings have totaled $8.4 billion
this year, up 42 percent over the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banks accounted for 32
percent of the sales.  “The external situation has played a large role,”
 Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about 14 billion pesos at
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in  Mexico  City, said in a
telephone interview. “Everyone is very worried when a new issue
comes and how susceptible it is to what is happening globally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  