-- 
BNP Paribas Sees Better Sentiment on Stocks

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-06-24T08:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/bnp-paribas-sees-better-sentiment-on-stocks.html
BNP Paribas Investment Partners’
chief investment officer said equity markets may be volatile in
coming months until economic data from the U.S. improve and the
outcome of  Greece ’s debt crisis becomes clearer.  “The summer months will be a more challenging environment,
with volatile markets” as investors await the results of key
economic data and meetings in July, William De Vijlder, the CIO
of the asset manager, which manages $780 billion, said in an
interview in Zurich yesterday. “But as we go into fall, we
expect the markets will be in a more supportive environment.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has tumbled 8.4 percent from
this year’s peak on Feb. 17 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has fallen 4.6 percent this month as U.S. data trailed forecasts
and concern mounted that Greece will fail to repay its debt.  A U.S. Labor Department report on private payrolls that
will be published on July 8 will affect investor sentiment, De
Vijlder said. The data “will set the scene for the remainder of
the year,” he said. “If they’re kind of OK, we’ll have a
better market environment. We don’t expect anything spectacular
on the positive side, but acceptable numbers.”  Private payrolls climbed 83,000 in May, less than forecast
and the fewest since June 2010, while the nationwide jobless
rate rose to 9.1 percent, a Labor Department report showed last
week. The data fanned concern that the lack of bigger job gains
will limit  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the  U.S. economy .  Japanese Exports  BNP Paribas expects growth in the U.S. to accelerate in the
third quarter as Japan exports more products.  “Part of the weakness we see now is related to Japan,”
said De Vijlder, who is based in Brussels. “Once the delivery
of goods from Japanese companies picks up again, it will have a
positive effect on economic data.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 7
that “accommodative monetary policies are still needed” to
boost a “frustratingly slow” recovery. Growth will probably
pick up in the second half as fuel prices recede and disruptions
of parts supplies dissipate as factories in  Japan  recover from
an earthquake and tsunami, he said.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said on
May 27 that its North America and China vehicle production will
return to normal in August as parts suppliers recover. In the
U.S., only production of Civic cars will continue to be slowed
by limited supplies of some parts, Honda said.  Worries to Ease  An expected slowdown in Chinese inflation may also
contribute to a “more supportive” market environment, De
Vijlder said.  “By fall, Chinese inflation will no longer be as much of
an issue,” he said. “When inflation is brought under control,
the lingering worry investors now have that China might need to
step on the brakes more would fade away and would support risk
appetite in  China , then more generally in markets.”  China’s inflation climbed to 5.5 percent in May, figures
showed on June 14. It has topped the government’s 4 percent
target each month this year. Inflation may reach 6 percent this
month, according to banks from Societe Generale SA to  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
prompting speculation interest rates may rise further after four
increases since September.  Greek government plans to pass new austerity measures
including spending cuts, tax increases and state-asset sales to
stave off default “will hang over equity markets for quite a
while,” De Vijlder said. “What would be a definite game
changer to the positive would be if the markets felt that the
short-term funding issues for Greece are going to be met.”  ‘Sigh of Relief’  European finance ministers and the  International Monetary
Fund  this week said they would hold back a 12 billion-euro ($17
billion) payment due in July until passage of the plans of the
plans to cut the deficit, sell state assets and impose a
“crisis levy” on wages.  “The July meetings taking place about the permanent
funding mechanism are going to be important for investors,” De
Vijlder said. “Then the equity markets will heave a sigh of
relief and that will mean contagion will not be an issue. The
issue is not going to go away as a thematic, but it will be less
front-page news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  