-- 
Boeing 747 Update, 787 Vie For First Delivery

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-06-24T22:10:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/boeing-747-computer-narrows-jumbo-jet-s-lead-in-787-horse-race-.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 747-8 has been slowed
enough by a complex new flight-management computer system that
the jumbo jet is vying for first delivery with the 787
Dreamliner, which has not progressed as far in airborne tests.  The 747-8, the newest version of  Boeing’s biggest and most
expensive plane , has completed more than a third of its function
and reliability testing, a segment the 787 has yet to start. The
 787  still has to complete a test for twin-engine extended
operations that isn’t required for the four-engine jumbo.  The planes are neck-and-neck as they near their delivery
targets because the 747-8’s new flight management computer is
still being worked on, so it requires twice as many flight
hours, Elizabeth Lund, the program chief, said in an interview
this week. Boeing and its suppliers don’t get the bulk of their
payments until planes are delivered.  The 747-8 freighter, which has an average list price of
$319.3 million that doesn’t reflect discounts negotiated by
buyers, is about a year and a half late in shipment to the
launch customer, Luxembourg-based Cargolux Airlines
International SA. The most recent schedule had targeted a
“midyear 2011” delivery.  Executives recently began saying “summer” instead, and
Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  gave a third-
quarter promise this week. Boeing said guidance hasn’t been
changed. Still, it now matches the goal of delivering the 787 by
the end of September.  It’s a “horse race” as to whether the Dreamliner or the
747-8 commence deliveries first, Albaugh said before the  Paris
Air Show .  The 747-8 initially suffered from a diversion of engineers
to the even later 787 Dreamliner, which was originally supposed
to enter service in May 2008. Since the 747-8’s maiden flight
last year, Chicago-based Boeing has had to fix several problems
including flutter in the wings.  Final Configuration  Honeywell International Inc., which designed and built the
computer, is doing its last testing now, and Boeing expects the
flight management computer to reach final configuration next
week, Lund said.  Honeywell personnel have “kept Boeing apprised of the
development and certification process and continue to work
closely with them to deliver this highly advanced flight
management system,” Dave Douglass, vice president of Honeywell’s
Boeing business segment, said in an e-mailed statement.  Reaching final configuration will let Boeing count every
hour of function and reliability testing toward certification by
the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , Lund said. In the more
than 100 hours flown since testing began June 1, only one of
every two has counted, because of the incomplete system, she
said.  ‘Tremendous Progress’  “In the last month, we’ve made tremendous progress on the
flight management computer,” Lund said. “The last three to
four flights we’ve had no squawks whatsoever, and that’s amazing
for an airplane this new.”  The system has a brand-new architecture that made it “a
challenge to develop,” she said. The freighter version will
start out with all the functionality and more of the last
derivative, the 747-400. An upgrade to the software package will
roll out with the 747-8 Intercontinental passenger version’s
delivery, due at the beginning of 2012, Lund said.  About 97 percent of the documentation and testing for the
FAA has been completed now and pilots, engineers and mechanics
are working around the clock on the jet they’ve nicknamed “The
Big Red” for its distinctive livery, Lund said. “We fly the
bejesus out of that plane.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Paris via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  