-- 
Bogolyubov’s Consolidated Minerals Studying IPO

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-24T05:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/bogolyubov-s-consolidated-minerals-studying-ipo.html
Consolidated Minerals Ltd. , a
manganese producer owned by Ukrainian billionaire Gennadiy Bogolyubov, is studying an initial public offering that may
value the company at as much as $2 billion.  “We’ll make the call in the next 6 to 12 months about how
we would do the listing and where we would do the listing,”
Glenn Baldwin, chief executive officer of the St. Helier,
Jersey-based company, said in an interview. The IPO of the
world’s fourth-largest producer of manganese, used to harden
steel, would likely take place in London or Sydney, he said.  A sale would return Consolidated to public trade more than
three years after Bogolyubov took control with A$1.3 billion
takeover as World Steel Association forecasts demand will rise
to a record next year. IPOs by basic-material companies, led by
Glencore International Plc, have raised $18 billion this year,
up 71 percent on the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Manganese trades with steel demand, you can’t substitute
it,” said Alex Passmore, head of metals and mining at Patersons
Securities Ltd., said by phone from Perth. “Current manganese
prices of around $5.50 a metric ton are a reasonable long-term
price.”  Bogolyubov, who already controlled iron, coal, oil, gas and
steel businesses, acquired Consolidated in January 2008  after a
three-way, 15-month tussle with Pallinghurst Resources  Australia 
Ltd. and Territory Resources Ltd.  “We’re in discussions, if we do list, about how much he is
willing to give us so we have sufficient liquidity in the
marketplace,” Baldwin said in a June 22 interview.  New Mines  Consolidated, which owns manganese mines in Ghana and
Australia, may attract a valuation of about $2 billion, based on
$248 million of earnings before interest, tax and amortization
in 2010 and using a multiple of six to eight times, he said.  The company would use funds raised from an IPO to help
construct new mines around its existing operations, Baldwin
said. Consolidated also owns a chromite mine in Australia.  “We’ve got a plethora of resource targets and to construct
a new mine in the region will take significant funds,” Baldwin
said. The company sold $405 million of five-year bonds in April.  “With the expansion plans in  Ghana , we’ve got an upgrade
on the railway, we’ve got enough money from the bond, but
there’s not enough money to build a new mine in Ghana,” Baldwin
said. “My focus will continue to remain on manganese ore as our
primary product.”  Manganese prices have dropped 18 percent since the end of
March as inventories in  China , the biggest consumer, rose to a
record at the end of last month, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc analysts led by Todd Scott said yesterday in a report. With
new large projects scheduled to start output “we see risks that
manganese will remain at depressed prices for the foreseeable
future,’” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  