-- 
Bombardier CSeries Scores Paris Show Hat Trick as Orders Rise

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-24T09:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/bombardier-cseries-scores-paris-show-hat-trick-as-orders-rise.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  said an unnamed
European customer ordered 10 of its CSeries aircraft in a
transaction valued at $628 million, underscoring its goal to
recruit a wide range of customers for the new narrow-body jet.  The purchase marks a third win for the more fuel-efficient
aircraft at this year’s  Paris Air Show , the industry’s biggest
gathering, and is the Montreal-based planemaker’s eighth order
overall. The unidentified customer placed a firm order for 10 of
the smaller CS100 models, Bombardier said.  Other orders for the jet announced at the show include
Korean Air Lines, South Korea’s flagship carrier, which agreed
to buy 10 CS300 CSeries this week, plus 10 options and 10
purchase rights. Bombardier, the third biggest planemaker, also
announced another unnamed customer that will be the first
airline to fly the plane in 2013 after making 10 firm orders.  “This order tops off a very successful Paris Air Show and
a strong wave of order activity in June, when we added five new
customers,”  Gary Scott , Bombardier’s commercial aircraft
president, said in a statement today.  The deal announced today comes after another Bombardier
CSeries customer,  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) , ordered the
first of Airbus SAS’s A319neo, a version of the single-aisle jet
upgraded with new fuel-efficient engines, that targets
Bombardier in the airline market of 100 to 149 seats.  Bombardier has said it will seek a wide range of customers,
rather than a handful of blockbuster deals, to establish a
market for its all-new aircraft that uses the geared turbofan
engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Paris at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  