-- 
Brazilian Real Declines on Concern the European Debt Contagion May Spread

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-06-24T22:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/brazilian-real-declines-on-concern-the-european-debt-contagion-may-spread.html
Brazil ’s real fell for a third week
as European leaders’ vow to stave off a Greek default failed to
reduce concern the debt crisis may spread.  The real declined for a third straight week, falling 0.4
percent to 1.6048 per dollar, from 1.5978 on June 17. The real
plunged 0.9 percent today. The Brazilian market was closed
yesterday for a national holiday.  European Union leaders vowed to stave off a Greek default
as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a
package of budget cuts next week, pledging to do whatever it
takes to stabilize the euro economy.  Greece ’s next hurdle is to
shepherd 78 billion euros ($111 billion) of austerity measures
through parliament, after yesterday’s endorsement of the program
by experts from the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  “The spreads on sovereign bonds of the peripheral
countries --  Italy , Spain, Greece -- are rising sharply today,”
Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez DTVM Ltda in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The market still sees
risks.”  The euro fell versus most of its 16 most-traded
counterparts amid speculation the Greek austerity plan won’t
resolve its sovereign-debt crisis. The euro weakened 0.5 percent
versus the dollar to $1.4188.  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds rose five basis points
to 5.68 percent. Yields on Italy’s 10-year benchmark bond rose
four basis points to 4.98 percent.  Futures Contracts  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts maturing after
September fell as investors bet the European debt crisis will
hurt global growth, helping Brazil’s central bank to tame
inflation, said Zeina Latif, Latin American strategist at RBS
Securities Inc.  “This Greek issue is causing a lot of concern and you
still can’t see the light at the end of the tunnel,” Latif said
in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . The drop in commodities
yesterday and growth concerns in the U.S. are combining with the
Greek debt crisis to lower interest-rate futures yields, she
said.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January fell two basis point, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.41
percent. The contract due in January 2013 fell five basis points
to 12.51 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  