-- 
Brazil May Start Cutting Rates by June 2012, Bradesco Says

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-06-24T10:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/brazil-may-start-cutting-rates-by-june-next-year-bradesco-says.html
Brazil  may start cutting interest
rates in 12 months time as the country bids to attract private
investors, according to Bradesco Asset Management Ltd.  The country’s central bank may lower real interest rates to
5 percent by 2013, Joaquim Levy, head of strategy and management
at Bradesco, Brazil’s third-largest money manager with assets of
$133.8 billion, said in a June 22 interview in Zurich.  “This is the central scenario, but it will depend on
Brazil’s fiscal discipline,” said Levy, a former treasury
secretary who was hired by Banco Bradesco SA’s asset management
unit a year ago. “If things go well, interest rates should fall
by the middle of next year.”  Brazil’s central bank increased borrowing costs for a
fourth consecutive meeting this month, raising its benchmark
lending rate, known as the Selic, a quarter-point to 12.25
percent. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has raised the
Selic by 1.5 percentage points in 2011, and traders are betting
on a further 0.50 percentage point of increases this year,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  Consumer prices rose 6.55 percent in the year through May,
exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s target range
for a second straight month. That leaves the real interest rate
at 5.7 percent. The bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus
or minus two percentage points.  Brazil’s credit rating may rise every two years as the
economy develops further, said Levy. Moody’s Investors Service
on June 20 increased the sovereign rating one step to Baa2 with
a positive outlook.  Infrastructure Boom  Bradesco expects private investors to contribute about $400
billion to help develop the country’s power and transport
infrastructure. Brazil’s government has pledged to spend about
$600 billion on infrastructure over the next five years.  Bradesco plans to grow a fund that allows European
investors to tap the “megatrend” in infrastructure expenditure
to as much as 250 million euros ($355 million) by the middle of
next year from the current 20 million euros, Levy said.  The asset manager plans to launch a six-strong
infrastructure trading desk in  Sao Paulo  headed by Patricia Pimenta early next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  