-- 
Breakdown of Biden Deficit Talks Puts Debt-Cut Onus on Obama, Boehner

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/breakdown-of-biden-talks-puts-debt-cut-onus-on-obama-boehner.html
The breakdown of the latest U.S.
deficit-cutting talks puts the onus on President  Barack Obama 
and House Speaker  John Boehner  to bridge partisan differences
over tax increases and cuts to entitlements such as Medicare.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and second-ranking Senate
Republican Jon Kyl yesterday walked away from a seven-weeks-long
negotiating effort led by Vice President  Joe Biden  to find a way
to cut at least $1 trillion and raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline.  “The goal of these talks was to report our findings back
to our respective leaders,” Biden said in a statement
yesterday. “The next phase is in the hands of those leaders,
who need to determine the scope of an agreement that can tackle
the problem and attract bipartisan support.”  The vice president said the negotiations are “in
abeyance” and that “we stand ready to meet again as
necessary.”  Biden and the six lawmakers involved in the talks --Cantor,
Kyl and four Democrats -- had hoped to reach the broad outlines
of a plan by today. The decision by Cantor and Kyl followed a
contentious session a day earlier during which Democrats pressed
Republicans to agree to tax increases, according to an aide
familiar with the talks.  Republicans have accused Obama for weeks of failing to lead
on the debt issue.  “If we are going to meet the president’s timetable to come
to an agreement at the end of this month,” Obama “has to
engage,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters yesterday.
“I would expect to hear from him.”  Trillions of Dollars  “I’m prepared to bring down our deficit by trillions of
dollars,” Obama said last night at a Democratic fundraiser in
 New York City .  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said the president
“supports a balanced approach,” not one that provides for a
“ tax cut  for millionaires and billionaires paid for by a
$6,000-a-year hike in expenses and costs for seniors.”  Republicans seek to cut spending on entitlement programs
such as Medicare and Medicaid and insist on no tax increases.
Democrats want to eliminate tax breaks for corporations
including oil and gas companies, according to Representative
Chris Van Hollen, a Democratic participant in the group.  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. risks defaulting
on its debts starting Aug. 2 without an increase in the debt
ceiling, a threat underscored by warnings from Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s  that they may consider downgrading
the U.S. credit rating.  ‘Closer and Closer’  “As it gets closer and closer, you’re talking about simply
a debt-ceiling solution, not a deficit and debt solution,” said
Bill Frenzel, a Republican former member of the House Budget
Committee and scholar at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. “Instead of making the $4 trillion or $5 trillion
arrangement they need to make to stabilize the debt in a decade,
they’ll probably do something to coast them through the end of
the year or perhaps through the election.”  The U.S. debt risks exceeding the size of the entire  U.S.
economy  by 2021, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional
Budget Office .  A handoff to the White House will force Obama to get
specific about what kinds of tax increases he supports to help
close the  budget deficit , something Democrats have avoided amid
tension in their party over raising tax rates versus closing tax
loopholes for corporations.  It also puts a squeeze on Boehner, who would have to find
enough Republican votes to pass a possible deal that might draw
opposition from much of his caucus.  Twisting Arms  “It’s going to involve twisting a lot of arms and calling
in favors,” said Paul Weinstein, a former White House official
and senior adviser to Obama’s fiscal commission. “It’s not
pretty for either side.”  Since April 2010, when Obama’s fiscal commission began
meeting, lawmakers have been trying to reach a so-called grand
bargain to cut trillions of dollars over the next decade.  The president’s debt commission failed in December to get
enough votes to forward its plan to Congress for a vote. Last
month, a bipartisan Senate budget negotiating group known as the
Gang of Six fell apart when Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma  quit.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
it appeared that Republicans were “giving up” on the Biden-led
talks, held periodically since May 5.  “We’re beyond gangs of five and gangs of sixes,” Reid
said. “It’s in the hands of the speaker and the president and
sadly, probably me.”  Foundation for Agreement  Cantor’s spokesman, Brad Dayspring, said the lawmaker
notified Biden of his decision before publicly announcing it.
Because the talks had made progress in identifying at least $2
trillion in cuts, “Eric is convinced there is a foundation for
an agreement,” Dayspring said.  Before the breakup, the two sides had identified some areas
of common ground, with negotiators focused on savings from cuts
in discretionary spending and areas like federal employee
pensions and tightening interest deferrals for  student loans ,
according to congressional aides.  “The Democrats continue to insist that any deal must
include tax increases,” Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said in
a statement yesterday announcing his decision. “There is not
support in the House for a tax increase.”  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said at her weekly news conference that her party wants to end
tax subsidies for  oil companies  and corporations that send jobs
overseas.  “I don’t know that that’s a reason to walk away from the
table when we’re trying to find a balanced approach,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  