-- 
Bristol-Myers Experimental Diabetes Drug Safe After 2 Years, Study Shows

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-24T21:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/bristol-myers-diabetes-drug-safe-after-2-years-study-shows.html
A two-year study of  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s experimental diabetes pill
dapagliflozin showed it was safe and effective.  Patients taking dapagliflozin and the generic medicine
metformin lowered their blood sugar more than patients on
metformin and another generic diabetes drug, glipizide,
according to data to be presented tomorrow at the  American
Diabetes Association’s  annual Scientific Sessions in  San Diego .  Dapagliflozin is the first entry in a class called SGLT-2
inhibitors that work by allowing patients to excrete their
excess blood sugar in their urine.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY) , Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, and  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  are
among the companies pursuing similar drugs. Bristol-Myers, based
in New York, and London-based AstraZeneca face a regulatory
panel next month that will recommend whether dapagliflozin
should be approved for use in the U.S.  “Given the reality of diabetes and how difficult it is,
endocrinologists will be using it right away” if approved, said
 Robert Rushakoff , medical director for inpatient diabetes at the
University of California,  San Francisco , in an interview before
the results were released. “I know I’ll be using it right away.
It’s easier than teaching someone to inject a medication.”  An estimated  25.8 million Americans  have diabetes, most of
the Type 2 variety linked to weight gain and a lack of exercise,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  More Infections  Patients on dapagliflozin were more likely to have urinary
tract and genital infections than those taking glipizide, the
study showed. Excess sugar in dapagliflozin patients’ urine
makes it easier for bacteria to grow, causing infections, said
Rita Rastogi Kalyani, an assistant professor of medicine at
Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. Most of the infections
happened in the first year of the study, the data showed.  Almost 14 percent of dapagliflozin patients had symptoms of
a urinary tract infection, compared with 9 percent of glipizide
patients. Close to 15 percent of dapagliflozin patients had
genital infections, compared with 3 percent of those receiving
glipizide.  There was no clinical change in kidney function over the
two-year study, the data showed. The drug also produced weight-
loss and reduced incidents of low blood sugar compared with
glipizide.  Dapagliflozin is scheduled to be reviewed by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration advisory panel on July 19. The study was
paid for by the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 