-- 
Buffett Closes ‘Backdoor’ to Berkshire Ownership With Wesco

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-06-24T21:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/buffett-closes-backdoor-to-berkshire-investing-with-wesco-financial-deal.html
Warren Buffett ’s plan to remove
 Wesco Financial Corp. (WSC)  from the stock exchange will close what
was considered a “backdoor” to investing alongside the
billionaire.  Wesco shareholders voted today at a meeting in  Pasadena ,
 California , to approve  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s offer to
acquire the 20 percent of Wesco it doesn’t already own for about
$545 million in cash and stock.  Buffett took control of Wesco in 1983 and assigned
oversight of the firm to Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger,
who is now 87. Wesco retreated from its traditional business of
lending and focused on insurance, furniture rental and steel
storage. The firm also profited from deals Buffett struck for
Berkshire. Investors that couldn’t afford the $11,750 price of a
Berkshire share in 1992, could buy Wesco stock for $83 each.  “The only reason it’s been public for all these years is
Charlie and Warren are so cheap that they didn’t want to pay a
big premium to buy Wesco,” said Hampton Adams, portfolio
manager and head of research for Pasadena-based Gamble Jones
Investment Counsel, which holds shares in Wesco and Berkshire.
“With Charlie getting up to the age he is now, I think it makes
sense just to go ahead and consolidate it all.”  Buffett, Berkshire’s 80-year-old chairman and chief
executive officer, is simplifying the company’s holdings as he
prepares the firm for its next generation of leaders. Adams said
in an interview that Berkshire previously refrained from buying
all of the unit because shareholders seeking a “backdoor way”
to invest with Buffett had boosted Wesco’s stock price. “As a
value investor myself, I appreciate being cheap,” Adams said.  Stocks Surge  Wesco has surged more than 20-fold since the end of 1983.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s Class A shares have risen more
than 30-fold since it was listed on the New York Stock Exchange
in 1987. Berkshire bid for Wesco at about book value, a measure
of assets minus liabilities. It will pay $385 a share in cash
and stock, the companies said yesterday.  Wesco profited under Berkshire’s control by shouldering
risks on catastrophe reinsurance deals arranged by Buffett and
his large-risk specialist, Ajit Jain. The company also has held
assets picked by Buffett, including a portion of the Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. preferred stock that Berkshire bought in 2008.
Munger’s investment in  Freddie Mac  before the firm’s 1989 public
offering contributed to a $852 million gain in 2000.  Munger’s Role  Munger helped Buffett evaluate stocks and decide on the
acquisitions that built Berkshire into a $187 billion seller of
energy,  consumer goods  and insurance.  Shareholders’ equity  at
Berkshire jumped ninefold to $157.3 billion in the 15 years
ended in December on the purchase of firms like railroad
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  and stock picks including
PetroChina Co. Wesco equity over the same period almost tripled
to $2.77 billion.  Wesco’s status as a less-costly alternative to Berkshire
stock was diminished over the last 15 years. In 1996, when
Berkshire traded between $29,800 and $38,000, Buffett created a
Class B stock by issuing equity at one-thirtieth the price. Last
year, he split the Class B shares 50 for 1.  Berkshire Class A shares slipped $315 to $113,100 as of
4:03 p.m. in New York trading. Class B shares rose 1 cent to
$75.62. Wesco fell 41 cents to $384.50.  Wesco investors controlling 6.6 million shares voted for
the Berkshire transaction, and fewer than 15,000 shares were
voted against it, Wesco said today in a filing. The deal got
about 64 percent of the votes when excluding shares held by
Berkshire, its affiliates and investors such as the firm that
holds securities for a foundation that counts Berkshire Director
 Bill Gates  among its leaders.  Outlook for Growth  Buffett and Munger, who reported holdings between them of
more than $35 billion in Berkshire stock and none in Wesco, have
said that the outlook for growth was better at the parent than
at the unit. Munger, Wesco’s chairman and CEO, told investors in
his annual letters that the subsidiary “is not an equally-good-
but-smaller version of Berkshire.”  “See, I think it is, because a lot of the businesses
Berkshire is in, I have no interest in,” said William Reik, a
Wesco shareholder and part owner of the  Major League Baseball ’s
 Cincinnati Reds . “You get more leverage to the super-
catastrophe reinsurance business with Wesco.”  Buffett rejected a request by Wesco Director Carolyn Carlburg for a higher offer for the unit’s outstanding shares.
Berkshire stock has a better outlook than Wesco shares, and
investors in the parent company may have their interests hurt by
the transaction, even at the original terms, Buffett said.  “We regard the transaction as disadvantageous to Berkshire
if a substantial number of Wesco shareholders elect to take
Berkshire stock,” Buffett said in a Jan. 21 letter that was
published in a regulatory filing. “That’s because I believe the
prospects for Berkshire shares over the next 10 years to be
considerably better than the prospects for Wesco shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  