-- 
New York, California Said to Start Antitrust Probe of Google

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-24T10:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/california-new-york-said-to-start-antitrust-probe-of-google-s-dominance.html
New York  and California are in the
early stages of an antitrust investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , along
with Texas and Ohio, said a person with knowledge of the matter
who didn’t want to be identified because the probe isn’t public.  Officials in Texas and at the European Commission have
started investigations into Google’s dominance of the Internet
search industry. Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine said in March
his office was “evaluating the facts” to determine whether it
wanted to conduct a probe.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine, is
coming under increasing scrutiny by regulators in the U.S. and
 Europe  for some of its business practices. The Federal Trade
Commission is preparing a broad antitrust investigation of the
company, two people familiar with the matter said in April,
while the antitrust division of the U.S. Justice Department is
reviewing the company’s $400 million purchase of Internet
advertising company Admeld Inc., two people familiar with the
matter said last week.  Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, declined to comment yesterday.  Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for California Attorney
General Kamala Harris, and Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for
New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , declined to
comment.  Ohio, Oklahoma  “The Ohio Attorney General’s Office cannot confirm or deny
the status of any possible investigation,” Dan Tierney, a
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Oklahoma Attorney General E. Scott Pruitt said in May that
he may join other states and federal agencies in probing
Google’s dominance.  Diane Clay, a spokeswoman for Pruitt, said the attorney
general’s office was looking at both consumer protection and
competition issues, including Google’s data collection
practices, social networking policies and data collection by the
Android mobile phone operating system.  The investigation by  California  and New York were reported
earlier by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  