-- 
Cameron’s Cursing Teacher Swipes Cash From Kids; ‘Cars 2’: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/cameron-s-cursing-teacher-swipes-cash-from-kids-talking-cars-rick-warner.html
Even the worst teacher I ever had,
the mumbling drunk who always fell asleep at his desk, was
better than Elizabeth Halsey, the outrageous middle-school
instructor played by  Cameron Diaz  in the witless comedy “ Bad
Teacher .”  Halsey curses like a sailor, hurls ethnic insults, gets
high at school and takes bribes to improve grades. She also naps
while showing movies in class (“Stand and Deliver,” the story
of an inspirational teacher, is her favorite soporific), throws
rubber balls at students who give wrong answers and steals the
proceeds from a car-wash fundraiser to pay for a boob job.  After getting dumped by her opera-loving boyfriend, Halsey
goes hunting for a rich husband who can support her lavish
spending habits. She rejects the advances of a sincere gym
teacher (Jason Segel) to pursue a wealthy, dim-witted substitute
( Justin Timberlake ) who is more interested in bubbly colleague
Amy (Lucy Punch).  The premise is fertile grounds for humor, but director Jake
Kasdan and screenwriters Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg
squander the opportunity with stale jokes and a haphazard story.
Diaz’s skimpy outfits, which showcase her racehorse legs, are
only a temporary distraction.  I was expecting a classroom version of “Bad Santa,” an
uproarious sendup starring Billy Bob Thornton as a soused, foul-
mouthed Saint Nick. “Bad Teacher” is just as crude, though not
nearly as clever.  “Bad Teacher,” from  Columbia Pictures , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘Cars 2’  James Bond  meets Dale Earnhardt and Mario Andretti in
“ Cars 2 ,” the sequel to the 2006 animated film about talking
vehicles.  “Cars” was one of Pixar’s less distinguished efforts.
“Cars 2” (both films were directed by John Lasseter) is an
improvement, though still below the studio’s Olympian standards.  The animation is first-rate, the cars are cool and the
celebrity voices led by  Owen Wilson  and  Michael Caine  are
plentiful. Still, the film lacks the magical innocence of Pixar
classics like “Toy Story,” “Wall-E” and “Up.”  Lightning McQueen (Wilson), the hotshot stock car
introduced in the original, is challenged for world racing
supremacy by Formula One champ Francesco Bernoulli (John Turturro) in  Japan , Italy,  France  and  England .  Oil Tycoon  The Grand Prix series is sponsored by former oil tycoon
Miles Axlerod (Eddie Izzard) to promote his new alternative
fuel. But two British spies, Finn McMissile (Caine) and Holley
Shiftwell (Emily Mortimer) suspect foul play and their
investigation entangles McQueen’s unsuspecting best buddy Mater
(Larry the Cable Guy), a simpleton tow truck with a Southern
drawl.  The racing scenes are exhilarating and the animated
versions of  Tokyo ,  London  and Paris look stunningly real. But
I’m not sure the very young target audience will appreciate the
Bond homage, the Nascar versus Formula One rivalry and other
adult references.  “Cars 2,” from  Walt Disney Pictures , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Love Affair’  “ A Love Affair of Sorts ” is billed as the first feature
film shot entirely on a Flip camera. Since the camcorder is no
longer being made, it’s also probably the last.  If “Love Affair” is any indication, that’s good news.  David Guy Levy’s insufferable film takes a microscopic look
at the budding relationship between a schlubby painter (Levy)
and a hot Hungarian nanny (Lili Bordan) who meet in a  Los
Angeles  bookstore. The guy convinces the girl to record
everything they do, no matter how trivial, on a digital camera.  The result is a home-made movie filled with jerky
movements, mumbling dialogue and what may be the most chemistry-
free love affair in cinematic history.  “A Love Affair of Sorts,” from Paladin, is playing in New
York and Los Angeles: Rating: No stars  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 