-- 
Canada’s Dollar Posts Biggest Weekly Decline in Almost Two Months on Oil

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-06-24T21:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/canada-s-dollar-drops-for-third-day-heads-for-weekly-decline-as-oil-falls.html
The Canadian currency posted the
biggest weekly drop in almost two months as risk-averse
investors sought refuge in the most liquid of assets, the  U.S.
dollar .  The loonie slid for a third day in the longest losing
streak in more than a month versus the greenback after futures
on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell below $90 a barrel
yesterday for the first time since February.  “We’re starting to see a U.S. dollar rebound,” said Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
ScotiaMcLeod unit in Toronto. “Not only on the currency side,
but also on the commodity side. The Canadian dollar will
probably touch parity in the next couple of weeks.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.9 percent, the most since
June 15, to 98.86 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto,
from 97.90 cents yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0115.
The loonie has fallen 0.9 percent this week and 2 percent in
June.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
common loon on the C$1 coin, briefly pared its decline after
government reports showed U.S. durable-goods orders climbed more
than forecast last month and growth in first-quarter gross
domestic product was revised to a 1.9 percent annual pace, from
an earlier estimate of 1.8 percent. The U.S. is  Canada ’s largest
trading partner.  “I don’t expect the Canadian dollar to trade below parity
this year” with the greenback, ScotiaMcLeod’s Fennell said.
“It appears more and more that the  Bank of Canada  will raise
rates before they raise rates in the U.S. That will be reflected
in Canadian-dollar strength.”  ‘Psychological Level’  Fennell said parity is a “psychological level” at which
exporters will start buying the Canadian dollar to begin their
hedging programs, supporting the currency against the greenback.
The loonie last traded on a one-for-one basis with the U.S.
currency in February.  Bank of Canada policy makers next meet on July 19 to set
borrowing costs. At the last meeting on May 31 they held the
target overnight rate at 1 percent, where it’s been since
September.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell four basis
points to 2.86 percent.  Crude oil fell below $90 two days ago for the first time
since February. Gold futures fell 1.3 percent to $1,500.90 an
ounce. Canada derives about half its export revenue from raw
materials including oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  