-- 
Canada Lawmakers Still Discussing Postal Worker Law After Overnight Debate

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-24T17:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/canada-lawmakers-still-discussing-postal-worker-law-after-overnight-debate.html
Canadian lawmakers continued to
debate  legislation  today that would end a three-week work
stoppage by postal workers after lawmakers from the opposition
 New Democratic Party  forced the legislature to sit overnight.  New  Democratic Party  leader  Jack Layton  said today his
party will continue to hold up the bill as long as there’s
“some prospect” of changes to the legislation that would order
about 48,000 employees at government-owned  Canada  Post back to
work 24 hours after it is passed into law. Labor Minister Lisa Raitt said the government would consider changes.  The Canadian Union of Postal Workers began a series of
rotating strikes June 2, and the company locked out workers June
14. Talks between Canada Post and the union broke off earlier
this week and no further negotiations are scheduled.  Layton told reporters in Gatineau,  Quebec , that his party
was close to reaching an agreement with the government as the
non-stop debate began, and that it will soon return with a new
proposal for the government. While he declined to comment on the
content of discussions, New Democrat lawmakers have objected to
a clause that sets out annual pay raises of between 1.5 percent
and 2 percent until the end of 2014.  Raitt told reporters today the government hasn’t received
any formal proposals for amendments from the opposition. “We
had general discussions about principles,” she said, referring
to talks between the parties last night. “We’re looking forward
to seeing what they come back with this evening.”  Unlimited Time  The ruling  Conservative Party  used its parliamentary
 majority  to pass a motion yesterday clearing the way for
Canada’s lower house of Parliament to sit continuously until the
bill is passed. As opposition leader, Layton has unlimited time
to speak at every stage of debate on the bill, and each of the
103 New Democratic lawmakers can participate at all stages of
the debate, potentially delaying its passage for days.  Once passed by the House of Commons, the bill would be sent
to the Senate, where the Conservatives also have a majority.
Marc Roy, a spokesman for Senate opposition Liberal leader James
Cowan, said yesterday the Liberals -- the only other major party
in the Senate -- don’t plan to stand in the way of the bill
being passed in one day once it is received.  Asked if his party would continue to hold up the
legislation through the weekend, Layton said, “we want the mail
to be delivered. So let’s hope we can resolve things faster than
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 