-- 
Capstone Holdings Shuts Broker-Dealer to Focus on Volatility Hedge Fund

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-06-24T15:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/capstone-holdings-shuts-broker-dealer-to-focus-on-volatility-hedge-fund.html
Capstone Holdings Group LLC  is
closing its broker-dealer business after four years to focus on
its hedge fund.  Capstone Global Markets LLC, which employs about four
people, will be shuttered by June 30, Paul Britton,  New York- 
based Capstone’s founder, said yesterday.  Since  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud conviction, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed expanding
scrutiny of how brokerages handle client money, voting June 15
to seek comment on a rule that would increase disclosures
required of broker-dealers that hold investors’ funds. Madoff,
imprisoned in 2009 for running the largest  Ponzi scheme  in
history, had operated a broker-dealer alongside his fraudulent
money-management business.  “Investors are asking for more alignment from their
managers and a simpler platform that is free of potential
conflicts,” Britton said in a telephone interview. “We want to
focus on our core expertise of volatility trading.”  Britton, 37, started Capstone in 2004 when he bought the
U.S. business of Mako Global, a London-based trading company.
The firm’s $1.1 billion hedge-fund business, Capstone Investment
Advisors LLC, focuses on trading price swings, or volatility,
across equity, bond and commodity markets.  Its main fund gained about 1.4 percent this month through
June 17 and 7.5 percent this year, according to an investor, who
asked not to be named because the information is private. The
Newedge Volatility Trading Index, which tracks the performance
of volatility trading hedge funds, rose 4.1 percent this year
through May, the most recent data available.  Britton said he hired Joe Lucas in January as president and
chief operating officer. Lucas, who is also head of Capstone’s
executive committee, was previously a partner at Milwaukee-based
Stark Investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  