-- 
Carstens Wins Canada, Australia’s Backing for IMF Leadership Over Lagarde

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-24T23:49:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/carstens-wins-canada-australia-s-backing-for-imf-leadership-over-lagarde.html
Australia and  Canada  said they
support Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens for the
top job at the  International Monetary Fund  over his rival
 Christine Lagarde , the French finance minister.  “It is important that the new IMF managing director be
selected in an open and transparent process with the candidate
chosen on the basis of merit and not nationality,” Australia
and Canada said in joint statement e-mailed today by Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan’s spokesman, Fergus Maguire. A European has
held the top IMF job since it was created at the end of World
War II, while an American has always headed the  World Bank .  The statement said Carstens’ experience as a deputy
managing director of the IMF, along with his background as
finance minister of  Mexico  and his current position, “equip him
very well to understand and address, on a collaborative and
inclusive basis with IMF member countries, the challenges faced
by the global economy.”  Carstens has trailed Lagarde in gathering support for his
bid to lead the Washington-based fund. Lagarde has the backing
of European nations and support among emerging countries from
Egypt to Indonesia, while until now Carstens has claimed the
support of most Latin American nations while failing to garner
endorsements from Argentina or Brazil.  Both candidates are “highly credible,” the statement said.  The job became open when Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned
following his arrest in  New York  on sexual-assault charges. The
IMF board has said it will meet June 28 to assess the two
candidates and that it aims to make a choice by June 30.  “We look forward to the decision of the IMF Executive
Board, whether it be in favor of Mr. Carstens or Ms. Lagarde,
and to working closely with the next managing director to build
a strong and sustainable global economy,” the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 