-- 
Center Ryan Nugent-Hopkins Selected by Edmonton With Top Pick in NHL Draft

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-06-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/center-ryan-nugent-hopkins-selected-by-edmonton-with-top-pick-in-nhl-draft.html
Center Ryan Nugent-Hopkins was
selected by the  Edmonton  Oilers with the No. 1 overall pick in
the National Hockey League Draft at the Xcel Energy Center in  St.
Paul , Minnesota.  Nugent-Hopkins, 18, who was born in Burnaby, British
Columbia, played the past two seasons for the Red Deer Rebels of
the Western Hockey League -- about 90 miles (145 kilometers)
from Edmonton in the Canadian province of Alberta.  “It’s amazing, this is a dream come true to be honest,”
Nugent-Hopkins said yesterday in a television interview. “I
always watched Edmonton this year.”  Edmonton has had the No. 1 pick the past two seasons,
selecting wing Taylor Hall in 2010.  “Ryan possessed a level of skill and vision that we really
hadn’t seen for a long time,” General ManagerSteve Tambellini
said in a television interview. “I asked our scouts to come up
with something special, and this is a special young man.”  The  Colorado Avalanche  selected left wing Gabriel Landeskog
with the second pick, followed by the Florida Panthers’ choice
of center Jonathan Huberdeau.  Swedish center Adam Larsson was taken fourth by the  New
Jersey Devils , followed by the New York Islanders’ choice of
center Ryan Strome and the Ottawa Senators’ selection of Swedish
center Mika Zibanejad.  The Winnipeg Jets, whose move from Atlanta was approved
three days ago by the NHL and who announced their official team
nickname at the draft, took center Mark Scheifele with the
seventh pick.  Center Jonathan Miller, 18, of the U.S. National Team
Development Program in the U.S. Hockey League, was selected 15th
by the  New York Rangers .  Miller, the Rangers’ first-round selection, captured a gold
medal for Team USA in the 2011 IIHF Under-18 World Junior
Championship in  Germany . Last season, the East Palestine, Ohio,
skater, who prefers J.T. to Jonathan, had 11 goals and 26
assists for 37 points in 48 games with the U.S. National Under-
18 Team.  The draft continues today with rounds two through seven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  