-- 
Chavez Breaks 12-Day Silence With Twitter Messages From Cuban Hospital Bed

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-24T18:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/chavez-breaks-12-day-silence-with-twitter-messages-from-cuban-hospital-bed.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
broke a 12-day silence from Cuba, communicating through his
 Twitter account  for the first time since he called a television
station to talk about an operation he had on the island nation.  In a series of messages, Chavez spoke about how today is
the anniversary of a key battle in  Venezuela ’s fight for
independence 190 years ago and saluted his “soldiers and
beloved people” from his “trench.”  “I’m here with you in this daily slog! Victory always! We
are winning! And we will win!!” he wrote in one message.  Since Chavez, 56, underwent surgery for a pelvic abscess on
June 10, a lack of official information has raised questions
about the true state of his health and triggered debates about
whether he should be running  South America ’s largest oil
producer from Cuba.  Chavez last spoke in public on June 12, when he told
Telesur television network by phone that he decided to seek
treatment in Cuba, the final stop in a tour of allied
governments in  Latin America , after feeling pain in his abdomen
while in Brazil and  Ecuador .  Chavez’s first tweet in 20 days is unlikely to quash
speculation that he may be suffering from a more serious
condition than he has indicated, said Bret Rosen, a Latin
America debt strategist with Standard Chartered Bank.  “The speculation won’t end until he’s back in the country
and shows that he’s physically able to perform the tasks he has
to perform as president,” Rosen said in a phone interview from
 New York . “For a leader that has such a high profile and is
omnipresent in the media to be silent and out of the country for
this long has fed speculation and rumors.”  Adan Chavez, the Venezuelan leader’s brother, said June 21
that the president would return to Venezuela by July 4, in time
to attend celebrations marking 200 years of independence from
Spanish rule. Chavez is also scheduled to host a Latin American
leaders summit on Margarita Island on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  