-- 
Chevron Pays $340 Million for Building Brookfield Bought for $120 Million

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-24T20:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/chevron-buys-houston-skyscraper-from-brookfield-office-for-340-million.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-biggest
U.S. energy company, bought a 50-story  office tower  that it
occupies in downtown Houston from Brookfield Office Properties
Inc. for $340 million.  Brookfield paid about $120 million for the skyscraper at
1400 Smith St. in 2006, the New York-based real estate company
said in a statement today. It leased the entire building, the
former headquarters of Enron Corp., to Chevron soon after.  The sale price is a “coup” for Brookfield, said  Dan Fasulo , managing director at Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New
York-based real estate research firm. Houston added 50,700 jobs,
a 2 percent increase, in the 12 months through February, helping
stabilize a  property market  where 2.1 million square feet
(195,000 square meters) of new offices will be completed by year
end, brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc. reported in April.  “It’s a win-win for both parties,” Fasulo said in a phone
interview. “For Chevron, obviously they’re a cash-rich
corporation. They have the money to buy their own property,”  The deal for the 1.3 million-square-foot building made
“economic sense,”  Mickey Driver , a spokesman for  San Ramon ,
California-based Chevron, said in a phone interview. He declined
to discuss the financial benefits.  Owning Buildings  Chevron owns and operates most of its office buildings,
according to Driver. The company has about 9,000 employees in
the Houston area, in offices in downtown Houston, Bellaire and
Briarpark, he said.  It owns 1500 Louisiana St., across from the Smith Street
tower, and a nearby 1,100-space parking garage, Driver said.  Brookfield owned 1400 Smith St. in a joint venture with
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity firm,
said Kristin Calmes, a Brookfield spokeswoman. The companies
together acquired seven other Houston properties in 2006 through
their buyout of Trizec Properties Inc.  A call to  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based
Blackstone, wasn’t immediately returned.  “This sale is reflective of our ongoing strategy of
recycling capital from mature assets into more accretive
opportunities,” said Richard Clark, Brookfield’s chief
executive officer, in the statement today.  The sale is Brookfield’s second multi-million-dollar
transaction in Houston in the last seven months. The company
paid $321.5 million in December for Heritage Plaza, a 53-story
skyscraper.  The Chevron deal equals about $260 a square foot. That’s
roughly consistent with what Brookfield paid for the 1.2
million-square-foot Heritage Plaza, Real Capital’s Fasulo said.  Chevron also renewed a 311,000-square-foot lease at the
neighboring 1600 Smith St. for seven years, Brookfield said.  Brookfield, which owns  New York ’s World Financial Center,
has 78 million square feet of office buildings in the U.S.,
 Canada  and Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  