-- 
China Currency Measure Counterproductive, Groups Tell Lawmakers

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-24T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/china-currency-measure-counterproductive-groups-tell-lawmakers.html
Trade groups representing  companies 
such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  wrote U.S.
lawmakers to argue against legislation that would press  China  to
raise the value of its currency.  “Unilateral legislation on this issue would be
counterproductive not only to the goals related to China’s
exchange rate that we all share, but also to our nation’s
broader goals of addressing the many and growing challenges that
we face in China,”  the U.S.-China Business Council , a
Washington-based group for more than 200 companies doing
business in China, and allied organizations said today in a
letter to members of Congress.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, plans to
reintroduce legislation aimed at forcing China to raise the
value of its currency, according to a letter to colleagues.
Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of California, the Democratic
leader, said she is seeking support for a petition to force a
vote on similar legislation in the House.  The measures would let U.S. companies petition for duties
on imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak
yuan, which lawmakers have said gives Chinese companies an
unfair advantage against U.S. manufacturers.  The House passed a measure in September that never reached
the Senate for a vote. A new Congress took office in January.  China’s currency appreciated about 5 percent against the
dollar in the past year, while remaining “substantially
undervalued,” William Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington , said on
June 8.  China is the biggest foreign investor in U.S. Treasuries,
after its holdings rose by $7.6 billion to $1.2 trillion,
according to a Treasury Department report this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  