-- 
China Fuels Latin America’s Biggest Debt Rally by Financing Ecuador Budget

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-06-24T22:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/china-lifts-latin-america-s-best-performing-debt-by-funding-ecuador-budget.html
Ecuador’s bonds are rewarding
investors with the best performance in  Latin America  as Chinese
loans and higher oil prices boost confidence in the economy two
years after the country defaulted on $3.2 billion in debt.  Ecuadorean dollar debt has returned 13 percent this year,
compared with 5.2 percent for Latin American sovereigns on
average, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Yields on bonds due
2015 fell 238 basis points, or 2.38 percentage points, this year
to 9.59 percent. Similar maturity Brazilian bonds yield 1.9
percent, down 97 basis points from the end of December.  Loans from China that Ecuador says will reach at least $3
billion in 2011 and the government’s forecast for oil revenue to
exceed the budgeted amount by $601 million are reassuring
investors that  South America ’s seventh-biggest economy will keep
servicing its debt, said Richard Francis, an analyst at  Standard
& Poor’s  in New York. Government investment and consumption are
driving the economy’s 12th straight year of expansion, he said.  “China is providing substantial financing that’s letting
the government invest a lot more,” Francis said in a telephone
interview. “This year and next year there’s no problem.”  Even after Ecuador’s Oriente crude plunged 4.5 percent
yesterday to $93.29 a barrel, it still exceeds the originally
budgeted amount by about $20 a barrel. Oriente has risen 8.8
percent this year compared with a 0.2 percent fall for West
Texas Intermediate crude traded in New York.  The Andean country will probably grow faster this year than
the 5.06 percent forecast in the 2011 budget in part because of
higher  oil prices  due to conflict in the  Middle East  and energy
shortages in  Japan  following the March earthquake, Economic
Policy Minister Katiuska King said in a June 2 speech in  Quito .  Infrastructure Outlays  Government spending  on projects from roads to hydroelectric
dams is creating jobs and pushing local companies to increase
output to meet growing demand, former Finance Minister Alfredo Arizaga said June 21 in a speech in Quito.  “The country will maintain its high GDP growth that’s
being fed by substantial fiscal spending,” said Arizaga, an
economist at Quito-based think tank Quantum Informe. “We’re
also seeing a significant increase in private investment which
offers an outlook of greater stability in economic growth.”  Ecuador’s economy expanded 6.98 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace in more than two
years. The central bank is scheduled to publish first-quarter
data on June 30.  PetroChina Loan  Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  said last week that
Ecuador is seeking a $2 billion loan from  China , on top of the
$1 billion that PetroChina Co., the Asian nation’s largest oil
producer, released in February in exchange for future oil sales.
Ecuador negotiated a similar deal with China for $1 billion in
2009.  Ecuador got a separate $1 billion, four-year loan from
China Development Bank Corp. last year for infrastructure
projects at an interest rate of 6 percent. The Export-Import
Bank of China in June 2010 agreed to finance a $1.68 billion,
1,500-megawatt hydropower plant in the Amazon region, known as
 Coca-Codo Sinclair . China’s Sinohydro Corp. will build it.  The Andean country’s dollar debt yields 816 basis points
more than U.S. Treasuries, the second-most among 15 emerging
markets tracked by JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index, after  Venezuela . Debt
from  Argentina , which defaulted on $95 billion in 2001, yields
636 basis points more than Treasuries.  The Chinese loans are damping concern that  Ecuador  will
struggle to come up with financing after the default shut the
country out of international credit markets. President  Rafael Correa  stopped payments on $3.2 billion in bonds due 2012 and
2030 in December 2008 and March 2009, saying the securities were
“illegitimate” and “illegal.” The government’s bonds due in
2015 were the only global notes Correa kept servicing.  New Issue  “I have given the order that interest payments not be
made,” Correa said in December 2008. “The country is in
default.”  Correa said in an October interview that the government is
considering selling international bonds for the first time since
2005.  Ecuador’s  Finance Ministry , which forecast a $3.73 billion
 budget deficit  in its 2011 spending plan, said in October that
outlays this year were “covered.”  Ecuador, the smallest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, this week raised its Oriente oil
price forecast by 25 percent to $91.30 per barrel from the
$73.30 estimated in the 2011 budget presented to Congress in
October. Oil provides the government with 24 percent of revenue,
according to the Finance Ministry.  Credit Test  “An important test of the  credit quality  going forward
will be their plans to tap international markets in an effort to
fund fiscal imbalances,” said Morten Bugge, the chief
investment officer at Kolding, Denmark-based Global Evolution
A/S, which owns about $2 million of the nation’s 2015 bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We believe Ecuador will be able to issue again given the
increasing risk appetite in emerging markets and especially in
EM frontier markets, but obviously it all comes down to the
yield level,” he said in an e-mail.  Ecuador’s default reduced the nation’s net debt burden to
26 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 from 31 percent a
year earlier, according to central bank data. The debt-to-GDP
ratio, while “pretty low” will reach the “high 20s” this
year and increase to about 34 percent of the nation’s GDP by
2012, S&P’s Francis said.  ‘More Comfortable’                  The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015
rose two basis points at 6:19 p.m.  New York  time. The bond’s
price fell 0.08 cent to 99.21 cents on the dollar. On June 15 it
reached 99.6, the highest since the default. The return on the
country’s dollar debt this year is the second-best among
developing nations after  Ivory Coast .  “People are becoming a little bit more comfortable as
they’ve been continuing to pay since their default,” Francis
said, referring to payments on the 2015 bonds. “Higher oil
prices obviously benefit oil producers, and Ecuador is one of
those countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  