-- 
China Money Rate Falls on Wen Remarks

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-06-24T02:36:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/china-money-rate-falls-for-first-in-eight-days.html
China ’s money-market rate declined,
snapping a seven-day advance, on speculation that policy makers
will refrain from raising interest rates after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation has successfully reined in inflation.  China’s efforts have worked and the pace of consumer-price
increases will slow, Wen wrote in an opinion piece in the
Financial Times newspaper today. The seven-day repo rate, which
measures interbank funding availability, has more than doubled
since the central bank ordered banks to set aside more cash as
reserves for a sixth time this year on June 14. Interest-rate
swaps also declined.  “The repo market and the short-end swaps are moving quite
fast in response to Wen’s remarks,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a
Hong Kong-based fixed-income strategist at Societe General SA.
“Probably, the market is reading this as inflation is under
control and there is no need to hike rates any more.”  The seven-day repo rate, fell 56 basis points to 8.48
percent as of 10:16 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
It touched 9.20 percent earlier, the highest level since October
2007.  The People’s Bank of China added a net 87 billion yuan
($13.4 billion) of capital to the financial system this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank also suspended
a bill sale yesterday after an auction this week to sell 30
billion yuan of 30-year bonds drew the lowest bids since June
2010.  Swap Drops  The one-year interest rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell eight basis
points to 3.87 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 4.03 percent yesterday, the highest level since at
least 2006 when Bloomberg began collecting data on it. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  China has paused for 11 weeks in raising  interest rates ,
the longest gap since increases began in October. Consumer
prices climbed 5.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in 34 months, the statistics bureau said June 14.
With one-year bank deposit rates more than two percentage points
below the pace of consumer-price gains, inflation continues to
erode household savings.  Gross domestic product increased 9.7 percent in the first
quarter, slowing from 9.8 percent in the previous three months,
official figures showed in April.  “There is concern as to whether China can rein in
inflation and sustain its rapid development -- my answer is an
emphatic yes,” Wen wrote today. “China has made capping price
rises the priority of macroeconomic regulation and introduced a
host of targeted policies. These have worked. The overall price
level is within a controllable range and is expected to drop
steadily.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 