-- 
Chrysler Group Prepares to Build Small Car That May Increase Fiat Stake

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-06-24T17:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/chrysler-prepares-to-build-small-car-that-may-increase-fiat-stake.html
Chrysler Group LLC said it plans to
begin test production in the second half of this year of the
small car that will trigger U.S. government requirements to
increase  Fiat SpA (F) ’s ownership stake.  Tooling for the small Dodge brand car goes into Chrysler’s
Belvidere, Illinois, assembly plant in August, Fred Goedtel,
head of Chrysler’s assembly operations, said in an interview
this week in  Sterling Heights , Michigan.  “We’ll start pilots in the fall” and official production
begins “sometime” in the first quarter, he said.  Design work on the car, which is the vehicle Chrysler
expects will trigger the final government ownership milestone,
is done, Ralph Gilles, head of Chrysler design, said in an
interview in Chelsea, Michigan, yesterday. “The company is
really focused on it,” he said of the vehicle.  Turin, Italy-based Fiat is consolidating control over
Chrysler. Fiat is buying the U.S. Treasury Department’s final
stake in the U.S. automaker, acquired as part of Chrysler’s 2009
bankruptcy reorganization. That purchase will raise Fiat’s stake
to 52 percent on a fully diluted basis. Chrysler must test and
commit to building a vehicle in the U.S. that achieves 40 mpg to
gain another 5 percent stake.  Its deal with the U.S. and  Canada  allowed Fiat to gain as
much as 35 percent in Chrysler without paying cash in exchange
for giving management experience and technology to Chrysler and
achieving various performance milestones. The 40 mpg vehicle is
the final such milestone.  Fiat also exercised an option to purchase 16 percent of the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company after Chrysler repaid the
U.S. and Canadian government loans in May.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, has said he expects Fiat will get its final 5
percent tied to the 40 mpg car by year’s end. The small Dodge
car is being based on Fiat’s Alfa Romeo Giulietta technology,
Marchionne has said.  Gilles said the new Dodge model’s name was decided earlier
this week. He declined to provide the name.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  