-- 
Cliffs, JPMorgan, Universal Forest: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-24T22:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/cliffs-jpmorgan-universal-forest-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading June 27. Stock symbols
are in parentheses, and prices are as of 5:40 p.m. in  New York .  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)   fell 0.4 percent to
$86.30. North America’s largest iron-ore producer said
regulators rebuffed its carbon monoxide remediation plan for the
Pinnacle Mine in West Virginia. The plan would have allowed
resumption of underground mining operations at Pinnacle, which
now won’t restart before the fourth quarter, the company said.
Operations were stopped in May.  Freddie Mac  (FMCC US): The mortgage-finance company
operating under federal conservatorship said it entered into an
agreement with Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. that will
allow Freddie Mac to be granted a $1.02 billion unsecured claim
in the Taylor, Bean bankruptcy estate, among other measures. The
claim may result in a distribution of about $40 million to $45
million, Freddie Mac said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   declined 0.2 percent to
$39.40. Irving H. Picard, the trustee for the liquidation of
Bernard Madoff’s investment company, filed an amended complaint
in U.S. court against the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
seeking to collect a minimum of $19 billion in damages. Picard
had sought $5.4 billion in damages previously, in addition to $1
billion in transfers and claims.  Universal Forest Products Inc. (UFPI)  : The maker of do-
it-yourself lumber products said it is cutting jobs because of
weaker-than-expected sales in the first five months of the year.
Net sales through May dropped 9.5 percent to $765 million from a
year earlier, the company said in a statement on  Business Wire .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 