-- 
Clinton Says Gaza-Bound Flotilla Isn’t ‘Helpful’ to the Territory’s People

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-24T20:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/clinton-says-gaza-bound-flotilla-isn-t-helpful-to-the-territory-s-people.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said a flotilla intent on breaking Israel’s maritime blockade of
the  Gaza Strip  isn’t “useful or helpful or productive to the
people of Gaza.”  A multinational flotilla is sailing toward the Palestinian
territory to mark the one-year anniversary of an Israeli raid on
Gaza-bound vessels that left nine Turkish activists dead.
Demonstrators from 20 countries, including the U.S., announced
plans last week to head to Gaza on about 10 ships to deliver
humanitarian aid.  “We don’t think it’s useful or helpful or productive to
the people of Gaza,” Clinton told reporters in  Washington . “A
far better approach is to support the work that’s being done
through the  United Nations .”  Clinton’s comments followed a June 22 State Department
travel warning that tells U.S. citizens to avoid any attempt to
reach Gaza by sea. Those who participate in a flotilla risk
arrest, prosecution, deportation and a possible 10-year travel
ban by  Israel , the statement said.  The warning noted that previous attempts to breach the
Israeli naval blockade were intercepted by Israel’s navy and had
resulted in death and injury. One of the Turkish activists
killed last June was a U.S. citizen. Attempts to land in Gaza
may violate U.S. laws, the State Department said.  “Groups that seek to break Israel’s maritime blockade of
Gaza are taking irresponsible and provocative actions that risk
the safety of their passengers,” State Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland said in the written statement.  Legal Violations  She noted that Gaza is governed by Hamas, “a designated
foreign terrorist organization,” and that aiding such a group
“could violate U.S. civil and criminal statutes and could lead
to fines and incarceration.”  Clinton blamed any suffering that residents of Gaza
experience on their government. “The  United States  is a very
generous donor to the Palestinian people who are unfortunately
the victims of the decisions made over the past years by
Hamas,” Clinton said.  The differences between the economy in Gaza, which is run
by the militant Islamic Hamas, and the  West Bank , led by the
 Palestinian Authority  and the Fatah political party, “tell a
very compelling story,” Clinton said. “We hope there will be
changes of the governing and management of Gaza from within.”  Nuland, in a briefing for reporters today, didn’t say
whether the U.S. believes the Israeli blockade violates
international law. She said activists can use other routes for
delivering aid that don’t require breaking the maritime
blockade.  Dangerous Precedent  “We don’t want to see a repeat of the very dangerous
situation that occurred last year,” she said in a State
Department briefing.  Israel has said it needs to limit and monitor cargo going
into Gaza to prevent weapons smuggling. Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu’s spokesman,  Mark Regev , has called the
planned flotilla “an unnecessary provocation” and a
“political stunt” designed to support Hamas.  Nuland, in her written statement, said recent seizures by
Israel and  Egypt  of advanced military weapons “highlight the
continuing problem of illicit arms smuggling to Gaza.”  She also urged Hamas “to play a constructive role by
renouncing violence, recognizing Israel’s right to exist, and
accepting past agreements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net   Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 