-- 
Conrad Black Must Return to Prison After New 3 1/2-Year Sentence Imposed

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/conrad-black-must-go-back-to-federal-prison-judge-in-chicago-rules.html
Conrad Black , the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman and chief executive officer, was
resentenced for mail fraud and obstructing justice and must
spend another year in prison.  A new sentence of 3 1/2 years, for the surviving
convictions from his 2007 trial, was imposed yesterday by U.S.
District Judge Amy J. St. Eve in Chicago. Black will get credit
for 29 months already served, a Justice Department spokesman,
 Randall Samborn , said after the hearing.  “I have always tried to take success like a gentleman and
disappointment like a man,” Black told St. Eve before she
imposed the sentence.  “I accept that a reasonable person could conclude that I
am guilty,” he said, adding he also believed the same
reasonable person could conclude he had been “adequately
punished.”  This was the second time Black, 66, faced punishment at the
federal courthouse since being convicted for his role in the
theft of $6.1 million from the Chicago-based newspaper
publishing company now known as the  Sun-Times Media Group Inc. (SUTMQ)   His wife, Barbara Amiel, appeared to faint when the
sentence was passed and was helped from the courtroom. The
couple left together later. No date was set for Black to report
to prison. He may face deportation following his prison term.  2007 Sentence  St. Eve sentenced Black to 78 months in prison in December
2007. He served from March 2008 to July 2010 before being freed
on bail while pursuing appeals. An appellate court last year
threw out two of three mail fraud convictions after the  Supreme
Court  told it to consider whether they conformed to a recent
high court decision.  The Supreme Court last month declined to consider Black’s
challenge to the appellate ruling that let stand the final two
convictions.  Prosecutors had asked the judge to reinstate the original
78-month term, arguing that his obstruction conviction, which
stemmed from his unlawful removal of documents sought by the
U.S. government from his Toronto office, remained undisturbed
throughout the appellate process.  St. Eve in 2007 imposed the full 6 1/2-year term for that
count, with five-year sentences for each fraud conviction set to
run concurrently with the obstruction punishment.  “I still scratch my head as to why you engaged in this
conduct,” St. Eve said yesterday before pronouncing sentence.
“Nobody is above the law, including you,” she told Black.  Time Already Served  Black’s lawyers on May 13 filed a 50-page presentencing
brief in which they extolled his behavior in prison and said his
punishment should be reduced to the time already served.  A published author of biographies of U.S. presidents
Richard M. Nixon and  Franklin D. Roosevelt , Black served as a
tutor and mentor to his fellow inmates while at the low-security
 Coleman Federal Correctional Institution .  Defense attorney Carolyn Gurland yesterday called his
efforts there “nothing less than extraordinary.”  Prosecutor Julie Porter countered that Black is “a
corporate CEO who stole from the company and obstructed
justice,” and that Black still stands convicted of two crimes.  “Defendant’s conduct at Coleman, whatever it was, does not
undo the crimes that were committed,” she said.  Hollinger International was once the world’s third-biggest
publisher of English-language newspapers. Its publications
included the U.K.’s  Daily Telegraph ,  Canada ’s National Post and
the Jerusalem Post.  Forced to Resign  The Montreal-born Black served as the company’s chairman
and CEO from 1995 to 2003. In November 2003, amid allegations of
corruption, he was forced to resign as CEO and was fired as
chairman two months later.  “His small group of students soon swelled into nearly
every one of the Vocational Training Division’s General
Equivalency Degree (GED) candidates,” according to his
attorneys’ court filing. “Mr. Black estimates that he tutored
more than 100 student inmates over the course of approximately
28 months.”  Letters written on his behalf demonstrate “the impact Mr.
Black had on the students he encountered was nothing less than
astounding,” his lawyers said.  “I don’t think it’s possible to conclude that justice
would be done by sending him back to jail, even for a short
time,” defense attorney  Miguel Estrada  said yesterday.  Contributions Challenged  Prosecutors maintained that Black hasn’t accepted
responsibility for his crimes. The government also submitted
affidavits challenging the defense team’s account of Black’s
contributions in prison.  “Black was one of three tutors assigned to my class,”
said Carrie DeLaGarza, a Coleman prison-education specialist.
“He did perform tutoring as he was assigned to do. I would not
say, however, that Black went above and beyond what was expected
of him in his job or impacted the program any differently than
other tutors.”  Yesterday she said that in light of the multitude of
letters she’d received from Black’s fellow prisoners, she
wouldn’t rely upon DeLaGarza’s account.  Black and four other men were accused of stealing from
Hollinger as they engineered the company’s sale of $3 billion in
assets between 1998 and 2001.  Counts Vacated  The appeals court decision vacated two counts stemming from
the alleged theft of $5.5 million by Black and three co-
defendants, leaving intact jurors’ finding that Black and the
other collaborated to take $600,000.  Black’s share of that money was $285,000 his lawyers said
yesterday. Prosecutors elected to not retry the defendants on
those counts for which their convictions were thrown out.  F. David Radler, the company’s former chief operating
officer, pleaded guilty to fraud, agreed to cooperate with U.S.
prosecutors and testified for them at the four-monthlong trial.
Radler, who was sentenced to 29 months in prison, was later
transferred to Canadian custody, served 10 months and gained
parole in December 2008.  St. Eve had said earlier that federal sentencing guidelines
supported a term of 4 1/3 years to 5 1/3 years for Black.  “I do believe in the confession and repentance of
misconduct,” Black said as he addressed St. Eve yesterday,
adding that he wasn’t without remorse. “I regret a great many
things in this sequence of events.”  Still, the silver-haired former CEO, whose lawyers said
suffers from high  blood pressure , high cholesterol and a heart
arrhythmia, maintained his innocence.  ‘Substantial Disintegration’  He criticized prosecutors for what he described an
unwillingness to admit the “substantial disintegration” of
their case against him.  Black said he’d have to have been “barking mad” to have
removed 13 cartons of documents from his office in full view of
security cameras he’d installed, as prosecutors allege, in lieu
of spiriting out incriminating documents in his briefcase.  “I am a seeker of justice,” he told St. Eve. “I do ask
for the avoidance of injustice which now lies entirely with your
gift.”  The case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  