-- 
Commodities Rebound on EU Support for Greece, Growth

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-06-24T15:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/copper-advances-for-first-day-in-three-as-commodities-rally-after-selloff.html
(Corrects metals gaining in first paragraph.)  Copper and lead climbed, joining a
rebound in other commodities, including oil, after European
leaders showed support for  Greece , easing concern that a default
may hurt global growth.  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange advanced as
much as 2.1 percent to $9,145 a metric ton, and traded at
$9,089.75 by 4:05 p.m. in London. The metal, down 0.1 percent
this week, dropped to a one-week low of $8,900 a ton on June 20
on concern that the Greek debt crisis may derail the global
economy.  “We’re seeing a bit of a relief rally today which will be
difficult to sustain as the global macroeconomic environment
isn’t supportive,”  Li Qiang , an analyst at Xinhu Futures Co.,
said from Shanghai.  Copper on the Comex in New York rose 1.6 percent to $4.122
a pound.  “ Europe ’s debt problems aren’t over, the U.S. may need to
further stimulate their economy and China’s balancing between
inflation and growth,” Li said.  European Union leaders at the start of a two-day summit
yesterday pledged to stabilize the euro-area economy, vowing to
stave off a Greek default as long as Prime Minister  George
Papandreou  pushes through a package of budget cuts next week.  Risk signals for financial stability in the euro area are
flashing “red” as the crisis threatens to infect banks,
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
yesterday.  In the U.S., the world’s second-largest copper user,
applications for jobless benefits rose more than forecast last
week, and  consumer confidence  fell for the first time in five
weeks, separate reports showed yesterday. The  Federal Reserve 
this week lowered its forecasts for growth this year and next
and raised estimates for the  unemployment rate .  China Inflation  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said that the country’s efforts
to stem inflation have worked and that the pace of consumer-
price increases will slow, even as the nation’s top economic
planner said inflation may “remain elevated for some months.”  China’s inflation in June will be higher than in May, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in a June 22
statement. Consumer prices may jump by more than 6 percent this
month after climbing 5.5 percent in May, the China Securities
Journal said in an unsigned front-page editorial yesterday.  China hasn’t raised  interest rates  for 11 weeks, the
longest gap since increases began in October, as officials gauge
the economy’s strength amid a slowdown in the U.S. and a debt
crisis in Europe.  Lead in  London  climbed 0.6 percent to $2,565 a ton, tin
fell 0.4 percent to $25,100 a ton and nickel fell 0.2 percent to
$22,085 per ton. Aluminum was little changed at $2,505 a ton and
zinc was down 0.8 percent at $2,243 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  