-- 
Crude Steady, Gasoline and Heating Oil Decline: Oil Products

-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e
-- 
2011-06-24T21:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/crude-steady-gasoline-and-heating-oil-decline-oil-products.html
Crude oil was little changed in  New
York  a day after falling 4.6 percent when the  International
Energy Agency  announced the release of 60 million barrels to the
market, with half the release coming from the U.S. Strategic
Petroleum Reserve. Gasoline, heating oil and ethanol declined.  Crude Oil  Crude oil for August delivery rose 14 cents to $91.16 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The August contract,
which touched an intraday low of $89.92, closed the week down
2.4 percent. Futures have risen 19 percent in the past year.  The IEA’s decision came after the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries failed to reach an accord on production
increases at a June 8 meeting in Vienna.  Saudi Arabia  pledged
following the meeting that it and three other  Persian Gulf
states  would keep consumers sufficiently supplied.  “You now have a new factor in the market,” said Bill
O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis .  “In the past the strategic reserve
was used to make up for a shortage, now it’s being used as a
pricing tool.”  Gasoline  Gasoline for July delivery declined 6.1 cents, or 2.1
percent, to $2.7766 a gallon on the Nymex, the lowest settlement
in almost four months. Gasoline has fallen 12 percent in June
and increased 33 percent in the past year.  Regular retail gasoline dropped 1.1 cents to $3.601 a
gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.  Heating Oil  Heating oil for July delivery slipped 3.14 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $2.7503 a gallon, the lowest settlement price since
Feb. 18. Heating oil has gained 34 percent in the past year.  Ethanol  Denatured ethanol for July delivery declined 1.4 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $2.633 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Ethanol has increased 69 percent in the past year.  Refineries and Transport  BP Plc’s  Texas  City, Texas, refinery plans to restart an
ultraformer today, according to a filing with state regulators.  ConocoPhillips is delaying planned work at its Trainer
refinery in Pennsylvania until next year, two people familiar
with the plans said. The work was originally scheduled to take
place later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at   dstets@bloomberg.net  