-- 
Crude Oil Falls on Slowing U.S. Consumption, IEA Reserve Release

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-06-24T12:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/crude-oil-futures-decline-on-slowing-u-s-consumption-iea-reserve-release.html
Oil fell, extending its biggest one-
day drop in seven weeks in London, on concern slowing U.S.
economic growth will reduce demand and after the  International
Energy Agency  said its members will sell oil from reserves.  Brent dropped as much as 1.5 percent, extending yesterday’s
6.1 percent decline, after the International Energy Agency
agreed to release 60 million barrels to buyers starting next
week. The U.S. Federal Reserve this week cut its forecasts for
growth and employment this year and next.  “There are clear signs that the U.S. and Chinese economies
are slowing,”  Roland Stenzel , an oil trader at E&T Energie
Handelsgesellschaft mbH, said from Vienna. “The IEA triggered a
lot of stop losses,” he said, referring to the automatic
instruction to buy or sell a commodity at a certain level.  Brent oil for August delivery dropped 70 cents to $106.56 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 1:05 p.m.  London 
time. The contract closed at 107.26 a barrel yesterday, the
lowest closing price since Feb. 22. Crude for August delivery on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  was down 37 cents at $90.65.  The IEA announced the release of 2 million barrels a day
for 30 days yesterday to make up for supplies choked off by an
armed rebellion in Libya. The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve
will provide 30 million barrels, European members will supply
about 20 million and Asian nations the remainder.  “The IEA stock release has had a strong impact on front
prices,”  Christophe Barret , a London-based oil analyst at
Credit Agricole SA said in a report today. “It temporarily
relaxes a stock obligation constraint and allows refiners to
process more sweet crudes.”  OPEC Production  The decision followed the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ failure to reach an accord on production
increases at a June 8 meeting in Vienna. The group said two days
later it would need to pump 30.9 million barrels a day in the
third quarter, 1.9 million barrels more than it supplied in May.  “The  oil prices  has been correcting for a few days now, so
I’d hesitate to attribute all the losses to the IEA news,” said
 Tobias Merath , head of commodity research at Credit Suisse at
Credit Suisse AG in Zurich. “There’s quite a bit of concern
about the economic outlook. For sentiment in commodities to
stabilize, we’ll require positive economic surprises.”  It’s the third time the IEA has coordinated the use of
emergency stockpiles since the agency was founded in 1974. The
first was during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the second was
after  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005. The Paris-based IEA is an
energy policy adviser to 28 industrialized nations including the
U.S.,  Japan  and Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in Belfast 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  