-- 
Cumulus Media Joins $6 Billion M&A Pipeline as Leveraged-Loan Prices Drop

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-06-24T12:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/cumulus-media-joins-6-billion-m-a-pipeline-as-leveraged-loan-prices-drop.html
Cumulus Media Inc. (CMLS)  set the interest
rate this week on a $2.04 billion leveraged loan it’s seeking to
support the acquisition of Citadel Broadcasting Corp., as U.S.
companies seek at least $5.73 billion of loans to back buyouts.  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND) , the packaged foods company that is
acquiring  Procter & Gamble Co .’s Pringles chip operations,
received commitments this week for $2.05 billion to fund the
transaction.  Global mergers and acquisitions have increased 27.5 percent
this year compared with 2010, driving companies to the
leveraged-loan market to arrange financing for the deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Loans backing buyouts
last month increased to 23.4 percent of all new transactions, up
from 9 percent in April, Bloomberg data show.  “There are a ton of deals on the sidelines waiting for the
market to stabilize, so there won’t be a huge pause in new deals
if the market comes back even moderately,” said Marc Gross, who
helps oversee $3 billion in fixed-income funds as a  money
manager  at RS Investments in New York. “The big guys want to
launch deals and they’ll be coming fast and furious once the
market stabilizes.”  Cumulus is offering prospective lenders 3.75 percentage
points to 4 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, with a 1.25 percent minimum to the lending
benchmark, according to Bloomberg data. The JPMorgan Chase &
Co.-led transaction includes a $375 million five-year revolving
line of credit.  Cumulus is buying Citadel in a deal worth $2.4 billion, the
Atlanta-based company said in a March 10 statement. Citadel
shareholders can choose $37 in cash or 8.525 Cumulus Class A
shares for each share they own.  Greek Contagion  Indications that the expansion of the world’s largest
economy has slowed and fears of the contagion effect caused by a
possible Greek default have made investors more risk averse.
Companies had to sweeten the terms on at least three deals this
week in order to attract sufficient lender interest.  Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN) , a global provider of  business
software  that is being acquired by Golden Gate Capital Corp. and
Infor Global Solutions, boosted the interest rate on a $1.04
billion  term loan  it’s seeking to fund the buyout by 50 basis
points, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  ‘Reluctant’ To Commit  Husky International Ltd., the  Onex Corp (OCX) .-owned supplier of
equipment and services to the plastics industry, increased the
interest rate on a $920 million term loan to back its buyout by
as much as 100 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  “ Greece  is definitely a concern and headlines are going to
move the market,” said RS Investments’ Gross. “People are
reluctant to commit money and if they want to commit money then
they want a little sweetener there.”  Loan prices have fallen for seven weeks, the most
consecutive weekly drops since February 2007. The Standard &
Poor’s/LSTA Leveraged Loan 100 Index fell 0.07 cent yesterday to
93.96 cents on the dollar. The index is up from a low of 59.2
cents on Dec. 17, 2008, three months after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Lenders are also demanding more yield to fund loans.
Pricing for debt rated B+ or B rose to 5.89 percentage points as
of yesterday from 5.35 percentage points in May, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data. The average all-
in spread -- which includes upfront fees amortized over an
assumed three-year life and Libor floors --was at a record low
of 2.14 percent in February 2007 as the buyout boom was peaking.  Fed Lowers Forecasts  This week Fed officials lowered their forecasts for growth
and employment this year and next, projecting the economy will
expand 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent in 2011, down from forecasts
ranging from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April.  “In these difficult and uncertain times, the Federal
Reserve Chairman appears to wield less rhetorical influence over
increasingly skeptical financial markets,”  John Lonski , chief
economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in  New York , wrote in
a report yesterday. “Neither June 22’s FOMC policy statement
nor  Ben Bernanke ’s press conference was well received by
financial markets.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  warned
June 22 in  Frankfurt  that risk signals for financial stability
in the euro area are flashing “red” as the debt crisis
threatens to infect banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 