-- 
Diabetes Patients Are Twice as Likely to Suffer Hearing Loss, Analysis Say

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-06-24T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/diabetics-twice-as-likely-to-suffer-hearing-loss-analysis-finds.html
Diabetes patients, already at risk
of heart disease and stroke, also may be threatened with  hearing
loss  from the disease, according to an  analysis  of 11 studies.  Diabetics were twice as likely as those without the illness
to lose their hearing, according to a study by Japanese
researchers presented yesterday at the  American Diabetes
Association’s  annual meeting in  San Diego .  The findings add support to previous studies that have tied
diabetes to hearing loss, and should prompt doctors to screen
diabetic patients for the condition as routinely as they screen
for eye and kidney problems, said  Spyros Mezitis , an
endocrinologist at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York. It’s unknown
why hearing loss is more common among diabetics, though some
researchers believe that nerve damage or vascular disease may be
the cause, he said.  “Diabetes can damage the blood vessels and the nerves,”
Mezitis, who was not a researcher on the study, said in a June
21 telephone interview. “Small blood vessels and nerves exist
in the ears. If not enough blood can get to the ear canal, then
hearing loss could occur.”  About  26 million  U.S. children and adults have diabetes and
about 34.5 million Americans have some type of hearing loss,
according to the diabetes association Web site.  A 2008 National Institutes of Health study showed that
adult diabetics were twice as likely as those without the
disease to have hearing loss. It also found that those with
prediabetes had a 30 percent higher rate of hearing loss than
those with normal blood sugar levels.  The researchers analyzed 11 studies that involved 6,725
people with hearing impairment of whom 1,069 had diabetes, and
21,734 non-hearing impaired people of whom 2,319 had diabetes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  