-- 
Draghi Appointed to Succeed Trichet at ECB

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-06-24T10:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/draghi-is-appointed-as-european-central-bank-president-to-replace-trichet.html
Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi 
was appointed as the next president of the  European Central
Bank , avoiding a delay that risked complicating the handling of
the sovereign-debt crisis.  Draghi’s appointment was approved at a summit of European
Union leaders in Brussels today, an EU spokesman said. The 63-
year-old Italian will take over from Jean-Claude Trichet as the
head of the Frankfurt-based ECB, beginning an eight-year term on
Nov. 1.  The announcement was made after last-minute wrangling.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  had sought assurances that
another Italian on the ECB’s six-member board, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, would quit early to make way for a Frenchman, three
officials said earlier today.  Sarkozy was backed into a corner by the release of a draft
statement, prepared overnight, that proclaimed Draghi as the
next ECB president. Coming as European leaders sought to project 
a  united front  over a second bailout for debt-stricken Greece, 
the deal was clouded by the same political maneuvering that 
marked the appointment of the outgoing ECB president.  A Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained economist
with a stint at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on his resume, Draghi
had already been backed by finance ministers and was the only
candidate to take over the Frankfurt-based ECB.  Summit Conclusions  The leaders praised the ECB’s record of maintaining  price
stability  in the region, according to draft summit conclusions
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The euro is based on sound fundamentals, and we are deeply
satisfied with the track record of price stability achieved
since the inception of the euro,” they said in the draft text,
which will be finalized later today.  The euro was lower against the dollar, on course for a
third weekly drop, the longest run since February. The euro was
at $1.4229 at 11:32 a.m. in  London , down 0.2 percent on the day,
after trading as low as $1.4197 earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  