-- 
Durables Orders in U.S. Probably Climbed in May After Slumping Prior Month

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/durables-orders-in-u-s-probably-climbed-in-may-after-slumping-prior-month.html
Orders for durable goods probably
climbed in May after slumping the prior month, easing concern
manufacturing will share in an extended U.S. growth slowdown,
economists said before a report today.  Bookings for goods meant to least at least three years
increased 1.5 percent after a 3.6 percent drop in April that was
the biggest in six months, according to the median of 69
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Another report may confirm
the world’s largest economy cooled in the first quarter.  Factories will probably rebound as parts shortages stemming
from the disaster in  Japan  wane, fuel costs ebb and a drop in
the value of the dollar combined with growing economies overseas
push exports up. The improvement last month would support the
view of Federal Reserve officials, who this week said the
slackening in the expansion may be due to temporary restraints.  “We will begin to see firmer manufacturing output in the
months ahead,” said Robert Dye, senior economist at PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “All indications
are that Japanese manufacturers are making very good progress in
recovering from earthquake damage. Supply chain bottlenecks are
easing, so we’ll see firmer durable goods orders.”  The Commerce Department report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates ranged from declines of 1.9 percent to
increases of 5.5 percent.  Less Growth  Revised figures from the agency due at the same will show
the world’s largest economy grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace
in the last three months of 2010, according to median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey. The government’s third estimate of gross
domestic product would be up from the 1.8 percent gain reported
last month.  Manufacturing, which has been benefiting from a pickup in
exports to countries like China and  Brazil , began to cool in the
aftermath of Japan’s earthquake in March and as raw-material
costs climbed. Factory production dropped 0.5 percent in April,
restrained by shortages of auto parts, according to figures from
the Fed.  Reports this month indicate a recovery may already be at
hand. Output climbed 0.4 percent last month on rising demand for
machinery and computers, Fed data showed June 15. Autos and
parts production fell 1.5 percent, representing an improvement
from the 6.5 percent plunge in April as supply restraints eased.  ‘Temporary’ Influences  “The slower pace of the recovery reflects in part factors
that are likely to be temporary, including the damping effect of
higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing power and
spending as well as supply chain disruptions associated with the
tragic events in Japan,” central bankers said June 22 in
announcing they will maintain record monetary stimulus.  “The economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the committee
had expected,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press
conference after the  Federal Open Market Committee  met.  Manufacturing shares have reflected the slowdown. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, made up of 54
companies including Caterpillar Inc., Deere & Co. and Cummins
Inc., dropped 6 percent in May, compared with a 1.4 percent
decrease for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline,
is among companies projecting business will improve. The Memphis,
Tennessee-based carrier this week forecast full-year earnings
that may top analysts’ estimates as demand climbs.  “We believe the near-term softness in the economy will be
temporary as fuel prices have retreated from their April highs
and the Japanese economy recovers,” Frederick Smith, chairman
and chief executive officer of FedEx, said on a June 22
conference call. “We believe the industrial sector will lead
growth in the  United States  and overseas in the next two years,
supporting shipping demand.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  