-- 
EBA Stress Tests, Banks Ease Underwriting Rules, OCC Survey: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-24T11:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/eba-stress-tests-banks-ease-underwriting-rules-occ-survey-compliance.html
The European Banking Authority
updated its bank stress tests to take more account of potential
losses caused by banks’ holdings of sovereign debt from crisis-
hit European Union countries including  Greece .  Additional guidance was sent to banks reflecting the
“worsening of the sovereign situation,” according to EBA
Spokeswoman Franca Rosa Congiu. It was also required because of
“inconsistencies” in data so far submitted by lenders and
because some of it was deemed by the  EBA  to be “too
optimistic,” Congiu said.  Under this year’s EU stress tests, 91 banks will be
expected to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5
percent. That capital measure is stricter than last year’s
assessment, which had a pass rate of 6 percent Tier 1 capital, a
measure of financial strength that encompasses a broader range
of securities. Last year’s tests were criticized for not testing
how banks would fare against a sovereign default -- a factor
that hasn’t been changed in this year’s exams.  The EBA “is closely monitoring the situation and the
difficult financing circumstances in Greece,” it said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “The stress test results will allow
an assessment of potential systemic impacts stemming from the
current market conditions on sovereign risk and banks’ cost of
funding.”  The extra guidance was sent “at the beginning of June”
and covers how to measure potential losses on  government bonds 
held in their trading books, Congiu said in an interview.  Compliance Policy  Survey Shows Banks Eased Underwriting for Some Loan Products  U.S. banks are showing some signs of easing underwriting
standards, especially in commercial products, after three years
of broad tightening, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency said in a report.  Improving credit market liquidity and efforts to increase
market share led lenders to relax standards for certain products
last year amid recovery from the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression, according to the OCC’s  annual survey  of
Credit Underwriting Practices released yesterday.  The OCC survey is a compilation of examiner observations
and assessments. This year’s report covers 54 of the largest
national banks for the 12-month period ending Feb. 28.  Congress Revamp of Rules May Add Complexity, Obama’s Aide Says  Six senators are proposing legislation to change how
federal rules are crafted, responding to complaints from
business executives that regulations impede growth. Republican
lawmakers said regulation by the Obama administration is
weakening the U.S. job market.  Congress is considering legislation, introduced by Senator
Susan Collins, a Maine Republican, that would require agencies
to analyze costs and benefits of regulations, including the
impact on job creation, energy and consumer prices. Most
agencies aren’t required to analyze indirect costs and benefits.  Collins’s bill also would prohibit agencies from issuing
“guidance documents” that would have the same effect as a
imposing a rule.  Senator Olympia Snowe, also a Maine Republican, proposed a
bill to create panels at nine agencies that issue rules that
have an economic impact on small businesses, and permit court
review of proposed rules earlier in the drafting process. The
Obama administration is concerned that Congress’s effort to
revamp regulations may only make government rules more complex,
said Cass Sunstein, the White House official in charge of
regulatory actions.  Sunstein, who said “we have the tools we need,” made the
remarks yesterday at a hearing of the Senate Homeland Security
and Government Affairs Committee. He raised concerns that some
regulatory reform proposals could have “unintended
consequences,” creating complexity in the regulatory system and
blocking adoption of rules.  For more, click here.   CFPB Seeks Comment on Supervision of Large Consumer Firms  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is seeking
comment on how it should supervise non-bank firms such as large
debt collectors, credit reporting bureaus and prepaid card
companies as part of new regulations required under the Dodd-
Frank Act.  The bureau, which is scheduled to formally begin work next
month, is considering supervision of larger participants in six
consumer credit markets that may lead to on-site examinations
and registration requirements, according to the request for
comment. Dodd-Frank, the financial regulatory overhaul enacted
last year, requires the agency to propose regulations by July
21, 2012, on whether firms meet the definition.  Criteria for the designation could include the annual
number of transactions in a market, asset size or outstanding
loan balances, the bureau said. The public may comment on the
rule for 45 days once it has been published in the Federal
Register.  Elizabeth Warren , special adviser to the secretary of the
Treasury who was selected by President Barack Obama to form the
CFPB, spoke in a teleconference about the prospect of the bureau
supervising non-bank institutions.  For the audio, click here.  Chanos, Hedge-Fund Lobby Say SEC to ‘Suppress’ Short Sellers  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager known for predicting
Enron Corp.’s collapse, said the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s plan to require real-time reporting of bearish
stock bets is “designed to suppress short sellers.”  The agency’s proposals impose regulatory burdens on short
sellers and threaten “loss of their intellectual property,”
Chanos, president of New York-based Kynikos Associates LP and
chairman of the Coalition of Private Investment Companies, a
Washington-based hedge-fund trade group, said in a letter
yesterday to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  In a short sale, investors sell borrowed stock in the hope
of repurchasing it later at a lower price and pocketing the
difference. Last year’s Dodd-Frank Act required the SEC to issue
about 20 studies to Congress, including one exploring the costs
and benefits of disclosing such sales.  Among the proposals the SEC is considering is a voluntary
pilot program in which each short-sale trade would be
immediately reported on the so-called consolidated tape where
all equity transactions are recorded. Another idea involves
mandatory real-time reporting of investors’ short positions.
Dodd-Frank put a July 21 deadline on the report to Congress.  Chanos called on the agency to take a “deliberate
approach” in considering additional regulations.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.  Compliance Action  House Committee Approves Budget Cuts to IRS, Consumer Bureau  The U.S.  House Appropriations Committee  approved a spending
bill that would reduce funding for the  Internal Revenue Service ,
limit the budget of the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  and
deny a spending increase sought by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The $19.9 billion bill was approved yesterday and sent to
the House floor by the Republican-led panel in a 27-21 party-
line vote in Washington. The measure also includes funding for
the Treasury Department, the White House, the District of
Columbia, the federal courts, the  Consumer Product Safety
Commission  and the General Services Administration.  U.S. Regulators Extend Comment Period on Swap Margin Proposal  U.S. banking regulators have extended the comment period
for a proposed Dodd-Frank Act rule that would impose new capital
and margin requirements in the $601 trillion global swaps
market.  The rule, aimed at reducing risk by setting capital and
margin standards for swap dealers and major swap participants,
will be open for public comment until July 11, regulators
including the  Federal Reserve  and  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  said yesterday in a statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executed 96
percent of the $321 trillion of over-the-counter derivatives
trades by the top 25 U.S. bank-holding companies as of March 31,
according to a June 17 report from the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency.  Basel Rules Force Nykredit to Seek  China , Mideast Investors  Europe’s biggest issuer of covered bonds backed by mortgages
said it will double the international holders of its securities
as a result of global liquidity rules forcing local banks to
sell the debt.  Nykredit A/S will approach investors in China, the Middle
East, Europe and the U.S. to bring foreign ownership of its
mortgage-backed bonds to as much as 25 percent, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Engberg Jensen said.  Engberg Jensen, 58, said in an interview in Copenhagen June
22 that international investors now account for about 12 percent
of holders. A “big effort” is needed in a few years, Jensen
said.  Denmark is leading efforts to persuade the European Union to
ease liquidity rules set by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision that the Nordic country says penalize the world’s
third-largest mortgage-bond market. While the EU has signaled it
may accommodate some of the demands, standards scheduled to take
effect by 2015 are still likely to treat covered bonds as less
liquid assets than government debt, Engberg Jensen said. This
indicates the need for a “broader investor base,” he said.  Nykredit will rely on international investors to step in as
Moody’s Investors Service warns Denmark’s mortgage-bond market
may be exposed to refinancing risks on securities carrying
adjustable rates.  For more, click here.  Courts  South Korean Brokerage CEOs Indicted, Economic Daily Says  South Korean prosecutors indicted the chief executive
officers at 12 brokerage companies including Samsung Securities
Co. and Woori Investment & Securities Co. for providing unfair
benefits for a limited number of clients in equity-linked
warrants trading, the Korea Economic Daily said.  The heads of KTB Investment & Securities Co., E*Trade
Securities Co., HMC Investment & Securities Co.,  Hyundai
Securities Co. (003450) , Daishin Securities Co., Daewoo Securities Co.,
Eugene Investment & Securities Co., LIG Investment & Securities
Co., Shinhan Investment Corp. and Hanmag Securities Corp. were
also charged, the daily said.  Woori spokesman Jeon Hyung Deok declined to comment on the
report, as did Samsung spokesman Kim Jin Ho. Officials at the 10
other firms weren’t immediately reachable for comment, nor was a
spokesman at the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office.  Interviews/Speeches  Private Equity Firms May Be Covered by Bribery Law, SFO Says  Private equity firms in the U.K. could face prosecution or
be held liable for bribes paid by officials at companies they
own, the director of the Serious Fraud Office said.  SFO Director Richard Alderman told private equity clients
of the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in  London  June 22 that
the U.K. Bribery Act applies to them as well as large multi-
national companies. Even if private equity firms aren’t aware of
the bribes, they may be responsible for money laundering at a
company they own, or liable for returning profits from the
proceeds of a crime.  The Bribery Act, considered by some lawyers to be the
strictest anti-corruption law in the world, will take effect
July 1. Under the law, companies can be prosecuted for failing
to prevent bribery by not having adequate controls in place,
even if company officials didn’t know about the payment.  “It may even be” a condition of investment by fund
managers that you invest only in companies that are FCPA- and
Bribery Act-compliant, Alderman said.  Bill Waite, the chief executive officer of the Risk Advisory
Group in London, said at a separate event that private equity
firms are already scrutinizing corruption risks at the companies
they invest in.  Basel Capital Rules Would Have Saved RBS, FSA’s Turner Says  Global plans to force the biggest banks to hold more
capital may have saved  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  from
financial ruin, a top U.K banking regulator said.  RBS “would be in a completely different position” if the
lender had been subject to proposed rules requiring banks to
hold more high-quality capital before its near-collapse in 2008,
Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, told reporters in London yesterday.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision met in the Swiss
city yesterday to discuss how much extra capital the world’s
largest and most systemically important banks will be forced to
hold to avert another financial crisis. About 25 banks may have
to hold more than the 7 percent core Tier 1 capital required by
the Basel rules, according to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts. RBS and
HSBC Holdings Plc and Citigroup Inc. are among banks facing the
highest levy of about 2.5 percent, Morgan Stanley said.  Turner said a report into the 45.5 billion-pound ($73
billion) bailout of RBS would show that the FSA had devoted
“insufficient resources to large, systemically important
banks.”  RBS posted the largest loss in U.K. corporate history in
2008 and required a bailout following its acquisition of ABN
Amro Holding NV.  King Says Debt Crisis Is Biggest U.K. Stability Threat  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King talked about the
threats to the stability of the U.K. financial system. He
discussed the Financial Stability Report, published by the
bank’s Financial Policy Committee.  The report’s six recommendations include a finding of
“serious and immediate risk” in the sovereign debt crisis,
King said at a news conference in London.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  World Bank  Appoints Former Lehman Risk Officer as Treasurer  Madelyn Antoncic, formerly  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
chief risk officer before its collapse, was hired by the World
Bank as treasurer.  Antoncic, who started her career as an economist at the
Federal Reserve Bank  New York , worked at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. for 12 years and at Barclays Capital before joining Lehman.
There, she was moved to a government relations job in September
2007, when she fought for hedges on some of Lehman’s
investments. Lehman filed for bankruptcy a year later.  She will be “responsible for maintaining the World Bank’s
high standing in financial markets and for managing an extensive
client advisory, transaction, and asset management business,”
the World Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 