-- 
EDF Says Stress Tests Unlikely to Delay Flamanville Reactor

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-24T11:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/edf-says-stress-tests-unlikely-to-delay-flamanville-reactor-1-.html
Electricite de  France  SA says the
extra safety tests required since the Japanese atomic disaster
shouldn’t delay the start of the third-generation EPR reactor at
Flamanville unless major modifications are requested.  “I see no reason for a delay due to the stress tests unless
modifications are required,” Xavier Pouget-Abadie, an executive
in EDF’s nuclear engineering division, said today at an energy
conference in Prague. “But such modifications aren’t expected
at this moment.”  EDF has already performed several reviews of the EPR and
submitted the results to the nuclear safety authority, Pouget-
Abadie said. Final results of stress tests, ordered after a
tsunami triggered an accident at the Fukushima nuclear station
in  Japan , will be submitted in September, he said.  The French nuclear watchdog is overseeing the stress tests
on reactors and other nuclear installations to determine whether
they can withstand natural disasters and cuts to power supply
and cooling systems. The checks will be carried out on the
Flamanville EPR, the country’s first third-generation atomic
generator. The reactor, which sits at the base of a cliff on the
 English Channel  in Normandy, has run over its initial budget
target for start-up.  Safety Probes  Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the ASN, has raised the
possibility of a construction halt or changes at Flamanville in
light of the Fukushima meltdown.  Modifications could include putting back-up diesel
generators on top of a cliff behind the reactor rather than at
the bottom, closer to the sea, Lacoste has said. EDF chose not
to make any changes until after the results of the stress tests
are known, he said in an interview this month. The tests have to
be completed in September.  EDF has said it will spend about 5 billion euros ($7.1
billion), more than an initial estimate of 3.3 billion euros, to
complete the 1,650-megawatt EPR reactor at Flamanville and that
commercial power output will begin in 2014, two years later than
the original target. The watchdog halted construction in 2008
for nearly one month on concerns about the concrete
reinforcement of the reactor’s base and the way construction was
supervised.  EDF executives blamed the delay and cost overruns on the
fact that the reactor is a “first-of-a-kind.” Rival French
nuclear builder Areva SA experiences its own delays and budget
overruns building an EPR in  Finland .  EDF operates 58 nuclear reactors in France and 16 in the
U.K. It is developing third-generation EPR reactors at
Flamanville in Normandy and Taishan in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 