-- 
Hedge Funds Get Jump on SEC Registration

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-24T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/hedge-funds-get-jump-on-sec-registration.html
Hedge funds are a step ahead of the
first mandatory registration rule from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission as the typically secretive industry has
opened its books to regulators since the 2008 financial crisis.  What could have been a difficult adjustment to an
unprecedented disclosure system, set to take effect March 30,
will come to an industry already accustomed to some SEC
oversight as hedge funds and private-equity firms have stepped
forward to register with regulators.  “It’s just a big yawn, because they’ve already complied,
and it changes nothing in their daily operation,” said Perrie Weiner, international co-chairman of securities litigation at
law firm DLA Piper LLP in  Los Angeles , who advises some of the
largest hedge funds. “Although it’s not a great development for
the hedge-fund industry, it’s tolerable.”  Some of the largest hedge-fund firms already are SEC-
registered, including Paulson & Co. Inc., Renaissance
Technologies LLC, Bridgewater Associates LP and AQR Capital
Management LLC. The industry leapt into SEC supervision as major
investors, spooked by the financial crisis, looked for regulated
venues for their money.  “The markets began to evolve, and there needed to be a
certain sense of credibility,” Weiner said. “Their investor
bases demanded it.”  In the past three years, institutional clients have become
the majority among hedge-fund investors, making up 61 percent of
fund assets, according to London-based research firm Preqin Ltd.  Due Diligence  Among the top 5 percent of SEC-registered managers, the
average number of funds per firm is 79, the agency said in
documents discussing the rule. Those who have resisted SEC
registration until now will generally be smaller firms because
they haven’t been able to run more than 14 funds in order to use
the exemption, according to the SEC.  The future disclosures will “aid investors and prospective
investors in conducting due diligence and could further help
investors and other industry participants protect against
fraud,” the SEC said in its  final rule .  “I’m not sure that there’s going to be any kind of
significant impact,” Peter Rup, chief investment officer at New
York-based Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, whose client portfolios
include 40 hedge funds. He said the industry’s third-party
administrators are more useful than regulatory disclosures.  Dodd-Frank  In 2004, the SEC unilaterally tried to demand hedge-fund
registration, adopting a rule that was struck down by a court
ruling in 2006 that the agency had overstepped its authority. In
2009, Senators Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, and  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, introduced a bill that was echoed a
year later in the Dodd-Frank Act.  “Instead of the free flow of reliable information that
markets need to function properly, today we have confusion and
uncertainty fueling an economic crisis,” Grassley said in a
January 2009  statement .  “Your average investor in a hedge fund doesn’t care, never
did care; all they care about is the rate of return,” Weiner
said. This action is less about investors than about
“regulators looking to restore their reputation and to remain
the ultimate watchdogs in the capital markets,” he said.  The rule, approved June 22 in a 3-2 decision by the
commission, calls for hedge funds and private-equity firms
managing more than $150 million in assets to report information
about their investors and employees, the assets they manage,
potential conflicts of interest and their activities outside of
fund advising.  Costs, Returns  “It would provide much more detail about each fund that an
adviser manages,” said Jamie Nash, a law partner at New York-
based Kleinberg Kaplan Wolff & Cohen P.C., who represents hedge
funds. “I don’t think managers are afraid of registration. I
just think there are going to be a lot of costs associated with
it.”  Nash said whatever costs the firms face will erode investor
returns.  The Managed Funds Association, a Washington-based lobbying
group, supports the new registrations and is “optimistic” the
SEC action “will provide greater clarity and sufficient time
for our members as they work to fully comply,” Richard Baker,
the group’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  “I think it’s a physical impossibility that the SEC audits
every fund every year,” Rup said, adding that he hasn’t been
impressed with what he’s seen of agency inspections. “They
request reams of data. They look at very little. They tend to be
very unsophisticated.”  Investment Advisers  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has said that the agency doesn’t
have enough staff to adequately inspect investment advisors. A
staff study in January showed fewer than one in 10 advisers were
inspected in 2010.  Even if the inspectors are overbooked, “managers need to
operate their business as if they’re going to be examined at any
time,” Nash said.  With a registration and disclosure system now in place, the
hedge-fund industry also wonders how to interpret a little-
debated provision of Dodd-Frank that allows advisers registered
with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to avoid SEC
registration.  Some major fund firms are already registered as commodity-
trading advisers with the CFTC and not with the SEC, including
SAC Capital Advisors LP, Soros Fund Management LLC, Tudor
Investment Corp. and Lone Pine Capital LLC. Those that focus on
securities will have to shift to SEC registration, Weiner said.  Bachus, Lucas  Two Republicans sent Schapiro an April 5 letter seeking to
clarify how fund advisers might stick with CFTC registration.
The letter from  Alabama ’s  Spencer Bachus , chairman of the
Financial Services Committee, and  Oklahoma ’s  Frank Lucas ,
chairman of the Agriculture Committee, asked the SEC to provide
advice on how those now under the CFTC could be exempt from the
SEC rule.  Schapiro responded in a letter on June 1, saying that the
Dodd-Frank exemption for CFTC-registered advisers is “self-
executing.” The SEC won’t offer further guidance unless a firm
requests specific help “based on the particular facts” it
faces, she wrote.  When asked whether the agency would act against advisers
that interpret the law as allowing them to choose CFTC
registration,  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said that the
agency’s staff “hasn’t taken a position on the provision, but
as a general matter we can and do take steps to uphold
congressional intent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 