-- 
Medvedev to Reverse Putin-Era Party Limits in Parliament

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-24T16:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/medvedev-to-reverse-putin-era-party-limits-in-parliament-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
submitted a draft law that would make it easier for smaller
parties to enter parliament, reversing limits imposed by his
predecessor, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.  The legislation would cut the barrier for parties to win
seats in the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, to 5
percent from 7 percent now, the Kremlin said in an e-mailed
statement today. The change would apply after the next elections
scheduled for December this year, the statement said.  “All political forces with significant support should be
represented in parliament,” Medvedev said yesterday in an
 interview  with the state-run Moskovskiye Novosti newspaper.  Putin centralized power and sidelined opposition after his
election as president in 2000. Pro-government parties control 87
percent of seats in the Duma, while the remainder is held by the
Communist Party. Putin, 58, a former KGB colonel, has remained
at the center of decision-making after handing the presidency to
Medvedev, a 45-year-old trained lawyer, in 2008.  Neither Medvedev nor Putin has ruled out running for
president in 2012. Putin can return to the Kremlin without
violating the constitutional ban on three consecutive terms.  ‘Coordinated With Putin’  “Medvedev has the nice face for the West as well as the
young, urban population in  Russia  that wants change,” Lilit
Gevorgyan, an analyst in  London  with Lexington, Massachusetts-
based IHS Global Insight, said by phone today. “I think it’s
coordinated with Putin.”  Two pro-democracy parties, the now defunct Union of
Rightist Forces, or SPS, and Yabloko, failed to win any seats in
the Duma in 2007 elections after Putin’s government raised the
barrier to 7 from 5 percent and abolished single-mandate
constituencies that allowed individual lawmakers to win seats
outside of party lists.  SPS, which later merged with other parties into a pro-
business grouping called Pravoye Delo, or Right Cause, won 0.96
percent of the vote in the December 2007 election.  Yabloko got 1.59 percent of the vote. Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov is set to assume the leadership of Pravoye Delo at a
congress tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  