-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Add to Weekly Rally on Wen’s Remarks, Greek Aid

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-06-24T21:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/emerging-market-stocks-add-to-weekly-rally-on-wen-s-remarks-oil-decline.html
Emerging-market stocks registered
their biggest weekly gain since April after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said efforts to stem inflation have worked and European
Union leaders vowed to avert a Greek default.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.9 percent to
1,115.67 at 4 p.m. in New York, taking its advance for the week
to 1.1 percent, the biggest increase since the week ending April
22.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.2 percent today,
the most in four months.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index jumped 2.9 percent and Russia’s Micex Index advanced 1.6
percent. Brazil’s Bovespa index declined 0.1 percent as oil
companies slumped.  China’s consumer prices are “within a controllable range”
and may drop “steadily,” Wen wrote in an opinion piece in the
Financial Times. European Union officials voiced support for
Greece as long as Prime Minister George Papandreou pushes
through a package of budget cuts in parliament next week.  “Given the long string of negative weeks we’ve had, we’re
getting to some really cheap valuations for some of these
individual emerging market stocks,” said  Ed Kuczma , who helps
manage $30 billion at Van Eck Associates in  New York . “The
macro situation continues to weigh on emerging markets, but
sooner or later, fundamentals will have to prevail.”  Concern central banks from China to India will step up
monetary tightening has dragged MSCI’s emerging-market index
down by 3.1 percent this year, sending valuations of the gauge
down to the lowest in more than two years this week. Developing-
nation equity funds reported a third straight week of outflows
in the week ended June 22 on concern the global economic
recovery will slow amid Europe’s debt crisis, Citigroup Inc.
said, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  China Rates  The Shanghai Composite rose the most since Feb. 14. China
has paused for 11 weeks in raising  interest rates , the longest
gap since increases began in October, even as analysts from
Societe General SA to UBS AG predict inflation will reach 6
percent this month for the first time since 2008.  State Bank  of India, the nation’s biggest lender, surged 6
percent. Hero Honda Motors Ltd., India’s largest motorcycle
maker, jumped 6.1 percent.  In South Korea, which imports all of its oil, the  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  increased 1.7 percent. Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) 
jumped 0.8 percent.  Turkish banks rose 1.4 percent after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
said the industry’s ratings may improve after the third quarter
and valuations are “looking appealing” following recent
losses.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the biggest by market value,
jumped 1.1 percent.  Crude Oil  Oil for August delivery rose 0.2 percent to settle at
$91.16 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, tumbled
1.7 percent after crude plunged to a four-month low yesterday,
when Brazilian markets were closed for a holiday, as the
International Energy Agency agreed to release 60 million barrels
to buyers.  The ruble strengthened by 0.1 percent against the dollar
after depreciating 0.9 percent yesterday. The rand weakened 0.9
percent and the Turkish lira slid 0.4 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 328, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose three basis
points to 213.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  