-- 
Merkel Jostles With German Banks Over Greek Debt-Rollover Terms for Rescue

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-06-24T22:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/merkel-jostles-with-german-banks-over-greek-debt-rollover-terms-in-rescue.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government jostled with  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers
over aiding  Greece , as the Finance Ministry rejected industry
calls for incentives to encourage them to participate.  Banks and insurers including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Allianz
SE (ALV)  signaled a willingness to roll over maturing Greek debt if
governments offer incentives such as guarantees, five people
with knowledge of the talks said yesterday. The Finance Ministry
sees guarantees as a non-starter because they would undermine
the aim of relieving the burden on taxpayers, a government
official said. All spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are ongoing and in private.  The clash underscores Merkel’s difficulty in balancing
voter interests with those of financial companies before a self-
imposed July 3 deadline. They may be rendered irrelevant unless
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of
budget cuts next week, the first hurdle to avert default.  “A disorderly unraveling of this situation would affect
the creditors first and foremost, beyond the people of Greece,”
 Angel Gurria , the secretary-general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, told Bloomberg
Television’s  Andrea Catherwood  in an interview from Paris.
“Substantially all the creditors have to participate” in a
voluntary debt plan for Greece.  European Union leaders at a Brussels summit that ended
yesterday backed a new aid program to stave off a Greek default
so long as Papandreou shepherds 78 billion euros ($111 billion)
of austerity measures through parliament in a vote tabled for
June 29.  Parallel talks between financial companies and finance
ministries resumed across  Europe  on voluntary involvement in the
second Greek rescue after an earlier round two days ago.  ‘Well Disposed’  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters in Brussels
that he saw “no apprehensions or difficulties” in the talks,
while Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Spanish
banks are “well disposed” to private-sector involvement, even
as their exposure is “small.” Talks are also under way in the
Netherlands.  The EU is aiming for bondholders’ share of an aid package
to total about 30 billion euros. The amount German banks are
willing to provide will depend on the incentives offered by
officials, two of the people said.  Beyond guarantees, other incentives being discussed for
buyers of new Greek bonds include higher coupon payments or
giving investors preferred status, they said. Government
officials aim to have bondholders extend their Greek debt
holdings for a period of five years, one of the people said.  ‘Some Participation’  “There will be some participation because banks and
insurance companies know that public opinion is demanding that
private investors have to contribute to the rescue package,”
said  Konrad Becker , a Munich-based analyst at Merck Finck & Co.
“They know that they are depending on state help in any case of
emergency that may come in the next two or three years because
of the euro and debt crisis.”  In Germany, representatives of the biggest financial
companies, the  Finance Ministry  and central bank officials met
at working-level in  Frankfurt  yesterday after a June 22
gathering was hampered by storms, preventing participants from
traveling to attend, said the people.  Under discussion was how much German banks and insurers
will contribute in total and whether each company’s share will
be based on its size and financial strength or its current Greek
holdings, one of the people said. Most of the banks and insurers
agree they’ll need to offer to contribute at least symbolic
amounts, the people said.  Exposure Deadline  The banks and insurers have been given until June 26 to
provide details of their Greek sovereign exposure through 2014
as well as proposals on how much they are willing to roll over,
the people said. The meeting may be followed next week by talks
with top executives and policy makers, according to the people.  Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus, asked about the
prospect of offering sweeteners to encourage bondholders to roll
over their debt, said that it’s in their own interest to help
stem the debt crisis.  “We are very convinced that the financial market -- that
is all private participants on Greece’s outstanding debt, banks
and insurers and others -- has a very high, fundamental self-
interest to participate in the stability of Greece and the euro
zone,” Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin.  Kotthaus said that the ministry is “optimistic” details
of a Greek debt rollover package will be completed by a July 3
meeting of European finance ministers.  Lender Claims  German lenders’ total foreign claims on the Greek public
sector totaled 9.91 billion euros in March, excluding aid
provided by the country’s state development bank KfW Group,
according to Bundesbank data.  Deutsche Bank,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  DZ Bank , HVB Group, WestLB
AG, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, WGZ Bank, DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale, HSH Nordbank AG, Allianz and  Munich Re  are among
the companies invited to the talks, according to the people.
Spokespeople for the banks and insurers either declined to
comment or couldn’t immediately be reached by phone.  “It’s not realistic to expect state guarantees,” because
if EU governments provided guarantees, “banks and insurers
would roll over everything,” said Becker at Merck Finck & Co.
“Therefore, it will be a minor part of the outstanding Greek
sovereign debt owned by private investors that is rolled over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 