-- 
Draghi Dodges French Qualms to Win ECB Post as Europe Tackles Debt Crisis

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-06-24T14:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/eu-leaders-to-endorse-draghi-as-next-ecb-president.html
Italy’s  Mario Draghi  dodged last-
minute French objections to win the European Central Bank
presidency in a dispute that threatened to overshadow efforts to
prevent a Greek default.  Draghi’s appointment today at the end of a two-day European
Union summit followed a pledge by euro leaders yesterday to do
whatever it takes to support  Greece  as long as Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  pushes through a package of deficit cuts.  National rivalries flared as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  held up the confirmation of Draghi, 63, until another
Italian on the ECB board, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, offered to quit
to make way for a Frenchman. Leaders rejected questions that
they were interfering with the rate setter’s autonomy.  “The ECB’s independence -- of course it’s assured,”
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters after the
Brussels summit. “What are you referring to?”  The personality conflicts added to tensions between
political leaders and the nominally independent ECB, which has
prodded euro governments to do more on Greece and tighten the
deficit rules that failed to prevent the crisis.  “History shows that once monetary policy is in the hands
of short-sighted politicians we end up with higher inflation, so
the ECB wants to act independently and take the longer-term
view,” said Tobias Blattner, a former ECB economist now at
Daiwa International in  London .  Bini Smaghi will make his decision in “full
independence,” according to an ECB statement issued after the
summit.  Compromise Precedent  Today’s horse-trading played out in the same Brussels
building where a different cast of French and German leaders
bickered into the night over the ECB’s first two presidents on
May 3, 1998, the day the EU agreed to launch the euro.  In that compromise,  Wim Duisenberg  of the Netherlands got
the euro’s top monetary post as long as he pledged to step down
early to make way for  Jean-Claude Trichet , a French central
banker now nearing the end of a full eight-year term.  While the EU has since dropped the unanimity rule for key
appointments, it rarely overrides demands by leaders of the
largest countries.  France’s target in the latest ECB personnel bargaining was
Bini Smaghi, who had bucked calls to quit before his term ends
in 2013. EU rules that central bankers leave their nationality
at the door haven’t prevented the euro area’s biggest countries  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  