-- 
EU Leaders Say Croatia Is Ready to Become 28th Member State

-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-24T14:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/eu-leaders-say-croatia-is-ready-to-become-28th-member-state-1-.html
European Union leaders said  Croatia 
is ready to become the bloc’s 28th member, signaling peace in
the Balkan region.  “The future accession of Croatia brings new momentum to
the European vocation of the countries in the Western Balkans,”
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters at the conclusion
of a two-day EU summit in Brussels today.  Negotiations with Croatia should be concluded by the end of
June, and an accession treaty will be signed by December,
according to the summit’s draft conclusion. The ratification
process by member states will probably last until June 2013,
opening the path for Croatia to become a full member of the
world’s largest trading alliance.  Prime Minister  Jadranka Kosor  also needs to convince voters
to accept cuts in public spending and vote for EU membership at
a referendum, which must be held within 30 days of the signing
of the accession treaty.  EU Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he was confident
Croatia will meet its goal. Speaking to reporters in Brussels,
Barroso said Croatia’s accession is a signal of peace in the
Balkan region.  ‘Historic’ Moment  Kosor pledged to continue with the changes needed and said
she sees the conclusion of talks on the eve of Croatia’s 20th
anniversary of gaining independence as an “historic” moment.  “This will give us strength to continue with all the hard
work,” Kosor told reporters.  Croatia hopes to be the second former Yugoslav republic,
after Slovenia, to join the EU. In more than five years of
formal negotiations, the country has completed talks on policy
areas including agriculture, environmental protection, fisheries
and trade. It improved competition by selling state-subsidized,
unprofitable shipyards and started reforms in education,
government administration and health care.  Croatian authorities in the past year investigated hundreds
of corruption cases, targeting government officials and ruling-
party members, including former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who
is awaiting extradition from  Austria  on suspicion of abuse of
power and corruption.  Unlike recent members Bulgaria and  Romania , Croatia also
had to overcome the effects of the Balkan wars during the
breakup of  Yugoslavia  that devastated the region’s economy and
led to the creation of the United Nations  International Criminal
Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia  in  The Hague .  Croatia will probably have to comply with EU monitoring
until it becomes a full member to ensure its reforms are
irreversible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  