-- 
Europe Faces Lack of ‘Exit Strategy,’ Clarida Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-24T16:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/euro-zone-faces-lack-of-exit-strategy-pimco-s-clarida-says-tom-keene.html
European leaders are coping with a
monetary union that was created without an “exit strategy” as
member nations try to resolve the region’s debt crisis, Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Richard Clarida  said.  “The challenge in  Europe  is that the euro was created
without an exit mechanism,” said Clarida, a strategic adviser
at the world’s biggest bond fund manager, during a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “They’re having to develop this on the fly.”  European Union leaders pledged today at a two-day summit in
Brussels to stand behind Greece should Prime Minister George Papandreou push through budget cuts, attempting to prevent the
Mediterranean nation from defaulting on its obligations and to
shore up support for the shared currency. Greece’s adoption of
the euro prevents it from devaluing its currency to reduce its
debts and boost exports.  The plan hinges on Papandreou’s ability to shepherd 78
billion euros ($111 billion) of austerity measures through
parliament. The program was endorsed yesterday by experts from
the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Portugal  and Ireland followed Greece in requesting
international aid. A year after approving a 110 billion-euro
bailout for Greece, European leaders and the IMF are working on
a second funding package. Bond yields show the bailout measures
in those countries may have had limited success, Clarida said.  ‘Life Support’  “You have three countries that are essentially on life
support,” Clarida said. “Those wide spreads are indicative
that even these programs that are in place now may not be
sufficient.”  Five-year Irish government securities yield 11.6 percentage
points more than similar-maturity German bunds, from 5.8
percentage points in February, while those of Portugal pay a
spread of 11.8 percentage points, up from 3.5 percentage points
in January.  The euro fell 0.7 percent to 1.1871 Swiss francs, after
reaching a record-low 1.1846 yesterday. The euro weakened 0.5
percent to $1.4189 at 12:26 p.m. in  New York , from $1.4256.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  