-- 
European Stocks Slide for Eighth Week in Longest Losing Streak Since 1998

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-06-24T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/european-stocks-drop-for-eighth-week-in-longest-slide-since-1998.html
European stocks fell for an eighth
week, the longest stretch of losses since 1998, as concern grew
that Greece will default and the  Federal Reserve  cut its growth
forecast for the world’s largest economy.  Italy’s Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl and Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA dropped more than 10 percent, leading a
gauge of banks to the lowest level in almost two years. Royal
Philips Electronics NV slid 6.7 percent after saying it needs to
deepen cost cuts to combat deteriorating demand for lighting and
consumer electronics. Charter International Plc fell the most
since 2008 after reducing its forecasts.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1.2 percent to 263.98
this past week, the lowest level since March 16, even after
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a confidence vote in
his government. The gauge has fallen 9.3 percent since its high
on Feb. 17 as U.S. economic data trailed forecasts and concern
about Europe’s debt crisis depended.  “The Greek situation turned from fluid to erratic this
week,” Christian Gattiker, Zurich-based head of research at
Bank Julius Baer & Co., wrote in a note to clients. “The
confidence vote in  Greece  triggered nothing but a short-term
countermove.”  Papandreou won a vote of confidence from 155 out of 300
lawmakers late on June 21. Greek lawmakers must still vote on 78
billion euros ($111 billion) of austerity measures on June 30
and European finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether the
indebted nation has met the conditions for its next aid payment.  Fed Forecast  The Fed reiterated a pledge to keep  interest rates  near
zero on June 22 and said it will complete a $600 billion bond-
purchase program as scheduled this month, even as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the recovery is progressing “more slowly”
than expected. Officials at the central bank lowered their
predictions for U.S. growth and employment this year and next.  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 declined 0.3 percent,
 Germany ’s DAX slipped 0.6 percent and  France ’s CAC 40 fell 1
percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB plunged 4.7 percent, the most in more
than a year.  The Stoxx 600’s decline has dragged its valuation to 12.5
times the reported earnings of its companies, the cheapest since
2008, Bloomberg data show.  Banks Slide  A gauge of banks was the worst performing industry in the
Stoxx 600 this week, sliding 4.3 percent to the lowest level
since July 2009.  Popolare Milano, the oldest Italian cooperative bank,
plunged 15 percent to the lowest since at least 1989. Monte
Paschi slid 11 percent, the biggest drop in more than a year.  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 23 that it may
downgrade 13 Italian banks because they would be vulnerable were
the government’s credit rating to be cut. The ratings company
last week warned that  Italy ’s credit ratings may be trimmed
because of slowing economic growth and the potential for the
sovereign crisis to drive the country’s borrowing costs higher.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on June
22 said danger signals for financial stability in the euro area
are flashing red as the debt crisis threatens to infect banks.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, fell 10 percent and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
decreased 12 percent.  The euro-area debt crisis poses the biggest risk to the
stability of the U.K. financial system and banks should build up
capital buffers when earnings are strong,  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  said in  London  yesterday.  Philips, Charter  Philips, the world’s biggest maker of light bulbs, dropped
6.7 percent, the most in more than a year, after saying the
lighting unit, which will report “low single-digit” sales
growth in the second quarter.  Charter International retreated 20 percent for the biggest
drop in the Stoxx 600. The industrial-equipment manufacturer
forecast that 2011 profit will miss its estimates.  Porsche SE preferred shares surged 10 percent, leading a
measure of automakers to the biggest gain since April. BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research reiterated its “buy” rating on
the producer of the 911 sports car, saying “Porsche still looks
particularly attractive as a way to play Volkswagen, one of our
favorite auto names.” Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest carmaker,
advanced 3.5 percent.  Carnival Plc, the world’s biggest cruise-ship operator,
climbed 7.9 percent and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-
largest airline, rose 4.4 percent as crude plunged to a four-
month low in London trading.  The  International Energy Agency  said it will release 60
million barrels of oil from emergency stockpiles, the third time
the agency has coordinated the use of emergency reserves since
its founding in 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  