-- 
Euro Weakens Versus Most Major Counterparts on Greece Debt-Crisis Concern

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-24T21:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/euro-set-for-third-weekly-drop-versus-dollar-as-eu-discusses-greece-rescue.html
The euro slumped to a record low
against the Swiss franc amid speculation a Greek austerity plan
and a European Union pledge to stabilize the region’s economy
won’t resolve its sovereign-debt crisis.  The shared currency fell versus the majority of its 16
most-traded peers after a lawmaker from  Greece ’s ruling Pasok
party said he hasn’t decided to vote for the country’s new
fiscal measures and Italian bank stocks slumped amid concern the
crisis may spread. South Africa’s rand tumbled on prospects for
the euro region, the nation’s largest trading partner.
Australia’s dollar advanced as a central bank official said
inflation may quicken.  “It’s still not a foregone conclusion that the vote is
going to go through, so that is weighing on sentiment and
weighing on the euro,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “You have
more negative sentiment being fed directly from the euro-zone
periphery.”  The euro dropped 0.6 percent to 114.13 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, from 114.78 yen yesterday. It fell 1.1 percent to 1.18264
Swiss francs, after sliding as much as 1.3 percent to a record
1.1806.  The common currency weakened 0.5 percent to $1.4188, from
$1.4256. The dollar slipped 0.1 percent 80.43 yen, compared with
80.51 yen.  Rand Drops  South Africa ’s currency was the biggest loser against the
dollar, falling 0.9 percent to 6.9005 per dollar, from 6.8358.
It posted a weekly decline of 2.1 percent. The rand dropped 0.4
percent to 9.7907 per euro, from 9.7477.  The euro region accounts for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports and 34 percent of its imports, government data show. The
rand closely tracks the euro, with a correlation of 0.683 this
quarter. A value of 1 would mean they moved in lock step.  The shared currency weakened as Italy’s two largest banks,
UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, led a drop in bank stocks
in Milan. Trading in both firms’ shares was briefly suspended
after breaching limits on intraday swings.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may downgrade
13 Italian banks because they would be vulnerable to a cut in
the government’s credit rating. The firm said last week  Italy ’s
ratings may be cut because of slowing economic growth and the
potential for  Europe ’s debt crisis to drive up borrowing costs.  EU leaders vowed to stave off a Greek default as long as
Prime Minister  George Papandreou , who won a confidence vote this
week by 155-143, pushes through a package of budget cuts and
asset sales.  Focus on Euro  “There’s nothing going on but euro today,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut . “Everybody seems to know what’s
expected over the next few days; the difficulty is achieving it.
The passage of the confidence vote was pretty slim, and all of
Papandreou’s party members backed it, but you can’t assume the
same will happen now.”  Greek lawmakers must approve the 78 billion-euro ($111
billion) austerity package in a vote next week to receive a
fifth loan payment under an existing bailout, as well as future
financing. Failure to secure aid would push Greece to the brink
of default, with the country needing the funds to cover 6.6
billion euros of maturing bonds in August.  Thomas Robopoulos, a lawmaker from the Pasok party, said he
hasn’t decided whether he’ll vote for the government’s medium-
term fiscal plan and implementation law next week. He said by
telephone today he’s leaning toward voting against it.  ‘Dwindling Away’  “The majority that they had for the confidence vote on
Tuesday of 155 seems to be dwindling away,” said  Brown
Brothers ’ McCormick.  European finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
Greece has met conditions for its next aid payment.  Morgan Stanley strategists advised selling the euro against
the dollar, betting it will weaken to $1.36.  The euro earlier rose after the Ifo institute said its
business climate index for June, based on a survey of 7,000
executives, increased to 114.5 in June from 114.2 in May.  The 17-nation currency posted its third weekly decline
against the dollar, the longest losing streak since February. It
fell for a third week against the yen, the longest in five
months.  The Australian dollar gained against half its major peers
after  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Assistant Governor  Philip Lowe 
said that the nation’s biggest mining boom in a century risks
accelerating inflation.  ‘Significant Boom’  “We are looking at a significant boom in investment in the
resources sector at a time when the overall economy has
relatively little spare capacity,” Lowe said in a speech at a
BankSA Trends forum in  Adelaide , Australia. He didn’t
specifically address monetary policy.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  held the benchmark rate at 4.75
percent this month for a sixth straight meeting.  The Aussie gained 0.2 percent to A$1.3524 per euro, from
A$1.3548 yesterday. It fell 0.3 percent to $1.0491, from
$1.0523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  