-- 
Euro Debt Crisis Hurts Eastern Europe’s Confidence, ZEW Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-06-24T10:35:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/euro-debt-crisis-hurts-eastern-europe-s-confidence-zew-says-1-.html
Central and eastern  Europe ’s
economic sentiment indicator, a measure of investor confidence
in the region, plunged to the lowest in more than two years in
June as the euro area’s debt crisis continued, the  ZEW Center
for European Economic Research  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  said.  The index dropped 23.4 points to minus 2.5 points, the
lowest since April 2009, ZEW and Erste Bank said in an e-mailed
statement today.  European Union leaders today vowed to stave off a Greek
default as long as Prime Minister George Papandreou pushes
through a package of budget cuts next week, pledging to do
whatever it takes to stabilize the euro economy. Europe’s latest
attempt to stem the debt crisis came after bonds of debt-
strapped euro nations slumped and officials in the U.S. and
 China  warned that a failure to restore confidence threatened the
world economy.  “Although the majority of experts assess the current
situation in all economies of the central and eastern Europe
region as still rather normal, experts’ expectations for the
next six months could not remain unaffected by the difficulties
in the Eurozone,” ZEW and Erste Bank said in the statement.  Regional Decline  The index plunged for all eight countries in the survey.
Romania posted the biggest drop, falling 24.3 points to 25.8
points. The index also decreased for  Austria , Croatia,  Czech
Republic , Hungary,  Poland , Slovakia and Turkey. Turkey was the
only country with a negative index.  The ZEW index reflects the difference between the
percentage of analysts who have positive outlooks and those with
negative views. Ratings range from a maximum of 100 points to a
minimum of minus 100 points.  In a separate survey published on June 21, Mannheim,
Germany-based ZEW said investor confidence in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, dropped to the lowest in 2 1/2 years in June.
That contrasts with the Munich-based Ifo institute’s index
published today, which surveys 7,000 executives. That index
showed an increase to 114.5 from 114.2 in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  