-- 
Mexico Pressure Mounts as Calderon Defends Security Strategy

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-06-24T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/mexico-pressure-mounts-as-calderon-defends-security-strategy.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
defended his strategy of confronting drug cartels during a
televised meeting with family members of victims of violence
related to organized crime.  “What we have to do is act and confront the criminals,”
Calderon said in the forum held yesterday in  Mexico  City’s
historic Chapultepec Palace. “And that’s what we’ve done, and
what I think should be done.”  Calderon has faced growing criticism for his strategy of
deploying the military and federal police to fight organized
crime. More than 34,000 deaths since he took office in 2006 have
been attributed to organized crime groups that traffic in
narcotics, kidnap and extort from businesses.  Accompanied by Cabinet members, the president listened to
testimony and took questions from Javier Sicilia, a poet whose
son was killed by drug gang members earlier this year, and other
activists that have demanded an end to rising violence.  “In your status as representative of the state, Mr.
President, you are obliged to ask for forgiveness to the nation,
and in particular, from the victims,” Sicilia said during
yesterday’s meeting.  The U.S., as the world’s largest consumer of drugs and the
source of most of the weapons used by Mexican gangs, shares
responsibility for stamping out violence, Calderon has said.  “I demand, Mr. President, as a mother and a representative
of families that have been destroyed, that you fulfill your duty
and find the whereabouts of our children,” said a tearful Maria
Elena Herrera, whose four sons are missing, according to Mexico
City-based daily  Excelsior .  Zetas  Mexico is fighting increasingly violent cartels such as the
Zetas, a group based in northeast Mexico that has been blamed
for mass graves near the U.S. border where 193 bodies were
recovered in April and the killing of a U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agent in February.  The Zetas and other cartels, including those based in the
western state of Sinaloa and the border city of  Ciudad Juarez ,
are fighting each other over lucrative narcotics smuggling
routes into the U.S.  “Before this violence, the state can’t remain
indifferent,” Calderon said. “And what comes next is for the
state to act and not retreat, because Mexicans cannot remain
immobile, passive, indolent, and quiet.”  Calderon wants to increase his focus on the victims of the
conflict without changing his central strategy of confronting
the armed groups, said  Jorge Chabat , a political science
professor at the Center for Economic Research and Teaching in
Mexico City.  ‘Human Tragedy’  “There’s a human tragedy that’s sometimes lost from view,
the victims of this war, the widows, the orphans that have first
and last names,” Chabat said in a telephone interview from  New
York .  Violence is unlikely to diminish in the short term, Chabat
said.  “I don’t see a radical change as feasible at this point,”
he said. “I don’t see what else you can do facing a serious
crisis. I can’t imagine how else they’d face the Zetas, for
example, if it’s not with public force.”  Deaths related to drug trafficking increased almost 60
percent in Mexico last year. The government estimates the
violence shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output
annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  