-- 
Falcao Agrees Chelsea Deal in Principle; Barca Bids for Fabregas: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-24T06:08:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/falcao-agrees-chelsea-deal-in-principle-barca-bids-for-fabregas-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Contract in Principle  Chelsea moved nearer to a 26.5 million-pound ($42.5 million)
deal for Porto’s Radamel Falcao after the Colombian striker
accepted in principle a contract with the Premier League club
worth 5 million pounds a year, the  Daily Mail   reported .  Falcao, who scored 39 goals last season, is set to follow
Andre Villas-Boas, his former manager at Porto, to Stamford
Bridge and officially sign on July 1, the Mail said.  Drogba to Stay  Villas-Boas remains open to the possibility of  Didier Drogba  extending his contract at Chelsea even if the Blues
complete the signing of Falcao, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  While it had been widely assumed that Drogba would leave
this off-season, Chelsea has been impressed by the Ivory Coast
striker’s performances and attitude since the 50 million-pound
arrival of  Fernando Torres  in January, the newspaper said.  Barcelona Bid  European champion Barcelona formally tabled a bid of 27
million pounds for Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas that was
immediately rejected, the Sun  reported .  Although Barcelona is ready to increase its offer to 30
million pounds, that won’t be enough to tempt Arsenal manager
 Arsene Wenger  to sell, the newspaper said. Barcelona had two
bids rejected last year for Fabregas, who is still keen to
return to the club where he began his career, the Sun added.  Talks Reopened  Arsenal reopened talks to sign Argentine midfielder Ricardo
Alvarez after negotiations with Velez Sarsfield broke down last
month because the Gunners were unwilling to pay the 11 million-
pound asking price, the Mail  reported .  Arsenal is in pole position to acquire the 6-foot-2 Alvarez,
who can play cross the midfield, though faces competition from
 Inter Milan , Malaga, Sevilla, Roma and Schalke, the Mail said.  Sandro Sale  Tottenham is considering selling Brazilian midfielder
Sandro to Spanish team Villarreal for 12 million pounds, the
Mirror  reported . Sandro is also wanted by Italiam Serie A club
Roma, which has been trying to involve him in a swap deal for
striker Mirko Vucinic, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  