-- 
Fed’s Fisher Sees Growth Accelerating in Second Half While Remaining Slow

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c K e e   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-06-24T15:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/fed-s-fisher-sees-u-s-growth-picking-up-amid-slow-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
President  Richard Fisher  said he sees economic growth picking up
in the second half while remaining slow, and the Fed sustaining
its record asset holdings for an “appropriate” period.  “It’s going to take quite some time to achieve a glide
path that brings unemployment down significantly,” Fisher said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Dallas.
“It’s a slow recovery and it’s going to continue to be slow.”  Fisher supported the Federal Open Market Committee’s
decision this week to maintain record monetary stimulus after
completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases as scheduled this
month. The FOMC reiterated its pledge to keep the benchmark
interest rate near zero for an “extended period” and said the
slowdown is probably the result of temporary disruptions,
including high energy prices and  Japan ’s earthquake and nuclear
disaster.  “There’s not a lot of dissent within the committee” on
the economic outlook, Fisher said.  Fed policy makers this week reduced their forecasts for
economic growth and employment this year and next. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a June 22 press conference that while
the outlook for jobs and inflation is better than before the
latest bond purchases, he’s not sure how long the economic
headwinds will persist.  Economy Grew  Fisher spoke minutes after the U.S. government reported
that the world’s largest economy grew at a 1.9 percent pace in
the first quarter, matching the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and following a 3.1 percent gain in
the prior quarter. The government last month estimated first-
quarter growth at 1.8 percent. Today’s figures also showed
inflation climbed more than previously calculated.  “We are devoted absolutely to making sure that we don’t
give rise to sustainable inflationary pressures that could be
destructive,” Fisher said. “I very much look forward to an
exit when it’s appropriate.”  He indicated that raising interest rates or selling
mortgage debt and Treasuries on the Fed’s balance sheet won’t
come soon. “Right now the economy is weak,” Fisher said.  “We’ve stopped additional purchases of long-term assets,
and we’ll have to see how that’s digested by the economy before
we talk about” the exit, he said. “No final decision has been
made” on the sequence of tools to be used to tighten monetary
policy.  ‘Deep Hole’  The U.S. is in a “deep hole of unemployment,” Fisher
said. Employers added 54,000 jobs in May, down from 232,000 in
April, while the jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent, the second
straight increase after dropping 1 percentage point since
November in the biggest four-month decline since 1984.  The FOMC said this week it will continue the policy of
reinvesting proceeds of maturing mortgage and Treasury debt
without putting a time period on the policy. The Fed’s balance
sheet rose to a record $2.86 trillion as of June 22. Fisher said
in the interview that the reinvestment policy will stay in place
“for as long as is appropriate.”  Speaking in a Bloomberg Radio interview today after the
televised remarks, Fisher said reducing the 0.25 percent
interest rate paid on banks’ reserves may not spur additional
lending.  Banks are “looking for people to lend money to” so the
institutions can profit, Fisher said. “If you can name a single
banker who’s happy earning 25 basis points, I’ll give you a gold
star.” A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Lowest Level  Asked about a Bloomberg Poll this month showing that
Bernanke’s standing with the public has slid to its lowest level
in almost two years of polling on the issue, Fisher responded
that “we’re not in this business to be popular.” He said the
Fed is more popular than Congress, which he would tell to
“clean up your own house” by reducing the federal  budget
deficit .  Fisher reiterated his view that Congress’s dual mandate to
the Fed to achieve maximum employment and stable prices
“confuses things a little bit.”  “I’m a big fan of inflation being our principal
occupation,” he said.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. When he last had an FOMC vote in 2008, he dissented five
times in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McKee in Dallas at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  