-- 
Florence + the Machine, Glover, Cunning Vixen: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-06-24T14:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/florence-machine-glover-cunning-vixen-judd-n-y-weekend.html
Fiery songbird Florence + the
Machine will play Central Park Summerstage on Friday night.  Her  debut album , “Lungs,” is packed with high-energy jams
that show off Florence Welch’s soaring voice.  A 2010 Grammy nominee for Best New Artist, she and her
machine are a powerhouse in concert as her strident vocals
emerge from a blur of blood-red mane.  Rumsey Playfield in Central Park at 69th St. Information:
+1-212-360-2777;  http://www.summerstage.org .  Saturday  It’s the last chance to catch  Donald Judd ’s sleek anodized
boxes at  David Zwirner .  Two films will be screened on this closing day: “The
Artist’s Studio: Donald Judd,” by Michael Blackwood, runs in a
continuous loop from 10:30 a.m. through 12:30 p.m.  “Marfa Voices,” created by Judd’s daughter, Rainer,
screens at 1, 3 and 5 p.m. She will be present to show excerpts
from the Oral History Project focusing on Judd and the New York
art world from the 1960s through the 1980s.  519 W. 19th St. Information: +1-212-727-2070;
 http://www.davidzwirner.com .  Saturday Matinee  Tap meister Savion Glover brings his “SoLe Sanctuary” to
the Joyce, so get ready for explosively virtuosic footwork.  Marshall Davis Jr., who appeared with him in the Tony
award-winning “Bring in Da’ Noise Bring in Da’ Funk,” joins him
onstage for some great moves.  You also may have seen Glover’s fancy hoofing when he
donned a motion capture body suit to become the penguin Mumbles,
star of the animated film “Happy Feet.”  There’s no one remotely like him.  At the Joyce Theater, 175 8th Ave. until July 9.
Information: +1-212-242-0800;  http://www.joyce.org .  Saturday Night  Too bad a sentient human didn’t write the libretto for
Janacek’s dopey “The Cunning Little Vixen.” But the orchestral
music is nicely lush, which is surely why the doomed little fox
and her critter friends are scurrying around the podium of  Alan Gilbert  at the  New York Philharmonic .  The eye-pleasing production by Doug Fitch, who did the more
adventurous “Le Grand Macabre” last season, features a lot of
kids in fanciful bug and creature costumes. The comical chickens
are especially nice and provoked appreciative sounds from the
packed auditorium.  There was a nice buzz about the place at the opening on
Wednesday, when the lights went down and the stage started to
take on a mysterious glow. Gilbert and his orchestra played in a
field of huge sunflowers. Could they keep it on a permanent
basis?  In a sizable cast of rather underwritten roles, soprano
Isabel Bayrakdarian was an especially comely Vixen, while
Melissa Parks stormed about amusingly as wife of the Forester.  Lincoln Center at 8 p.m. Information: +1-212-875-5656;
 http://nyphil.org .  Sunday  There’s Jackie Kennedy, grieving behind a black veil at her
husband’s funeral,  Robert Kennedy  standing close by.  And there’s a dreamy, smiling  Marilyn Monroe , her index
finger lifting up an eyebrow.  Nixon pokes Gorbachev in the chest, Che Guevara smokes, and
dogs appear in all their idiosyncratic glory.  They’re all part of the Elliott Erwitt retrospective at the
International Center of Photography. A long-time Magnum
photographer, Erwitt captured some of the most memorable and
charming images, and you can see more than 100 of them here.  Through Aug. 28 at 1133 Avenue of the Americas.
Information: +1-212-857-0000;  http://www.icp.org .  Sunday Matinee  In “The Eyes of Babylon,” Jeff Key gives voice to his own
violent, honest Iraq war journals.  Though the language can be forced and overwrought at times,
Key hits a high-note near the end of this densely packed, 90-
minute piece. One entry becomes an explosive bit of slam poetry
that shocks the audience, forcefully pulling us into the deepest
corners of his dangerous subconscious.  You won’t soon forget it or him.  Through July 3 at 59E59 Theaters, 59 E. 59th St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200; www.59e59.org.  (With assistance from Jacob Henkoff and Manuela Hoelterhoff. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 