-- 
Former Premier Zhu Rongji Stirs China Property Policy Debate on Price Gain

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-24T06:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/former-premier-zhu-rongji-stirs-china-property-policy-debate-on-price-gain.html
Former Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji’s
recent criticism of the country’s property policy underscores
the debate over the extent to which rising real estate prices
are benefiting the country as a whole.  Zhu, who served as premier from 1998 to 2003, said in a
speech at Beijing’s  Tsinghua University  that a decision to allow
local governments to pocket money from land sales contributed to
rising property prices and has been like “plundering” from the
people. The remarks are spurring discussion in China because
they reflect people’s dissatisfaction, said  Joseph Cheng , a
political-science professor at the City University of  Hong Kong .  The comments by Zhu reflect a 1994 policy that boosted
local government revenue as property prices soared. Discontent
over China’s widening income gap and corruption has deepened,
contributing to riots and demonstrations in some regions.  “We formulated a wrong policy by letting local governments
pocket all of the land sale revenue without taking some for the
national budget,” Zhu said in April at a 100th anniversary
celebration for Tsinghua University, according to a report by
the website of  Phoenix TV . “The money is like plundering from
people and has lifted up land prices so much.”  While President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  have been
seeking to cool down the real estate market by imposing tougher
requirements on mortgage applications and building more
affordable housing, the trend has yet to reverse. New home
prices rose in 67 or 70 cities in May, according to the National
Bureau of Statistics.  “We can’t say Zhu is criticizing the government but his
comments reflect people’s dissatisfaction over the current
situation,” said City University of Hong Kong’s Cheng. Almost
three-fourths of people think property prices are too high,
according to a People’s Bank of  China  survey released this month.  In some cases, land sales account for over 60 percent of
local government revenue, Cheng said. He praised efforts to
build affordable housing to reduce conflicts over the widening
wealth gap, while adding it remains to be seen whether local
governments will provide financial support for the effort.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  