-- 
Fracking Gold Rush Lifts Halliburton as Well Backlog Swells

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-06-24T19:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/fracking-gold-rush-lifts-halliburton-prices-as-backlog-swells.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) 
may have the power to charge higher prices for their oilfield
services through 2012 thanks to a backlog of unfinished oil and
natural-gas wells that tripled in the past year.  The number of onshore wells in the U.S. and  Canada  waiting
in line for the workers and equipment needed to complete them
for production has risen to 3,500 from 1,145 in the second
quarter 2010, according to a Halliburton count. Producers are
seeing delays as long as six months.  The North American onshore drilling boom, driven by
companies rushing to exploit shale-rock formations, sent demand
skyrocketing for oilfield services such as hydraulic fracturing
that cracks the rock to release gas and oil. Rigs drilling on
land in the U.S. increased by 20 percent in the past year to
1,833 today, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data.  Servicers are “like the people that sold the picks and
shovels during the gold rush in  California ,” said Allen Brooks,
managing director with Houston-based investment bank Parks Paton
Hoepfl & Brown.  The swelling backlog of wells to be completed gave oilfield
services companies the power to raise prices more than 16
percent last year. It may accelerate consolidation in the
industry as companies expand to meet demand, said  Brian Uhlmer ,
an analyst at Global Hunter Securities in Houston.  The Philadelphia  Oil Service Sector Index (OSX) , a group of 15
names, has climbed 46 percent over the past year, while the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index is up 17 percent, and the S&P’s
explorers and producers index has risen 24 percent.  Rising Earnings  Halliburton, Schlumberger and Baker Hughes, the largest
providers of hydraulic fracturing services in the U.S. with more
than 1 million horsepower each in pressure pumping equipment,
are expected to expand earnings 46 percent this year to an
average of $3.62 per share, and another 33 percent in 2012,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  New technology allows rigs to punch holes in the ground
faster, while advanced production techniques mean it takes
longer to finish the well, including multiple rounds of
hydraulic fracturing that injects a mixture of water, sand and
chemicals into the well to break open the rock so oil and gas
can flow.  Demand for so-called fracking may continue to exceed supply
into 2013, Uhlmer said.  ‘Can’t Get Enough’  “Right now our customers can’t get enough of us,” Mark McCollum, chief financial officer of Halliburton, told analysts
and investors on May 24. “There’s really been no discussions on
any customers’ point of slowing this process down for the
foreseeable future.”  Explorers and producers are expected to spend $122 billion
in the U.S. this year, 22 percent more than last year, James Crandell and Omar Nokta, analysts at Dahlman Rose & Co., wrote
in a June 7 note to investors.  Kurt Hallead , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in
December that fracking prices that rose 16 percent in the first
half of 2010 would continue to climb this year on shortages of
equipment.  Whiting Petroleum Corp. (WLL) , a Denver-based oil producer, has
seen a 10 percent increase in total well costs in  North Dakota ’s
Bakken Shale in the past year, John Kelso, director of  investor
relations , said. The biggest driver of the increase is a 20
percent to 30 percent jump in the cost of fracking, he said.  Revenue from pressure pumping, used in fracking onshore
wells, should surpass offshore drilling this year to become the
largest segment in the equipment and service industry, according
to a May 31 note to investors from Global Hunter, citing Spears
& Associates.  Shaving Time  Improved technology has helped producers offset some of the
service cost increases by saving money on the drilling phase.
Hi-tech rigs have shaved roughly 40 percent in the past four
years off the time it takes to drill a well in the Bakken, rig
owner  Helmerich & Payne Inc. (HP)  has said.  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) , the most active driller in
 Arkansas ’ Fayetteville Shale, sped up drilling in the formation
to an average 8 to 9 days this year from 10 to 11 days in 2010.
That’s partly due to clustering up to 10 wells, all drilled
horizontally in different directions from the same drilling site,
known as a pad. Previously, it took days to move a rig miles to
drill on different sites before leases expired.  “When you’re on the pad, you can move to the next well in
two hours,” said Brad Sylvester, vice president at Southwestern
Energy said. Faster drilling has allowed Southwestern to keep
average well costs flat at $2.8 million, he said.  Speeding the Drill  In  Texas ’ Eagle Ford Shale, where deeper deposits take
longer to reach than shallower formations, Petrohawk has cut its
drilling time to 30 days from 38, Joan Dunlap, the company’s
vice president, said. It means the company can use 14 rigs,
which can cost more than $25,000 a day, instead of 15 to meet
its drilling goals this year.  The drilling efficiency has amplified the backlog in
unfinished wells, sustaining higher demand for oilfield services,
said  Scott Hanold , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in
 Minneapolis .  Servicers and drillers must add 19,000 new workers, a 35
percent jump, to meet demand by the end of 2012, said Global
Hunter’s Uhlmer. Halliburton, Schlumberger and Baker Hughes are
expected to expand their offerings by at least 30 percent,
according to Global Hunter.  Acquisitions Accelerating  Basic Energy Services Inc. (BAS)  said June 2 it signed a letter
of intent to spend $180 million to buy the Maverick group of
companies, which provides fracking services.  As many as 10 venture-capital and private equity firms are
shopping among roughly 100 “mom and pop” oilfield service
firms to consolidate into larger companies about $1 billion in
size, said Charles Swanson, managing partner of the Houston
office for Ernst & Young LLP, which audits the targeted
companies for buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  