-- 
Gangrenous Bowel Shows Deadly Risk of German E. Coli Bug, Study Says

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-06-24T03:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/gangrenous-bowel-shows-deadly-risk-of-e-coli.html
An elderly woman needed emergency
surgery to remove half her bowel after being infected with E.
coli, highlighting a life-threatening risk from the bacterium
responsible for a diarrhea outbreak in  Germany , doctors said.  Toxins produced by the new O104  E. coli  strain cut blood
supply to part of the woman’s colon, causing it to become
gangrenous, according to a report yesterday in  Eurosurveillance ,
a weekly newsletter on infectious diseases. The woman, in her
80s, also developed confusion and other neurological
complications because of the infection, wrote doctors in the
West German city of Muenster, where she was treated.  Their findings suggest doctors should watch for unexpected
complications caused by the bowel-dwelling bug, and consider
examining the gastrointestinal tract with an  endoscope  to help
diagnose cases. Almost 4,000 people in more than a dozen
European nations are  reported  to have been sickened in the
outbreak and 43 people have died. Contaminated sprouts have been
blamed, raising concern about intensive food production methods.  “We’re more likely to see these things because we’re
becoming more reliant on mass-produced, pre-prepared foods,”
said  James Paton , head of the bacterial pathogenesis laboratory
at the University of Adelaide in  South Australia , who wasn’t
involved in the study. “If you do get failure of process at one
point, it can be distributed far and wide.”  The German E. coli epidemic was more deadly than previous
outbreaks because the pathogen produced a poisonous by-product
called Shiga toxin and had the ability to stack together and
stick to the gut, researchers led by Helge Karch, director of
the Hygiene Institute at the University of Muenster, said in an
 article published  online this week in the Lancet Infectious
Diseases journal.  Kidney Complication  The unusual combination of traits made it more likely for
infected people to develop a potentially fatal kidney
complication called hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, the
researchers said. The same mechanism responsible for the kidney
damage may also cause blockages in the tiny blood vessels
supplying the gastrointestinal tract, Paton said.  As of yesterday, the outbreak had sickened 3,792 people in
the European Union, including 862 with HUS, and killed 43,
according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control in  Stockholm .  Severe infection with the bug usually presented as a
disease in three phases, the ECDC’s Andreas Jansen wrote in a
separate  report  in Eurosurveillance yesterday. Four out of five
patients suffered from bloody diarrhea on hospital admission,
with the remainder experiencing watery diarrhea.  Stupor, Seizures  A quarter of patients with bloody diarrhea developed signs
of HUS three to five days later. Surprisingly, severe
neurological symptoms developed after 3 to 10 days in about half
of HUS patients, even though their illness appeared to be
improving, Jansen wrote.  “These patients who had at first seemed to improve or
respond to therapy, deteriorated again,’’ he said. “Some
patients even had to be re-hospitalized three to four days after
they had been discharged.’’  Neurological symptoms ranged from mild disorientation and
cognitive dissociation to stupor and severe, life-threatening
seizures, he said. “Worryingly, especially patients with
seizures seemed to respond only weakly to standard antibody-
based treatment regimes,’’ Jansen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.nete  