-- 
Geithner Says Debt-Limit Deal Will ‘Absolutely’ Be Reached

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-06-24T19:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/geithner-says-deal-on-debt-limit-will-absolutely-be-reached.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he “absolutely” expects an agreement to be
reached on increasing the $14.3 trillion federal debt limit.  “We are going to avoid a default crisis because we are a
country that meets its obligations,” Geithner told reporters
today in Manchester, New Hampshire. “We have no alternative.
That’s recognized by the leadership in both houses, by both
parties, but we are also going to reach an agreement to try to
bring down long-term deficits.”  Geithner, 49, was in New Hampshire to meet with local
business leaders in Manchester. Later in the day, he will
participate in a lecture at  Dartmouth College , the secretary’s
alma mater.  President Barack Obama will meet with Senate Democratic
leader Harry Reid and Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  next
week in an effort to revive talks on the budget and deficit, the
administration announced today. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and second-ranking Senate Republican Jon Kyl yesterday
walked away from a seven-week-long negotiating effort led by
Vice President Joe Biden.  “Longer term, the only way you can do this is to do it
with balance,” Geithner said. “We need to have some very
substantial savings across the government, across all parts of
the U.S. government. You need to have some modest changes to
revenues to find balance. There is no way to do it without
that.”  Boehner’s Conditions  House Speaker John Boehner today set out conditions for
raising the debt ceiling, including no tax increases, dramatic
spending cuts and a government spending overhaul. Democrats want
to eliminate tax breaks for corporations including oil and gas
companies, according to Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Democratic participant in the Biden group.  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. risks defaulting
on its debts starting Aug. 2 without an increase in the ceiling.
Moody’s Investors Service this month said it will put the U.S.
government’s Aaa  credit rating  under review for a downgrade
unless there’s progress on increasing the limit by mid-July.  Standard & Poor’s  in April put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its top credit rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt.  Treasury Yields  So far, the concern about the deficit hasn’t driven U.S.
borrowing costs to above-average levels. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.89 percent late yesterday
in  New York . That’s below the average of 7 percent since 1980
and the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Geithner, in an interview with CNBC today, said that with
long-term U.S. economic growth of about 2.5 percent, the
 unemployment rate  “will gradually come down.” Government data
today showed the economy grew at a 1.9 percent pace in the first
quarter, marking the start of what the Federal Reserve projects
is a temporary slowdown in the recovery.  Geithner, in his remarks in Manchester today, also said
“any feasible solution for Greece is going to have to combine
some very tough economic reforms with some temporary financial
assistance as a backstop to let those reforms work.”  European Union leaders vowed today to stave off a Greek
default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes
through a package of budget cuts next week, pledging to do
whatever it takes to stabilize the euro economy.  “We have agreed that there will be a new program for
Greece,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters at an
EU summit in Brussels. “This is an important decision that says
once again we will do everything to stabilize the euro
overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Manchester,  New Hampshire , at 
4368 or  chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  