-- 
Geithner Predicts ‘Political Theater’ Before Congress’s Debt-Ceiling Vote

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-06-24T22:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/geithner-predicts-political-theater-in-washington-before-debt-limit-vote.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Congress will raise the $14.3 trillion federal
debt limit even after weeks of political posturing.  “You’re going to see a lot of political theater around
this in the next couple of weeks,” Geithner said during a forum
today at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover, New Hampshire. “There
will be six episodes of failure before people do the right
thing.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and second-ranking Senate
Republican Jon Kyl yesterday walked away from a seven-week-long
negotiating effort led by Vice President Joe Biden on the budget
and deficit. President  Barack Obama  will meet with Senate
Democratic leader Harry Reid and Republican leader Mitch McConnell next week in an effort to revive talks, the
administration announced today.  “There are a lot of people on both sides of the American
political spectrum now that would rather have a fight than
actually do something,” Geithner said at Dartmouth, where he
graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 1983. Some have a
“dangerous illusion that somehow if we defaulted on our debt,
stopped paying our obligations, that would be a way to balance
our budget,” he said.  “No responsible person believes that, and the leadership
of the Congress understands that’s not possible,” he said.  Geithner said U.S. economic growth in the first half of the
year was dampened by elevated  oil prices , the consequences of
the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and inclement weather in the
U.S. He said growth is likely to pick up in the second half.  Avoid Default  “We are going to avoid a default crisis because we are a
country that meets its obligations,” Geithner, 49, told
reporters earlier today in Manchester, New Hampshire, where he
met with local business leaders. “We are also going to reach an
agreement to try to bring down long-term deficits.”  “Longer term, the only way you can do this is to do it
with balance,” Geithner said. “We need to have some very
substantial savings across the government, across all parts of
the U.S. government. You need to have some modest changes to
revenues to find balance. There is no way to do it without
that.”  House Speaker John Boehner today set out conditions for
raising the debt ceiling, including spending cuts, no tax
increases and a government spending overhaul. Democrats want to
eliminate tax breaks for corporations including oil and gas
companies, said Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a
Democratic participant in the Biden group.  Debt Review  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. risks defaulting
on its debts starting Aug. 2 without an increase in the ceiling.
Moody’s Investors Service this month said it will put the U.S.
government’s Aaa  credit rating  under review for a downgrade
unless there’s progress on increasing the limit by mid-July.  Standard & Poor’s  in April put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its top credit rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt.  So far, the concern about the deficit hasn’t driven U.S.
borrowing costs to above-average levels. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.87 percent at 5:11 p.m. in
 New York  and earlier touched 2.85 percent, the lowest level
since Dec. 1. That’s below the average of 7 percent since 1980
and the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Unemployment Rate  Geithner, in an interview with CNBC today, said that with
long-term U.S. economic growth of about 2.5 percent, the
unemployment rate “will gradually come down.” Government data
today showed the economy grew at a 1.9 percent pace in the first
quarter, marking the start of what the Federal Reserve projects
is a temporary slowdown in the recovery.  Geithner, in his remarks in Manchester, also said that
“any feasible solution for  Greece  is going to have to combine
some very tough economic reforms with some temporary financial
assistance as a backstop to let those reforms work.”  European Union leaders vowed today to stave off a Greek
default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes
through a package of budget cuts next week, pledging to do
whatever it takes to stabilize the euro economy.  “We have agreed that there will be a new program for
Greece,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters at an
EU summit in Brussels. “This is an important decision that says
once again we will do everything to stabilize the euro
overall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Hanover,  New Hampshire , at 
4368 or  chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  