-- 
Generic Tuberculosis Medicine Shows Promise for Reversing Type 1 Diabetes

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-24T21:21:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/generic-tuberculosis-medicine-shows-promise-for-reversing-type-1-diabetes.html
An 80-year-old drug used to protect
people against tuberculosis may help reverse  Type 1 diabetes ,
the most severe form of the disease, in patients who have had it
for years, an early study in six patients found.  The medicine killed abnormal white blood cells that
interfere with insulin production in the pancreas, according to
the study presented at the  American Diabetes Association  meeting
in  San Diego . Patients getting two small doses four weeks apart
showed signs of restored insulin production for about a week,
Denise Faustman, director of the Massachusetts General Hospital
Immunobiology Laboratory, said in a telephone interview.  While many researchers are looking for ways to stop Type 1
diabetes in newly diagnosed patients who still produce some
insulin naturally, there are few options for people who have had
the disease for more than a decade, she said. The findings
suggest it may be possible to regenerate the critical pancreatic
cells, she said.  “The trial effectively is showing for the first time that
the pancreas can turn on briefly after the first wave of killing
the bad T cells,” those that attack the insulin producing cells
in the pancreas, she said. While scientists may disagree about
how the cells are restored, “if you are a long-term diabetic,
you probably don’t care. It’s my conclusion that the pancreas
has many ways to regenerate,” she said.  Immune System  About  25.8 million  people in the U.S. have diabetes,
according to the  American Diabetes Association . As many as 10
percent have Type 1, where the body’s immune system attacks
pancreatic cells that produce insulin, the hormone that enables
the body to use sugar for energy. Most diabetics have Type 2, an
illness linked to obesity and resistance to insulin.  The drug, known as  bacillus Calmette-Guerin  or BCG, can
boost levels of tumor necrosis factor, an immune modulator that
has been shown in laboratory tests to eliminate the damaging
white blood cells responsible for diabetes, Faustman said.  The Iacocca Foundation provided funding for the study. A
second, larger trial is in development, Faustman said. The goal
for the second study is to spark insulin production again,
maintain it for a longer period and see how high they can get
it, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  