-- 
Banks, Insurers Said to Signal Willingness to Aid Greece on Right Terms

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-06-24T12:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/german-banks-insurers-said-to-continue-talks-on-greece-today.html
Germany ’s biggest banks and
insurers, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Allianz SE (ALV) , signaled a
willingness to roll over maturing Greek debt if governments
offer guarantees and other European lenders also participate,
according to five people with knowledge of the situation.  Talks between financial companies, the  finance ministry  and
central bank officials resumed at 10 a.m. Frankfurt time today
after a June 22 gathering was hampered by storms, preventing
participants from traveling to attend, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed last week to pursue a Vienna-style
solution, encouraging creditors to replace expiring bonds that
would buy time until Greece’s austerity program bears fruit or a
permanent rescue fund kicks in from mid-2013. A linchpin in the
effort to save the first euro-area country from default would be
a pledge by the private sector to share the burden with
taxpayers.  “There will be some participation because banks and
insurance companies know that public opinion is demanding that
private investors have to contribute to the rescue package,”
said  Konrad Becker , a Munich-based analyst at Merck Finck & Co.
“They know that they are depending on state help in any case of
emergency that may come in the next two or three years because
of the euro and debt crisis.”  High-Level Meetings  Under discussion at today’s working-level talks is how much
German banks and insurers will contribute in total and whether
each company’s share will be based on its size and financial
strength or its current Greek holdings, one of the people said.
The meeting may be followed next week by meetings with top
executives and policy makers, the people said.  The banks and insurers have been given until June 26 to
provide details of their Greek sovereign exposure as well as
proposals on how much they are willing to roll over, the people
said.  A year after the first bailout for  Greece  that aimed to
stop the spread of the debt crisis, the country remains mired in
a third year of recession, shut out of financial markets and
saddled with the biggest debt load in the euro’s history.  European estimates put Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as
much as 170 billion euros ($242 billion). It would be filled by
about 45 billion euros of loans, plus around 57 billion euros in
unspent aid from the 2010 bailout, roughly 30 billion euros in
asset-sale proceeds and about 30 billion euros from creditors.  France, Netherlands  France and the Netherlands have also begun talks with banks
and insurers on getting private investors to participate in a
Greek rescue.  France  held meetings with financial industry
executives on June 22, and the Netherlands has also initiated
discussions with the country’s financial industry on a voluntary
rollover of outstanding Greek debt, people familiar with the
matter said at the time.  “If EU governments would guarantee the debt, banks and
insurers would roll over everything, so it’s not realistic to
expect state guarantees,” said Becker. “Therefore, it will be
a minor part of the outstanding Greek sovereign debt owned by
private investors that is rolled over.”  Holders of Greek debt have a “very high interest” in
achieving a solution to the current crisis, German Finance
Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said today.  Talks with banks and insurers on rolling over their Greek
debt are ongoing and “discretion” is required during the
negotiations, Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin.  Contagion  Asked whether the government will consider incentives to
encourage bondholders to roll over the debt, Kotthaus said that
it was in their own interests to do so.  A French official said on June 22 that details of a Greek
debt rollover package will be completed by a July 3 meeting of
European finance ministers.  Investors say European banks haven’t raised sufficient
capital or cut loans enough to withstand the contagion that may
follow a Greek default. While European lenders reduced their
risk tied to the country by 30 percent to $136.3 billion last
year by not renewing loans, writing down the value of debt and
shifting it off their books, they still have almost $2 trillion
linked to  Portugal , Ireland,  Spain  and  Italy , figures from the
 Bank for International Settlements  show, leaving them vulnerable
if the crisis spreads.  German lenders’ total foreign claims on the Greek public
sector totaled 9.91 billion euros in March, excluding aid
provided by the country’s state development bank KfW Group,
according to Bundesbank data.  Deutsche Bank,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  DZ Bank , HVB Group, WestLB
AG, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, WGZ Bank, DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale, HSH Nordbank AG, Allianz and  Munich Re  are among
the companies invited to the talks, according to the people.
Spokespeople for the banks and insurers either declined to
comment or couldn’t immediately be reached by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  