-- 
Italian, Spanish Government Bonds Drop as Greek Default Concern Persists

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-06-24T15:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/german-bonds-snap-two-day-advance-as-eu-leaders-pledge-to-support-greece.html
Italian and Spanish two-year notes
declined on speculation European leaders’ agreement to give
 Greece  more cash in return for additional liquidity won’t stop
the debt crisis from spreading.  The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
Italian 10-year debt instead of German bunds of similar maturity
widened to a euro-era record. Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday it may downgrade 13 Italian banks. German 10-year
bonds rose even as a report showed business confidence
unexpectedly improved.  “People are genuinely risk-off, and that’s not going to go
away quickly,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European fixed-
income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London .  The Italian two-year note yield rose 11 basis points to
3.28 percent as of 3:17 p.m. in London, after reaching the most
since Nov. 30. Losses by the nation’s 10-year bonds pushed the
spread over German bunds as wide as 213 basis points. Spanish
two-year yields added nine basis points to 3.69 percent.  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond was nine basis points
lower at 16.78 percent, while two-year note yields were 35 basis
points lower at 28.29 percent after climbing above 30 percent
last week. Greek 10-year bonds yielded 1,394 basis points more
than their German counterparts. The spread increased to 1,503
basis points on June 16.  IFO Index  German notes declined earlier as the Ifo institute in
Munich said its June business climate index rose to 114.5 from
114.2 in May. Economists expected business confidence to drop to
113.4, the median of 39 predictions compiled by Bloomberg News
before the release showed.  “The data shows a lot of resilience in the German economy
and solid growth for the months ahead,” said  Karsten Linowsky ,
a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“We would expect bund yields to have potential to rise, just
from the economic conditions. Of course for the short term,
there are other factors driving the market.”  Yields on German two-year notes fell two basis points to
1.35 percent, and slipped earlier to the lowest since Feb. 18.
They jumped by as much as five basis points, the most since June
17, after the Ifo report. The 10-year yield fell two basis
points to 2.84 percent. It was 2.96 percent last week.  Bond Returns  German  government bonds  have handed investors 0.9 percent
this year, while Treasuries returned 3.6 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have shed 19 percent,
while  Portugal  lost investors 21 percent.  Europe ’s leaders said after a summit in Brussels that they
would stave off a Greek default as long as Prime Minister  George
Papandreou  pushes through a package of austerity next week.  Holders of Greek debt have a “very high interest” in
achieving a solution to the current crisis rocking the euro
area, German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said.
Talks with banks and insurers on rolling over their Greek debt
are ongoing and “discretion” is required during the
negotiations, Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin today.  Thomas Robopoulos, a lawmaker for Greece’s ruling Pasok
party, said he hasn’t decided whether he will vote for the
government’s medium-term fiscal plan and implementation law in
Parliament next week. Papandreou survived a confidence motion
this week with no support from the opposition.  “I still fail to see how a second bailout and voluntary
involvement by investors is going to avoid a default” being
declared by ratings companies, said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst
at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “Unless the EU are
happy to provide all the funding for a pretty much unlimited
time, then it’s very hard to see how you get anything else.”  Irish 10-year yields jumped 16 basis points to 11.95
percent, pushing the spread over similar maturity German bunds
to 913 basis points, the most since the euro’s introduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  