-- 
German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Improves as Economy Dodges Crisis

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-24T08:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/german-business-confidence-rises-as-domestic-growth-defies-eu-debt-crisis.html
German business confidence
unexpectedly improved in June, suggesting  Europe ’s largest
economy is weathering the region’s worsening sovereign debt
crisis and slowing global growth.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 114.5
from 114.2 in May. Economists forecast a drop to 113.4, the
median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. The
index remains close to a record high of 115.4 posted in
February.  German companies have boosted output and hiring, pushing
the jobless rate to the lowest in two decades. The Bundesbank on
June 10 raised its economic growth forecast for this year,
calling the recovery “broad based.” Still, the economy may
struggle to maintain its growth momentum as the region’s
governments seek to avert a Greek debt restructuring.  “If executives are this optimistic in light of the Greek
crisis and the U.S. slowdown, that’s the sign of a strong, solid
economy,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover.
“Domestic demand is contributing to growth, insulating
companies somewhat from external headwinds.”  The euro jumped more than half a cent to $1.4282 at 10:51
a.m. in  Frankfurt . While Ifo’s gauge of the current situation
rose to a record 123.3 from 121.5 in May, an index of
executives’ expectations dropped to 106.3 from 107.4.  Growth Forecasts  “Expectations have weakened slightly,” Kai Carstensen,
head of Ifo’s business climate department, told Bloomberg
Television. “For that reason I think that growth will slow down
a little bit, but we will stay in an upswing.”  The Bundesbank forecasts economic growth of 3.1 percent
this year after a record 3.6 percent in 2010. In 2012, the
expansion may weaken to 1.8 percent, it said.  The  International Monetary Fund  on June 17 lowered its
forecast for global growth to 4.3 percent from 4.4 percent,
citing concern about a setback in the U.S. recovery and a
potential contagion from Europe’s debt crisis.  Olivier Blanchard , chief economist at the IMF, said there’s a threat of
sovereign defaults.  European Union leaders today vowed to stave off a Greek
default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes
through a package of budget cuts next week, pledging to do
whatever it takes to stabilize the euro economy.  The  European Central Bank  and the German government have
clashed over how much investors should contribute to alleviating
Greece’s debt load, which reached 143 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010.  Signs of Slowdown  Some companies have already signaled concern that tougher
austerity measures may hurt earnings.  “The worsening debt crisis in several European countries
is affecting our business more and more strongly,” Fritz Oesterle, chief executive officer of Stuttgart-based  Celesio AG (CLS1) ,
Europe’s biggest drug wholesaler, said on June 16.  The German economy is showing signs of slowdown after
expanding 1.5 percent in the first quarter. Manufacturing growth
weakened this month and investor confidence dropped to the
lowest in 2 1/2 years. German exports fell in April.  With governments stepping up budget cuts and cooling global
growth hurting exports, companies may rely on reviving domestic
demand to bolster sales. German unemployment declined for a 23rd
month in May, lowering the jobless rate to 7 percent.  ‘Very Successful’  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  are poised
for further “distinct growth” even as global conditions are
“challenging,” CEO  Martin Winterkorn  said on June 17.
Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, may have another “very
successful” year in 2011, he said.  Services growth unexpectedly accelerated in June,
indicating “German demand could serve as an anchor of the wider
euro-zone economy,” said Christian Schulz, an economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London .  “ Germany ’s domestic economy is doing really well,” said
 Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam.
“That should cushion some of the impact from an expected
slowdown in exports and keep the economy in very good shape.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  