-- 
Germany Picked to Win Women’s World Cup Soccer Playing at Home

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-24T11:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/germany-picked-to-win-women-s-world-cup-soccer-playing-at-home.html
Playing at home makes  Germany  the
favorite to win the  Women’s World Cup  soccer championship for
the third consecutive time, according to U.K. bookmakers.  The Germans have odds of even-money with both William Hill
and Ladbrokes, meaning a successful $10 bet returns $10 plus the
original stake. They’ll face Canada on June 26 in Berlin on the
tournament’s opening day, after Nigeria takes on France in
Sinsheim.  “They’re the host nation, which is a big advantage in any
football tournament,” William Hill spokesman Graham Sharpe said
in an interview. “You’re playing in front of supportive crowds,
you don’t have to go and change climate, change food and
everything else.”  Brazil is the second choice at 9-2, with the two-time
champion U.S. third at 6-1. Germany defeated  Brazil  2-0 in the
final four years ago in  China  to become the first team to
successfully defend its Women’s World Cup title.  The Germans are led by Birgit Prinz, the competition’s all-
time leading scorer with 14 goals, and have 11 players with
previous World Cup experience.  “This World Cup will be the most difficult ever,” German
striker Inka Grings said on the tournament’s  website . “The
pressure is enormous, although I tend to consider that a
positive, and expectations are running incredibly high, despite
the fact the other countries have hardly stood still.”  Brazil is led by Marta, a five-time FIFA World Player of
the Year, who’s scored 10 goals in her previous two World Cup
appearances. The U.S. won the title in 1991 and 1999 and is the
only nation to reach the semifinals at all five previous
editions.  U.S.- North Korea   The Americans play their first match against North Korea on
June 28 in Dresden, while Brazil opens the next day against
 Australia  in Moenchengladbach.  The U.S. and Germany have never met in the final. It may
not happen this year, either, since they’ll play in the
semifinals if both win their groups as expected.  “Germany, obviously, being the home team and having home-
field advantage are probably the favorites to win,” said
American forward  Abby Wambach , who has scored nine times in two
previous World Cups. “However, we want to beat them on their
own soil.”  The 16-team field is divided into four groups of four teams,
with the top two in each advancing to the quarterfinals. The
final is July 17 in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 