-- 
Go Daddy Said to Be in $2 Billion Talks to Be Bought by KKR, Silver Lake

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-24T19:54:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/go-daddy-said-to-be-in-2-billion-talks-to-be-bought-by-kkr-silver-lake.html
Go Daddy Group Inc., an Internet
domain-name and hosting company, is in talks to be bought by a
group led by KKR & Co. and  Silver Lake Partners  for more than $2
billion, according to a person with knowledge of the process.  The person declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Go Daddy, a closely held company based in Scottsdale,
 Arizona , has more than  48 million  domains under management.  Go Daddy, which registers domains and hosts  websites  for as
little as $5 a month, has sought to raise its profile in recent
years by running suggestive ads during the  Super Bowl  with race
car driver Danica Patrick. The marketing helped the company
reach small-and medium-sized businesses that need help running
sites, Melanie Posey, analyst with IDC in  New York .  “It’s a market that’s not hard to get into, so there’s a
low barrier to entry but there’s a high barrier to success,”
Posey said. “What Go Daddy has managed to do is kind of achieve
the kind of scale you need to be successful in this market.”  Spokesmen for  Silver Lake  and Go Daddy didn’t return calls
seeking comment. Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based
KKR, declined to comment.  Go Daddy was founded in 1997 by Chief Executive Officer Bob Parsons. Previously, he taught himself computer programming and
started Parsons Technology in 1984 while working in his
basement, according to his  website . A decade later, he says he
sold Parsons to Intuit Inc. for $64 million.  Sixteen Rules  Parsons, who says he was in the U.S. Marine Corps during
the Vietnam War, lists  16 rules  for success in life and business
on his site, including “be quick to decide” and “don’t take
yourself too seriously.”  Silver Lake is a  Menlo Park , California-based private
equity firm that focuses on investing in technology companies.
KKR, the leveraged-buyout firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , invests in private equity, debt and capital markets.  The New York Post  reported  earlier today that KKR is
leading a group that is close to purchasing Go Daddy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net 
Brian Womack at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  