-- 
Goldman Sachs Unit Misstates $242 Billion of Pension Derivatives

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 
2011-06-24T16:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/goldman-pension-buyout-unit-misstated-242-billion-of-derivatives-to-u-k-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s pensions
buyout unit,  Rothesay Life , mistakenly told U.K. regulators it
had entered into derivatives contracts valued at 151 billion
pounds ($242 billion).  The bank overstated the position by a factor of a thousand
in its annual return to the Financial Services Authority, signed
by the unit’s chief executive, Addy Loudiadis, and audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The unit has 151 million pounds of
inflation and interest-rate swaps outstanding, spokeswoman Fiona Laffan said by e-mail today. The firm told the FSA about the
typographical error after filing in March and wasn’t required to
resubmit it, Laffan said. PwC declined to comment.  Goldman, which set up Rothesay in 2007, manages about 4.3
billion pounds of pensions liabilities for companies including
British Airways and  RSA Insurance Group Plc. (RSA)  Firms such as
Rothesay promise to pay pensions if retirees live beyond a
certain age. They typically receive a portion of the pension
plan’s assets in return and try to hedge the risk they take on
with derivatives.  Rothesay has total capital of 161 million pounds, 350
percent more than the regulatory minimum required by the FSA,
according to the filing, and more than competitors including
Pension Insurance Corp.,  Prudential Plc (PRU) , and  Legal & General
Group Plc (LGEN) , according to Goldman Sachs.  Goldman Sachs also disclosed in the filing it assumes
pensioners will live longer than their employers assume. London-
based RSA said in 2009 it expected 65-year-old men to live a
further 22.5 years on average, while Rothesay, which reinsured
the fund the same year, says that these men will live for 25
more years. Rothesay expects a woman aged 45 today to pass their
95th birthday, five years more than RSA’s assumptions.  “The more conservative these assumptions are, the better
capitalised and solvent the insurance company is,” Goldman
Sachs said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 Ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ted Merz in New York at   tmerz@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  