-- 
Greece’s PPC Says Power Cuts to Increase Due to Strike

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-06-24T11:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/greece-s-ppc-says-power-cuts-to-increase-due-to-strike-2-.html
Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , Greece’s
biggest electricity company, will make longer power cuts between
11 a.m. and 4 p.m. local time today to balance demand as workers
strike for a fifth day.  PPC, as the company is called, said it sought to have the
strike by unions declared “illegal and abusive”. A court will
hear the appeal today at 2:30 p.m., according to an e-mailed
 statement  from the Athens-based utility.  The power outages are hurting Greek businesses, already
struggling as a result of Greece’s economic crisis, the  National
Confederation of Commerce  said in an e-mailed statement a day
after the strike began.  The  Thessaloniki Federation of Professional Merchants ,
another trade group, sent a letter to the union, known as Genop,
urging it to suspend power outages, according to an e-mailed
statement sent today. The group said it may seek financial
compensation from the union through legal action if the power
blackouts continue.  “We are not opposed to demonstrations, provided they do
not harm other sectors of the national economy already plagued
by the current economic crisis,” the group said in the
statement.  Rolling Strike  Genop began 48-hour rolling strikes on June 20 to protest
government plans to reduce its stake in the company to 34
percent from 51 percent. The divestment is part of a state asset
sale program that aims to raise 50 billion euros ($72 billion)
through 2015. Parliament is expected to vote on the asset sale
program next week.  PPC said it will cut electricity for periods of as long as
90 minutes today throughout the country, compared to one-hour
periods in the four previous days. The number of areas in
mainland  Greece  facing power outages, including neighborhoods in
Athens and Thessaloniki, has more than doubled, according to an
e-mailed statement from the company.  PPC asked consumers to limit consumption during peak hours,
from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. and from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m., according to
the statement. Power will be cut in some parts of Crete and
Rhodes during peak periods in the evening, PPC said.  Three additional units amounting to 750 megawatts are
offline due to the strike and one unit of 270 MW is offline due
to damage, the Athens-based company said.  PPC said June 20 that
nine of its units with a total power producing capacity of 2,500
megawatts were unable to operate owing to the strike, while
another seven units with 1,000 megawatts of capacity were unable
to re-enter service after a scheduled shut-down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net  or Tom Stoukas at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 