-- 
Greek Long-Term Debt ‘Sustainability’ Is Key to Stability, Venizelos Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-24T18:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/greek-long-term-debt-sustainability-is-key-to-stability-venizelos-says.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said that reducing the country’s long-term debt is the
key issue to be resolved to help bring stability.  “Long-term sustainability of debt is the issue on the
table now because if this isn’t resolved everything else is
insignificant,” Venizelos said in an interview with Alter
television in  Athens  today. “Markets must be convinced that we
have plugged the gaps” and the debt-reduction plan will lead to
a sustainable debt load. “Public debt dynamics are the core of
the problem,’ he said.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government is trying to
rally support for a package of austerity measures worth 78
billion euros to go to parliament next week. European Union
leaders made passage of the package a prerequisite for a new aid
program to avert the euro-area’s first default.  Asked if the EU would really withhold a fifth tranche of
aid if the medium-term plan isn’t voted through, Venizelos said
that the systemic danger posed to the euro may mean EU leaders
“give us the fifth tranche anyway, but that would be it.”  Failure to pass the austerity package would lead the EU to
come up with mechanisms to “isolate” Greece, Venizelos said.
Rather, Greece has a stronger negotiating position as part of
the euro region, he said.  “The national choice is to stay in the  euro zone ,” he
said.  Party Dissent  Venizelos said that he will speak to dissenters from his
Pasok party in a bid to persuade them to back the government’s
austerity measures in the vote, which is due by June 30.  He plans to talk with Pasok lawmakers Thomas Robopoulos,
who has said he hasn’t yet decided how he will his vote, and
Alexandros Athanasiadis, who was cited in To Vima newspaper on
June 14 as saying he wouldn’t back the measures.  “I believe Pasok and all Greek lawmakers from all parties
are responsible and have a sense of national duty,” Venizelos
said, adding that he is open to dialogue with all his
colleagues.  Planned state spending cuts are a priority, and  Greece  will
need measures to stimulate economic growth, Venizelos said.  “We are fully aware of the situation,” he said. “We must
stabilize the situation in order to be able to improve it. We
must follow a plan with specific steps to have results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at   acrawford6@bloomberg.net  