-- 
Gruesome Cigarette-Pack Warnings Say Too Much: Michael Siegel

-- B y   M i c h a e l   S i e g e l
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/gruesome-cigarette-pack-warnings-say-too-much-michael-siegel.html
Over the past few decades, cigarette
makers have gradually lost many of the platforms they once used
to promote their products. Their advertisements are no longer on
TV, in most magazines or on billboards. But the most pervasive
and effective advertising placement still exists: the cigarette
package itself.  Each one bears the brand logo, colorfully designed not only
to help smokers distinguish it from the competition, but also to
give them a sense that this particular brand can play a special
role in their life.  In an attempt to counteract the logo’s allure, beginning in
 September 2012 , federal health officials will require graphic
warning labels to cover the top half of all cigarette packs.
This week, the  Food and Drug Administration  unveiled 36 of the
new labels -- including  images  of rotten teeth, cancer-darkened
lungs, an infant in an incubator, a man in an oxygen mask, even
a corpse. Along with the pictures will be blunt warnings such as
“Cigarettes cause fatal  lung disease ,” “Cigarettes are
addictive” and “Smoking during pregnancy can harm your baby.”  It stands to reason that these stark and gruesome messages
might persuade smokers to quit. Unfortunately, the scientific
evidence suggests it isn’t so simple. In truth, graphic warning
labels have only a marginal effect on cigarette smoking.  The pictures can be alarming at first, but smokers quickly
grow accustomed to them and tune them out. Some evidence
suggests that mortality reminders on cigarette packs may
actually increase the urge to smoke.  Watching the Brain  In  one study , for example, smokers underwent functional MRI
scanning of their brains while they looked at cigarette-pack
warning labels. This technique can show how much oxygen and
glucose are being used by various parts of the brain, indicating
which regions are active. The warning labels clearly activated
not the parts of the brain that register alarm or disapproval,
but rather the  nucleus accumbens , the area that is activated
when someone craves something.  Other  research  at  New York University  involved having
smokers watch movies, some containing warnings reminding smokers
about the potentially fatal consequences of their habit, and
some with warnings that had nothing to do with mortality --
statements such as “Smoking makes you unattractive.” The
death-related warnings actually pushed smokers to have more
positive attitudes about their habit.  A study conducted at the  University of Missouri  likewise
found that students with heavy smoking habits inhaled more
deeply on their cigarettes when confronted with reminders of
their own mortality.  Stress Causes Craving  What these studies remind us is that most smokers smoke
even though they already know cigarettes pose a grave health
risk. By the time they’ve bought a pack of cigarettes, it’s
already too late to persuade them not to have one. A warning
label, no matter how graphic, is no match for the addiction. It
may be just the kind of stress-producer that gives them the urge
for another cigarette.  Young people, especially adolescents, are undeterred by
health warnings because they tend to discount the future
consequences of smoking. Many surveys have verified what is
fairly obvious: In making decisions regarding their health,
young people weigh future effects very little. To the contrary,
the risk of danger helps lure many adolescents to experiment
with cigarettes in the first place.  A further indication that the warning labels might have a
minimal effect on smoking rates is that cigarette maker  Philip
Morris  not only supports them but even negotiated and promoted
the legislation that imposed them in the first place.  Blank Packages  A better approach is one that is being proposed in
 Australia . If the law is passed, then beginning in July of next
year, cigarette packs will be required to carry graphic
warnings, just as they will a few months later in the U.S.
What’s different in Australia is what the law would require for
the rest of the pack: It would need to be blank, with only the
brand name written in a small, plain font. No logos, no color.
Because the pack’s design plays such a critical role in
establishing the brand’s identity, the empty half could, over
the long term, erode the cigarette makers’ ability to make their
brand appealing.  Witness how  tobacco companies  are vigorously opposing
Australia’s proposed policy and working to block the regulation.
 Imperial Tobacco , maker of brands including Davidoff and
Gauloises, complained that plain packaging would “seriously
harm our brands.”  Australia’s regulation -- and the U.S.’s, too -- might be
stronger if it dispensed with the scary pictures and required
all cigarette packs to be blank, nothing more than a white or
tan covering with the brand name in small, nondescript letters.
The cancer photos and strong warnings would be little or no loss
to anyone. But banishment of the logo would take away the
cigarette makers’ last best chance to build their brand.  (Michael Siegel is a professor of community health sciences
at the Boston University School of  Public Health . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Michael Siegel at  mbsiegel@bu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 