-- 
Libyan Rebels in Misrata Urge End of Arms Embargo, Change in NATO Tactics

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-06-24T14:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/libyan-rebels-in-misrata-want-nato-attacks-end-to-weapons-ban.html
Libyan rebels in Misrata called on
the  United Nations  to lift an arms embargo and NATO to counter
the rocketing of the besieged western city by forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  after a week of attacks that killed four people.  The insurgents say restrictions on their acquisition of
heavy weapons and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
failure to counter the bombardment of Misrata’s urban areas by
pro-Qaddafi forces hindered their ability to expand the enclave.  “We need help in two directions: for NATO to change its
attack technique, and also we should get better weapons,” Fathi
Bashaga, a rebel spokesman, said late yesterday in an interview.
“I am asking the UN and NATO to allow us to buy the equipment
and weapons because now we are in a difficult situation.”  Arms shipments to the North African nation are banned by a
resolution the UN Security Council passed in February, the month
that the insurgency against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule began.
NATO-led forces began attacking Qaddafi loyalists in March.  While the rebels command much of the oil-rich east in
addition to Misrata, Qaddafi retains control of Tripoli. He may
be considering leaving the capital, the  Wall Street Journal 
reported today, citing an unidentified U.S. official. The timing
of such a move isn’t known and is probably not imminent, it
said.  Oil Production Cut  The revolt in Libya, which holds  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, has cut off 1.4 million barrels a day of crude
exports.  The oil infrastructure has so far not been significantly
damaged in the fighting, a U.K. Foreign Office official said on
condition of anonymity in keeping with department regulations.  It could take three or four weeks to get wells in the east
working again and to start pumping, he said. Frozen Libyan oil
funds will be made available to rebuild the infrastructure, he
said.  Early today, a series of detonations was heard west of
Misrata, which rebels say marked a third night of NATO attacks
on pro-Gaddafi forces around the nearby town of Zlitan. NATO
warships also bombarded shore targets yesterday, Bashaga said.  Rebel officials say they hope the NATO bombardment will
allow them to push westward, after more than four weeks of being
unable to move the frontline outward from Misrata.  Until a week ago, Misrata’s urban area had not been hit by
attacks in more than a month after pro-Gaddafi forces were
pushed out of the enclave by rebel fighters and bombing.  The four civilians were killed “in long range shelling of
the city” in the past seven days, Ibrahim Betalmal, a rebel
spokesman for Misrata, told reporters at a weekly news
conference yesterday.  During the same period, 38 rebel fighters
were killed, he said.  Betalmal said he had no accurate figure for the number of
dead on the other side.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata,  Libya , at 
 barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 