-- 
Indebted Illinois Stiffs Creditors From Funeral Homes to Xerox

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M e l i s s a   S i l v e r b e r g
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/illinois-stiffs-vendors-from-mortuary-to-ibm-as-4-billion-debt-piles-up.html
In Illinois, you’re never too big or
too small to get stiffed by the state, which is $4 billion
behind in its bills.  International Business Machines Inc. is owed $1.1 million.
 Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  is waiting for a $660,955 check. And the 17th
Street Bar & Grill in Sparta is due $340.52. They are among at
least 8,000 vendors including businesses, charities and
government agencies waiting months for the state to pay up. At
least 114 companies are due more than $1 million, according to
documents from Illinois Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka.  While states periodically fall behind in paying Medicaid
providers or, in the case of California, rely on bank loans and
IOUs, the Illinois backlog has been growing for three years.
It’s forcing some vendors to fire workers, cut services and, if
they can, obtain loans and lines of credit to keep their
businesses going while the state takes months to pay.  “An Illinois phenomenon,” said Ron Ford, CEO of Chicago-
based  Help at Home Inc. , which is owed $43.4 million and hasn’t
heard from the state since December.  Creditors include health and education agencies, schools,
charities, funeral homes, plumbing-and-heating contractors and
purveyors of food, coal, clothing, electronics and pizza.  Deadbeat State  “Banks have refused us a line of credit because of the
state,” said David Baker, who runs the nonprofit  Open Door
Rehabilitation Center  in Sandwich, Illinois, and is owed
$880,000. “We’ve had a long-time relationship with bankers, but
now they wonder ‘What if the state never pays you?’”  State lawmakers last month balked at Governor  Pat Quinn ’s
bonding plan to clear up the debt. Resolving it is a top
priority,  Kelly Kraft , a spokeswoman for the 61-year-old
Democrat, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The backlog, which outstrips  Delaware ’s $3.5 billion
budget, resembles a revolving fund. As the state pays months-old
bills, some dating to last year, new ones are filed.  “We’re going to try and work our way out of it,” Topinka
said in a June 2 interview in her Chicago office. “Don’t expect
this to happen, as I said, tomorrow, because it won’t.”  In January, lawmakers approved increases of 67 percent in
the state income tax and a 46 percent in the corporate income
tax. Those, however, weren’t sufficient to cover the backlog,
and the bills will be passed onto the fiscal year that begins
July 1.  Unpaid-For Pizza  They include $5.5 million owed Wright Express Financial
Services Corp., for gasoline credit-card charges; $1.4 million
for  Xerox Corp. (XRX) ; $11,300 to a downstate restaurant, La Roma
Pizza in Canton; and fees for burying the indigent dead to
almost 100 funeral homes.  “These are small businesses owed $1,100 to $1,500 and
waiting six to nine months to get paid,” said Duane Marsh,
executive director of the Illinois Funeral Directors
Association. “It isn’t chump change.”  Delayed payments are also affecting hospitals, universities
and public-school districts.  “It’s utterly ridiculous,” said Joshua Collins, director
of government relations for the Greater Springfield Chamber of
Commerce. “There is no plan to pay them off.”  As the bills mounted, the cost of insuring $10 million
worth of Illinois bonds against default for 10 years has risen
28 percent since May 20, almost triple the increase in the
Markit MCDX Index of 50 municipal issuers. The index prices were
provided by CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.  Years Behind  Illinois, which borrowed to make its two most recent annual
pension payments, is tied with  California  as the lowest-rated
state in the estimation of Moody’s Investors Service, at A1.  Karen Krop, an analyst with  Fitch Ratings  in  New York , said
the accumulated liabilities contribute to the firm’s A rating,
sixth from the top.  The consequences of years of ignoring bills fall on
organizations such as the South Suburban Council on Alcoholism
and Substance Abuse, in the Chicago suburb of East Hazel Crest.
The nonprofit has an annual budget of $5 million, and 75 percent
of its revenue comes from state funding, said CEO Allen
Sandusky.  Sandusky, whose company was owed as much as $1.4 million,
has cut his staff to 105 from 155 and obtained a $1 million line
of credit at 6 percent interest.  “The state contracts with us to provide services, and we
believe there is an ethical and moral obligation to pay
providers in a timely way,” Sandusky said. “Somehow the human
service system tends to be on the lower end of the priority
list.”  Nowhere to Sleep  Eight of the state’s 10 largest non-government creditors
are health or social-service providers whose outstanding bills
total $176.2 million, according to the comptroller’s office.  “We’re working with less ability to serve a population
that is facing the highest need in our nation’s history,” said
Neli Vazquez-Rowland, president of A Safe Haven, a Chicago-based
organization that offers aid to the homeless and is owed $1.7
million.  “The last thing we want to do is turn them away,” she
said.  Help at Home cares for about 14,000  Illinois  senior
citizens. Ford said his company is fortunate because it is large
-- it operates in 10 states -- and has access to credit. He said
he is compensating by billing other governments more quickly.  “Other states are carrying the Illinois burden,” Ford
said.  Vendors such as Baker, whose Open Door Rehabilitation
Center treats and provides shelter for the developmentally
disabled, aren’t expecting quick relief.  “Our only business is with the state,” Baker said. “You
cross your fingers and live another week, but you can’t continue
to operate with this kind of payment delay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  