-- 
Lilly, Amylin Analysis Finds No Bydureon Effect on Heart Rhythm

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-06-24T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/lilly-amylin-analysis-finds-no-bydureon-effect-on-heart-rhythm.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) ,  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) , and  Alkermes Inc. (ALKS)  said an analysis of a 148-patient
trial found no evidence that their experimental Bydureon
diabetes drug causes prolonged heart rhythms.  The analysis, released in summary form yesterday at the
 American Diabetes Association  annual scientific meeting in  San
Diego , found the drug “did not affect” a heart rhythm called
the QT interval, according to the abstract. The analysis
includes data the companies previously submitted to the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration.  Last October, the FDA refused to approve Bydureon, a weekly
version of Indianapolis-based Lilly and San Diego-based Amylin’s
diabetes drug Byetta. The agency asked the two companies and
Alkermes of Waltham, Massachusetts, to perform a new study
looking at whether high levels of Bydureon can cause an abnormal
heart rhythm that may increase the risk of sudden cardiac death.
The study results will be available in the second half of this
year, said Christian Weyer, senior vice president at Amylin.  The results of the current analysis “are very
reassuring,” Weyer said in a telephone interview. “Ultimately,
we need to await the result of the ongoing study.”  The companies plan to resubmit Bydureon for approval “very
shortly” after the  ongoing study  is completed, he said.  In other research from the meeting, the companies reported
data from a 121-patient study finding that a once-monthly
version of Byetta may produce similar blood sugar control to the
weekly version Bydureon over a 20-week period.  Byetta,  a twice-daily injection that has been sold since
2005, generated $710.2 million in sales last year, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 