-- 
Intel, Rockstar Get Antitrust Approval to Bid for Nortel Patent Assets

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-24T15:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/intel-rockstar-receive-u-s-antitrust-approval-to-bid-for-nortel-patents.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, and Rockstar Bidco LP won approval from U.S.
antitrust regulators to bid for the assets of bankrupt  Nortel
Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)   The Federal Trade Commission named the two companies in an
e-mailed statement today. The bidding process is being reviewed
by the Antitrust Division of the  Justice Department , according
to a person familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified because the process isn’t public.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  got similar approval yesterday to bid for
Nortel’s patents in an auction set for June 27. Nortel, a
Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for bankruptcy in
2009, agreed to sell about 6,000 patents to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for $900
million unless a competitor bids more at the auction.  A call to the New York office of game developer Rockstar
Games to ask if Rockstar Bidco is a related entity was referred
to an e-mail address for press enquiries. No one immediately
responded to an e-mail seeking comment.  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel, declined to comment.  BlackBerry smartphone maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and
Ericsson AB are also weighing bids, people familiar with those
companies’ plans have told Bloomberg News. RPX Corp., a San
Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is also considering a bid,
Andrew Kent, an attorney for the company, said at a bankruptcy
court hearing last month.  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, on June 16 delayed
the auction for a week, citing a “significant level of
interest.” Some Nortel auctions have lasted more than 24 hours,
with several rounds of bidding. The sales have raised about $3
billion to pay the company’s creditors to date.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 