-- 
IRS Chief Tries to Protect Crown-Jewel Computer System From Budget Cuts

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/irs-chief-tries-to-protect-crown-jewel-computer-system-from-budget-cuts.html
A long-awaited modernization of the
 Internal Revenue Service ’s computer system for processing
individual tax returns has evaded lawmakers’ efforts to slice
the agency’s budget by $600 million.  The upgrade, which will allow the  IRS  to process the
returns on a daily instead of a weekly cycle during the 2012
filing season, is part of a business systems modernization
program, begun 12 years ago, that also includes overhauls of the
agency’s electronic tax filing and data retrieval systems.  The plan suffered expensive glitches a decade ago and so
far has cost $3.7 billion. Contractors on the project include
 Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , based in  Falls Church , Virginia; New
York-based Deloitte Consulting LLP; and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
based in Bethesda,  Maryland , according to Bloomberg Government
data.  The heart of the modernization effort involves building a
database, known internally as CADE2 and projected to cost at
least $1.3 billion through 2024. So far, the IRS has spent about
$172 million on what some in the Government Accountability
Office and the tax agency call a crown-jewel database, with $66
million going to CSC.  IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman has augmented
congressionally authorized funding for the project with $89
million in IRS user fees from private legal rulings, installment
agreements and other sources.  ‘Incredibly Important’  “It’s an incredibly important project for the agency,”
Shulman said in a brief telephone interview.  Lawmakers so far have spared the database and other
technology improvements from cuts.  The  House Appropriations Committee  approved yesterday an
IRS budget plan for fiscal 2012 that preserves the Obama
administration’s request for $333 million for the business
systems upgrades, even as it cut $600 million from the rest of
the agency’s proposed budget.  Representative Jo Ann Emerson, a Missouri Republican who
chairs an Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the IRS,
said in a statement June 22 that “outdated systems
substantially reduce the quality of services the IRS is able to
provide tax filers.”  “The technology improvements are on schedule and on
budget, according to the IRS, and this will also speed delivery
of tax refunds to taxpayers, which is a worthwhile goal,”
Emerson said.  The database project has received mostly positive marks
from outside overseers, including the  GAO  and the  Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration . By 2014, the IRS hopes
to retire its mainframe.  History of Bungling  The agency has a history of problems with information
technology projects. Since 1995, the IRS’s systems modernization
efforts have been designated “high risk” and subject to extra
scrutiny by the GAO.  In the late 1990s the IRS abandoned a technology upgrade,
called the Tax System Modernization plan, after spending $2.5
billion, according to congressional testimony by J. Russell George, the Treasury Department’s inspector general for tax
administration.  Early efforts to build a database in the current
modernization program were plagued by delays, prompting sharp
criticism of CSC, the main contractor at the time. In 2003
Commissioner Mark Everson, disturbed by missed deadlines,
ordered an outside review of the contract.  A year later, the delays led the IRS to pull a $40 million
chunk of the contract from CSC.  ‘Lots of Challenges’  “There were lots of challenges and I think IRS and CSC
have taken those on, resolved them and moved on,” said Kevin
Kelley, a CSC vice president who has been involved in the
modernization project since its early days.  A key shift for the IRS came in 2004, when officials began
developing in-house expertise that allowed them to handle such
elements of the upgrade as systems integration and project
management. That change enabled the IRS to improve quality and
cost control.  “There’s just been a huge improvement,” David Powner,
director of information technology management issues at the GAO,
said in a telephone interview. “The IRS is now an organization
that does a lot internally. There’s less reliance on outside
contractors.”  In 2008 the agency simplified the project, sidelining plans
to include  retirement plan  and business tax records in the
database and focusing on a new master file geared to individual
taxpayers.  A preliminary version of the database has been in use for
several years. For the 2010 filing season, according to a March
2011 GAO report, it processed 41 million “relatively simple”
returns -- about 30 percent of total individual returns
received.  Electronic Filing  The database also issued about 36 million refunds totaling
more than $66 billion, the GAO said.  IRS officials have used technology funding to bolster the
agency’s capacity to handle returns filed electronically -- an
option selected this year by more than 100 million taxpayers. It
costs the IRS 17 cents to process an electronic  tax return 
compared with $3.66 for a paper return, according to the agency.  For the 2012 tax season, the IRS expects for the first time
to process all individual returns on a daily cycle, using a
version of the new database with assistance from the agency’s
1960s-era mainframe system modified to run on a daily basis.  That means that once a return has been processed, refunds
can be sent within a day or two “instead of having to wait
until the end of the week or two weeks,” Shulman said. IRS
employees and filers also will have more up-to-date information
on individual accounts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  