-- 
Is Edwards Prosecution Sleazier Than Defendant?: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/is-edwards-prosecution-sleazier-than-defendant-jonathan-alter.html
Prosecutors and defense lawyers were
back in federal court this week working out the schedule for the
trial of former U.S. Senator and presidential candidate  John Edwards .  Everyone on both sides stipulates that Edwards is a sleaze.
But the case against him is so weak that almost no legal experts
outside of the Justice Department think he deserves conviction.  So why a trial and the threat of jail time for a single
parent raising two young children?  For all the publicity about Edwards’s tawdry conduct,
there’s a little-noticed back story to this case that answers
that question -- and helps illuminate how poisonous and
ridiculous American politics has become.  The facts of the case aren’t in dispute. Edwards allegedly
solicited more than $900,000 from two wealthy friends to house
and hush-up his mistress,  Rielle Hunter . (Edwards is
independently wealthy but couldn’t spend his own money on Hunter
without his wife,  Elizabeth Edwards , finding out.)  Because campaign-finance law allowed  donations  of no more
than $2,300 per person in the 2008 presidential primary, the
government claims the gifts from supporters Fred Baron (now
deceased) and Rachel “Bunny” Mellon (a 100-year-old heiress)
were illegal.  Prosecutors argue that, even though the money didn’t go
toward normal campaign expenses such as TV ads and phone banks,
the gifts constituted campaign contributions because they were
used in “an effort to protect and advance his candidacy from
disclosure of an ongoing extramarital affair and the resulting
pregnancy.”  No Intent  But there’s no evidence of an intent to skirt the $2,300
limit, as campaign-finance law would require. Edwards wasn’t
hiding the gifts to avoid violating arcane campaign rules; he
was hiding them to avoid looking like a skunk.  Scott E. Thomas, the former chairman of the  Federal
Election Commission , insists that the Edwards case is not only
not a criminal matter, but it isn’t even a civil violation of
campaign-finance law. Thomas said he believes that the lone FEC
precedent cited by the prosecution “does not support the
government’s novel and misguided theory.”  Intent to avoid embarrassment is an almost-comical legal
standard, but there’s nothing funny about the possible
precedents being set here. If Edwards loses, it would mean that
any friend or relative who provides any personal gifts to any
candidate might be subjecting that candidate to criminal
prosecution.  Your son has given up his job to run for Congress, so you
pay your grandson’s college tuition? That could look like a
backdoor campaign contribution to the feds and suddenly Sonny
Boy is headed for the slammer.  Criminalized Friendship  Talk about perverse. The same legal system that is
prosecuting Edwards for taking money from supporters to shield
himself from personal embarrassment permits special interests
seeking legislative favors to shower members of Congress with
contributions. We’ve criminalized friendship and legalized
bribery.  The whole idea of prison for Edwards is bizarre. Even in
the most serious  FEC  cases, the penalty is almost always a fine
or slap on the wrist. When I asked  Justice Department  officials
for an example of a politician who went to jail for violating
federal campaign-finance laws, they couldn’t come up with one.  So why is this case being brought?  Payback  The explanation begins 20 years ago, when Senate Democrats
blocked the nomination of Judge Terrence Boyle to the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the 4th Circuit, which includes North Carolina.
As payback for impeding his man, then-Senator Jesse Helms
blocked all of the North Carolina judicial nominations of
Edwards and President  Bill Clinton  for eight years. After  George W. Bush  became president, the wheel turned again and Edwards
stymied Republican judges, including Boyle when he was re-
nominated.  One of the main Republicans opposing Edwards in this bitter
struggle over judges was George Holding, who worked for both
Boyle and Helms (and who donated to Edwards’s opponent during
his 1998 Senate campaign).  Holding became the U.S. attorney in eastern  North Carolina 
in 2006. It shouldn’t surprise you that he was the one who first
brought the case against Edwards.  Conflicts of Interest  Despite this obvious conflict of interest, Holding declined
to recuse himself. Instead, he spent almost two years trying to
determine whether the money from Baron and Mellon went into
campaign coffers. When he failed to find that, he hatched a new
legal theory that it didn’t matter -- because the money should
have gone into the campaign.  After President  Barack Obama  took office, the state’s
senior senator,  Richard Burr , wanted Holding to stay on as U.S.
attorney in part to finish the Edwards investigation. Burr said
that Obama’s proposed replacement, Thomas Walker, would have a
conflict of interest in the case because he had donated to
Edwards’s campaign. Funny, Burr didn’t have a problem with
Holding contributing to Edwards’s opponent. I’m shocked.  Spineless Democrats complied. North Carolina’s other
senator, Democrat Kay Hagan, felt she had to prove how much she
disapproved of Edwards and has gone along with Holding (who will
leave his post in July) and Burr.  The same goes for the Obama Justice Department, which is
now running the Edwards prosecution. Attorney General Eric Holder is letting the head of the criminal division (and his
former law partner), Lanny A. Breuer, handle the case.  Internal Politics  It may look less political that way, but it’s just another
kind of politics -- internal Justice Department politics. Once
the case left North Carolina, it became about bolstering the
reputations of prosecutors who like to put notches on their
belts.  Breuer and Jack Smith, of the department’s public integrity
section, need a win. In recent years the department has failed
to bring cases against former Representative  Tom DeLay  and
former Senator  John Ensign  and blown the case against the late
Senator Ted Stevens.  I learned recently that during pretrial plea talks in the
Edwards case, Breuer, determined to make an example, offered a
strange deal: If Edwards pleaded guilty to a felony (which would
wreck almost anything he hopes to do with the rest of his life),
he could avoid jail time. If he pleaded to a misdemeanor, which
he was inclined to do, he would have to serve six months.  After Elizabeth Edwards died in December, he became the
sole parent of Emma Claire, 13, and Jack, 11. He refused the
deal and will take his chances at trial.  It’s hard to shed tears for John Edwards. And plenty of
people serve time in jail when their families need them. But at
a time when the  Supreme Court  has allowed unlimited corporate
money to legally flow into political races, bringing this case
shows colossal misjudgment.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 