-- 
Israel Makes Final Diplomatic Push to Halt Flotilla Bound for Gaza Strip

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-06-25T08:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/israel-makes-final-diplomatic-push-to-halt-flotilla-bound-for-gaza-strip.html
Israel  made a final diplomatic push
to halt a flotilla planning to break its embargo of the Gaza
Strip and prevent confrontation similar to that of a year ago
when nine Turkish activists were killed.  Israel submitted a letter to United Nations Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon this week calling the flotilla a provocation
“designed only to serve an extremist political agenda.”
Israel’s UN Ambassador, Ron Prosor, told  Israel Radio  on June 23
the flotilla’s scope appears to be diminishing and he hopes that
appeals to international leaders may prevent it from sailing.  The U.S. State Department yesterday warned American
citizens that taking part in the flotilla may “violate U.S.
civil and criminal statues” and lead to fines or incarceration.  Israel imposed the embargo after the Islamic Hamas
movement, designated as a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union, seized control of the Gaza Strip in
2007, ending a coalition government with Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas ’sFatah faction a year after winning a
parliamentary vote. Palestinians say the restrictions are
illegal under international law and impoverish the 1.5 million
residents of Gaza, where unemployment is almost 40 percent.  ‘No Responsibility’  The blockade “not only denies the whole of Gaza’s civilian
population the possibility of a normal life, but also
collectively punishes them for acts for which they bear no
responsibility,” Richard Falk, the UN special rapporteur on the
Palestinian Territories,  said  on June 23.  Freedom Flotilla II , the group behind the plan, says it
aims to draw attention to the effects of the embargo and
increase pressure on Israel to end it.  About 10 ships with representatives from 20 countries are
scheduled to set sail for Gaza this weekend in a renewed attempt
to break Israel’s embargo, according to the group’s website.
They are expected to reach Gaza “in the first days of July”
after departing from  Athens  and other European Mediterranean
ports, Dror Feiler, an Israeli-Swedish flotilla organizer, said
in a phone interview.  The international community should work “to guarantee the
arrival of the freedom flotilla to the Gaza and to defy the
Israeli occupation siege,” Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman in
Gaza, said in a statement yesterday.  U.S. Government Warning  The State Department warned U.S. citizens against
“conspiring to deliver material support or other resources to
or for the benefit of a designated foreign terrorist
organization, such as Hamas,” according to an e-mailed
statement from spokeswoman Victoria Nuland. American novelist
Alice Walker, author of “The Color Purple,”  told CNN  this week
she will join the flotilla for the sake of “the Palestinian
children.”  The first Gaza flotilla ended in violence on May 31, 2010,
when Israeli naval commandos rappelled from helicopters and
opened fire after the ship Mavi Marmara, part of a six-boat
flotilla, refused to stop. Israel says people onboard shot first
and attacked with iron bars, a charge they deny.  The day after the raid, the shekel weakened to an almost
10-month low, while the benchmark TA-25  stock index  posted a
two-day drop of 2.6 percent amid concern that criticism over the
raid would spur investors to sell. The stock index has since
rebounded 13 percent.  Apology and Compensation  The raid spurred Turkey to withdraw its ambassador to
Israel and freeze diplomatic contacts until it receives an
apology and compensation. The international pressure it sparked
prompted Israel to relax import restrictions through its border
crossings, while maintaining the naval embargo to prevent arms
smuggling.  No Turkish ships, including the Mavi Mamara, will be taking
part in this flotilla, and the number of same Turks
participating will be “small,” according to spokesman for the
Islamic aid organization  Humanitarian Relief Foundation .  The reduced Turkish presence comes amid reports that
officials from Jerusalem and Ankara are holding talks to try and
repair their relationship. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent a letter to Turkish leader  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
congratulating him on the June 12 elections.  Turkey  was Israel’s closest ally in the  Middle East  before
the raid and remains its biggest trading partner.  Egyptian Blockade  Turkey’s exports to Israel from January to April increased
to $695 million from $600 million in the same period last year
and its imports from Israel rose to $662 million from $420
million.  Egypt , under former President  Hosni Mubarak , cooperated
with Israel by imposing its own blockade on Gaza, a policy that
was criticized by the protesters who drove Mubarak out of power
in February. Egypt on May 28 permanently opened its border
crossing to Gaza residents, though it still restricts the
passage of goods.  Israel has said it will not allow the flotilla to reach Gaza
and that any foreign aid for its residents can be transferred
through its border crossings after being checked.  Israeli officials decline to comment on a specific strategy
or tactics that the military might use to halt the flotilla. The
navy has conducted riot-control exercises to prepare for it and
plans to bring photographers on board with them to document any
violent resistance,  Haaretz reported , without saying where it
got the information.  Intelligence-Gathering  The military will also more closely monitor Internet sites
associated with the flotilla organizers as part of its
intelligence-gathering, the Israeli daily said.  “A flotilla driven by hate has recently been organizing an
attempt to reach Gaza’s shore with a clear intent to come to a
confrontation with IDF troops,” Israel Navy Chief Vice-Admiral
Eliezer Marom said on June 19. “This is a flagrant attempt to
delegitimize Israel and create a PR stunt.”  Less than a month after the May 31 confrontation, Israel
loosened its land blockade with Gaza with the aim of allowing
more food in and keeping weapons and other items with a possible
military use out.  Israel launched a three-week military operation at the end
of 2008 against the  Gaza Strip  that it said was aimed at
stopping cross-border rocket attacks. More than 1,300
Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in the fighting.  Unemployment in Gaza stands at 37.4 percent, the  World Bank 
said in April. Per capita gross domestic product in the
Palestinian territory is about $775, according to the
Palestinian  Central Bureau of Statistics . By comparison,
Israel’s GDP per capita is about $30,000, according to its
Central Bureau of Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  