-- 
Italian Banks Plunge, German Yield Spread Widens on Debt Concern

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-06-24T16:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/italian-banks-slump-as-rating-review-sparks-concern-debt-crisis-may-spread.html
Italy ’s markets watchdog said it
will investigate trading in bank shares after the country’s
biggest lenders posted their largest decline in two years.  Part of the slump was due to automatic stop-loss trades, an
official for the regulator said by telephone today. The watchdog
hasn’t ruled out market manipulation.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s
biggest bank, and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second-largest, led
lenders lower, falling 5.5 percent and 4.3 percent respectively.
Both stocks were briefly suspended after breaching limits on
intraday swings.  Bank stocks tumbled amid concern the European debt crisis
may spread just as lenders face scrutiny from regulators over
capital levels. Italian 10-year bonds also fell, increasing the
additional yield investors demand to hold the securities over
benchmark German bunds to the most since the euro was introduced
in 1999. European leaders meeting in Brussels today attempted to
staunch the crisis, vowing to stave off a Greek default as long
as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of
budget cuts next week.  “Contagion fears keep re-emerging as long as credible,
lasting solutions in  Greece  are pending,” said  Christian Weber ,
a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit.  Officials at Intesa Sanpaolo and UniCredit in Milan
declined to comment. Intesa closed down 7.6 euro cents at 1.707
euros and UniCredit fell 8 cents to 1.363 euros, its lowest
price since April 2009.  Silvio Berlusconi  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may downgrade
13 Italian banks because they are vulnerable to a cut in the
government’s credit rating. The firm had said last week it may
cut the sovereign rating because the turmoil in  Europe  could
drive the country’s borrowing costs higher.  “The downgrade by Moody’s may be furthered to encompass
the long-term debt,” said Thomas Laschetti, a trader at Tullett
Prebon Ltd. in  London . “That is enough to create the right
environment for deleveraging exposure to the sector.”  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said today the country’s
banks are “well capitalized.” Speaking at a summit of European
leaders in Brussels, Berlusconi said he wasn’t worried about
Moody’s comments about the country’s banks.  Intesa and UniCredit are among the five Italian banks that
are also being stress-tested by European regulators next month
to assess whether they have sufficient capital.  The European Banking Authority yesterday updated its stress
tests to take into account extra trading losses that banks may
face on their holdings of sovereign debt from crisis-hit
European Union countries including Greece.  Remaining Uncertainty  Italian banks are also seeking to raise money from
investors to bolster capital.  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI) ,
Italy’s fourth-biggest bank, fell 0.9 percent to 3.784 euros.
The lender may struggle to lure buyers to its 1 billion-euro
($1.4 billion) rights offering, which closes today. The bank is
selling eight new shares at 3.808 euros for every 21 held.  “There is still uncertainty surrounding the sovereign risk
and bank capital requirements,” said Paul Vrouwes, who helps
oversee about 20 billion euros of shares at ING Investment
Management in The Hague. “Italy’s economy is struggling more
than other nations.” He doesn’t plan to buy UBI stock.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , which is seeking to
raise 2.2 billion euros in a rights offering that runs through
July 8, fell as much as 5 percent to 51.95 euro-cents, a record
low. The shares are available for 44.6 euro-cents in the
offering.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
this week that the link between the region’s debt crisis and its
lenders is “the most serious threat” to financial stability in
the European Union.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  