-- 
James ‘Whitey’ Bulger, Arrested With $800,000, Seeks Taxpayer-Paid Lawyer

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/james-whitey-bulger-arrives-in-boston-for-arraignment-in-federal-court.html
James “Whitey” Bulger, the accused
 Boston  mobster arrested in  California  with $800,000, was given
three days to show why a lawyer should be appointed to represent
him at taxpayer expense.  Bulger, 81, and his girlfriend, Catherine Greig, 60, made
initial appearances in federal court in Boston yesterday after a
trip from California. Bulger, who was a fugitive for 16 years,
didn’t oppose his continued detention while awaiting
arraignment. Wearing jeans and a white hooded sweatshirt, he was
led out of the courtroom in handcuffs by U.S. Marshals.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Kelly said prosecutors oppose
any kind of taxpayer-funded attorney for Bulger, saying he has
“family resources available.” Bulger was asked by Magistrate
Judge Marianne Bowler if he could afford an attorney.  “Not after you took my money,” Bulger responded. More
than $800,000 in cash and more than 30 firearms, along with
false identification, were found in Bulger’s apartment after his
arrest, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said.  “We think he has more access to cash,” Kelly said. “We
clearly don’t think this was his last stash.”  The government seized all of Bulger’s assets, said Peter
Krupp, a lawyer appointed to provisionally represent him. Bowler
gave Krupp until the close of business on June 27 to make any
filings regarding the appointment of lawyers to represent
Bulger. She gave Bulger the same deadline to file a financial
affidavit.  Winter Hill Gang  Bulger is described in a 111-page indictment dated May 23,
2001, as a leader of a criminal organization known as the
“Bulger Group” and “Winter Hill Gang.”  The gangs committed extortion, loan sharking, bookmaking,
narcotics trafficking and murder, beginning about 1972, the
government said. Bulger was wanted in connection with 19
murders.  Bulger may face life in prison or the death penalty if he
is convicted of murder, depending on the jurisdiction, Carmen M. Ortiz, the U.S. attorney for  Massachusetts , said.  Greig, who fled with Bulger in 1995, was charged in an
April 1997 complaint in federal court in Boston with harboring
and concealing him from arrest. If convicted, she may face a
five-year prison term.  After appearing yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Jennifer Boal, Greig was returned to the custody of U.S.
Marshals. She is scheduled to return to court June 28 for a
hearing on bail.  Brother, Twin  Entering the courtroom yesterday, Bulger mouthed the word
“hello” to his brother William, who was seated in the second
row. Greig’s twin sister, Margaret McCusker, also attended
yesterday’s court appearances.  William Bulger served as president of the Massachusetts
Senate from 1978 to 1996 and later became president of the
 University of Massachusetts . While president of the university,
he appeared before a U.S. House committee and refused to answer
questions about his brother’s whereabouts, citing his Fifth
Amendment right against self-incrimination.  Bulger and Greig were arrested June 22 in  Santa Monica ,
California, after FBI agents and Los Angeles police put an
apartment building under surveillance and lured Bulger outside
with an undisclosed ruse, said FBI agent Richard DesLauriers.  The arrests came as the result of a tip received the day
before generated as the result of an ad campaign about Greig.
The ads ran in 14 cities starting this week and targeted women
who were the same age as Greig and might have been her co-
worker, hair-stylist or neighbor.  The tip was received by the FBI’s  Los Angeles  office. While
the ads didn’t run in Los Angeles, news coverage of the campaign
aired in that market on national news and cable outlets,
DesLauriers said.  FBI Informants  U.S. District Judge Mark L. Wolf was assigned to preside
over Bulger’s case. It was in Wolf’s courtroom in 1998 that
Bulger’s partner, Stephen Flemmi, revealed that he and Bulger
were FBI informants and had been promised immunity from
prosecution.  Bulger’s group was also linked to illegally shipping arms
to the  Irish Republican Army  and importing about 36 tons of
marijuana into the U.S., both in 1984, prosecutors said.  In the 1980s and early 1990s, Bulger worked as an informant
on mob activities for the FBI in Boston, according to the
agency. He was indicted in January 1995 for racketeering
violations, including activities while he was an informant. Five
years later he was indicted for multiple murders.  Libraries, Beach  Bulger, who was born in Boston, has a violent temper and
was known to frequent libraries and historic sites, the FBI
said. He carried a knife and kept physically fit by walking on
the beach, the agency said.  Another girlfriend of Bulger’s cooperated with the
government in trying to track down the fugitive in 1996,
according to a 1997 FBI affidavit in support of the criminal
complaint against Greig. The woman, who told the FBI she had
been Bulger’s girlfriend for 20 years, found out in 1994 that he
had been involved with Greig as well during that time.  The former girlfriend told the FBI in 1996 that, after
Bulger was charged in January of 1995, he returned to
Massachusetts and picked up Greig, according to the affidavit.  In 2008, the FBI doubled its $1 million reward for
information leading to Bulger’s capture. Officials said the
disposition of the reward -- and a $100,000 reward for Greig --
is undetermined.  DesLauriers, the special agent in charge of the FBI’s
Boston division, said speculation that the bureau knew of
Bulger’s whereabouts before this week’s advertising campaign was
wrong.  “Any claim that the FBI knew Mr. Bulger’s whereabouts
prior to the FBI’s publicity efforts this week are completely
unfounded,” DesLauriers said in a statement posted on the
website of the FBI’s Boston division. “When we learned his
location, he was arrested promptly.”  The case is U.S. v. Bulger, 94-cr-10287, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  