-- 
Lewis Charity Toasts Profit, Ex NFLer, Yale Investment Wiz

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-06-25T15:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/jamie-foxx-toasts-profit-former-nfler-yale-investment-wiz-philanthropy.html
After a hamstring injury forced
Eugene A. Profit to hang up his cleats and retire from the NFL
in 1991, the Yale University graduate set his sights on making a
name for himself on the Wall Street playing field.  Instead of looking up to rough-tackling NFLers as idols,
Reginald F. Lewis, the first black billionaire in the U.S.,
became his role model. Lewis, who died of  brain cancer  in 1993,
is known for his TLC Group’s $985 million leveraged buyout of
Beatrice International Foods in 1987.  “It was impressive to see that an African-American
business man had achieved that level of success working with
 Michael Milken  in mergers and acquisitions,” Profit, 46, a
former  Washington Redskins  cornerback, said by phone from his
 Silver Spring , Maryland office. “It was an inspiration, and he
provided a road map of possibilities.”  Today, he manages a more than $2 billion investment
portfolio as president and chief executive officer of Profit
Investment Management, started in 1996 with $100,000.  His
clients include the  New York Teachers ’ and  State  Retirement
funds,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and the San Francisco City and County
Retirement systems.  Brainy Yalie  The  Reginald F. Lewis Foundation  will honor the second
chapter of Profit’s post-Yale career Saturday at its 4th annual
gala luncheon. Patrons will dine on ribs and lobster and review
silent auction items before honoring Profit, who said he used to
get teased and hazed by his former NFL teammates for being a
brainy Yalie. (Academy Award-winning actor-singer Jamie
Foxx had been scheduled to introduce Profit, but a family matter
forced him to cancel his appearance).  Loida Nicolas Lewis, the foundation’s chairman, said it was
fitting that the organization was honoring a former athlete who
had become an investment manager.  “Eugene was injured and couldn’t continue football, and he
told me that my husband inspired him to go into finance,” Loida
Lewis, Reginald Lewis’ wife, said by phone. “So there is a lot
of similarity between them in terms of establishing a plan A and
a plan B for their careers.”  The son of working-class parents, Lewis entered Virginia
State University on a football scholarship in 1961. After
graduating from Harvard Law in 1968, he practiced corporate law
in New York. Lewis started the foundation in 1987 and donated $3
million to  Harvard Law School  in 1992.  Hall of Fame  The money raised from the sold-out event will help the
charity meet its goal of qualifying for a $1 million challenge
grant from the  Eddie C. and C. Sylvia Brown Family Foundation .
 Harvard Law School  professor Frank E. A. Sander also will be
honored with the Millennium Member Award for his role in shaping
Lewis’ career.  A native of  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana  and raised in
 California , Profit studied economics at Yale. He also was a
track and field standout, setting the school record for the 60-
yard dash and the long jump. After leaving the Redskins and
investing in a bakery, Profit became a financial consultant at
Baltimore-based asset manager  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  before starting
his own company.  Profit said he was on a private plane headed to a celebrity
golf tournament earlier this year when Loida Lewis called and
told him he had been selected to be the foundation’s honoree.  “I didn’t make the  Pro Football Hall of Fame , but I made
this hall of fame,” Profit said about the charity’s past
honoree list which includes hip-hop mogul Sean ‘P. Diddy’ Combs.
“I have been operating under the radar, and I didn’t think of
myself as being that kind of honoree, so I’m completely
flattered.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 