-- 
Topix Has Biggest Weekly Gain in a Year as Europe Gropes Toward Agreement

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-06-24T08:16:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/japan-stocks-rise-on-eu-pledge-to-rescue-greece-from-default-sony-gains.html
Japanese stocks rose, sending the
Topix index to its largest weekly gain in almost a year, after
European leaders said  Greece  is getting closer to meeting
conditions for a rescue, easing concern the country will suffer
a default that destabilizes the region’s banking system.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which sells 20 percent of its PlayStation game
consoles and other products in  Europe , increased 2.4 percent.
 Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , Japan’s third-biggest shipping line
by sales, advanced 3.8 percent after cargo rates increased.
 Toshiba Corp. (6502)  climbed 4.9 percent after Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. raised its investment rating on the maker
of semiconductors and nuclear-power plants.  “Investors are feeling more willing to take on risk,”
said  Ayako Sera , a strategist at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. in
Tokyo, which manages the equivalent of $306 billion. “Greece
has cleared the minimum requirement for the next loan, but the
final hurdle, parliament’s approval of the austerity programs,
still remains.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent to 9,678.71
at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo . The broader Topix index gained 0.9
percent to 833.20. The gauge has lost 10 percent since March 10,
the day before a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami devastated
Japan’s northeast coast, triggering the worst nuclear accident
in 25 years, damaging factories, and leaving more than 23,000
people dead or missing.  Credit Freeze  For the week, both gauges increased 3.5 percent, with the
Topix rising the most since the period ended July 9. Shares on
the broader gauge rebounded this week from a three-month low on
June 17 that came as foreign investors sold shares on concern a
Greek default would trigger a freeze in credit markets similar
to the one in 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Overseas investors, who account for more than half of the
trades on Japanese exchanges, sold more shares last week than
anytime since August, according to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Investors from outside  Japan  sold 142.8 billion yen ($1.8
billion) more shares than they bought in trading on the
country’s top three bourses.  Japanese Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said today he
“strongly” believes the  consumption tax  should be doubled to 10
percent by 2015 to help rein in a public debt that is about
twice the size of the country’s yearly economic output.  Sales Tax   Seven & I Holdings Co., Japan’s biggest supermarket
operator, slipped 0.2 percent to 2,126 yen after Yosano’s
comments. Shimachu Co., a furniture store chain, fell 2 percent
to 1,969 yen, while clothier Shimamura Co. declined 1.1 percent
to 7,390 yen.  Japan’s sales tax was last increased in 1997, after which
the country plunged into recession,  consumer spending  slumped
and Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto was forced from office.  Exporters climbed today amid optimism renewed confidence
Europe will come to Greece’s rescue in order to avert a default
that could destabilize the region. Sony advanced 2.4 percent
today to 2,077 yen.  TDK Corp. (6762) , an electronics manufacturer that
gets about 15 percent of its revenue from Europe, gained 1.7
percent to 4,500 yen.  Officials from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  yesterday endorsed a package of spending cuts and
tax increases proposed by Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to win bailout money next month, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Greece’s parliament must pass the
measures in a vote next week in order to get a loans that will
allow it to cover 6.6 billion euros of maturing bonds in August.  Aid For Greece  “The fact that Europe is coming to the aid of Greece is a
positive for the market,“ said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist
at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “There’s less of chance
that the crisis spills over into neighboring countries.”  Shipping companies had the biggest gain among the 33 Topix
industry groups after the Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
shipping rates for commodities, increased yesterday for the
first time in five days, gaining 0.6 percent. Kawasaki Kisen
advanced 3.8 percent to 277 yen. Nippon Yusen K.K., the
country’s largest shipping line by sales, increased 2 percent to
301 yen.  Toshiba leapt 4.9 percent to 409 yen, the most since March
22 after the company had its rating raised to “outperform”
from “neutral” at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities.
Earnings will rise on sales of atomic power plants and chips
used to store songs and movies on devices including Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, the securities firm said.  Shares of Toshiba have fallen 18 percent since the March 11
tsunami and earthquake that crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi Nuclear plant, sparking worldwide debate
about the safety of nuclear power. Germany  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  last month decided to shut all of the country’s atomic
plants by 2022.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley said that, despite the
backlash, demand from  China  would help Toshiba to stick close to
its target of selling 39 reactors by the year ending March 2016.
China has 13 reactors and plans to boost the number to more than
100 by 2020, according to the country’s Ministry of
Environmental Protection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 