-- 
Jets Move Training Camp to New Jersey Headquarters Over Lockout Concerns

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-06-24T16:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/jets-move-training-camp-to-new-jersey-headquarters-over-lockout-concerns.html
The  New York  Jets will hold training
camp at the National Football League team’s Florham Park,  New
Jersey , headquarters because of the lockout that has shuttered
the U.S.’s most-popular sports league since March.  The Jets will relocate from the State University of New
York, Cortland campus where the team practiced in 2009 and 2010,
because of uncertainty over when sessions will start, the club
said in a news release. The Jets plan to return to Cortland in
2012.  “With all the variables presented by this unique
offseason, we felt it was best for the Jets that we hold our
training camp here at our practice facility,” General Manager
Mike Tannenbaum said in the release. “This was not an easy
decision, but it’s one we felt we needed to make in order to
give us the best chance to win.”  Cortland is about 220 miles north of  Manhattan ; Florham
Park is about 30 miles west.  “We are disappointed, but we understand why the Jets
management made this decision,” SUNY Cortland President Erik
Bitterbaum said. “We’re looking forward to hosting the team
next year.”  The  Baltimore Ravens  this week said they would practice at
the team’s Owings Mills,  Maryland , facility instead of McDaniel
College in Westminster, Maryland, even though fans won’t be able
to attend because it’s prohibited by the Ravens’ lease with
Baltimore County.  The  Minnesota Vikings  said last week that they have until
July 18 to inform Minnesota State University in Mankato whether
their preseason camp will go on as scheduled.  Owners Meeting  Owners met outside  Chicago  this week for a briefing on the
outline of a potential deal that would give players about 48
percent of a projected $9.3 billion in revenue next year, a
person familiar with the negotiations said.  Management of the most popular U.S. sport locked out
players in March, with the players suing the league in federal
court charging wage-fixing and antitrust violations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 