-- 
Deutsche Boerse, JPMorgan, HSBC, Anglo Irish in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-24T10:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/jpmorgan-supreme-court-drug-rulings-anglo-irish-dsk-in-court-news.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext
settled shareholder lawsuits challenging the $9.53 billion
buyout of the parent company of the  New York  Stock Exchange by
offering to pay $910 million in dividends earlier this month,
court papers show.  The agreement to pay the dividends helped to resolve suits
in Delaware and New York alleging the all-stock deal provided
too little for investors, according to a filing in Delaware
Chancery Court. The payout totals about 620 million euros, equal
to 2 euros a Deutsche Boerse share or $1.37 a NYSE share,
company officials said June 7.  “We are pleased with the result here, because this
dividend will give shareholders a quantifiable and immediate
payment,” Mark Lebovitch, a New York-based lawyer for NYSE
shareholders, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , owner of the
New York Stock Exchange and the Liffe derivatives market, for
$9.53 billion in February.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  dropped a competing bid last month after
the U.S. Justice Department threatened an antitrust lawsuit.  Rich Adamonis , spokesman for New York-based NYSE Euronext,
didn’t return a phone call for comment yesterday. Tim Lynch, a
spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse, declined to
comment.  The exchanges agreed to pay the dividends and settle the
suit in hopes of winning support for the deal in a vote next
month. Deutsche Boerse needs 75 percent of shareholders to
approve its purchase of NYSE Euronext by July 13.  Investors can opt to “terminate the settlement” if the
exchanges decide against paying the dividends, according to
court papers.  NYSE Euronext investors sued in Delaware in February,
calling Deutsche Boerse’s offer “grossly inadequate.” The
shareholders alleged the bid valued NYSE Euronext at less than
targets in similar deals, such as London Stock Exchange Group
Plc’s purchase of Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  Deutsche Boerse officials acknowledged that the lawsuits
“were a factor” in the decision to pay the dividends, lawyers
for NYSE Euronext investors said in court papers. The suits also
helped persuade NYSE officials to give investors an opportunity
to have the value of their shares appraised, according to the
June 17 filing.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine must decide
whether to give the accord final approval.  The case is In re NYSE Euronext Shareholders Litigation, CA
No. 6220, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  JPMorgan to Return $800 Million to Lehman Brokerage Clients  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will return $800 million in cash and
securities belonging to customers of bankrupt  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage under a settlement approved by a
judge.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James M. Peck yesterday approved the
accord, struck in April between the second-biggest U.S. bank and
the trustee liquidating the remains of the brokerage, Lehman
Brothers Inc.  JPMorgan was the main clearing bank for the Lehman
brokerage, processing billions of dollars of transactions and
lending it tens of billions of dollars daily, according to court
filings. While some loans were secured by securities in the
brokerage’s accounts, the bank didn’t have a valid lien on the
$800 million in customer property that is being returned,
according to filings.  “Customer property held by the LBI estate available for
distribution will increase by more than $800 million,” the
trustee, James Giddens, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“This is a significant and positive result from two years of
investigation and close cooperation with JPMorgan.”  Consenting to return the assets in April, the bank said the
settlement would have “no material financial impact,” as most
of the assets had already been set aside to satisfy potential
claims by the trustee.  Separately, JPMorgan is seeking dismissal of an $8.6
billion lawsuit by the Lehman parent.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Drug Marketing Curbs Voided by Top Court on Speech Grounds  The U.S.  Supreme Court , invoking free-speech grounds, 
overturned  a Vermont law aimed at limiting the ability of brand-
name drugmakers to target doctors with individual sales pitches.  The 6-3  ruling  is a victory for the pharmaceutical industry
and so-called data-mining companies that sell information to
drugmakers about the prescription-writing practices of
individual doctors. The invalidated measure barred use of that
data for marketing without the doctor’s consent.  The Vermont law targeted “detailing,” the industry
practice of one-on-one marketing to doctors to persuade them to
prescribe particular drugs. Companies spend more than $8 billion
a year on detailing, according to trial testimony in the case.  “The state may not burden the speech of others in order to
tilt public debate in a preferred direction,” Justice Anthony
Kennedy wrote for the majority.  Vermont is one of three New England states that restricted
the use of prescription records for marketing, and similar
legislation has been introduced in two dozen other states.  Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and  Elena
Kagan  dissented. Breyer said the law was part of the state’s
legitimate efforts to protect public health.  The case is Sorrell v. IMS Health, 10-779, U.S. Supreme
Court ( Washington ).  Generic-Drug Makers Shielded From Lawsuits, Top Court Says  The U.S. Supreme Court gave a new legal shield to the
generic-drug industry, ruling that companies can’t be sued for
failing to warn patients about the risk of dangerous side
effects.  The 5-4 ruling bars two women from suing units of Mylan
Inc. and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  over
metoclopramide, a stomach drug they say caused them to contract
a severe neurological disorder.  The decision limits the reach of a 2009 Supreme Court
ruling that required brand-name drugmakers to defend against
failure-to-warn suits filed under state product liability law.
Generic-drug companies successfully argued that they shouldn’t
held to the same standard because federal law requires them to
copy the packaging inserts used by brand-name manufacturers.  “If the manufacturers had independently changed their
labels to satisfy their state-law duty, they would have violated
federal law,” Justice Clarence Thomas wrote for the court.  The ruling divided the court along familiar lines, with
Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony
Kennedy and  Samuel Alito  joining Thomas in the majority.  In dissent, Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said the ruling “leads
to so many absurd consequences that I cannot fathom that
Congress would have intended to preempt state law in these
cases.”  The cases are Pliva v. Mensing, 09-993; Actavis Elizabeth
v. Mensing, 09-1039; and Actavis v. Demahy, 09-1501, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  GlaxoSmithKline, SB Pharmco to Settle With 37 States, D.C.  GlaxoSmithKline LLC and SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc. entered
into a $40.8 million accord with 37 U.S. states and the District
of Columbia to resolve allegations they breached drug
manufacturing standards, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan
said.  Madigan, in a press statement issued yesterday, said that
between 2001 and 2004 the companies made bad batches of the
anti-nausea drug Kytril, which is used by chemotherapy patients;
Avandamet, a drug used to treat diabetes; the antidepressant
Paxil CR and the antibiotic topical treatment Bactroban.  “Consumers put their faith in drug companies that the
medications they purchase are safe,” the attorney general said.
“My office will not tolerate pharmaceutical companies cutting
corners at the potential expense of consumer health.”  Madigan, in a complaint and settlement agreement she said
was filed yesterday at the Illinois state courthouse in Chicago,
accused the drug companies of unfair and deceptive practices.  “There is no current cause for concern for patients,” she
said, adding that the products in question had previously been
recalled or have since expired and the manufacturing facility
has closed.  “The company chose to settle the matter, which it
initially disclosed in its 2010 fourth quarter results and its
2010 annual report, to avoid the expense and uncertainty of
protracted litigation and trial,” according to a
GlaxoSmithKline statement issued yesterday.  The drugmaker, which has offices in Philadelphia and
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, didn’t admit to any
wrongdoing or liability. The company is a unit of London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Railroads Lose Supreme Court Fight Over Worker Suits  The U.S. Supreme Court, ruling against a  CSX Corp. (CSX)  unit,
made it easier for railroad industry workers to win lawsuits
blaming their company for injuries they suffered on the job.  The justices, voting 5-4, yesterday  upheld  a $184,250 award
to a locomotive engineer who said CSX Transportation Inc. was
responsible for a hand injury he suffered while at the helm of a
train.  The case centered on the test for determining whether a
railroad’s negligence was the cause of an employee’s injury. The
federal judge overseeing the CSX trial in Benton, Illinois, told
the jury that the railroad was responsible if its negligence
“played a part -- no matter how small -- in bringing about the
injury.”  CSX contended workers should have to meet the more
demanding standard, known as proximate cause, that applies in
other types of personal-injury suits.  In upholding the award, the Supreme Court said the Federal
Employers’ Liability Act, which governs railroad industry suits,
lets workers recover damages without meeting the proximate cause
test.  Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote the court’s majority
opinion. Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia,
Anthony Kennedy and Samuel Alito dissented.  The case is CSX Transportation v. McBride, 10-235, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Viacom Sues Cablevision Over Distribution of Shows on IPad  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  sued  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  in federal court
in New York over the distribution of its programming on  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Viacom seeks a court order directing the Bethpage, New
York-based cable provider to halt “unauthorized distribution”
of its copyrighted entertainment programming via wireless
portable devices using an iPad application.  New York-based Viacom also seeks unspecified damages
stemming from Cablevision’s April 2 launch of the computer
application which allows its users to get live streaming feeds
of what Viacom says is its copyrighted entertainment.  “On April 2, 2011, despite Viacom’s repeated objections,
Cablevision launched the iPad to its cable television
subscribers, and included nineteen of Viacom’s programming
channels, in violation of the parties’ agreements and Viacom’s
intellectual property rights,” Viacom said in the complaint.  Viacom said that both sides have since engaged in
discussions to resolve the dispute without success, while
Cablevision “continues to refuse to remove Viacom’s programming
from its iPad services.”  James Maiella, a spokesman for Cablevision, said the
company was preparing a statement and that he didn’t have an
immediate comment on the litigation.  The case is Viacom Inc. v. Cablevision Systems Corp. 11-CV-
4265, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Nakheel’s Ex-CEO Sues the Developer for Breach of Contract  Nakheel PJSC’s former chief executive officer, Chris
O’Donnell, is suing the company for breach of contract in the
Dubai World Special tribunal.  The CEO, who quit earlier this month after five years at
the developer’s helm, filed a lawsuit June 22 without saying how
much he’s seeking, according to court records. Nakheel has 14
days to acknowledge the claim.  Nakheel, which built palm tree-shaped islands off Dubai’s
coast, is restructuring $10.5 billion of debt after the global
credit crisis caused property demand in Dubai to evaporate. Home
prices slid by more than 60 from their peak in mid-2008, forcing
developers to cancel and delay projects.  The tribunal’s website lists 33 cases involving Nakheel and
contractors, buyers and developers including Kleindienst
Properties Limited. The Austrian developer, which bought six
islands on Nakheel’s man-made archipelago shaped as a world map,
was sued by Nakheel on June 12 for breach of contract, the
court’s website shows. Nakheel is seeking $199 million.  “There is a difference of opinion between ourselves and
Nakheel on the amount due for the islands purchased by the
Kleindienst Group, and the time frame in which this is due,”
Kleindienst said in an e-mailed statement.  Josef Kleindienst, CEO at the family-owned company, has
acknowledged the claim and the case will go to court, the
company said. Meanwhile, work on Kleindienst’s 3.1 billion-
dirham ($840 million) project has been suspended.  A spokeswoman for Nakheel declined to comment on the cases.  For the latest new suits news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  HSBC Seeks Dismissal of $9 Billion Madoff Trustee Lawsuit  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , seeking dismissal of a $9 billion
lawsuit by the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm, said
he isn’t allowed by law to bring such cases on behalf of the
confidence man’s former customers.  Irving Picard , the trustee, sued HSBC and a dozen so-called
feeder funds for $9 billion in December, accusing them of aiding
Madoff’s fraud. Yesterday, Picard and HSBC, which acted as
custodian for the funds, argued in front of U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in Manhattan over whether the case should be
dismissed.  Picard is mistakenly suing HSBC for damages on the theory
that it had a duty to investigate the Madoff fraud and that it
hurt all of the con man’s investors by not doing so, said Thomas
Moloney, a lawyer for the bank.  “HSBC owes no duty to these customers,” Moloney said.
“HSBC was not the watchman” for all Madoff investors, he said.  Rakoff said he will rule on HSBC’s request by the end of
July. The dispute pits  Europe ’s biggest lender against the
lawyer liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC,
which perpetrated the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Picard has filed 1,000 lawsuits in bankruptcy court to recover
$90 billion from banks and former Madoff investors who allegedly
profited from the fraud.  The district court case is Irving H. Picard v. HSBC Bank
Plc, 11-cv-0763, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Carl Icahn Suit Against Raynor, R2 Investments Dismissed  Carl Icahn’s lawsuit seeking at least $100 million from
Texas hedge-fund promoter Geoffrey Raynor, his R2 Investments
LDC and others was dismissed by a New York state judge.  In the suit, filed in February 2010, Icahn said Raynor
interfered with a $2 billion bond offering by Icahn Enterprises
LP and other Icahn companies. Justice Eileen Bransten in
Manhattan yesterday dismissed the case, which included claims of
tortious interference with contract, libel and abuse of process.  Raynor and Icahn formed a partnership in 2001 to acquire
debt securities issued by Federal Mogul Corp., which was in
bankruptcy at the time, Bransten said in her decision. After a
dispute over the right to purchase some Federal Mogul stock,
Raynor made a securities filing in January 2010 disclosing a
suit commenced the same day by Raynor-affiliated Nineteen
Eighty-Nine LLC seeking to impose a “constructive trust” on
the shares, Bransten said.  Icahn, 75, said the timing of the regulatory filing and
suit lowered demand for the bond offering. He sued Raynor, R2,
Nineteen Eighty-Nine and five other defendants.  A message left with Icahn’s secretary wasn’t returned. A
message left with attorneys for Raynor also wasn’t returned.  The case is Icahn v. Raynor, 150040/2010, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For copies of recent civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Anglo Irish Says U.S. Assets Sale, Merger Are ‘Sovereign’ Acts  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. defended a sale of its U.S. loan
portfolio that was ordered by the Irish government and its
acquisition of Irish Nationwide Building Society, calling them
“non-commercial, sovereign acts.”  Anglo Irish Bank made the statement in a letter June 22 to
U.S. District Judge Paul G. Gardephe in Manhattan, who had
directed the bank to disclose whether it has sold substantial
commercial assets in the U.S. and whether a sale of its
remaining U.S. assets was imminent. The letter was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Fir Tree Partners, a New York investment firm, sued Anglo
Irish Bank in February, claiming it owns $200 million of notes
the bank issued in the U.S. Fir Tree seeks an order blocking
Anglo Irish Bank from transferring any U.S. assets out of the
country so it can force the bank to honor its debt obligations.  Fir Tree sent a letter to the judge on June 20 asking for
an expedited hearing on the issue.  Anglo Irish Bank said the sale of its U.S. assets and its
acquisition of Irish Nationwide Building Society in “the next
week or two weeks” had been reported in the global press and
were consistent with and anticipated in statements it has made
to the court, according to yesterday’s letter.  Paul Smith, a lawyer for Fir Tree, and Walter Stuart, a
lawyer for Anglo Irish Bank, didn’t return calls for comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Fir Tree Capital Opportunity Master Fund LP v.
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., 11-CV-0955, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Strauss-Kahn Accuser Hires French Lawyer to Find Other Victims  The woman who accused Dominique Strauss-Kahn of attempted
rape and sexual assault in New York hired a Paris lawyer to look
for women in France who may have been victimized by the former
International Monetary Fund chief.  Kenneth P. Thompson, a former federal prosecutor who is
representing the accuser in New York, hired  Thibault de
Montbrial  to provide legal support, the French lawyer said
yesterday.  “I am working with him, I am the contact for his firm in
France, notably to see if there exist other victims of Mr.
Strauss-Kahn,” de Montbrial said in a telephone interview.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was arrested May 14 and later indicted on
seven counts, including criminal sex act, attempted rape, sexual
abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching. If convicted
of the top charges, he faces as long as 25 years in prison. He
has pleaded not guilty.  He allegedly attacked a housekeeper, a 32-year-old from
Guinea, at the Midtown Manhattan Sofitel on May 14, grabbing her
breasts and trying to pull down her pantyhose, prosecutors said
in court papers. The former IMF chief attempted to rape her and
forced her to perform oral sex, according to the indictment.  De Montbrial represented former Renault SA employee
Matthieu Tenenbaum in his wrongful-firing case over false claims
he sold information on the automaker’s electric-car program. De
Montbrial declined to say when he was hired or comment on how
information he uncovers would be used.  Emily Browne, a spokeswoman for Thompson, had no immediate
comment.  Benjamin Brafman , a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn, declined
to comment.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 