-- 
Kasich’s $55.5 Billion Ohio Budget Will Sell Prisons

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-24T15:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/kasich-s-55-5-billion-ohio-budget-will-sell-prisons-correct-.html
(Corrects amount of federal funds in ninth paragraph of
story originally published March 15.)  Ohio Governor  John Kasich  proposed
a $55.5 billion biennial spending plan that calls for selling
five prisons and issuing bonds for economic development backed
by liquor-distribution profits in what he called “the jobs
budget.”  “We’re creating a platform for growth, for  job creation ,
for resurgence of a state,” Kasich told reporters today during
a briefing after releasing his budget proposal for the nation’s
seventh-largest state. Ohio lost 610,000 jobs during the past
decade, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  U.S. state budget deficits that may reach $125 billion in
the next fiscal year are forcing governors to turn to banks and
builders to help lease or sell assets ranging from turnpikes and
lotteries to liquor stores while seeking investors in bridges,
roads and other public facilities.  Kasich, 58, a Republican who took office in January, had
promised not raise taxes to address a projected $8 billion
shortfall from current revenue levels. His plan includes
“significant reductions” for most agencies while increasing
general-revenue spending by 1 percent in the fiscal year that
starts July 1, and by 6 percent in the second year, said Tim
Keen, the budget director.  Road Ahead  Kasich said there will be efforts apart from the budget to
have companies take over state assets or services, including the
lottery and the 241-mile (388-kilometer)  Ohio  Turnpike.  Such plans should improve investor perception of Ohio debt,
said Alan Schankel, fixed-income research director at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, a Philadelphia-based money-management
firm.  “Generally, when states move to privatization, it’s a
credit positive,” he said in a telephone interview, “It shows
the administration is working to tighten the ship and make
things work more efficiently.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates Ohio debt Aa1.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates it AA+. Both are second highest.  Keen said overall spending would increase in part because
the current budget contains about $5 billion in federal stimulus
money that is no longer available. Some of that spending, as
well as allocations for Medicaid, would be shifted to the
general-revenue fund, he said.  Kasich’s 2012-2013 budget, which the Legislature must pass
by the July 1 start of the fiscal year, would authorize selling
the prisons to private entities that would operate them. They
would be sold through competitive bids to generate an estimated
$200 million, Keen said.  Booze Bonds  The budget also proposes transferring the state’s wholesale
liquor distribution system to JobsOhio, a private board created
to oversee economic development, effective Jan. 1, for up to 25
years.  JobsOhio  would use the revenue for development work and
would make a $1.2 billion payment to the state, including $500
million to compensate for foregone liquor profit and $700
million toward outstanding liquor-profit bonds, according to
Kasich’s budget document. The state would issue revenue bonds
backed by liquor money to fund the payment, the document said.  Holding the Keys  The Ohio Civil Service Employees Association, which
represents 10,000 prison employees, opposes the sales. Union
leaders say running safe, secure prisons is a responsibility for
government, not profit-driven companies.  “This does not help Ohio,” Tim Shafer, a guard at the
Pickaway Correctional Institution about 17 miles southwest of
the capital in Columbus, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  A limited number of companies may bid on the prisons,
including Corrections Corporation of America in Nashville,
 Tennessee , and  Boca Raton , Fla.-based  GEO Group Inc. (GEO) , said Tobey Sommer, an analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. who
follows both.  The main factor will be the condition of the prisons and
capital costs for the companies, Sommer said.  Arizona  proposed selling and leasing back 10 prison
complexes and a mental health facility in 2009 without striking
deals, he said.  Innovation Ohio, a new Columbus group led by Janetta King,
policy director for former Democratic Governor Ted Strickland,
said Kasich’s budget does not ask the wealthy to sacrifice while
cutting funding for local governments and schools. That will
force them to raise taxes, the group said.  Biting the Bullet  Kasich said in briefing documents that state funding for
education would increase under his budget. That doesn’t count
the federal stimulus dollars that schools get in the current
budget, so actual funding would decrease $395 million in 2012
and $305 million in 2013, according to an Innovation Ohio
analysis. That would cost 7,000 teachers their jobs, the group
said.  “If Governor Kasich is allowed to pass the buck, middle-
class taxpayers will be forced to bite the bullet,” Dale
Butland, a spokesman for the group, said in a statement.  Kasich told reporters he proposes giving districts and
local governments more flexibility to control costs, including
creating a state-managed health-care pool for schools and local
governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  