-- 
Kenya’s Finance Minister Says Shilling Should Gain on Pledge to Curb Flows

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-24T13:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/kenya-s-finance-minister-says-shilling-should-gain-on-pledge-to-curb-flows.html
Kenya ’s shilling will probably
strengthen after the  central bank  pledged to act against
unidentified lenders to curb speculative flows in  currency
trading , Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said.  The currency of East Africa’s largest economy has
depreciated 12 percent against the dollar since the start of the
year, trading at a 17-year low of 92.05 on June 22. The shilling
weakened 0.4 percent to 90.41 per dollar as of 4:10 p.m. in
Nairobi, the capital, compared with a close of 90.05 yesterday.  “I believe” the shilling will gain later, Kenyatta said
in an interview in Nairobi today, without specifying a time
frame. “I see no reason for it not to.”  The  Central Bank of Kenya  may tighten monetary policy
further to stabilize the shilling and it is considering changing
what qualifies as liquidity at commercial banks to further ease
speculation, Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said yesterday. The
central bank has taken “appropriate” action to stem
speculative trading of the currency, Ndung’u said, without
providing details.  Kenya’s central bank increased the benchmark interest rate
in March and May, boosting it from a record low in January. The
central bank’s  monetary policy committee , which meets every two
months, is scheduled to meet in July.  There is no reason to “panic” over the shilling’s recent
depreciation, Kenyatta said. The country’s central bank has the
“instruments” to address the shilling’s weakness and it holds
adequate foreign-exchange reserves, he said.  Ndung’u is taking “necessary and decisive” actions, said
Kenyatta. “ Monetary policy  is under the realm of the central
bank and the central bank is ultimately the one to act,”
Kenyatta said, adding he was scheduled to meet Ndung’u today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  