-- 
Kimberley Process Decision on Zimbabwe Diamonds ‘Falls Short,’ Group Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-06-24T09:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/kimberley-process-decision-on-zimbabwe-diamonds-falls-short-group-says.html
(Corrects amount of carats in sixth paragraph.)  The  Kimberley Process ’s decision to
allow Zimbabwe to export diamonds under certain conditions
“falls far short” of what is needed to protect civilians in
the country, said Partnership Africa  Canada , an advocacy group.  Exports from Zimbabwe’s Marange fields will be monitored by
two representatives of the Kimberley Process until the
organization’s next meeting, the process announced yesterday in
Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Civil society representatives who oversee the group, which
was created to stop the trade in so-called  blood diamonds  that
fund conflict, walked out of the meeting in protest and Canada
and the U.S. said the decision broke procedural rules and was
made “without consensus.”  In 2009, restrictions were placed on the export of gems
from the Marange field, which is near  Zimbabwe ’s border with
 Mozambique , after a review mission found human-rights violations
and smuggling at the site. In 2008, more than 200 people were
killed when Zimbabwean security forces took over the
concessions, according to a report by New York-based advocacy
group  Human Rights Watch .  Yesterday’s decision “does not contain sufficient checks
and balances to prevent substantial volumes of illicit diamonds
from entering the global diamond supply chain, and further
undermines the credibility of the Kimberley Process,” Ottawa-
based  Partnership Africa Canada  said in an e-mailed statement.  Million Carats  Zimbabwe was the world’s ninth-largest producer of diamonds
in 2009, producing $20.4 million from 1 million carats,
according to the most recent data from the Kimberley Process
website. Production from the Marange diamond fields is about 1
million carats a month, Chaim Evan-Zohar, president of industry
consultant Tacy Ltd., said in February, citing government
information.  The fields are run by Mbada Mines Ltd. and Canadile Miners
Ltd. in ventures with the state-owned Zimbabwe Mining
Development Corp.  Zimbabwe is complying with the organization’s rules and
would submit to special monitoring to assure continued
compliance at least until the group’s next meeting, Kimberley
Process President Mathieu Yamba told reporters after the
conference. The southern African country has also guaranteed
civil-society participation in monitoring exports, he said.  Zimbabwe’s Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu  said he was “not 100
percent happy” about the monitoring by Kimberley Process
representatives.  “It was a compromise outcome and we had no choice but to
accept because this is what the conference has agreed to,”
Mpofu said in an interview after the conference.  Certification Scheme  The Kimberley Process Certification Scheme is made up of
countries that produce, process and purchase diamonds, as well
as industry and civil society representatives.  “The decision is a disaster for the Kimberley Process,”
Alfred Lahai Brownell, a member of the process’ civil society
coalition, said after leading the walkout at the organization’s
mid-year meeting. “It shows the weaknesses in the process and
that the countries aren’t serious.”  The U.S. objected to the decision to allow export of
diamonds from Marange with Kimberley certification without a
consensus agreement, Daniel Baer, the U.S. deputy assistant
secretary for democracy, human rights and labor, said in an
interview after the meetings.  “We remain committed to finding a consensus text that
delivers both benefits to the people of Zimbabwe and credibility
in the eyes of the international community,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 