-- 
Kior Unchanged After Pricing IPO at 29% Below Top of Range

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-06-24T21:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/kior-little-changed-after-pricing-ipo-29-below-top-of-range.html
Kior Inc., a developer of
transportation fuels produced from wood chips and non-food
biomass, was unchanged on its first day of trading after pricing
its initial public offering 29 percent below the top end of the
expected range.  Kior closed at $15.00 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
Pasadena, Texas-based company raised $150 million yesterday by
selling 10 million Class A shares for $15 each. It had
previously said it expected to price the offering at $19 to $21.
The proceeds will partially fund construction of its second
commercial plant in Newton,  Mississippi .  The initial offering for a company that produces a
renewable substitute for petroleum comes after the U.S. and 27
allies released oil stockpiles to boost economic growth and
driving crude to a four-month low. Pricing Kior’s share at $15
gives it a valuation that’s comparable to other biofuel
companies that are less directly linked to refiners, said Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.  Yesterday’s “$4 a barrel plunge in  oil prices  created a
challenging market backdrop for a biocrude company like Kior,”
Molchanov said in an e-mail. At $15 a share, the company’s
market capitalization of about $1.5 billion “puts Kior more on
par with Amyris and Solazyme.”  Biofuel IPOs  Kior is the fifth company developing advanced biofuel
technology to go public since the beginning of 2010, following
offerings for  Codexis Inc. (CDXS)  in April 2010,  Amyris Inc. (AMRS)  in
September 2010, Gevo Inc. in February 2011, and Solazyme Inc.
last month. Codexis makes biocatalysts that can be used in
biofuel production, while Amyris, Gevo, and Solazyme all use
sugar fermentation processes to make fuel and specialty
chemicals.  “Kior differs from its predecessors as it’s not the
biotech-biofuel model, but it is more compatible with the oil
refining industry,” Harry Boyle, lead bioenergy analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail. “Amyris, Codexis,
Gevo and Solazyme all offer capital-light paths to greater
theoretical bioproduct sales.”  The company’s final product, which can be processed into
gasoline or diesel using standard refining systems, “appears to
fit more seamlessly into the current transport fuel refining
business, as evidence is provided by its agreed offtake
arrangements,” Boyle said.  Catchlight Energy LLC, a joint venture of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , has agreed to provide forestry waste feedstock
for Kior’s first plant and buy the fuel it produces. Hunt
Refining Co. also has a deal to purchase fuel blendstocks from
Kior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  