-- 
KKR Hires Morgan Stanley’s Henry McVey to Advise on Macro-Economic Trends

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-24T21:36:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/kkr-hires-morgan-stanley-s-henry-mcvey-to-advise-on-macro-economic-trends.html
KKR & Co., the leveraged-buyout firm
led by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , hired Morgan Stanley’s
Henry McVey to advise it on macro-economic trends.  McVey, who will be head of global macro and asset
allocation, will help KKR and its clients assess global economic
issues across the firm’s businesses, including private equity
and  hedge funds , New York-based KKR said today in a statement.
Cyril Moulle-Berteaux, a founding partner of hedge fund Traxis
Partners LP, is replacing McVey as head of the global asset-
allocation team at Morgan Stanley, the New York-based bank said
in a separate statement.  KKR is adding to new businesses as it seeks to woo public
investors who want to see more diverse income streams. At Morgan
Stanley, McVey oversaw $8 billion in tactical asset allocation
and global macro-related products, including a $100 million
hedge fund that started in June. McVey will help KKR build a
similar business over time, according to the statement.  “At any given time, we have a diverse portfolio that
offers unique insight into the business environment,” Kravis
and Roberts said in the statement. McVey’s “work will inform
our investment processes across the firm while also adding a
macro and asset-allocation investing capability.”  McVey’s role will eventually evolve into raising money for
a dedicated pool that will express his views. The firm has no
plans to launch the fund in the near-term.  McVey, 42, left Morgan Stanley for two years in 2007 to
become a portfolio manager at  New York ’s Fortress Investment
Group LLC, focusing on global equities. Before leaving the first
time, he was chief U.S. investment strategist at the bank, where
he started as a research associate in 1993.  Hedge Funds  KKR is building non-LBO businesses with several hires. The
firm is getting into hedge funds through its asset-management
business, headed by William Sonneborn, 41, formerly the
president of Los Angeles-based money manager TCW Group Inc. KKR
seeded a group of former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. traders with
$100 million. The team is led by  Bob Howard  and will pursue a
long-short equities strategy that allows managers to bet on
rising and falling stocks.  Moulle-Berteaux, 41, worked at Morgan Stanley Investment
Management from 1995 until 2003 in various roles, including head
of the asset-allocation team, head of asset allocation research
and research analyst.  “We are thrilled to have Cyril and his level of
institutional investment talent back,”  Greg Fleming , president
of Morgan Stanley Investment Management, said in the statement.
“Cyril’s return is consistent with our commitment to investment
excellence and to growing as an investor-led organization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  