-- 
Korea’s Won Has Best Week Since April on Greece Boost; Bonds Advance

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-06-24T08:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/korea-won-heads-for-biggest-weekly-advance-since-april-on-greece-optimism.html
South Korea ’s won completed its
biggest weekly advance since April as stocks gained on
speculation European Union leaders will agree to forge a rescue
plan to stop the Greek debt crisis from spreading.  The benchmark Kospi share index gained by the most this
month after European leaders pledged yesterday to stabilize the
euro-area’s economy, vowing to stave off a Greek default as long
as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of
budget cuts. The index rallied 2.9 percent this week, the most
since March. A report today showed  consumer confidence  declined
in June from a three-month high in May.  “The market is relieved about the Greece situation for now
as they are making one positive step forward,” said Youngbok Cho, a currency trader at Daegu Bank in  Seoul . “Most people
think the won is undervalued, but the authorities are protecting
the downside” near 1,070 levels, he said.  The won strengthened 0.7 percent this week, the most since
the five-day period ended April 29, to 1,078.75 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency slipped 0.2 percent today, and touched
1,073.55 on June 22, the strongest level since May 11.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou assured European
Union leaders that he would deliver the budget cuts they are
demanding in exchange for the next installment of emergency
loans and a new rescue package, a Greek government official said.  South Korea’s sentiment index fell to 102 from 104 in May,
the  Bank of Korea  said in an e-mailed statement today. A reading
above 100 indicates optimists outnumber pessimists. The expected
inflation rate over the next year was 3.9 percent, unchanged
from last month, today’s report showed.  The yield on the 3.5 percent note due June 2014 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this week to 3.70
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The rate
rose two basis points from yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  