-- 
NBA, Union Agree to Talk Again in Last Days Before Possible July 1 Lockout

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/nba-union-agree-to-talk-again-in-last-days-before-possible-july-1-lockout.html
The  National Basketball
Association ’s leadership met with more than 50 players and union
representatives yesterday as their labor contract moved within a
week of expiration.  Both sides agreed not to discuss specifics negotiated
during the four-hour meeting at a hotel in New York, the sixth
major bargaining session since the NBA Finals began three weeks
ago.  The  National Basketball Players Association  agreed with the
league to meet June 28 or June 29 in New York in hopes of
staving off a lockout. On June 27, the league’s owners will meet
in  Dallas , where they could vote to authorize their labor-
relations committee to lock out the players on July 1.  “We’re going down to the Tuesday meeting and what will be,
will be,” NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said at a news
conference after the meetings. “The one thing that we don’t
want is a lockout.”  The group of players in town for a union meeting, including
veteran All-Stars  Kevin Garnett  and  Paul Pierce  of the  Boston
Celtics , arrived en masse to the labor talks wearing t-shirts
that said, “STAND -- THE 2011 NBPA SUMMER MEETING NYC.”  It was a show of solidarity, a sign that the 450-man union
would stand together regardless of what transpires over the next
week, union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  said when he
arrived.  After the talks, both Hunter and Stern agreed that the
inclusion of a broader base of players, many of whom asked
questions of the owners during the session, was valuable.  ‘Pull the Trigger’  “The nature of the discussions today was such that they
may find it difficult to pull the trigger,” Hunter said
yesterday. “Even though we didn’t make any progress, I think
they felt that the energy and attitude was such that it might
necessitate further discussion.”  Commenting on the t-shirts, Stern said, “They were nicely
done.”  “It was great to have so many players that were here,”
Stern said. “By not engaging in the give and take you lose
something, so we were hoping that more players would come and we
were cheered by the fact that they were there.”  At the owners’ meeting next week, where topics such as
revenue sharing, league financials and the labor contract will
be discussed, they could authorize a lockout or agree to allow
an extension of the deadline for negotiations if an agreement
hasn’t been reached by June 30.  Hunter earlier yesterday said he asked the NBA to extend
the deadline “some time ago,” though the owners would make the
ultimate decision.  Contract Proposals  Stern on June 21 outlined a new proposal to the union that
calls for a 10-year contract guaranteeing players at least $2
billion a year. Hunter said under those terms, the owners and
players would be more than $7 billion apart.  The two sides continue to negotiate over how to split
revenue of a league that brings in about $4.3 billion annually,
as well as how to implement the financial system, including what
type of salary cap to use.  The league initially proposed a hard salary cap, a no-
wiggle-room ceiling on what teams can pay players. The current
accord has a flexible, or soft, cap that includes exceptions
allowing teams to exceed a salary threshold. The union
repeatedly has said players are opposed adamantly to a hard cap.  Following the last negotiation session, Stern said the
league had proposed a “flex cap,” that would target $62
million in team payrolls with an undisclosed hard ceiling. The
union responded that the proposal was in its essence still a
hard cap.  No New Proposal  The union yesterday decided not to make a new financial
proposal to the owners.  “We felt the one we made previously was sufficient,”
Hunter said.  Asked whether enough progress had been made to even
consider extending the current accord, Stern declined to answer.  “The best time we’re going to spend next week, hopefully,
will be a meeting with the players on Wednesday that, with any
luck, goes over to Thursday,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  