-- 
NBA Players Arrive at New York Labor Talks in Bus to Show Union Solidarity

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-24T16:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/nba-players-arrive-at-new-york-labor-talks-in-bus-to-show-union-solidarity.html
About 50 National Basketball
Association players arrived together at a  New York  hotel to show
solidarity as they continue negotiations with league officials
six days before their labor agreement expires.  The players, who were in town yesterday for the  National
Baskeball Players Association ’s offseason meetings, decided
themselves to come to the negotiations with NBA executives,
union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  said.  The players exited a limousine bus wearing dark gray t-
shirts over their regular clothes that said: “STAND -- THE 2011
NBPA SUMMER MEETING NYC.”  “The message is just solidarity, that we have to stand
together, we have to be unified and be prepared to address
whatever the circumstance is, but address it together,” Hunter
told reporters before entering the session, the sixth between
the full negotiating parties since the start of the NBA Finals
on May 31.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  outlined a new proposal to the
union three days ago that calls for a 10-year contract
guaranteeing players at least $2 billion a year. Hunter said
under those terms, the owners and players would be more than $7
billion apart.  The collective bargaining agreement between the two sides
expires June 30. Hunter said the union asked the league to
extend the contract’s deadline “some time ago.”  “The 30th, it can be just another date,” Hunter said.
“It doesn’t mean that it has to be the end of negotiations. It
doesn’t mean that it has to be a lockout. The ball is in their
court and they will decide how to treat it.”  Mike Bass, an NBA spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  NBA owners are scheduled to meet June 28 in  Dallas , when
they could vote to authorize a lockout or to extend the
deadline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 