-- 
New York City Averting 4,000 Teacher Cuts Challenges Bargainers on Budget

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-24T17:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/new-york-city-averting-4-000-teacher-cuts-confounds-budget-talks.html
New York  Council members and unions
are grappling over whether to use an insurance fund and cut non-
classroom spending to avert Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan to
fire more than 4,000 teachers to help balance his 2012 budget.  Harry Nespoli, chairman of the city’s labor coalition,
suggested letting New York apply some of the $400 million of
unused cash from the union health-insurance fund to pay for 
teachers who would be fired under the mayor’s $65.7 billion 
spending plan. Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  and Finance 
Chairman Dominic Recchia Jr. say the city could save $125 
million by slashing non-classroom outlays on such things as 
public relations and outside consultants.  New York’s workforce, already down 5 percent to 296,000
jobs since 2002, will fall to 289,000 under Bloomberg’s budget.
U.S. municipalities trimmed 28,000 positions in May, the most
since November, the U.S. Labor Department  said  June 3, as
shrinking revenue forced cuts to services. State governments now
employ the fewest workers since January 2007.  “State and local governments are just having their budgets
slammed, and because they can’t run deficits, have to make the
choices to cut workers,” Heidi Shierholz, an economist with the
 Economic Policy Institute  in  Washington , which studies issues
affecting low- and middle-income workers, said in an interview.  Bloomberg said he had little choice in crafting his budget,
a version of which must be adopted by June 30. State and federal
aid for the city was slashed about $5.6 billion, while growing
expenses such as pensions and debt service create the prospect
of $5 billion deficits in both fiscal 2013 and 2014, he said.  ‘Postponing the Problem’  “If you didn’t reduce the size of your workforce this
year, next year’s  budget  goes way over the $5 billion, and it’s
just postponing the problem,” he said at a May 16 City Hall
news conference. “We have to find a way to do more with less.”  The mayor has made education his signature issue, starting
in 2002 when the state approved his abolition of the  Board of
Education  to give him control over school policy and operations.
Since then, the city has increased funding about 70 percent to
about $19 billion, raised the high-school graduation rate to an
all-time high of 65 percent from 47 percent in 2005 and improved
test scores.  “The city has spent years of effort at improving our
school system,” Quinn said in a  June 1 statement  in which she
proposed alternative savings. Losing teachers would mean “a
substantial deterioration” in education quality. Dismissing
thousands would be “unacceptable,” she has said.  Shrinking Payrolls  The mayor’s plan for the largest U.S. school system,
presented May 6, calls for 4,100 education staff to be dismissed
and for 2,000 positions to be eliminated through attrition. It
would shrink the city’s 70,000 teaching jobs by about 8 percent.  Unions and council members say their proposals to use the
insurance fund, reduce outside contracting and other spending
would prevent the dismissals, avoid the proposed elimination of
20 fire companies and keep programs for seniors and children.  Nespoli, who heads the sanitation union and the Municipal
Labor Committee, a coalition representing  police , firefighters,
teachers and civil-service workers, said he brought the
insurance-fund idea to Quinn and she enlisted Bloomberg’s
support.  The unions’ Health Insurance Stabilization Fund, created to
protect against rising costs of premiums, has accumulated more
than $400 million in excess cash from several yearly $35 million
city contributions, he said. That’s more than enough to pay the
$293 million in salaries and benefits of the teachers who face
termination, said Nespoli.  Rejected Proposal  Yesterday, the mayor rejected the unions’ offer of $262
million from the insurance fund on the condition they be allowed
to withdraw another $110 million to be placed in a general-
welfare account that could be spent with broader discretion.  “The city had no choice but to reject their offer,” said
 Marc LaVorgna , a mayoral spokesman. “We remain ready to
negotiate on a deal to avoid layoffs and hope we can reach
agreement.”  The unions had accepted the mayor’s offer for a one-year
moratorium on worker firings, less than their previous demand
for a 30-month hiatus, the mayor’s office said.  Nespoli said the mayor’s rejection “means that the threat
to the city’s schools and services represented by his proposed
layoffs becomes more real every day.”  The city’s unions “don’t trust this administration
anymore,” Nespoli said in a June 22 telephone interview. “The
mayor wanted to play hardball and union people have become very
annoyed over that.”  One-Year Reprieve  Even if a deal is reached, it would only stave off teacher
dismissals for one year, the mayor has said. The city still
faces the prospect of anemic revenue growth because “there’s
not a lot of evidence across this country that the economy is
booming,” he said on the radio appearance.  The city “moved swiftly” to address budget gaps during
the past two years by adjusting spending to the weaker economy,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report on June 7. It affirmed its AA
rating on the city’s general-obligation bonds, the third-highest
grade.  New York’s rating has been raised three times by S&P and
Moody’s Investors Service and twice by  Fitch Ratings  since 2002,
said Marc LaVorgna, a mayoral spokesman.  Investor Favorite  The difference in yield between a New York City general-
obligation security maturing in August 2016 and an index of
similarly rated five-year bonds shrunk to about 10 basis points
on June 22 from 101 at the beginning of the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, indicating investors are demanding
less yield to hold the bond.  Quinn, 44, a  Manhattan  Democrat who has expressed interest
in running for mayor in 2013, has proposed $75 million in non-
classroom cuts to education, legal services, public relations,
transportation and technology, and eliminating outside
consultants.  Recchia, a Brooklyn Democrat, said another $50 million
could be realized by trimming 5 percent from $1 billion spent on
private contractors for  information technology , data processing,
consulting and legal services.  “We are on pins and needles,” said Jamie McShane, Quinn’s
spokesman, when asked about the status of the budget
negotiations. As for the possibility that the June 30 deadline
would pass without a deal, McShane said, “no one has
entertained that option.”  Previous Impasse  The last time a mayor and City Council couldn’t reach
agreement on a budget was 1998, when the Democrat-dominated
council passed a $34 billion budget without funding for a new
Yankee Stadium on Manhattan’s west side sought by Republican
Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani .  He retaliated with a veto, which the 51-member council
overrode. Giuliani then impounded more than $150 million in
council members’ discretionary funds. The impasse ended in
 November , when Giuliani agreed to free the money.  Mayor Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  