-- 
New Jersey Democrats Plan to Add $1.7 Billion for Schools

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-24T19:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/new-jersey-democrats-plan-to-add-1-7-billion-for-schools-1-.html
New Jersey  Democrats plan to propose
raising school spending by as much as $1.7 billion through an
alternative budget lawmakers will introduce next week and a
“millionaire tax,” Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  said.  The spending proposal would exceed a $29.6 billion plan
from Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, by about $900
million, George LeBlanc, chief budget analyst for Senate
Democrats, said yesterday. Sweeney said it would raise education
funding by $1.1 billion, while a tax on incomes of $1 million or
more would produce another $550 million for schools.  Including $696 million in unspent money this year and his
original $29.6 billion revenue estimate, Christie, 48, certified
$30.3 billion as available for the fiscal 2012 budget.  “That is our limit and our guidepost in developing a
responsible, balanced and constitutional state budget,”
Christie said today in a statement. “Following modest revenue
estimates that are based in reality is the only responsible
course to avoid the same type of panicked, mid-year cuts that
have plagued overly optimistic budget projections in prior
years.”  Last year, Christie froze $2.2 billion in spending after
taking office, saying the state’s financial picture had eroded
and wouldn’t support the obligations. He has cut about $1.3
billion in aid to local schools since taking office in January
2010. New Jersey’s  Supreme Court  last month ordered a $500
million increase in funding for schools in poor and urban
districts in the next fiscal year.  Millionaire Tax Bill  Sweeney, 52, said the proposal from Democrats may be taken
up by the Senate Budget Committee June 27. He said the plan may
pass the Legislature two or three days later. Sweeney said the
millionaire tax would be contained in a separate bill.  “It’s not theater, it’s about principles,” Sweeney, a
Democrat from West Deptford, told reporters yesterday in his
office. “We’re standing up for our principles.”  “We spent so much time on pensions and health care that
the Senate and Assembly got bogged down,” Sweeney said,
referring to a compromise agreement with Christie to charge
government workers more for pensions and benefits. The measure
passed the Senate June 20 and the Assembly last night.  Christie has said he would consider any Democratic plan to
comply with the high court directive on school funding that
doesn’t raise taxes.  Veto Authority  State law lets Christie reject specific spending items he
deems questionable without killing an entire budget, through a
line-item veto. The governor has said he would reject any tax
increases sent to him by the Democrat-led legislature.  The governor has said it was up to lawmakers to comply with
the court’s school-funding decision. Sweeney’s proposal to
revive a millionaire tax is likely to meet resistance from
Christie, who vetoed a similar levy last year.  “The taxpayers of this state are suffocating under the
weight of what it costs to live here,” Christie told about 600
people at a public meeting June 22 in Fair Lawn. “I’m not
raising taxes on anyone. No one.”  The Legislature and Christie must meet a June 30 deadline
to have a balanced budget in place or face a government shutdown
when the fiscal year begins July 1.  Lawmakers and Christie differed in May about how much
revenue would increase in fiscal 2012 from this year. The
nonpartisan Legislative Services Office predicted a $914 million
jump while administration officials said $511 million. Christie
said today that state law obligates him to set revenue levels
used to determine whether a budget is balanced.  The Democrats’ spending plan also would restore funding for
police in high-crime cities, along with $7.5 million for women’s
health care, which both took cuts in Christie’s previous budget.
The Democrats also would expand the earned-income tax credit for
the working poor, Sweeney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 