-- 
Nigeria Central Bank Naira Rally Forecast on New Rules Doubted by Analysts

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-24T12:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/nigeria-central-bank-naira-rally-forecast-on-new-rules-doubted-by-analysts.html
Rising inflation and  government
spending  in  Nigeria  will limit a naira rally forecast by the
central bank after it relaxed investor restrictions, according
to Citigroup Inc.,  Renaissance Capital  and Exotix Ltd.  The currency of Africa’s top oil producer may stabilize
around 150 per dollar by the end of the year, the companies
estimate. Lamido Sanusi, the governor of the  Central Bank of
Nigeria , said yesterday that the naira may appreciate to 145 per
dollar this year as it lifts a requirement for foreign investors
to hold local-currency investments in  government securities  for
at least a year starting July 1. “Positive  interest rates ”
will contribute to the gain, he said.  The naira snapped three days of declines, strengthening 1
percent to 155.2 per dollar on the  interbank market  by 12:50
p.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, heading
for its first weekly gain in three.  “There are still underlying fundamental problems, for
example high inflation and government spending,”  Leon Myburgh ,
a Johannesburg-based strategist at Citigroup, said in an e-
mailed reply to questions today. “This move is certainly
positive, but we may not be that optimistic. We would rather go
for 152 per dollar for year-end.”  Nigerian inflation quickened to 12.4 percent in May even
after three consecutive interest-rate increases failed to bring
it into line with the central bank’s 10 percent target. Sanusi
on June 17 said rising government expenditure along with
accelerating costs of imported food and unsubsidized fuel
products may push up inflation. Nigeria may not attain its goal
of cutting the inflation rate to below 10 percent this year, he
said June 20.  Reserves Drop  “Nigeria’s fiscal metrics and oil-revenue leakages place
substantial pressure on the  exchange rate , which could be
contained by more foreign capital inflows, but are unlikely to
be entirely offset,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging
markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by e-mail.
“Some currency appreciation is likely to take place in 2011,
but the magnitude of the move will depend on global risk
perception in coming months as well as the extent to which some
fiscal consolidation materializes in Nigeria.”  Nigeria’s foreign reserves have declined 13 percent to
$32.9 billion as of June 22 from $38 billion a year earlier,
according to  data  from the Abuja-based central bank.  “The poor performance in CBN reserves indicates stresses
on the naira,” said Myburgh.  The nation approved an amended 2011 budget of 4.5 trillion
naira ($28.9 billion) on May 25, which slashes almost 500
billion naira off the spending plans passed two months earlier.  Naira Defense  The bank has defended the naira keeping it within 3 percent
above or below 150 per dollar marginal rate at its twice-weekly
foreign-exchange auctions in a bid to curb inflation.  “The new capital inflows are more likely to stabilize the
naira, but not bring about an appreciation in itself,” Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based sub-Saharan  Africa  economist at
Renaissance Capital, said by e-mail. “For appreciation to
occur, the outflows” in the current account would have to slow,
she said, adding that she expects the naira to end the year at
153 per dollar.  Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy,
offered less foreign currency than demanded by lenders for a
fifth successive auction on June 22. The $400 million were sold
for between 153.81 naira and 153.50 naira. The marginal rate,
which is also used as the prevailing exchange rate, was 153.63
per dollar, depreciating from 153.38 at the previous auction.  Exotix expects the naira to maintain a level of about 149.5
per dollar this year, said  Stuart Culverhouse , the chief
economist at the frontier market investment bank in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  