-- 
Nordisk’s Insulin Lowers Hypoglycemia Effect in Diabetes

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-24T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/nordisk-s-insulin-lowers-hypoglycemia-effect-in-diabetes.html
Two studies of Novo Nordisk A/S’s
experimental insulin showed the formulation lowered the side-
effect of dangerously low blood sugar in diabetics, compared
with Sanofi’s Lantus.  The experimental insulin, called degludec, is a long-
lasting version of the hormone that regulates blood glucose in
the body. In studies of  Type 1  and  Type 2 diabetes , there were
lower rates of night-time hypoglycemia, a side-effect that
results in a drop in blood sugar, according to results to be
presented at the  American Diabetes Association ’s  annual meeting 
in  San Diego .  Hypoglycemia  can cause unconsciousness, seizures and death,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . The yearlong
trial was designed to reach similar blood sugar targets on both
therapies, and degludec was found to have similar effects on
blood sugar to Lantus from Paris-based Sanofi.  “Fear of hypoglycemia drives patient behavior,” Alan Moses, chief medical officer of Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo
Nordisk, said in an interview. Patients worry about whether it
will be safe for them to drive a car, work out, or have a beer
with friends, he said. “So our goal is to build better
insulins.”  Novo plans to submit degludec for U.S. regulatory approval
in the second half of this year, Moses said.  Diabetes in America  An estimated 25.8 million Americans have diabetes, most of
the Type 2 variety linked to weight gain and a lack of exercise,
according to the  U.S. National Institutes of Health .  Insulin degludec is meant to be used as a long-acting way
of controlling blood sugar. Type 2 patients in the study used
either degludec or Lantus, a different formulation of insulin,
in addition to a mealtime insulin, metformin or Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s Actos. In both groups, 50 percent of
patients were at blood sugar targets after a year.  Rates of night-time hypoglycemia, which occurs during
sleeping hours, were 25 percent lower in the group of Type 2
diabetics that took degludec compared with those on Lantus, the
study showed.  In the Type 1 patients, about 40 percent of both groups
reached the blood sugar target. Rates of night-time hypoglycemia
were 25 percent lower in the degludec group.  A third study  found that degludec could be taken with more
flexibility than Lantus without risking hypoglycemia or
affecting overall control of blood sugar. Some doses of degludec
were given as long as 40 hours apart without adverse changes in
blood sugar.  Other data from the meeting showed that patients taking
Novo’s Victoza diabetes drug can safely combine it with insulin
to further control their blood sugar. In addition, patients on
the combination lost weight, an unusual finding because insulin
generally causes weight gain, Novo’s Moses said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 