-- 
Obama Returns to New York to Raise Money, Dine With Bankers

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-06-24T03:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/obama-returns-to-new-york-to-raise-money-dine-with-bankers-2-.html
The last time President  Barack Obama 
flew to  New York  for a Broadway show, it was for a long-promised
date with his wife.  Today’s New York trip was a less intimate affair: a $1,250-
per-person fundraiser with gay and lesbian activists and a
$35,800-per-plate dinner with Wall Street bankers. After dinner
was a performance of the musical “Sister Act,” where he will be
joined by the show’s producer, actress  Whoopi Goldberg , and
young Democratic donors.  The dinner at Daniel, a restaurant on  Manhattan ’s Upper
East Side, drew some of Obama’s biggest donors to the 2008
campaign, as well as some who initially backed his rival for the
party’s nomination, then-Senator  Hillary Clinton .  “There’s a disquiet out there,” the president told the
wealthy donors, because people “recognize that we haven’t yet
broken through to the future that we want.”  When the president mentioned withdrawing troops from
Afghanistan, he got a round of applause from the crowd of about
70 donors.  He reiterated his message that the 2012 political campaign
is “about a set of contrasting visions” between the Republicans’
“cramped” vision that would cut entitlements and the Democrats’
“big generous vision” of America.  On the deficit talks, which stalled today after Republicans
pulled out, he said one vision wants to “shrink” the
government to size it was in 1930s, while his party’s vision
“says we’re going to have to share sacrifice.”  Wealthy Donors  Among those who were to dine with Obama at Daniel were
 Robert Wolf , chairman of UBS Americas; Blair W. Effron, partner
and co-founder of Centerview Partners LLP;  Marc Lasry , managing
partner and founder of Avenue Capital Group; Mark Gallogly, a
managing principal of Centerbridge Partners; James Rubin,
managing director of  BC Partners ; and Frank Brosens of Taconic
Capital Advisors LP, according to a party official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the list hadn’t been made public.  Obama is making his third trip to New York in four months
to raise money for the  Democratic Party  and his presidential
campaign before the June 30 deadline to report donations through
the second quarter. The president has attended 27 donor events
since January, helping the  Democratic National Committee  outpace
its Republican counterpart. Through May 31, the DNC has taken in
$45.5 million, compared with $30.5 million collected by the
 Republican National Committee , according to the  Federal Election
Commission .  Courting Financiers  Jim Messina , the former White House deputy chief of staff
who is running Obama’s re-election campaign, has been reaching
out to financial service industry executives. Last month, he met
at Lasry’s home with former Clinton supporters to encourage them
to donate to the Obama re-election campaign, according to a
person familiar to the matter.  Messina also is asking the campaign’s top fundraisers to
each collect at least $350,000 in 2011 alone. Four years ago,
members of Obama’s national finance committee were asked to
raise $250,000 for the two-year 2007-08 election cycle.  Members of the financial services industry have expressed
frustration with some of Obama’s rhetoric on banker bonuses,
raising questions about whether he will get the same level of
support from the industry as he did in 2008. Last August,  Daniel Loeb , who runs the New York-based hedge fund Third Point and
raised money for Obama in 2008, sent a letter to his investors
that questioned the Obama administration’s commitment to free
enterprise,  according  to the New York Times.  Financial Industry Backing  John Emerson, an Obama backer who is president of Capital
Guardian Trust Company, said the president’s support for the
Troubled Assets Relief Program and the measures that tightened
financial regulations has bolstered his position with  Wall
Street .  “There’s a broad consensus among people in the financial
services industry that we needed greater oversight that things
got out of control,” said Emerson, who raised between $100,000
and $200,000 for Obama in 2008 and is Southern California co-
chairman for the president’s 2012 campaign. “Candidly, the
financial services industry hasn’t done too badly in the last
year and half.”  At the first event in New York tonight, Obama told gay
rights activists and supporters that he believes New York is
doing “exactly what democracies are supposed to do” by
considering legislation that would allow same-sex couples to wed.  Legal Rights  He told the 500 Democratic Party donors from the lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender community that he believes gay and
lesbian couples “deserve the same legal rights as every other
couple in this country,” while stopping short of endorsing
same-sex marriage. He didn’t respond to a member of the audience
who yelled, “Say yes to marriage.”  While Obama has taken steps backed by gay activists, such
as working to repeal the Pentagon’s ban on homosexuals openly
serving in the military, and does support civil unions, he
hasn’t backed same-sex marriage.  “I’m sure he will mention it and I think make the point
that, as he always has, that he believes that this is something
that states should be able to decide,” White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters traveling with the president.  At the third fund-raising event, where the price for seeing
“Sister Act” included a $100 contribution to the DNC, Obama
noted that the budget debate in  Washington  is “going to start
heating up and we’re going to have to make some very, very tough
decisions.”  “This is not just a budget question; this is a values
question,” he told the audience in the sold-out Broadway
Theatre. The federal deficit shouldn’t be reduced “on the backs
of those without a voice,” he said.  After the fundraisers, Obama, 49, will fly to Pittsburgh
tonight for an event tomorrow at  Carnegie Mellon University  to
discuss manufacturing policy.  Earlier today, he visited  Fort Drum , New York, to thank
members of the Army’s 10th Mountain Division for their service
in  Afghanistan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  