-- 
Obama Faces U.S. House Republican Challenge to Support for Libya Mission

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/obama-faces-u-s-house-challenge-to-support-for-libya-mission.html
Republicans in the  House of
Representatives  will try today to restrict the U.S. military
support President Barack Obama is giving the NATO-led
bombardment of forces loyal to Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  Frustrated by what they term Obama’s insufficient
consultation with Congress over  Libya ,  House Republicans 
scheduled a vote to limit U.S. forces to aerial refueling,
reconnaissance and search and rescue missions to support the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s  bombing campaign .  The  legislation  will be debated along with a  resolution 
that would formally support the mission for as long as a year
under the 1973 War Powers Resolution -- a measure that lawmakers
and aides predicted would be defeated.  “The president’s failure to consult with the Congress”
and “to outline to the American people why we are doing this”
put lawmakers “in a position to have to defend our
responsibilities under the Constitution,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told reporters yesterday.  The measure would bar funds for U.S. military involvement
in Libya except for the specified air-support missions and
operational planning. Aerial intelligence and surveillance
flights would also be allowed.  U.S. aircraft have flown 218 bombing missions in the last
30 days at Libyan ground anti-aircraft defenses or loyalist
troops attacking civilians in the effort to quell the rebellion,
according to Defense Department figures. The Libya mission began
in March.  Growing Frustration  Today’s vote caps a week in which Boehner has sought to
address the growing frustration of Republican House members, as
well as of some Democrats, with Obama’s argument that he didn’t
need congressional authorization under the 1973  War Powers
Resolution . The president argues that under that law, U.S.
forces are not engaged in hostilities.  The administration sent Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
to Capitol Hill, where she made a case for the mission during a
closed meeting with House Democrats.  “The secretary started with an apology” for the
administration’s failure to adequately brief lawmakers,
Minnesota Democrat Tim Walz told reporters. “If this visit had
come in March, we would have been in an entirely different
position.”  Boehner sought to minimize the impact of today’s vote,
saying that with U.S. forces already involved, Congress
shouldn’t “do anything that would undermine NATO” or “send a
signal to our allies that we are not going to be engaged.”  The speaker termed the debate “primarily between the
Congress and the president over his unwillingness to consult
with us before making this decision.”  ‘Pitch for Support’  Clinton’s “very strong pitch for support” for the mission
was evidence of the administration’s “concern” that “Congress
would end the ability to go forward” in Libya, Ohio Democratic
Dennis Kucinich told reporters.  “Any time you have the secretary of state come to  Capitol
Hill  to make an appeal to the caucus, that certainly can have
impact,” said Kucinich, whose resolution to order withdrawal of
U.S. forces was defeated by a vote on 148-265 on June 3.  Still, said Vermont Democrat  Peter Welch , “there is a
desire to enforce the War Powers act” because there is “too
much history of a little bit of permission going a long way.”  Massachusetts  Democrat Jim McGovern, who has been a critic
of military intervention in Libya and  Afghanistan , voiced
concerns that the restrictions were ambiguous.  “I am not happy with the president policing Libya, but I
am not sure this is the right thing to do or not,” McGovern
said at a Rules Committee hearing on the legislation.  “There are lots of questions” about whether the measure
would bar humanitarian deliveries of food and water to civilians
or bombing of anti-aircraft guns, he said.  Senate Approval Foreseen  The discontent over Libya is not as widespread in the
Senate. The resolution backing the mission that the House will
consider today was initially drafted by a bipartisan group of
senators led by Democrat  John Kerry  of Massachusetts and
Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona . The Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, of which Kerry is chairman, is scheduled to debate
the resolution next week, and leaders of both parties predict
that the full Senate will approve it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  