-- 
Obama Team Pins Manufacturing ‘Renaissance’ on Technology

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-06-24T19:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/obama-team-sees-technology-as-key-to-manufacturing-renaissance-.html
The U.S. should spend $1 billion on
promoting advanced technologies over the next four years as part
of an effort to boost domestic manufacturing, according to
recommendations from a panel advising the Obama administration.  The government needs to partner with the private sector to
support development in fields including  information technology ,
biotechnology and nanotechnology, the President’s Council of
Advisors on Science and Technology said in a report released
today. Doing so may help slow the decline in the U.S. share of
high-technology exports, which fell to 11 percent of the global
market in 2008 from 20 percent in the late 1990s.  Federal funding of basic research and the “promotion of
early commercialization through procurement” has spawned the
creation of “entire industries, hundreds of U.S. companies and
millions of high-quality jobs for Americans for decades,”,
according to the 56-page report.  “It’s easy to understand that there’s really a fundamental
problem in all of these western economies around the production
of manufacturing jobs,” said  Google Inc. (GOOG)  chairman  Eric Schmidt ,
a member of the panel. “The study shows that there is a
solution, that it’s not hopeless. It involves focusing on the
advanced manufacturing jobs.”  The panel cited the Internet as an example of the results
of  government investment  and said its recommendations, if
followed, would help the U.S. compete with Japan and  Germany  in
the race for high-skilled manufacturing business.  ‘American Breakthroughs’  President  Barack Obama  kicked off his manufacturing
initiative by announcing plans to designate $500 million toward
technology development by companies and universities.  “If we want a robust growing economy, we need a robust,
growing manufacturing sector,” Obama said in a speech at
 Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh. “This new partnership
that we’ve created will make sure tomorrow’s breakthroughs are
American breakthroughs.”  The initial funding announced by the president is being
drawn from existing programs and proposals, said  Ron Bloom ,
Obama’s manufacturing adviser. The panel called for funding its
recommendations in part from existing programs, with money going
to the Commerce, Defense and Energy Departments, according to
the report.  The panel also supported Obama’s previously announced
policies to reform corporate income taxes to match other
countries, extend the R&D tax credit permanently and increase
the rate to 17 percent, and promote research, education and
workforce training in high-skill sectors.  “Industry is ready to do this,” Schmidt said, and the
president’s initiatives may help spark “a renaissance in
American manufacturing using new technologies,” and give the
U.S. a “pretty good chance of bringing back a reasonable number
of high-paid, highly skilled manufacturing jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  