-- 
Obama Steps Into U.S. Budget Deficit Negotiations Seeking to Break Impasse

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-25T16:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/obama-sets-meetings-with-senate-leaders-next-week-on-restarting-debt-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  is stepping
into the negotiations on the deficit in an effort to revive
talks stalled over differences on taxes and entitlements.  Obama summoned Senate leaders Democrat  Harry Reid  and
Republican Mitch McConnell to the White House for separate
meetings on June 27 aimed at breaking the impasse that scuttled
a seven-week negotiating effort led by Vice President Joe Biden.  The two sides are seeking a path to cutting at least $1
trillion from the long-term deficit and raising the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline. Obama
will have to show some leadership if there is to be any
compromise, Representative  Kevin McCarthy , the third-ranking
House Republican, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “He’s got to get off the golf course, and he’s got to get
engaged,” said McCarthy, a third-term representative from
 California . Last weekend, Obama played a round of golf with
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, as part of a
commitment to work toward more bipartisan camaraderie.  The administration is insisting that any deal must include
raising government revenue by removing or limiting some tax
breaks while Republicans say taxes must be off the table.  “We won’t support an approach that gives millionaires and
billionaires $200,000 in tax cuts annually while 33 seniors pay
for that with a $6,000 per person increase in their Medicare
costs,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
yesterday. “We just don’t believe that that’s a fair or
balanced approach to solving this problem.”  Medicare Spending  McCarthy rejected any tax increases and said a bipartisan
deal must include limits on Medicare spending to save the
government health insurance program for the elderly from
bankruptcy.  “If you ignore Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, in
a few short years, it’ll take every single dollar that
government brings in,” McCarthy said. He also dismissed ideas
of eliminating tax breaks for  oil companies  or raising fees on
banks as ways to narrow the U.S. deficit.  Moody’s Investors Service this month said it will put the
U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a downgrade
unless there’s progress on increasing the limit by mid-July.
 Standard & Poor’s  in April put the U.S. on notice that it risks
losing its top  credit rating  unless policy makers agree on a
plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.  Speaker Boehner said Republican conditions for raising the
debt ceiling include no tax increases, spending cuts and a
government spending overhaul.  ‘He Must Lead’  “If the president and his allies want the debt limit
increased, it is only going to happen via a measure that meets
these tests,” Boehner said in a statement. “If the president
wants this done, he must lead.”  Administration officials including Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  said they were confident a deal can be reached
to raise the debt limit by Aug. 2.  “We are going to avoid a default crisis because we are a
country that meets its obligations,” Geithner told reporters
yesterday in Manchester,  New Hampshire . “We have no
alternative.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and second-ranking Senate
Republican Jon Kyl walked away from the Biden-led talks on June
23, putting the onus primarily on Obama and Boehner to bridge
the partisan divide.  Seeking Agreement  Biden and the six lawmakers involved in the talks --
Cantor, Kyl and four Democrats -- had sought to reach the broad
outlines of a plan by yesterday. The decision by Cantor and Kyl
to leave the talks followed a contentious session a day earlier
during which Democrats pressed Republicans to agree to tax
increases, according to an aide familiar with the talks.  “It is my hope that the president requested this meeting
in order to finally explain what it is that he’s prepared to do
to solve our nation’s fiscal crisis,” McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “With Republicans threatening to give up amidst internal
divisions, Senator Reid is prepared to step in and make sure we
stay focused on creating jobs and cutting the deficit,” said
Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid.  Republicans are pressing to cut spending on entitlement
programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Democrats want to
eliminate tax breaks for corporations including oil and gas
companies, according to Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Democratic participant in the Biden group.  Democratic Priorities  Democrats proposed phasing out tax breaks for those earning
more than $500,000 a year, Van Hollen told reporters on a
conference call yesterday.  A final deal “will have to include some Democratic
priorities,” Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said
on the call.  Speaking at a political fundraiser June 23 in New York,
Obama said he’s “prepared to bring down our deficit by
trillions of dollars” and that spending cuts must be
“balanced” with tax increases on the wealthy.  “As it gets closer and closer, you’re talking about simply
a debt-ceiling solution, not a deficit and debt solution,” said
Bill Frenzel, a Republican former member of the House Budget
Committee and scholar at the Brookings Institution in
 Washington . “Instead of making the $4 trillion or $5 trillion
arrangement they need to make to stabilize the debt in a decade,
they’ll probably do something to coast them through the end of
the year or perhaps through the election.”  Economic Risk  The U.S. debt risks exceeding the size of the entire  U.S.
economy  by 2021, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional
Budget Office .  McCarthy, rejecting an idea put forward by McConnell of
resorting to short-term increases in the debt limit, said
lawmakers and the administration “can get to the point where we
solve this problem” if Obama becomes more involved.  A handoff to the White House will force Obama to be
specific about what kinds of tax increases he supports to help
close the  budget deficit , something Democrats have avoided amid
tension in their party over raising tax rates versus closing tax
loopholes for corporations.  It also increases pressure on Boehner, who would have to
find enough Republican votes to pass a possible deal that might
draw opposition from much of his caucus.  “It’s going to involve twisting a lot of arms and calling
in favors,” said Paul Weinstein, a former White House official
and senior adviser to Obama’s fiscal commission. “It’s not
pretty for either side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  