-- 
Obama Directs $500 Million to Help Boost Manufacturing, Jobs

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-06-24T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/obama-directs-500-million-to-help-boost-manufacturing-jobs.html
President Barack Obama said he’s
designating more than $500 million to an effort with companies
and universities to speed technology development, meet global
competition and create jobs.  “With these key investments, we can ensure that the U.S.
remains a nation that ‘invents it here and manufacturers it
here’ and create high-quality, good-paying jobs for American
workers,” Obama said in a statement released by the White House
before he speaks later today at Carnegie Mellon University in
Pittsburgh.  Andrew Liveris , chairman and chief executive officer of  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW) , and Susan Hockfield, president of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will lead the Advanced
Manufacturing Partnership to focus on investments in such areas
as information technology, biotechnology and nanotechnology to
help reduce manufacturing costs, boost quality and speed product
development.  Ten other companies have signed up for the partnership:
 Allegheny Technologies Inc. (ATI) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Corning Inc. (GLW) ,
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
and  Stryker Corp. (SYK)   Seventeen months before the presidential election, Obama is
seeking to convince voters that his economic policies will help
lead to long-term growth even as recent data shows the economy
is slowing.  Slowing Growth  The Federal Reserve Board said June 22 that it lowered its
forecast for economic expansion to 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent
this year. That’s down from forecasts ranging from 3.1 percent
to 3.3 percent in April. It’s the second time this year that Fed
officials lowered their forecasts for growth.  Fifty-seven percent of respondents to a Bloomberg National
Poll conducted June 17-20 disapproved of Obama’s efforts to
create jobs. By 44 percent to 34 percent, Americans say they
believe they are worse off than when Obama took office in early
2009, when the U.S. was in a recession and the economy was
losing as many as 820,000 jobs a month.  Obama is announcing the effort in  Pennsylvania , a swing
state where the jobless rate of 7.4 percent in May wasn’t as
high as the nation’s June rate of 9.1 percent.  The president on June 8 highlighted business partnerships
with the community colleges as a way to prepare workers for
future manufacturing jobs, and on June 13 in North Carolina he
promised to reduce hurdles to job creation while embracing a
plan to train 10,000 engineers a year.  Reviving Manufacturing  The manufacturing partnership announced today was
recommended by the President’s Council of Advisers on Science
and Technology.  Ron Bloom , Obama’s manufacturing adviser, said
the administration wants to create a renaissance in
manufacturing similar to the way silicon technology triggered a
revolution in computers.  The more than $500 million devoted to the plan will come
from existing programs and proposals in government agencies,
Bloom said. One area for investment involves a material genome
initiative, where scientists can construct new materials at the
molecular level and use computers to predict their
characteristics, he said.  Basic Industries  “We’re going to have cars that are lighter and stronger,”
and lighter airplanes that consume less fuel, Bloom said. Using
such technology, “we can revitalize papermaking in America, and
that’s about as basic an industry as you can get.” The same
could be done for tire manufacturing, he said.  “Our goal is to use the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership
to help make breakthroughs for the next decade and the decade
ahead,” Bloom told reporters on a conference call yesterday.  Eric Lander, a founding director of the Broad Institute of
Harvard and MIT and a co-chairman of the council of science
advisers, said the use of federal funding doesn’t amount to
having the government pick winner and losers. “We are not
endorsing industrial policy,” he said.  Government research with private partners has led to
development and commercialization of such products as the
telephone, microwave, jet engines and the Internet, Bloom said.  Under the program, the government will put up about $300
million for research and development in high-powered batteries,
advanced composites, metal fabrication and biomanufacturing, a
White House statement said.  Another $100 million is earmarked for molecular research
that will be focused on manufacturing, clean energy and national
security; $70 million for next-generation robotics and $120
million for research the help manufacturers use less energy.  Beside MIT, the other participating universities include
Carnegie Mellon, Georgia Institute of Technology,  Stanford
University , University of California-Berkeley and University of
Michigan, the White House said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at 
   kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  