-- 
Obama Allies Call for Broad Jobs Plan as Debt Dominates Recovery Debate

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-06-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/obama-allies-call-for-broad-jobs-plan-as-debt-dominates-debate.html
Two years after the recession ended,
almost 14 million Americans are out of work, including more than
6 million who have been jobless for at least six months. Job
seekers outnumber available jobs by more than four-to-one.  Yet most of the political urgency in Washington is focused
on the national debt, not on the shortage of work.  Now, some of President Barack Obama’s staunchest supporters
-- including congressional Democrats, union leaders, and former
administration economists  Lawrence Summers  and  Christina Romer  -
- are calling for new government initiatives to drive down the
nation’s 9.1 percent  unemployment rate . They are joined by  Bill Gross , manager of Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
largest bond fund, who this week said “government must take a
leading role” in creating jobs.  “Make jobs the centerpiece of everything and forget about
this deficit hysteria,” Richard Trumka, the head of the AFL-CIO
labor federation, said in an interview.  Even with the clamor, the president hasn’t presented a
comprehensive plan to provide work for the bulk of the
unemployed anytime soon. The jobless rate won’t fall below 8
percent until 2013, according to the median forecast of 65
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. After an $830 billion stimulus
program failed to cut unemployment as much as the administration
had predicted, and with Republicans poised to block new
spending, Obama has few major policy options left.  ‘Make It Worse’  “They may well have concluded in the short-term, there
isn’t all that much they can do about it,” said William Galston, a former domestic policy adviser to President  Bill Clinton . “To underscore a problem they don’t have a solution
for would make it worse.”  That would be a gamble. The latest data on retail sales and
payrolls suggest the recovery is in danger of stalling. If job
growth stays weak, voters could add Obama’s name to the ranks of
the unemployed: No president since World War II has won a second
term with unemployment higher than 7.2 percent on Election Day.  “The urgency to do something feels like it’s ratcheting up
pretty quickly,” said  Jared Bernstein , who was Vice President
Joseph Biden’s top economic adviser until April.  The U.S. already has tried to jump-start growth with the
stimulus plan, the Federal Reserve’s near-zero interest rates
and two rounds of asset purchases that injected money into the
economy and expanded the central bank’s balance sheet to more
than $2.8 trillion. The economy’s lingering weakness in the face
of such steps means there’s little support for trying the same
medicine again.  ‘Government Activism’  “We’ve pulled a lot of levers and we haven’t had terribly
good results,” said economist John Makin of the  American
Enterprise Institute , a  Washington  policy research group that
supports low taxes and market-driven policies.  It isn’t just Republicans who are worried about the risks
posed by the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt.  Martin Baily, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers under Clinton, said the need to bring down
long-term deficits takes precedence over any stimulus proposal.  “I don’t think I’d do it even if I could get it through
Congress,” he said of a new spending package.  In a Bloomberg National Poll, voters chose jobs over the
deficit or federal spending as their top concern by 42 percent
to 30 percent. Public hunger for action to spur hiring, however,
doesn’t translate into support for public works projects.  Fifty-five percent of respondents to the June 17-20 poll
said the government should boost hiring indirectly by cutting
spending and taxes, echoing the argument of Republicans.  Better Than Expected  To some extent, the economy’s plight shouldn’t be a
surprise. Recessions that follow financial crises last longer
than typical downturns, according to Kenneth Rogoff of  Harvard
University  and  Carmen Reinhart  of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics.  The U.S. is even performing better than average on jobs:
Following a financial crisis, the unemployment rate typically
rises 7 percentage points over a five-year span, according to
“The Aftermath of Financial Crises,” a 2009  paper  by Rogoff
and Reinhart. The U.S. jobless rate peaked at 10.1 percent in
October 2009, 5.7 percentage points higher than the pre-crisis
low of 4.4 percent three years earlier.  “We’re seeing one of the greatest asset bubbles of all
time deflate,” said Representative Jim Himes, a Connecticut
Democrat and former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker. “Until it
runs its course, which may take some time, we’ll continue to
see, at best, lackluster growth.”  Averting Depression  In appearances in  Ohio ,  North Carolina  and  Virginia , Obama
has claimed credit for averting a depression and putting the
economy on the road to recovery. At a Chrysler factory in
Toledo, Ohio, this month, Obama likened the economy to a person
“hit by a truck” and said: “It’s taking a while to mend.”  He told NBC News that “structural issues” help explain
slow hiring. “A lot of businesses have learned to become much
more efficient with a lot fewer workers,” Obama said in the
June 14 interview.  The U.S. now produces more than it did before the recession
using 7 million fewer workers, according to government data.  The president, who today will visit a robotics center at
 Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh, has long promised to
replace a bubble-and-bust economy with one built for lasting
prosperity. The administration’s deficit focus thus also
reflects an effort to retool for the long haul.  Future Technologies  The president has urged better training, education and
investment in “technologies of the future.” The goal, he said
June 13, is “to make sure that we’re boosting job growth not
just over the next year but over the next 20 years.”  “We have a lot before Congress right now,” said Jason Furman, deputy director of Obama’s National Economic Council.
“We have a lot of ideas, on infrastructure, on clean energy, on
training, in a range of areas.”  Austan Goolsbee, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, rejected the notion of another “traditional
stimulus” package. The administration is focusing on helping
the private sector “to drive the recovery,” he said in a June
10 interview with Bloomberg Television.  Goolsbee said the temporary 2-percentage-point cut in the
employee contribution to the payroll tax that Congress enacted
in December, along with tax breaks for business-equipment
purchases, three pending trade deals, and planned regulatory
relief will help the economy before Election Day.  Discovering Limits  The president said he wants to discuss with Congress
additional moves, such as extending those tax breaks as well as
 unemployment benefits  scheduled to expire at year’s end.  If an $830 billion stimulus program and 30 months of near-
zero  interest rates  haven’t cured the labor market’s ills, it’s
hard to see how more modest measures will, said Galston, now a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.  “What we’re discovering is the limits of traditional tools
when we’re faced by an untraditional downturn,” he said.  Administration officials are counting on a rebound in the
second half of 2011 as predicted by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The economy will expand at an annual rate of 2.3
percent in the current quarter and 3.2 percent for the remainder
of the year, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Outside the administration, there’s no shortage of ideas.
The AFL-CIO wants the government to spend several hundred
billion dollars on a jobs program.  “I frankly do not understand why policymakers are not
feeling more urgency,” Romer, former chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers, said in a May 5  speech .  Temporary Tax Cut  She and Summers favor a temporary cut in the portion of the
payroll tax paid by employers. Summers also wants to deepen the
cut in the portion of the tax paid by workers.  Bernstein said the government should take advantage of low
interest rates -- it can borrow money today for 10 years at a
cost of less than 3 percent -- to fund a $100 billion stimulus.  Republicans and business leaders complain that uncertainty
surrounding the administration’s health care, tax and
environmental policies is hindering investment. Corporations are
sitting on $1.9 trillion in liquid assets.  “Money hates uncertainty,” Robert Kelly, chief executive
officer of Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview June 10.  It isn’t clear how much investment could rise before demand
increases. In May, industry used 76.7 percent of its productive
capacity, below the level reached at the nadir of the 1990-91
recession, according to the  Federal Reserve .  “If we had customers, we’d have a reason to hire,” said
 William Dunkelberg , chief economist for the National Federation
of Independent Business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  