-- 
Crude Oil Falls in New York, Hits Four-Month Low in London on IEA Release

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-06-24T20:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/oil-fluctuates-in-n-y-on-u-s-durable-goods-orders-iea-reserve-release.html
Crude oil fell to a four-month low
in  London  and was little changed in New York following the
International Energy Agency’s announcement yesterday of the
release of 60 million barrels to the market.  Futures in London tumbled 8 percent in two days on the
IEA’s plan to respond to the drop in Libyan exports by the
coordinated action of members. Oil also dropped as Oracle Corp.
led U.S. equities lower and on concern Italian banks will be
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service, signaling the Greek
debt crisis may spread to other European countries.  “Sentiment in the market has pretty clearly shifted,”
said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG
in  Washington . “Sentiment would have shifted even without the
IEA release because the economy is in pretty bad shape.”  Brent crude oil for August delivery dropped $2.14, or 2
percent, to $105.12 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange, the lowest settlement price since Feb. 18.  Crude oil for August delivery increased 14 cents to settle
at $91.16 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
August contract dropped 2.4 percent this week.  Brent, the European benchmark, traded at a premium of $13.96
a barrel to U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures today, the
smallest since May 25 based on the settlement. The difference
between the front-month contracts reached a record $23.32 a
barrel last week amid the loss of Libyan and Nigerian barrels
and a surplus of oil at Cushing, Oklahoma, the U.S. storage hub.  Brent Premium  “The Brent premium was related to tightness in the
international market, and the release quells those worries,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “There will be
additional supply available to make up for any potential
shortfall in Europe.”  The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve will provide 30
million barrels of the IEA release, European members will supply
about 20 million and Asian nations the remainder.  The IEA has coordinated the use of emergency stockpiles
three times since the agency was founded in 1974. The first was
during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the second was after
Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The Paris-based IEA is an energy
policy adviser to 28 industrialized nations including the U.S.,
 Japan  and  Germany .  “You now have a new factor in the market,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in St. Louis.  “In the past the strategic reserve
was used to make up for a shortage, now it’s being used as a
pricing tool. This will add another level of complexity for
analysts looking at the market.”  OPEC Failure  The IEA’s decision came after the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries failed to reach an accord on production
increases at a June 8 meeting in Vienna.  Saudi Arabia  pledged
following the meeting that it and three other Persian Gulf
states would keep consumers sufficiently supplied.  “We’re still adjusting to yesterday’s announcement,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New
York . “The missing piece of the puzzle is what the Saudis
think. We don’t know if the Saudis will offset the SPR release
with production cuts, or perhaps grumble and continue pumping as
much as before.”  The IEA is using the release as an economic stimulus
measure, and if it’s successful in driving down prices, it would
serve as a “tax cut” for consumers, boosting both spending and
confidence, according to a report today from Daniel Yergin and
James Burkhard at IHS-Cambridge Energy Research Associates.  The agency’s move won’t bolster the economy because it’s
too small and late, according to analysts led by Francisco Blanch at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  Immediate Relief  “Lower  oil prices  will bring immediate relief to
consumers, but to us this IEA release comes too little, too
late,” analysts led by Blanch said. “The global macro cycle is
already decelerating and systemic risks are growing due to the
unfolding European sovereign debt crisis.”  U.S. technology shares fell the most among 10 groups in the
 S&P 500  after Oracle’s unexpected drop in hardware sales, while
banks were the biggest drag in Europe after Moody’s Investors
Service said it may downgrade 13 Italian lenders.  “The IEA release was a bit of a shock to the market,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Worries about the economy and the
Greek debt crisis had been sending prices lower before the
release and are coming back to the fore.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.2 percent to
1,268.45 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 115.42
points to 11,934.58. The dollar climbed 0.5 percent to $1.4183
per euro. A stronger dollar reduces the appeal of commodities as
an alternative investment.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 646,752
contracts as of 3:31 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 980,468
contracts yesterday, 47 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.51 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  