-- 
Hollywood Auction Ends Myth of Zaftig Marilyn: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-06-24T04:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/hollywood-auction-ends-myth-of-zaftig-marilyn-virginia-postrel.html
We should never again hear anyone
declare that  Marilyn Monroe  was a  size 12 , a  size 14  or any
other stand-in for full-figured, zaftig or plump. Fifteen
thousand people have now seen dramatic evidence to the contrary.
Monroe was, in fact, teeny-tiny.  The 15,000 were the visitors who turned out over eight days
to oooh and aaah at the preview exhibit for the June 18 auction
of Debbie Reynolds’s extraordinary collection of Hollywood
costumes, props and other memorabilia.  The two comments heard most often in the crowded galleries
were (to paraphrase), “Wow, they were thin” and “It’s such a
shame. These things should be in a museum.”  The two remarks are in fact related. The former
demonstrates the truth of the latter.  When the auctioneer’s final hammer came down at 1:20 in the
morning, the world lost a treasure. The collection Reynolds
assembled over 40 years will now be fragmented and dispersed.
“It was a melancholy day for  Los Angeles  and the rest of the
country,” wrote Christian Esquevin on his  Silver Screen Modiste 
blog, expressing a common sentiment. “We will never see the
likes of this collection again.”  The movie business has never particularly valued its
historical artifacts. Hollywood, notes director  John Landis ,
treats costumes and props as “industrial waste,” to be
recycled or discarded but not displayed or preserved. It also
keeps an embarrassed distance from the enthusiasts who treasure
such relics. Unlike, say, science fiction, the mainstream movie
industry doesn’t embrace cult followings. And Los Angeles is
notorious for its paucity of institution-building
philanthropists.  A Failed Museum  Despite decades of effort, Reynolds never managed to find
funding for the Hollywood motion-picture history museum she
envisioned. The  collapse  of her most recent attempt, a project
in Pigeon Forge,  Tennessee , near Dolly Parton’s Dollywood,
precipitated the auction. Reynolds has debts to pay.  From a strictly financial point of view, the collection was
undoubtedly worth more in pieces than together -- $22.8 million
for the 587 lots sold over the weekend, with a second auction
planned for December. My cache of 1930s Fortune magazines would
similarly sell for more if I sliced them up and sold the ads and
covers separately on EBay.  But as a historical record, a costume collection, like a
vintage magazine, is more than the sum of its parts. You learn
more from considering the group as a whole.  Take the question of Marilyn Monroe’s size.  That White Dress  The auction’s top-ticket item was Monroe’s famous white
halter  dress  from “The Seven Year Itch,” the one that billowed
up as the subway passed. It sold for almost $5.66 million
(including the buyer’s premium) to an unknown phone bidder.
Sharing a rotating mirrored platform with Hedy Lamarr’s  peacock
gown  from “Samson and Delilah” and Kim Novak’s rhinestone-
fringed  show dress  from “Jeanne Eagels,” Monroe’s costume was
displayed on a mannequin that had been carved down from a
standard size 2 to accommodate the tiny waist. Even then, the
zipper could not entirely close.  But that’s just one dress. Perhaps the star was having a
skinny day. To check, you could look across the room and see
that Monroe’s red-sequined  show dress  from “Gentlemen Prefer
Blondes” was at least as petite, as were the  saloon costume 
from “River of No Return” and the tropical “Heat Wave”
 outfit  from “There’s No Business Like Show Business.”  Half a Person  In fact, the average waist measurement of the four Monroe
dresses was a mere 22 inches, according to Lisa Urban, the
Hollywood consultant who dressed the mannequins and took
measurements for me. Even Monroe’s bust was a modest 34 inches.  That’s not an anecdote. That’s  data .  The other actresses’ costumes provided further context.
“It’s like half a person,” marveled a visitor at the sight of
Claudette Colbert’s gold-lame “Cleopatra”  gown  (waist 18
inches). “That waist is the size of my thigh,” said a tall,
slim man, looking at Carole Lombard’s  dress  from “No Man of Her
Own” (a slight exaggeration -- it was 21 inches). Approaching
Katharine Hepburn’s “Mary of  Scotland ”  costumes , a plump woman
declared with a mixture of envy and disgust, “Another skinny
one.”  The pattern she noticed was real. At my request, Urban took
waist measurements on garments worn by 16 different stars, from
 Mary Pickford  in 1929 (20 inches) to  Barbra Streisand  in 1969
(24 inches). The thickest waist she found was  Mae West’s  26
inches in “Myra Breckinridge,” when the actress was 77 years
old.  Waist sizes are easy for the general public to notice and
understand. Trained eyes find other patterns that can only
emerge when costumes are examined together, rather than treated
as individual icons based on who wore them.  Variety Versus Trends  Historians can compare the construction and cut of the
“Mutiny on the Bounty” uniforms from 1935 with those from the
1962 remake, for instance, or analyze how Elizabethan court
dress was imagined for “Mary of Scotland” or “The Private
Lives of Elizabeth and Essex” in the late 1930s, versus “Young
Bess” or “The Virgin Queen” from the mid-1950s.  To understand the past, you need a large sample. Only then
can you separate idiosyncratic variation from broad trends.
With more costume examples, notes Kevin Jones, curator of the
museum collections at the Fashion Institute of Design and
Merchandising in Los Angeles, you can “get a complete picture
of the overall look and feel of a particular production and the
specific style of an individual designer.”  One of the strengths of Reynolds’s collection was that she
assembled multiple costumes from the same movie -- 12 lots from
“Desiree,” for instance, not just Marlon Brando’s coronation
robes as Napoleon.  The Entire Cast  She saved not only  Audrey Hepburn ’s iconic  Ascot costume 
from “My Fair Lady” but also Rex Harrison’s accompanying Henry
Higgins suit; not just Gene Kelly’s sailor uniform from
“Anchors Aweigh” but also  Frank Sinatra ’s; not just Norma
Shearer’s embroidered Juliet gown but two of Leslie Howard’s
Romeo doublets and pants plus the costumes for Lady Capulet,
Paris, two female extras and a Montague pole bearer. The auction
broke apart such groupings, likely forever.  It also complicated preparations for a landmark costume
exhibition. In October 2012, the Victoria & Albert Museum in
 London  will mount the largest motion-picture costume display
ever, with costumes representing a century of movies, borrowed
from at least 13 institutions and private collections.  Vibrant Art Form  The show is being curated by  Deborah Nadoolman Landis 
(John’s wife), a costume historian and Oscar-nominated costume
designer who directs the David C. Copley Center for the Study of
Costume Design at the UCLA School of Theater, Film and
Television. Its goal, she explained, is to show costume design
“as a vibrant modern art form” and “a key component of cinema
storytelling.”  Reynolds had enthusiastically pledged whatever costumes
from her collection were needed. “She gave me all of her
inventory books and said, ‘Look through them. I’ve been trying
to do this for years. Please pick whatever you want, and I would
love to share these with the world,’” says Landis.  Financial reverses spoiled those generous plans, leaving
Landis to hope that anonymous bidders will step forward to
volunteer their new prizes for the exhibit. She attended the
auction in hopes of identifying these buyers, and the back page
of the auction catalog carried the V&A’s plea to borrow eight
iconic costumes.  Eccentric and Valuable  Yet even as scholars and fans mourn the collection’s
breakup, dreaming of the museum that might have been, they admit
the importance of private collectors. These enthusiasts may not
all preserve artifacts in museum-quality condition, keeping
costumes unaltered and mostly in the dark. But without the
sometimes-eccentric people who buy at auctions out of their own
passion to own a piece of movie history, no one would have saved
these objects in the first place.  “Thank God for them,” says Deborah Landis. “Thank God
for Debbie. We would have nothing. It would have been rags. That
was the old way. We used everything until it fell off the
hanger. That was the tradition in Hollywood.”  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View colums .  To contact the writer of this column:
Virginia Postrel in Los Angeles at  vpostrel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  