-- 
Lopez’s Serve Finally Gets the Better of Roddick at Wimbledon

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-24T17:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/lopez-s-serve-finally-gets-the-better-of-roddick-at-wimbledon.html
It took  Feliciano Lopez  eight tries
and some unbelievable tennis to finally beat  Andy Roddick .  The Spaniard hit 57 winners to Roddick’s 40, and had just
seven unforced errors, nine fewer than the American. Lopez even
outserved Roddick, using 28 aces to end his losing streak
against the former top-ranked player, 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (7-2), 6-4
in the third round at Wimbledon. Roddick had 23 aces.  “It’s unbelievable,” the 29-year-old Lopez said. “When
I came back in the locker room, my coaches told me. I was
surprised that I didn’t miss anything almost. I played solid all
three sets. When you play  Andy Roddick  here, you never expect to
win two straight tiebreaks against him.”  Roddick’s serve had helped him push six-time champion  Roger Federer  to 16-14 in the fifth set during the 2009 Wimbledon
final. Federer also beat him in the 2004 and 2005 championship
matches. Roddick, 28, is the last American man to win a major,
at the 2003 U.S. Open.  “I got beat,” Roddick said in a news conference. “He
came out. He served about as well as someone has.”  Until today, Roddick had maintained a perfect record
against the 44th-ranked Lopez since the two first played in
 Indian Wells  in 2003. Their last meeting was only two weeks ago,
when Lopez lost on the grass courts of the Queen’s Club in
 London  despite hitting 35 aces.  “I knew if I played the same way I played in Queen’s, I
would have my chances,” Lopez, a two-time Wimbledon
quarterfinalist, said in a news conference. “But once you have
your chances, you have to take them, and this is what happened
today basically.”  Mixing it Up  Roddick said Lopez mixed up his serves and improved his
play from their previous meetings.  “The stuff that’s enabled me to beat him seven times,
making passing shots under duress, making him play defense on
his forehand, he did well today,” Roddick, the No. 8 seed, said.  Losing early to Lopez was a lot easier to deal with than
last year, when he was ousted by then 82nd-ranked Yen-Hsun Lu
from  Taiwan  in five sets in the fourth round, Roddick said.  “He played better than I did,” he said. “It’s easier for
me to walk out of here with that and move forward with that than
in 2008 where I lost to Janko Tipsarevic and I felt like I
completely choked or last year where I just kind of had a
million opportunities and kind of gave it away. Those are
tougher to take now.”  Improving  Roddick said he’s been playing his best tennis in the past
year. After losing to Lu at Wimbledon, he was beaten at the U.S.
Open in the second round, and in the fourth round of the
Australian Open at the start of this season. He pulled out of
the  French Open  last month with a shoulder injury.  “I haven’t played well this year, for sure,” he said. “I
don’t think I’ve played my best since probably April of last
year. I think I can. Have I over the last year? Probably not.
I’ve been up against some stuff. But it has to get better.
There’s no doubt.”  Roddick, who turns 29 in August, isn’t thinking of quitting
just yet.  “You keep moving forward until you decide to stop,”
Roddick said. “At this point I’ve not decided to stop so I’ll
keep moving forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser 
 celser@bloomberg.net  