-- 
Oracle Declines After Reporting Unexpected 6% Drop in Its Hardware Sales

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-24T20:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/oracle-falls-after-reporting-unexpected-drop-in-hardware-sales.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  dropped in U.S. trading
after reporting a decline in hardware sales, fueling concern the
top maker of  database software  may not be benefiting as much as
predicted from its Sun Microsystems Inc. acquisition.  Hardware sales declined 6 percent to $1.16 billion,  Redwood
City , California-based Oracle said in a statement yesterday. The
company had forecast in March an increase of 6 percent to 12
percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  bought Sun last year
to capitalize on demand for the servers and databases used in
data centers. While the hardware results may reflect Oracle’s
effort to pare less-profitable machines from the lineup, they
were disappointing enough to overshadow better-than-predicted
performance in profit and sales of new software licenses.  “This is really the first full year-over-year compare for
the hardware business, and it has started on the wrong foot,”
said Josh Olson, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,
 Missouri .  Hardware gross margin, a measure of profitability, rose to
56 percent in the fourth quarter from 46 percent last year, a
sign Oracle is making headway selling higher-margin machines.  Oracle is adding sales staff, preparing new computers for
release this year and pitching hardware support contracts to
boost sales of Sun machines, executives said on a conference
call.  Oracle fell $1.32, or 4.1 percent, to $31.14 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has lost less
than a percent this year.  Profit Tops Estimates  Profit excluding certain costs was 75 cents a share in the
quarter that ended May 31, exceeding the 71-cent average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 13
percent to $10.8 billion, meeting analysts’ predictions.  Hardware sales may rebound in the current quarter, which
ends in August, Oracle Chief Financial Officer Safra Catz said
on a conference call. Sales of hardware products may range from
a 5 percent increase to a 5 percent decline, Catz said.  New software license sales, a predictor of future sales,
will rise 10 percent to 20 percent, she said. Profit excluding
certain items will be 45 cents to 48 cents, compared with 46
cents projected by analysts, the company said.  Calculated on a basis that doesn’t comply with generally
accepted accounting principles, revenue will increase 9 percent
to 12 percent this quarter, Catz said. That implies sales of
$8.27 billion to $8.5 billion, compared with $8.3 billion, the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Exadata, Exalogic  New license sales gained 19 percent last quarter to $3.74
billion, at the high end of Oracle’s forecast. That compares
with the 13.5 percent growth predicted by  Jason Maynard , an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, in a June 20 research note.  Ellison is using his purchase of Sun to add computers to
the arsenal of programs he has amassed through more than $42
billion in acquisitions since 2005. Oracle has tailored its
databases to run faster on new machines using Sun hardware.  The company also has aimed to improve the unit’s profit by
discontinuing sales of less expensive products and emphasizing
its high-performance Exadata and Exalogic computer servers. That
may have contributed to the revenue decline, said Peter Goldmacher, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in San Francisco.  Oracle may also be grappling with growing pains related to
the buying spree, Goldmacher said.  “The more they acquire and the further afield they get
from their core competence, the harder it is to manage the
business,” Goldmacher said.  Overpriced Acquisitions  Oracle co-President  Mark Hurd  told analysts Oracle is
selling fewer servers at higher prices, and increasing the
amount of support contracts and software sold with each system.  “There’s no question we want to grow the top line, but we
want to grow the top line right,” he said.  Ellison said during the conference call that Oracle is
taking a pause from large acquisitions because many potential
targets are overpriced.  “They’re by and large not attractively priced now and
don’t make sense, so we’re not doing them,” he said. “Instead
we can focus our energies on organic growth.”  At Oracle’s OpenWorld conference, which begins Oct. 2 in
San Francisco, the company plans to announce a computer system
for analyzing data in a computer’s memory instead of on a disc.
Oracle also plans what it calls a “big-data accelerator,” a
product that will use open-source Hadoop software to help
companies handle large amounts of data from various sources.  Oracle’s sales growth is expected to taper off as year-
earlier figures reflect the acquisition. Sales are projected to
increase 8.8 percent to $39 billion in 2012 after surging 34
percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  