-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Increased Greater-Than-Forecast 1.9% in May

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-24T20:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-climbed-more-than-forecast-in-may.html
Orders for durable goods climbed
more than forecast in May, signaling manufacturing may be one of
the first areas of the  U.S. economy  to rebound from a first-half
slowdown in growth.  Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years
rose 1.9 percent after a 2.7 percent April drop that was smaller
than previously reported, data from Commerce Department showed
today in Washington. Revised figures from the agency also
confirmed gains in gross domestic product cooled last quarter.  Record exports, the need for companies to update equipment
and the easing of parts shortages stemming from the disaster in
Japan will probably boost manufacturing in the second half of
the year. The figures support the view of Federal Reserve
officials, who this week said the slackening in the expansion
may be due to temporary restraints.  “Some of the slowdown does appear to have been because of
temporary factors that will either fade or reverse, including
the supply chain effects from  Japan  and the big jump in oil and
gasoline prices at the start of the year,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York .
“Manufacturing numbers will start to improve over the next
couple of months.”  Stocks fell on disappointing sales from Oracle Corp. and on
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 1.2 percent to 1,268.45 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York.  Treasury securities  rose, pushing down the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note to 2.87 percent from 2.91 percent late
yesterday.  Growth Cooled  The economy grew at a 1.9 percent annual pace in the first
quarter, marking the start of what Fed policy makers project is
a temporary slowdown in growth, another report from the Commerce
Department today showed. The revised rise in GDP matched the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
followed a 3.1 percent gain in the prior quarter. The government
last month estimated first-quarter growth at 1.8 percent.  The median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 1.5 percent increase in orders for durable goods
after a previously reported 3.6 percent drop in April. Estimates
ranged from a decline of 1.9 percent to a gain of 5.5 percent.  Orders for durable goods excluding transportation
equipment, like commercial aircraft, increased 0.6 percent after
a 0.4 percent decline, the Commerce Department said.  Pattern in Orders  Today’s figures extended a recurring pattern of declines in
capital equipment orders at the start of a quarter that are then
reversed in the following two months.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment in items like computers,
engines and communications gear, climbed 1.6 percent after
falling 0.8 percent the prior month. The April decline was
previously reported at 2.3 percent.  Last month’s gain was broad-based, with orders for
machinery, computers, electrical equipment and communications
gear rising.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating GDP, increased 1.4 percent after falling 1.5
percent.  Manufacturing, which has been benefiting from a pickup in
exports to countries like China and  Brazil , began to cool in the
aftermath of Japan’s earthquake in March and as raw-material
costs climbed. Factory production dropped 0.5 percent in April,
restrained by shortages of auto parts, according to Fed figures.  Factory Rebound  Reports this month indicate a recovery may already be at
hand. Output climbed 0.4 percent last month on rising demand for
machinery and computers, Fed data showed June 15. Autos and
parts production fell 1.5 percent, representing an improvement
from the 6.5 percent plunge in April as supply restraints eased.  “The slower pace of the recovery reflects in part factors
that are likely to be temporary, including the damping effect of
higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing power and
spending as well as supply chain disruptions associated with the
tragic events in Japan,” central bankers said June 22 in
announcing they will maintain record stimulus.  “The economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the committee
had expected,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press
conference after the  Federal Open Market Committee  met.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline,
is among companies projecting business will improve. The
Memphis, Tennessee-based carrier this week forecast full-year
earnings that may top analysts’ estimates as demand climbs.  “We believe the near-term softness in the economy will be
temporary as fuel prices have retreated from their April highs
and the Japanese economy recovers,” Frederick Smith, chairman
and chief executive officer of FedEx, said on a June 22
conference call. “The industrial sector will lead growth in the
 United States  and overseas in the next two years, supporting
shipping demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  