-- 
Hotel Investors Inflate Property Prices Past Demand for Lodging

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/hotel-buyers-inflate-property-prices-as-values-outpace-u-s-lodging-demand.html
Record prices being paid by
investors for U.S. hotels may be outpacing gains in room rates
and stays as the slow economic recovery damps a lodging revival.  Prices for lodging properties climbed to about $185,000 a
room in the first quarter, according to research firm Real
Capital Analytics Inc. Values had peaked at $153,000 per room in
2006, then plunged 37 percent to a low two years ago.  This year’s jump is the result of a surge in luxury-hotel
transactions and more purchases by real estate investment
trusts, particularly in large cities. While lodging occupancies
and rates are climbing, the gains aren’t enough to keep up with
prices being paid for some full-service properties, said Rick
Kleeman, managing partner at  Wheelock Street Capital LLC , a real
estate investment firm in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “Asset prices on average have led fundamentals,” said
Kleeman, whose company bought the  Courtyard San Diego Downtown 
and the  Hyatt Westlake Plaza , both in  California , this year.
“Obviously you have fundamentals improving, but clearly the
economy is not picking up as fast as we had hoped. It’s not the
’06 or ‘07 crazy market but, on average, the market has run
ahead of itself.”  Occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 63
percent in the first quarter from 60 percent a year earlier,
according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,
 Tennessee . At hotels with the costliest rooms, stays rose to 67
percent from 63 percent.  The U.S. recovery is showing signs of slowing. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has tumbled 5.9 percent from an almost three-
year high in April, and manufacturing, employment and housing
are trailing economists’ estimates.  Increases Since Lehman  In the 24 months following September 2008, when Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. failed, contributing to the U.S.
recession, hotels fetched prices as much as 71 percent higher
than during the lodging industry’s peak, according to  New York- 
based Real Capital.  The  JW Marriott New Orleans  sold in February of this year
for $94.3 million, up from the $55 million price paid in January
2008. The  Hilton Garden Inn Chelsea  in  New York  City sold in
September 2010 for $68.4 million, 24 percent higher than its $55
million price in October 2007, Real Capital said.  Values have gained even outside major cities. The Holiday
Inn in Oak Hill,  West Virginia , sold for $3.5 million in July
2010, up 40 percent from when it last sold, in September 2007.  “Pricing is pretty aggressive,”  Barry Sternlicht , founder
of real estate investor  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , said in an
interview at the New York University International Hospitality
Industry Investment Conference in New York on June 6. “Even for
generic hotels you get 20, 30 bids.”  ‘Well Below’ Peaks  Daily room rates averaged $94.05 last year, and revenue per
available room, an industry measure of occupancy and rate, was
$42.40, according to Real Capital. That’s “well below” the
2008 peaks of $106.65 and $54.42, said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at
the firm.  Hotel sales in the Americas are likely to jump as much as
25 percent this year, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.’s hotel
investment-services unit said on Jan. 4.  Values have been driven up chiefly by demand from REITs,
which purchased $1.6 billion of hotels in the first quarter.
That’s 44 percent of those traded and five times the total of
REIT purchases in all of 2007, the peak year for hotel sales,
Real Capital said.  Mondrian Los Angeles  REITs are focusing on full-service properties in large
cities. This week,  Pebblebrook Hotel Trust (PEB)  agreed to buy stakes
in six New York boutique hotels for $152 million, and earlier
this year bought the Mondrian Los Angeles for $137 million and
the W Hotel in  Boston  for $89.5 million. Pebblebrook planned to
spend $400 million to $600 million on hotels during the balance
of 2011, Chief Executive Officer Jon Bortz said in April.  Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc. (SHO) , the Aliso Viejo, California-
based owner of 33 lodging properties across the U.S., in March
agreed to buy a majority stake in the Hilton San Diego Bayfront
hotel, valuing it at $475 million. The property, completed in
December 2008, originally cost $350 million, according to its
developer, Atlanta-based  Portman Holdings LLC .  Sunstone acquired the hotel at a valuation of 13.4 times
2010 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, “meaningfully below our corporate EBITDA
multiple,” Sunstone President Kenneth Cruse said in an e-mail.  “Our valuation of the hotel is a function of its in-place
cash flows, protected location, future growth potential and
competitive supply trends -- all of which are very attractive,”
he said.  ‘Justify a Price’  “If people are buying at par or a slight premium, they can
justify a price with future growth,” said Charles Pinkham III,
vice president of development at Portman.  That reasoning has contributed to hotel capitalization
rates, a measure of investment yield, falling to record lows of
4 percent last year, according to  Steve Rushmore , president and
founder of HVS, a hospitality-consulting firm. He expects rates
of 3 percent to 5 percent in the luxury tier, and 4 percent to 7
percent for upper-upscale properties, the segment one level
below luxury.  “Pricing even at midscale hotels is pretty aggressive at a
6 percent cap rate,” Sternlicht said during a panel discussion
at the NYU hospitality conference. “Usually it’s more around 9
to 10 percent.”  New York Hotels  In April,  FelCor Lodging Trust Inc. (FCH)  agreed to buy the
Royalton and Morgans boutique hotels in  New York City  from
 Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  for $140 million, or about $500,000 per
room. FelCor expects a minimum cap rate of 5 percent at the
hotels, said Stephen Schafer, a company spokesman.  FelCor, based in Irving,  Texas , looks for acquisitions
that, “purchased at a substantial discount to replacement cost,
will earn a 10 percent cash yield within a short time,” he said
in an e-mail.  Some buyers say the prices being paid for hotels are
justified as long as they’re below what it would cost to build
the same property at the same location from the ground up.  “When you buy below physical replacement cost at a time
nobody is building, it’s usually a good investment,”  Jonathan Gray , co-head of real estate at  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said at the
New York conference.  Pebblebrook, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , seeks properties
priced at 20 percent to 50 percent below the cost of building
new, CEO Bortz said in an April interview.  Replacement Costs  In some cases, hotel values have begun to creep ahead of
even replacement costs,  Mark Elliott , a partner at Atlanta-based
brokerage Hodges Ward Elliott Inc., said at the NYU conference.
That may be the first step toward a resumption of hotel
construction. In such cities as New York, “hotels are routinely
trading at $200,000 per key above what it would cost to replace
them,” he said.  “Hotel demand is closely correlated with overall economic
growth, so if you think you know what 2014 hotel demand is going
to be, you’d have to know what 2014 GDP is going to be,” said
Kleeman of Wheelock. “We are less certain we have that answer.
One thing you can say for sure for hotels is things can change
overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  