-- 
Obama Must ‘Show Leadership’ on Debt-Limit Negotiations, McCarthy Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/house-s-mccarthy-says-obama-must-show-leadership-in-deficit-negotiations.html
President Barack Obama will have to
show some leadership if there is going to be any compromise to
raise the nation’s debt limit and stave off a default, said
Representative  Kevin McCarthy , the third-ranking House
Republican.  “He’s got to get off the golf course, and he’s got to get
engaged,” McCarthy said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  McCarthy not only rejected any tax increases as part of an
agreement, he insisted that limits on Medicare must be included
in a bipartisan deal.  McCarthy, a third-term representative from  California ,
dismissed ideas of eliminating tax breaks for  oil companies  or
raising fees on banks as ways to narrow the U.S. deficit.  “In America today, we use 19 million barrels a day, and we
produce roughly 7 million,” McCarthy said. “If you want to
create a system that says we’re going to rely on more money
being spent on oil in other countries that create jobs in other
countries, I say no.”  Lower Medicare spending must remain part of any deficit-
reduction package to save the government health insurance
program for the elderly from bankruptcy, McCarthy said.  McCarthy, rejecting an idea put forward by Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of resorting to short-term
increases in the debt limit, said lawmakers and the
administration “can get to the point where we solve this
problem” if Obama becomes more involved.  Walking Away  House Republican Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia 
and the second-ranking Senate Republican,  Jon Kyl  of Arizona,
walked away on June 23 from negotiations led by Vice President
 Joe Biden  about ways to cut at least $1 trillion of federal
spending and raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
before an Aug. 2 deadline.  The breakdown leaves it to Obama and congressional leaders
such as House Speaker  John Boehner  to narrow differences over
tax increases, Medicare cutbacks and other disputes that have
bogged down negotiations. Obama will meet separately next week
with McConnell and Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid  in an
effort to revive efforts at a compromise.  Last weekend, Obama played a round of golf with Boehner, an
Ohio Republican, as the two made good on a commitment to work
toward more bipartisan camaraderie.  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. risks defaulting
on its obligations starting Aug. 2 without an increase in the
debt ceiling, a threat underscored by warnings from Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  that they may consider
downgrading the U.S. credit rating.  Medicare Changes  McCarthy said that, despite public disapproval of a
Republican plan by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  to
overhaul Medicare, his party hasn’t lost the argument on that
issue.  By 57 percent to 34 percent, respondents to a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted June 17-20 say they would be worse off
if the Republican plan to convert Medicare to a system of
subsidized private health coverage were adopted.  Fifty-eight percent of independents, a critical voting bloc
in recent elections, say they would be worse off.  “If you ignore Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, in
a few short years, it’ll take every single dollar that
government brings in,” McCarthy said.  On next year’s presidential election, McCarthy said his
party needs a “strong leader” for its nominee.  “I want a leader that sets out a path,” he said. “I want
one that doesn’t just talk about cuts, but talks about the
shining city on the hill. We’re only going to get out of this
problem if we grow this economy.”  McCarthy, who was the chief recruiter of Republican
candidates for the House in last year’s elections where his
party won control of the chamber, said he hasn’t yet seen any
candidate set out such a path.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  