-- 
House Votes Not to Restrict U.S. in Libya

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/house-lawmakers-vote-not-to-restrict-funding-for-u-s-operations-in-libya.html
Weariness with the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan helped fuel an unsuccessful effort by  House
Republicans  to restrict U.S. military involvement in Libya’s
civil war.  The House refused yesterday on a 295-123  vote  to approve a
 resolution  authorizing U.S. support for allied bombardment of
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. Then, on a 238-180 vote, it
 defeated  legislation to bar U.S. forces from engaging in
hostilities.  House Republican leaders scheduled the votes to address
rising frustration among members in both parties with President
Barack Obama’s assertion he didn’t need congressional approval
for the Libya mission. Lawmakers said war weariness also spurred
the debate.  “Military involvement and engagement is really losing
support fairly rapidly in Congress,” Virginia Democrat Gerry
Connolly told reporters after the votes. “People are just
tired, they are tired of the cost, they are tired of the
deaths.”  The defeat of the war-powers resolution marked the first
time in 12 years that the House refused to grant authority for a
U.S. military mission. In 1999, the Republican-controlled House
defeated a resolution to authorize Democratic President  Bill Clinton ’s bombing of Yugoslav troops in  Kosovo .  “The war weariness here is real,” and “the skepticism
about Libya is a byproduct of that war weariness,” said
Connolly, who supported authorizing the mission.  Rebuking Obama  Three weeks earlier, the House passed a resolution rebuking
Obama for failing to give a full explanation for the Libya
mission and demanding a national-security justification.  In a  floor speech  yesterday, House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio  said Obama “responded by telling us he didn’t need
Congress” to approve the mission.  Boehner also has acknowledged war weariness among his
colleagues, saying it reflects concern from their constituents
about the cost and duration of U.S. combat in Iraq and
 Afghanistan .  Republican Buck McKeon of California said the mission in
Libya has become a stalemate between rebel forces and those
loyal to Qaddafi.  “We find ourselves past the three-month mark with no end
in sight,” said the California lawmaker who is chairman of the
House Armed Services Committee.  After Obama gave “the flimsiest legal rationale” for the
U.S. role in the conflict, the House shouldn’t “cover his lapse
with a blanket authorization,” McKeon said.  Partisan Splits  Seventy Democrats opposed the resolution authorizing U.S.
military support in Libya and eight Republicans voted for it.
Eighty-nine Republicans joined 149 Democrats to defeat the
separate funding restrictions, which were supported by 36
Democrats.  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said the White House was
“disappointed” the House refused to authorize the mission
because “we think now is not the time to send a mixed
message.”  Democrats accused House Republican leaders of trying to
embarrass the president.  U.S. commitments to help allies prevent a humanitarian
crisis in Libya “are too important to be exploited for cynical
political purposes,” said California Representative Howard Berman, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  ‘Breaking the Law’  Florida Republican Tom Rooney, sponsor of the House measure
to restrict funding to non-hostile military activity, said it
was needed because the president “is breaking the law” by
conducting the military operations without the approval of
Congress.  Without an assertion of Congress’s “power of the purse,”
Obama is “able to continue unfettered,” Rooney said.  The measure would have barred funds for U.S. military
involvement in Libya except for the specified air-support
missions and operational planning. Aerial refueling missions and
intelligence and surveillance flights would also have been
allowed.  The discontent over Libya is not as widespread in the
Senate. The resolution backing the mission was initially drafted
by a bipartisan group of senators led by Democrat  John Kerry  of
 Massachusetts  and Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona .  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee, led by Kerry, is
scheduled to debate the resolution next week, and leaders of
both parties predict the full Senate will approve it.  218 Bombing Missions  U.S. aircraft have flown 218 bombing missions in the last
30 days against Libyan ground anti-aircraft defenses or loyalist
troops attacking civilians in the effort to quell Qaddafi,
according to Defense Department figures.  The Libya mission began in March to protect rebels by
enforcing a no-fly zone over the country. U.S. and allied planes
bombarded Qaddafi’s anti-aircraft defenses.  Democrats who support the Libya mission said that passing
Rooney’s measure would hobble U.S. military support for the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s bombing campaign.  The spending restrictions “would end our mission in
 Libya ” by barring the military from doing anything to
“suppress enemy fire,” said Washington representative  Adam Smith , the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee.  Oklahoma Representative Tom Cole, one of the 89 Republicans
who opposed Rooney’s measure, said it “gets us into a situation
where we effectively micromanage the military by literally
listing what missions they should take.”  The debate capped a week in which Boehner sought to address
the frustration of Republican House members, and some Democrats,
with Obama’s argument that he didn’t need congressional
authorization under the 1973  War Powers Resolution  because U.S.
forces aren’t engaged in hostilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  