-- 
China’s Pang Da on Track to Buy Saab Stake

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-24T05:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/pang-da-of-china-says-it-s-on-track-to-buy-a-stake-in-saab-owner.html
Pang Da Automobile Trade Co. said it
is on schedule to buy a stake in Swedish Automobile NV, the
owner of  Saab Automobile , after the carmaker halted production
because of a lack of funds.  “There’s no change to our previous plan,” Wang Yin, board
secretary of Pang Da, said in a phone interview. “Saab is
having temporary financial difficulties and the problem isn’t
fundamental.”  Pang Da, based in the northern Chinese city of Tangshan,
has paid 45 million euros ($64 million) for Saab cars and plans
to invest 109 million euros for a 24 percent stake in Zeewolde,
Netherlands-based Swedish Automobile, which was previously known
as Spyker Cars NV.  Saab first halted production in April amid a payment
dispute with suppliers. It restarted vehicle assembly on May 27
after getting a cash advance from Pang Da, only to put the
brakes on manufacturing again on June 8. Saab, which General
Motors Co. sold in February 2010 to Spyker, ran into a cash
shortage after missing sales targets.  Saab and Swedish Automobile are in talks with various
parties to raise cash, the company said yesterday in a statement.
The options include the sale and lease-back of the factory in
Trollhaettan,  Sweden .  Not Promising  “The Saab deal isn’t seen as a promising one by industry
observers given the potential risks,” Fang Ju, an analyst with
China Minzu Securities Co. in Beijing. “There’s little chance
for the deal to be approved by Chinese government given the
crowded status of local auto manufacturing.”  Pang Da, which raised 6.3 billion yuan ($973 million) in
April in an initial public offering in Shanghai, sells 20 car
brands including vehicles from Toyota Motor Corp. and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi division.  Swedish Automobile agreed on June 13 to sell a 29.9 percent
stake to Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile Co. Ten telephone
calls to Gao Ling, a spokeswoman for Zhejiang Youngman, asking
for comment weren’t returned.  Pang Da’s shares gained 1.1 percent to 29.62 yuan at the
11:30 a.m. break in  Shanghai  trading, compared with the 1.6
percent advance in the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  