-- 
Pasta Price May Jump as North Dakota Durum Floods Boost Campbell’s Costs

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-24T20:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/pasta-price-may-surge-as-swamped-north-dakota-cuts-durum-supply.html
Unrelenting rainfall may have
slashed U.S. planting of durum wheat to the lowest level in more
than 50 years, fueling a surge in the price of pasta and noodles
as mills scramble for supply of the grain.  Farmers who normally are finished planting by now had
completed just 44 percent as of June 19 in  North Dakota , which
produces more than two-thirds of U.S. durum, government data
show. It’s too late to sow more without delaying the harvest to
the winter-frost period, said Frayne Olson, an agricultural
economist at North Dakota State University in Fargo.  Planting may drop 47 percent this year to 1.365 million
acres, the lowest since 1959, Olson said. In the past month,
parts of North Dakota and  Montana , the second-biggest grower,
had triple the normal rainfall,  National Weather Service  data
show. North Dakota durum prices are up 52 percent in the past
month, and U.S. pasta in May was the most expensive on record.  “Basically, the selling has shut off in the U.S., because
if you’re a holder of durum, there’s no point in selling it,”
said Jim Kulp, the general manager of the milling division at
Philadelphia Macaroni, which makes pasta including the Alphabet
Soup noodles for  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  “If you’re holding durum
wheat, it’s like gold. So why would you sell it?”  While durum accounted for less than 5 percent of total U.S.
wheat output last year, it is the primary source of grain used
in pastas. Varieties including soft, red and hard, red winter
wheat are baked into pastries, cookies and bread.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will update its durum-
acreage estimate on June 30. In March, the agency said farmers
would plant 2.365 million acres this year.  Tighter Supplies  Durum in the U.S. is getting scarce, and the Canadian
prices jumped 46 percent since late May, boosting costs for
Philadelphia Macaroni’s mill in Minot, North Dakota, Kulp said.  Flooding on the Souris River broke a 130-year-old  record 
today in Minot, according to the  National Weather Service . About
12,000 people have evacuated the city. Philadelphia Macaroni’s
plant is still running and is far enough away from the river to
avoid damage, Kulp said today.  Too much rain in  Canada , the world’s largest durum
exporter, also may erode North American supplies. At the same
time, increasing demand and adverse weather -- from floods in
the U.S. Midwest to a drought in  Europe  -- has tightened global
crop inventories of corn, wheat and soybeans.  Fewer Acres  Statistics Canada  said yesterday that durum  planting  may
total 4.375 million acres this year, less than the 5.05 million
projected in  April . Seeding still is expected to be up from 3.15
million in 2010, when excessive rains also curbed output, the
government agency said.  “ Canada , they’re the ones that are going to have to make
up the shortfall in the U.S.,” said Charles Soule, a market
analyst with Country Hedging Inc. in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota . “No
doubt, it’s going to be a tight situation.”  As of March 31, Canadian durum-wheat  stockpiles  totaled
2.871 million tons, or 40 percent less than a year earlier,
according to Statistics Canada.  Grain elevators in North Dakota are paying farmers about
$14.40 a bushel for durum on average, up from $9.50 a month ago,
North Dakota State’s Olson said. The price may top the record of
$23 reached in February 2008 if additional weather problems hurt
crops this growing season, he said.  The price of durum is rising faster than wheat futures on
the Chicago Board of Trade, which primarily track the soft-red
winter variety grown in the Midwest. Wheat futures have climbed
38 percent in the past year to $6.61 a bushel.  Food-Price Inflation  “Higher durum prices are going to work their way through
the system to higher pasta prices,” Olson said. “The cost of
durum in the total cost of manufacturing pasta is fairly
significant. There’s a limited amount the pasta manufacturer can
do to absorb that cost differential. This will eventually have
to be passed on to consumers.”  Pasta at U.S. supermarkets climbed to $1.231 a pound in
May, the highest on records going back to 1980, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The USDA affirmed an estimate today that the cost of
domestic cereal and bakery products will rise 3.5 percent to 4.5
percent this year, faster than overall food costs. Global food
prices reached a record in February, and are up 37 percent in
the past year, the  United Nations  says.  Campbell’s Soup Costs  B. Craig Owens, the chief financial officer of Camden, New
Jersey-based Campbell, said during a conference call in May that
the company would raise soup prices this month because of higher
commodity costs.  “We are beginning to see higher rates of inflation,
particularly in grain-based commodities, packaging and other
ingredients,” Owens said.  Campbell spokesman John Faulkner declined to comment
further on the price increases.  Louis Kuster, a fifth-generation farmer in Stanley, North
Dakota, said he’s only planted about 15 percent of his usual
2,000 acres of durum, with fields only dry enough on three days
this season. He’ll collect crop insurance on the remaining 85
percent of land left fallow because it’s too late to plant now.  “Everybody has pretty much put their planting equipment
away,” said Kuster, who’s been farming all his life and has
owned his own operation since 1972. “I’ve never seen it ever be
as wet as this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in New York at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  