-- 
Peter Falk, Television’s Rumpled Detective Columbo, Dies at 83

-- B y   F e l i x   K e s s l e r
-- 
2011-06-24T18:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/peter-falk-television-s-rumpled-detective-columbo-dies-at-83.html
Peter Falk, who played television’s
rumpled detective Columbo for 30 years in an acting career that
included 50 movies and spanned a half century, has died. He was
83.  He died last night at his home in  Beverly Hills ,
 California , the  Associated Press  reported, citing a statement by
a family friend, Larry Larson. He had dementia, possibly related
to  Alzheimer’s disease , since at least 2009.  Falk, a former stage actor, worried he was being typecast as
a mobster in movies when in 1968 “along came a police
lieutenant named Columbo, and my life would never be the same,”
he wrote in his memoir, “Just One More Thing,” a title that
came from his “forgetful” detective’s favorite line.  Just as Falk used his own wardrobe to create believable
gangsters -- he won Oscar nominations in his first two roles --
the old raincoat he dug out from a closet proved a perfect fit
for his detective’s character.  He conceived  Columbo  as “a regular Joe” who was “the most
brilliant detective on the globe,” he wrote. “A guy with a
mind like Einstein who sounded like the box boy at Food Giant.”  The New York-born Falk said his West Coast detective’s
persona mirrored his own. He also dressed like a slob, spoke
like a street kid and was absent-minded, said Falk, though in
his case he was pre-occupied with his scripts and roles.  His personality was like his TV detective’s, Falk said.  “I saw a man who had an obsessive streak,” he wrote. “I
saw that behind the raincoat was someone who couldn’t sleep
until he found the answer.”  Rumpled, Smart  Falk won five Emmy Awards for his television work, including
three as Columbo, a detective who drove a Peugeot clunker and
concealed a sharp intelligence behind his shambling mannerisms.  Aside from the movie bad guys he played, Falk acted in three
heavily improvised films directed by his friend John Cassavetes.  Born Sept. 16, 1927, in  New York  to Jewish parents of East
European descent, Peter Michael Falk was raised upstate in
Ossining. At age 3, his right eye had to be removed because of
cancer.  Though as a child he dreaded kids asking about his “funny”
glass eye, he was no longer self-conscious by high school, where
he was class president and played on the baseball team. Called
out at third base in a game, Falk said he “whipped out my eye
and handed it to the umpire,” telling him, “You’ll do better
with this one.”  He studied at the New School for Social Research in New
York and later received a master’s degree in public
administration from  Syracuse University .  Early Break  Falk was working in  Connecticut  as a state budget analyst
when he began acting in community theater. In time, he decided
to try for a stage career. After bombing in his New York debut,
he was cast in a hit production of Eugene O’Neil’s “ The Iceman
Cometh .”  He never looked back, even after the legendary Harry Cohn of
 Columbia Pictures  nixed a movie contract with the line, “Young
man, for the same price I’ll get an actor with two eyes.”  Falk was undeterred. After years in live television dramas,
he played a Jewish gangster in the 1960 movie “Murder, Inc.”
and was nominated for an Academy Award. A year later, Falk’s
comedic role as a gangster in Frank Capra’s “Pocketful of
Miracles” earned him his second -- and last -- Oscar
nomination.  The wide-shouldered overcoat he wore in both pictures
deserved a lot of credit for establishing the personality of his
characters, Falk said, as did Columbo’s ratty raincoat years
later.  Successful Roles  Clothes alone didn’t account for his success in various
roles: Gentle grandfather in “The Princess Bride” (1987);
private eye in  Neil Simon ’s madcap “The Cheap Detective”
(1978) or in Simon’s satiric “Murder by Death” (1976). On
Broadway, he starred in Simon’s 1971 Tony Award play, “The
Prisoner of Second Avenue.”  Falk acted with Cassavetes in a half-dozen movies and was
directed by him in several. His memoir was filled with jokes and
glib lines, though he turned serious when discussing Cassavetes,
who died in 1989.  “John was very shrewd about money,” wrote Falk. “He knew
it was worthless.” Cassavetes was a dedicated filmmaker, he
said, for whom money served mainly to finance his independently
made movies.  Cassavetes acted in a “Columbo” episode, as did dozens of
Falk’s friends, from Patrick McGoohan -- who won two Emmys as a
“Columbo” guest star -- to Faye Dunaway. All were cast as
much-too-clever murderers nabbed after under-estimating Columbo,
who bummed matches for his cigar and always had “just one
more” question as he left a room.  No Gun  Violence, guns and police chases weren’t part of the show’s
formula. Columbo didn’t carry a gun and never was punched or
threatened by a suspect. Viewers saw a murder committed at the
start of each show, and the intrigue and suspense lay in
watching Columbo trap the killer.  The series proved as popular overseas as in America. He was
chased by kids chanting “Columbo” even when shooting a film in
the Andes.  During the Cold War era, he once was detained in  Russia  at
an airport. Sent to a bare room for questioning, Falk was
nervous about his fate when an official approached and revealed
what it was all about. In a hushed voice, he asked for the
actor’s autograph.  Only one other television detective lasted as long as Falk’s
“Columbo” --  Angela Lansbury ’s “Jessica Fletcher.”  Her stage and film career may have lasted longer and been
more distinguished than Falk’s, yet he bested her in one
respect: She never won an Emmy.  In 1977 Falk married Shera Danese, an actress. With first
wife Alyce Mayo, he had two daughters, Jackie, an actress, and
Catherine, a private investigator.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Felix
Kessler at   fkessler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  