-- 
Petraeus to CIA Fixes Civilian-Military Balance: Linda Robinson

-- B y   L i n d a   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-24T22:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/petraeus-to-cia-fixes-civilian-military-balance-linda-robinson.html
General David Petraeus gave what is
likely his last congressional testimony as an officer in uniform
yesterday, at the Senate Intelligence Committee hearings on his
nomination to become director of the Central Intelligence
Agency.  Two important messages came out.  First, Petraeus will move smartly in his remaining days as
commander in Afghanistan to begin President Barack Obama’s troop
drawdown, which is speedier than Petraeus had recommended. He
did not in any way associate himself with those who sought to
reopen the decision or question its feasibility. He noted that
the drawdown will complicate reaching the campaign’s objectives,
but left no doubt that he will strive to set up his successor,
Lt. Gen. John Allen, for success.  The second point concerned something vastly broader. In the
closing hour of testimony, in a colloquy with Senator  Carl Levin , Petraeus seemed to be speaking for the history books, to
clear the air about the recent years of troubled civil-military
relations, of latent and overt tension between officers and
civilian officials, of tendentious comments captured by
reporters and genuine differences over wartime policy.  Petraeus said three times that his job was to provide the
view from the battlefield and the president’s job was to make
the decisions. When Levin suggested that Petraeus could resign
if he disagreed with Obama’s drawdown decision, the general
replied with heat and at length.  Not a Quitter  “We take an oath,” he said. “I’m not a quitter. In my view
it is not the place of a commander to consider that kind of step
… to hang up his uniform in protest.”  Levin attempted to continue his questioning, but Petraeus
stopped him again, saying he felt very strongly about this
point. “Our troopers don’t get to quit,” he insisted. “I don’t
support any such kind of idle action. This is about our
country.”  So, what does this exchange tell us about the future, in
our foreign wars and at home?  It means, or should mean, three things for  Afghanistan .
First, the Afghans will be in charge sooner rather than later --
militarily, economically and politically -- and the Americans
will take the backseat.  Second, the U.S. will shift to a small counterinsurgency
footprint, with the remaining troops dispersed at the village
and district level in insurgent-plagued areas. They will have
logistic, air and quick-reaction forces to support them.  Political Reconciliation  Third, the political and diplomatic track will assume
increasing importance as civilians work to achieve bottom-up
reintegration into society and top-down political reconciliation
involving all Afghans (except for diehard jihadists like members
of the Haqqani network).  Yet Petraeus’s comments signaled a broader change in civil-
military relations and national security policy making. The hope
is that, after a decade out of whack, there will be a proper
balance between military leaders providing their best
professional advice and civilians making the policy decisions.  The military-civilian line became blurred in the George W. Bush years when the wounded administration turned to Petraeus as
the credible voice to sell its  Iraq  policy. The Obama
administration tried to reclaim the ground, but at the cost of
swirling tensions that spilled into public view.  By hanging up his uniform after 37 years and moving into a
civilian advisory position in the national security
establishment, Petraeus brings his status to a side of the scale
that has been vastly underweight for far too long.  (Linda Robinson is the author of “Tell Me How This
Ends: General David Petraeus and the Search for a Way Out of
Iraq.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer of this column:
Linda Robinson in Washington at  lindarobinson100@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  