-- 
Philippine Peso, Bonds Climb After Fitch Raises Debt Rating

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-24T08:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/philippine-peso-bonds-climb-after-fitch-raises-debt-rating.html
The Philippine peso rose the most
this week since April and bonds rallied after  Fitch Ratings 
raised the nation’s debt rating to one level below investment
grade yesterday.  Three-year notes had their best day in more than two months
after Fitch lifted the long-term foreign-currency rating to BB+
from BB, citing the government’s efforts to reduce its  budget
deficit . The Philippines reported a  budget surplus  of 61 million
pesos ($1.4 million) in the first four months of this year,
compared with a deficit of 131.80 billion pesos a year earlier.  “The upgrade was another show of confidence in the
administration’s concerted efforts to set the public books in
order,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in
 Singapore . “The rally in bonds can be sustained if the fiscal
numbers also reflect the trend of smaller deficits.”  The peso strengthened 0.6 percent this week, the most since
the five days ended April 29, to 43.417 per dollar at the 4 p.m.
close of trading, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency
advanced 0.2 percent today.  Fitch’s upgrade puts the  Philippines  on a par with
 Indonesia  and follows a similar move by Moody’s Investors
Service on June 15. The Philippines will strive to achieve an
investment rating “at the soonest possible time,” Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said yesterday.  The yield on the 6.25 percent notes due January 2014 fell
18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 4.52 percent, the
lowest level since May 2, according to Tradition Financial
Services. Today’s drop is the biggest since April 13, completing
the bond’s third weekly decline in yields.  The government will consider selling bonds aimed at
overseas Filipinos as it did last year, Purisima said yesterday,
citing demand from nationals abroad. The Philippines will be
“opportunistic” in selling debt, he said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  