-- 
Pioneer Loses Bid to Block U.S. Imports of Garmin GPS Gear

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-24T22:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/pioneer-loses-bid-to-block-u-s-imports-of-garmin-gps-devices.html
Pioneer Corp. (6773)  lost its bid to block
imports of  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN) ’s global-positioning system devices in a
U.S. International Trade Commission ruling that may limit future
patent disputes at the agency.  The ITC  said  today Garmin isn’t violating Pioneer’s patent
rights because Pioneer didn’t fulfill legal requirements of
having a domestic industry for the underlying technology, which
relates to how data may be stored, retrieved or displayed on GPS
devices. The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency in Washington set up
to protect U.S. markets from unfair trade practices.  The commission looked at whether Pioneer, a Japanese maker
of car-navigation and audio equipment, may use a portfolio
licensing program as proof of a market when only one or two
patents in the portfolio were being asserted.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) 
supported Garmin by calling on a limit to ITC cases in which the
patent owner doesn’t make a product. The ITC’s reasoning in
today’s ruling won’t be made public until Pioneer and Garmin can
redact confidential information.  Federal law lets inventors and companies that only license
their patents file trade complaints with the ITC. Google, HP and
Cisco argued that those patent owners should be forced to prove
that their licensing programs relate to promoting products in
the market, not just extracting royalty payments.  Honeywell Settlement  A broad interpretation of licensing as an industry
“rewards financial speculation and mere patent ownership over
the kind of jobs the statute was meant to protect and upon which
this country’s future will depend,” the three technology
companies said in a May 24 filing with the agency.  Pioneer filed the complaint in 2009, claiming that
Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based Garmin and  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  were infringing patents related to GPS and
automobile-multimedia devices. Honeywell later settled the case.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Multimedia Display and
Navigation Devices and Systems, 337-694.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  