-- 
Poland May Join Mobile Anti-Missile System, Finmeccanica Says

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-06-24T10:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/poland-may-join-mobile-anti-missile-system-finmeccanica-says.html
Poland may join a multinational
mobile anti-missile program that the U.S. plans to withdraw
from, said Pier Francesco Guarguaglini, chairman of  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC) , one of the companies involved in the system’s development.  The U.S. has said it wants to terminate its role in the
Medium Extended Air Defense System, or Meads, when the current
development phase ends in 2013. The seven-year old, $4.2 billion
program is a joint effort of the U.S., Italy and  Germany 
involving a consortium of companies led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
including Rome-based Finmeccanica.  “The Italian Ministry of Defense wants to save the
program,” Guarguaglini said in an interview at the Paris Air
Show yesterday. “Maybe we have Poland” joining the system,
Guarguaglini said, adding that talks are underway with the
country.  “Several nations have expressed interest” in the system,
Cheryl Amerine, a spokeswoman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, said in an e-mail. Lockheed can’t identify them yet,
she said. Janusz Sejmej, a spokesman for  Poland ’s Ministry of
Defense, said he couldn’t comment on the matter.  Following Russian objections, President Barack Obama’s
administration scrapped a proposal by his predecessor, George W. Bush, to install a fixed-base anti-missile system in Poland and
the  Czech Republic  to defend  Europe  from Iranian missiles.  Instead, the Obama administration has proposed a
combination of sea-based missile defense systems using the U.S.
Navy’s SM-3 interceptors, which would also be adapted for use on
land. Meads is being designed to counter shorter-range missiles
than the SM-3 system, which is aimed at intermediate-range
missiles.  U.S. Role  The U.S. contributes 58 percent of the funding for the
Meads program. The anti-missile system is designed to work
within NATO’s command structure, using the latest version of the
Patriot missile developed by Lockheed Martin and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   The program’s development is managed out of Orlando,
Florida, under Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Lockheed, Lfk-Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of Germany and MBDA of
Italy.  MBDA is the world’s second-largest missile maker, after
Raytheon of Waltham,  Massachusetts . MBDA is jointly owned by BAE
Systems Plc, European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co. and
Finmeccanica.  Congressional Proposals  The U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee said in January
the program cost had increased by $1 billion and the schedule
was delayed an additional 18 months from its earlier plan.  The Pentagon in its 2012 budget is seeking $406.6 million
for the program and plans to ask for an identical amount in the
2013 spending plan to complete its commitment.  The 2012  defense budget  is yet to be approved by Congress.
One defense panel in the House of Representatives has proposed
cutting $149.5 million from the 2012 request for Meads. The
Senate Armed Services Committee has proposed eliminating the
funding completely. To become law both houses of Congress must
pass identical legislation and it must be signed by the
president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Paris at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  