-- 
Publicis to Spend 700 Million Euros on Acquisitions in 2011

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-24T16:55:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/publicis-to-spend-700-million-euros-on-acquisitions-in-2011-1-.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  will probably
spend more on acquisitions this year than initially planned as
the owner of the Leo Burnett and Saatchi & Saatchi advertising
agencies is expanding in emerging and digital markets.  The company may spend about 700 million euros ($993
million), compared with a previous target of 400 million to 500
million euros, Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  said in an
interview in Cannes today. Paris-based Publicis could spend even
more if a particularly compelling deal comes along, he said.  The increased spending won’t have an impact on the
company’s forecast, Levy said.  Publicis, the world’s third-largest advertising company
with clients including Microsoft Corp. and Walt Disney Co., has
said it will outperform peers and improve operating margins in
2011. The company, which aims to double operations in  China  by
2013, plans to announce two to three acquisitions in that
country this year, Levy said today. Advertising companies are
pushing into China and other emerging economies to make up for
slower growth in established markets.  The company this week agreed to buy China’s Genedigi Group
to become the largest public relations network in the country.
Genedigi has 400 employees and offices in Beijing,  Shanghai  and
Guangzhou. Publicis has announced the acquisitions of more than
a dozen companies so far this year, almost matching the number
of 2010 deals, according to Bloomberg data.  Digital Push  The company’s current targets are significantly smaller
than the 575-million euro acquisition of Rosetta Marketing Group
which was announced in May, Levy said today.  Rosetta will join the French company’s digital-oriented
brands such as Digitas and Razorfish, and be part of a strategy
of expanding that segment to 35 percent of group revenue in 2013
from 28 percent last year, Publicis has said.  Digital operations and business in emerging markets
accounted for 48.3 percent of sales in the first quarter,
Publicis said in April. The company has a medium-term target of
earning 65 percent of revenue from the two segments.  Levy said today that second-quarter sales may rise by 6.3
percent to 6.5 percent. For the full year, Publicis should
report revenue growth of more than 5 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Cannes, France via 
 Athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  