-- 
Trafigura’s Tiger Seeks to Raise Stake in Congo Copper Mine

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-24T08:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/trafigura-s-tiger-resources-in-talks-to-raise-stake-in-congo-copper-mine.html
Tiger Resources Ltd. (TGS) , part owned by
Trafigura Beheer BV, is in talks with the Democratic Republic of
Congo’s state-run mine operator Gecamines in a bid to raise its
stake in the  Kipoi  copper project in southern Katanga province.  Tiger has been in discussions for more than six months over
expanding the stake to as much as 80 percent, from 60 percent
now, Managing Director Bradley Marwood said in a phone interview
from Perth,  Australia , where the company is based. An increase
would boost the company’s ability to raise debt, he said.  “It’s much easier to get financing when you have a clear
majority,” Marwood said. “That will make my operations grow
much more quickly. I can do what I’m doing without raising debt
but maybe I want to go faster to take advantage of current
copper prices. We’re getting some traction.”  Tiger, 26 percent-owned by Trafigura, according to Marwood
and Bloomberg data, is producing concentrate with 25 percent
copper content at a rate of 130,000 metric tons a year, which
will generate an annual $100 million in profit, Marwood said.  Mining companies are boosting production as they struggle
to meet surging demand for copper that has driven prices to a
record this year. Xstrata Plc and Anglo American Plc yesterday
said they would study an expansion of the third-largest  copper
mine , in  Chile , that may as much as double output by 2017.  “The Kipoi project is such a quality asset,” Adam Kiley,
a London-based mining analyst with Ambrian Partners Ltd., said
in an interview today. “Increasing its stake is what it wants
to be doing.”  Cathode Plant  Tiger is considering constructing a so-called Solvent
Extraction Electrowinning copper cathode plant after spending
more than $60 million to begin output at the mine, Marwood said.  Final results from a metallurgical study due in August will
show whether the $250 million, 50,000 ton-a-year plant is
viable, he said, adding it will be funded with  cash flow .  Shares in Tiger fell for a second day, declining 2.4
percent to 41 Australian cents.  Trafigura’s Head of Corporate Affairs Mark Eadie declined
to comment in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg
News yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  