-- 
Rand Heads for Biggest Weekly Drop in Six on Greece Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-24T15:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/rand-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-six-as-greece-damps-risk-aversion.html
The rand headed for its biggest
weekly decline in six against the dollar, following the euro
weaker amid speculation a European Union pledge to stabilize the
region’s economy won’t resolve its sovereign-debt crisis.  The rand retreated as much as 0.8 percent to 6.9158 per
dollar, and traded 0.4 percent down at 6.8847 by 5:16 p.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its decline this week to 1.8 percent, the
biggest weekly decline since the week ending May 13. The rand
slipped 0.2 percent to 9.7570 per euro.  The euro-area’s shared currency declined as a lawmaker from
 Greece ’s ruling Pasok party said he hasn’t decided to vote for
the country’s new austerity package. The rand closely tracks the
euro, with a correlation of 0.683 this quarter, higher than all
but five of 23 emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg. A value of 1 would mean they moved in lock step. The
eurozone accounts for 45 percent of  South Africa ’s exports and
34 percent of its imports, according to government data.  “The rand remains at the mercy of sentiment regarding the
eurozone’s sovereign debt,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts
led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan said in a research
note.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility versus the dollar
has risen eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 15.34
percent, and near a seven-month high on a closing basis. The
implied volatility indicates that options traders see more price
swings in coming weeks.  Averting Default  The premium of options contracts to sell the rand versus
the dollar within three months over contracts to buy the rand
climbed to 3.35 percentage points today, from 2.9 percentage
points on June 10, according to Bloomberg data, indicating
traders see the rand declining rather than advancing.  EU leaders vowed to stave off a Greek default as long as
Prime Minister  George Papandreou , who won a confidence vote this
week, pushes through a package of budget cuts and asset sales.
South Africa’s rand tumbled as the debt crisis damped demand for
higher-yielding assets. Thomas Robopoulos, a lawmaker for
Greece’s ruling Pasok party, said he hasn’t decided whether he
will vote for the government’s medium-term fiscal plan and
implementation law in Parliament next week.  “Uncertainty doesn’t let up,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in a research note. “Two-way risks are
evident on the day; multi-day risks seem biased” in favor of a
weaker rand, they added  The rand pared its loss against the dollar as U.S. orders
for durable goods rose more than forecast in May after slumping
the prior month, and growth in first-quarter gross domestic
product was revised to a 1.9 percent pace, from an earlier
estimate of 1.8 percent.  Bonds gained, sending yields to the lowest in almost two
weeks. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 added 34 cents to
89.34 rand, driving the yield down six basis points to 8.37
percent, the lowest since June 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  