-- 
Trecartin Shops at Target, Saws Ikea Chairs for Big N.Y. Show: Interview

-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/trecartin-shops-at-target-saws-ikea-chairs-for-big-n-y-show-interview.html
For someone whose art involves
dressing in drag, vomiting in the back of a minivan and
destroying furniture with a sledgehammer, Ryan Trecartin is
surprisingly mild-mannered.  Tan, smiling and wearing a button-down shirt, jeans and New
Balance sneakers, Trecartin, 30, looks like any one of the
dozens of assistants, museum interns and friends racing to set
up the seven galleries for his first major exhibition in a New
York Museum.  “Ryan Trecartin: Any Ever” combines video art with
installations of modified college-dorm-style furniture and
objects. The art star created the show with his collaborator,
Lizzie Fitch, and it runs through Sept. 3 at MoMA PS1.  We spoke at an outdoor table in the courtyard of the museum
two days before the opening.  Tarmy: How many people are actually working with you to put
the show together?  Trecartin: There was a moment where there were like 20
people in there. On average, besides my collaborator Lizzie
Fitch and myself, I would say there are around 10 people setting
up.  Hacksaw Art  Tarmy: So is your role mostly organizational? Or are you
actually building the sets and installations?  Trecartin: I’ve been more of a “director.” Usually Lizzie
and I do it all ourselves. Sometimes I will come in when it’s a
creative decision.  Tarmy: Like what?  Trecartin: Lizzie had the idea to cut off the top of the
kitchen chairs in one gallery, because we wanted chairs to alter
as the viewer moves from room to room.  Tarmy: You can just take a hacksaw to an Ikea chair? I
would think it would fall apart.  Trecartin: I thought it would too, but they managed to stay
together. Ikea stuff generally isn’t filled with cardboard
anymore.  Tarmy: Where do you get your stuff?  Trecartin: Mainly at places like Target, Best Buy, Pier 1
or Ikea. We’re looking for very specific things. Sometimes we’ll
go off on tangents while we’re in the store, but we go to each
aisle for a particular reason.  Tarmy: Do you have a budget or can you just go crazy?  Me and Myself  Trecartin: We have a budget, but it’s a combination of
money from the museum, money from our gallery and money from our
studio.  Tarmy: So you’re actually finding stuff to put into the
exhibit as you go along?  Trecartin: Within certain parameters. We thought about the
show in its entirety ahead of time; each room was conceptualized
based on the movie that would be shown in it.  Tarmy: I notice that the videos are playing in the
galleries during setup. Is it weird to work with a giant version
of yourself looming over you?  Trecartin: I don’t see myself when I watch it. Because when
I’m making something like that I’m in such a trance that once
it’s done I seriously sometimes forget that I made it. We work
like psychos, doing 20-hour days for months, and when I’m in
that rhythm I remember feelings, but not details.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 