-- 
Reserves Focus Leaves Currency Managers Exposed, Citigroup Says

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-24T18:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/reserves-focus-leaves-currency-managers-exposed-citigroup-says.html
Global currency managers’ increased
holdings of reserves in dollars, euros and yen leaves them
exposed to a weakening world economy and Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis, according to Citigroup Inc.  More than 90 percent of the reserves are held in the three
currencies, even as central banks have slowly diversified from
the dollar, Steven Englander and Andrew Cox, currency
strategists at Citigroup in  New York , wrote in a note today.
Sixty-one percent are in dollars, compared with 72 percent a
decade ago, while 26 percent are in euros and 4 percent are in
yen, they wrote, citing International Monetary Fund’s  Quarterly
Composition  of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves report for the
fourth quarter.  “The surprise is both how little diversification has
actually occurred, and the degree to which the non-U.S. dollar
buying has been concentrated in the euro and yen,” Englander
and Cox wrote. “A large share of the reserve portfolio is
increasingly unattractive. G-3 currencies are low yielding and
each has significant credit issues,” they wrote.  The euro slid 0.5 percent today to $1.4189 amid speculation
a Greek austerity plan and a European Union pledge to stabilize
the region’s economy won’t resolve its debt crisis.  Greece  must
approve 78 billion euros ($111 billion) of austerity measures to
get its latest loan payment under an existing bailout and
qualify for more aid to stave off default.  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in
the first quarter, down from 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
Commerce Department data showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  