-- 
RIM Combined Chairman-CEO Roles ‘Inadequate’, Glass-Lewis Advisory Says

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-24T20:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/rim-investors-should-vote-to-split-chairman-ceo-roles-glass-lewis-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  is facing
rising pressure to overhaul its management as a proxy advisory
firm said the BlackBerry maker’s combined chairman and chief
executive officer structure provides “inadequate independent
checks” at a “turbulent” time.  Glass Lewis & Co., which advises investors that manage more
than $15 trillion, said RIM shareholders should support a
proposed split in the chairman and CEO roles. The proposal, made
by Northwest & Ethical Investments LP, will be voted on at RIM’s
annual shareholder meeting on July 12.  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis  are both co-CEOs and co-chairmen at the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company.  “We are concerned that the current co-chair/CEO structure
provides inadequate independent checks on executives and
management, particularly since the co-CEOs founded the company
and are its largest shareholders,” Dimitri Zagoroff and Marian
Macindoe, Glass Lewis analysts, wrote in their report.  RIM has been losing share in the smartphone market to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and handset makers that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.
RIM said on June 16 quarterly revenue may decline for the first
time in nine years, sending its stock down 21 percent the next
day. The shares have lost about half their value this year.  Shareholders are increasingly in favor of management change
and the resolution will likely pass, said  Robert Walker , vice
president, ethical funds at Northwest & Ethical.  “It is a bit of a perfect storm in terms of long-term
shareholder coalition around the concept that chairman and co-
CEO should be separated,” Walker said in an interview. “That
combined with the drop in share price I think will lead to a big
vote here. I’d be surprised if we don’t get 50 percent.”  Independent Directors  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment
beyond the company’s  statement  in the proxy filing that included
Northwest & Ethical’s proposal. RIM said shareholders shouldn’t
support separation because management already has sufficient
oversight from independent directors, including its lead
director who has a role similar to chairmen at other companies.  Glass Lewis  disagreed with that assessment. The firm
recommended shareholders withhold their votes from  John Richardson , the company’s lead director.  The firm justified its recommendation because of
Richardson’s role on the  audit committee  while the company was
investigated for stock-option backdating. Balsillie stepped down
as chairman of RIM in March 2007 following an Ontario Securities
Commission investigation into backdating, and then returned as
co-chairman in December.  “In our opinion, the director has failed in his oversight
responsibilities,” the firm wrote in its report.  Investor Dissent  Richardson, 78, has been a RIM board member since 2003 and
lead director since March 2007. He is former chairman of the
Ontario Pension Board and is current chairman of The Boiler
Inspection and Insurance Company of  Canada , a machinery
insurance provider.  Stephen Jarislowsky, a billionaire RIM investor, has added
his name to the call for the BlackBerry maker to split the
roles. His Montreal-based firm -- formerly the company’s sixth-
biggest investor, with 10.2 million shares of RIM at the end of
the first quarter -- has sold more than half its stake.  “You should not have these two people at both positions
because they have worked together all their lives and they are
basically the same person, from point of view of policy,”
Jarislowsky, chairman of Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd. said in an
interview last week.  RIM fell $1.20, or 4 percent, to $28.57 at 4 p.m. on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has dropped 51 percent this year.  Institutional Shareholders Services Inc., which advises
more than 1,700 clients on corporate governance, will probably
release its report on RIM early next week, said  Ted Allen , a
spokesman for the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  