-- 
Rubber Gains for First Time in Seven Sessions as Oil Rebounds After Slump

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-06-24T05:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/rubber-in-tokyo-set-for-worst-loss-in-seven-weeks-as-demand-concern-grows.html
Rubber gained after a 6.7 percent
slump in the previous six sessions and as a rebound in crude  oil
prices  improved the appetite for the commodity used in tires.  The November-delivery contract advanced as much as 1.2
percent to 364.7 yen a kilogram ($4,432 a metric ton), erasing
losses of as much as 1.4 percent earlier on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange. It traded at 363.7 yen at 2:31 p.m. local time. The
commodity is down 4.2 percent this week, set for the biggest
drop since the week ended May 6.  “The rebound of oil prices provided support, prompting
investors to build up portfolio after the recent falls,”
Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at AGROW Enterprise Ltd., said
by phone from Bangkok.  Oil rose in  New York , reversing yesterday’s plunge on
concerns that stockpile releases by consuming nations may
restrict the ability to respond to supply disruptions in future.
Crude climbed as much as 1.5 percent to $92.34 a barrel after
sliding 4.6 percent yesterday.  “Gains may be limited as investors remain concerned over
the global economic recovery which could threaten demand for the
commodity,” Sureerat said.  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits rose more than
forecast last week and consumer confidence in the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, fell for the first time in five weeks.
Risk signals for financial stability in the euro area are
flashing “red,” as the region’s debt-crisis threatens banks,
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said.  Rising Supplies  “Concerns about the U.S. and European economies were the
largest drag on the market,” Hisaaki Tasaka, an analyst at ACE
Koeki Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today.  Rubber was earlier also pressured by signs of increasing
supplies from Thailand, the world’s largest producer and
exporter, Tasaka said.  Output in Thailand is estimated to gain 6.8 percent to 3.26
million tons this year, according to the Office of Agricultural
Economics. Output in  India , the fourth-biggest producer, may
jump 22 percent in four years as planters boost yields to keep
pace with rising demand from tiremakers, according to the
country’s state-run Rubber Board.  The physical price of Thai rubber dropped 1.4 percent to
144.10 baht ($4.70) a kilogram today, the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand  said on its website. “Overseas buyers
have delayed purchases from Thailand and shifted to buy the
commodity from other cheaper sources,” the group said.  In  Shanghai , September-delivery rubber added 0.2 percent to
32,150 yuan ($4,968) a ton during midday break.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  