-- 
Sarkozy’s Fight Against Agriculture Speculators Moves to Finance Ministers

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-24T08:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/sarkozy-campaign-against-food-price-speculators-moves-to-finance-ministers.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
fight to curb speculation in agricultural commodities, blamed
for the “plague” of record food prices, moves to the Group of
20 finance ministers, who may balk at the toughest proposals.  France , which holds the G-20 presidency this year, won the
backing of agricultural ministers meeting in Paris this week to
put commodity market regulation on the agenda of the finance
ministers, who meet in September in  Washington . The ministers
probably won’t agree on “tough” measures, said Shenggen Fan
from the  International Food Policy Research Institute .  “It will be very difficult,” the director general of the
Washington-based group, which is helping prepare a report on
commodity prices for the finance ministers, said in an interview
in Paris. “I’m not very optimistic the countries will be able
to introduce some very tough regulation on that.”  World food prices tracked by the  United Nations  jumped 37
percent in the past 12 months as drought and flooding ruined
crops from  Canada  to Australia, a surge that drove 44 million
more people into poverty. Rising costs are stoking inflation
worldwide, spurring central banks from  China  to the euro region
to increase rates, potentially curbing economic expansion.  Sarkozy made commodity regulation a priority of France’s G-
20 presidency this year, urging caps on holdings by speculators
and greater transparency on the ownership of positions in
 futures markets . Price swings are “a plague on farmers and
consumers,” he told the ministers in Paris on June 22. “It can
plunge entire populations into famine and poverty.”  Food Riots  The last time food prices surged, from 2007 to 2009, more
than 60 food riots occurred worldwide, according to the U.S.
State Department. Corn gained 75 percent in the past 12 months,
wheat rose 54 percent and rice advanced 28 percent.  Market regulation was going to be one of the hardest
proposals to get agreement on, French Agriculture Minister Bruno
Le Maire said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown” before the meeting. The U.K. and
 Australia  were among countries who had expressed concern that it
may lead to “over-regulation,” he said.  Regulation “means for example position limits, avoiding
that a single player can rake in a third or half of an entire
harvest only to increase the prices, then resell and pocket the
gain along the way,” Le Maire said yesterday after the meeting
of agriculture ministers.  $451 Billion  Commodity assets under management climbed to a record $451
billion in April, up 53 percent from a year earlier,  Barclays
Capital  reported last month.  The finance ministers will “more realistically” agree on
sharing information and disclosing the scale and ownership of
positions in commodity futures markets, according to Fan.  “Probably we’ll do some regulation, but before it’s
necessary to know exactly how it works, to avoid mistakes, very
severe mistakes,” Brazilian Agriculture Minister Wagner Rossi
told journalists in Paris yesterday.  More study is required to determine the effects of
speculation on agriculture prices, Rossi said.  The agriculture ministers also agreed to a plan to set
limits on export bans, create a crop database, increase output
and develop emergency food reserves. The G-20 accounts for 65
percent of all farmland and 77 percent of global grain output,
according to a statement on the website of the G-20 presidency.  The joint database on food stocks and crop forecasts may
help avoid price surges,  Robert Zoellick , the president of the
 World Bank , told journalists after the meeting yesterday.  “Speculation is a result of price volatility, not a
cause,” Fan said. “When a speculator sees the high volatility
and a tightening supply, then they will go to invest to make
money. If it’s stable, smooth, they’re not going to invest
because there’s no money to be made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  