-- 
Sarkozy Says Gates’s Comments on Libya Mission Were Words of ‘Bitter’ Man

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-06-24T22:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/sarkozy-says-gates-s-comments-on-libya-mission-were-words-of-bitter-man.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
criticized comments by U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  on
the limited role of  Europe  in NATO’s  Libya  mission as the
remarks of someone about to retire who’s “bitter.”  The U.S. isn’t doing “most of the job” in Libya, Sarkozy
told reporters in Brussels today after a European Union summit.
“I doubt someone as intelligent and responsible as Obama will
say the U.S. is doing most of the job in Libya, so it was
particularly inappropriate from Gates, and totally wrong.”  Gates, in a June 10  speech  in Brussels before leaving
office later this month, warned that the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization risks “collective military irrelevance” unless
U.S. allies contribute more to the alliance’s operations. He
said less than half of NATO 28 allies were taking part in the
Libya mission and fewer than a third were willing to deploy
forces to make strikes on Libyan targets.  “Frankly, many of those allies sitting on the sidelines do
so not because they do not want to participate, but simply
because they can’t,” Gates said in his speech. “The military
capabilities simply aren’t there.” Allies lack intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance assets, he said.  Sarkozy led European states including the U.K. into
beginning strikes on Libyan forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  on
March 19 after a United Nations Security Council  resolution 
authorized action to protect Libyan civilians. NATO agreed to
take over the mission on March 27.  “Mr. Gates is going into retirement and it seems like he
isn’t liking it, so you cannot blame someone who is going into
retirement and is a little bitter,” Sarkozy said.  Geoff Morrell, a spokesman for Gates, said he and the
secretary declined to comment.  ‘Two-Tiered Alliance’  Gates, in his farewell speech, said NATO has become a
“two-tiered alliance” with some members pulling their weight
and deploying combat troops and others who specialize in “soft
humanitarian, development, peacekeeping and talking tasks.”  “This is no longer a hypothetical worry,” he said. “We
are there today. And it is unacceptable.”  The U.S. provides two-thirds of the almost 150,000 NATO-led
troops in  Afghanistan . The U.S. share of NATO defense spending
has risen to more than 75 percent from 50 percent during the
 Cold War , Gates said.  Meanwhile, total European defense spending has dropped 15
percent since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on the U.S.,
according to one estimate and only five of the 28 NATO allies
exceed the agreed standard of spending at least 2 percent of
gross domestic product on defense, Gates said, naming the U.S.,
the U.K, France, Greece and Albania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Brussels at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  