-- 
Scene Last Night: Matelli’s Meat, KAWS, Erik Parker, Todd James

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/scene-last-night-matelli-s-meat-kaws-erik-parker-neon-animal-creatures.html
It was hard to settle on a favorite.  Maybe the yummy assemblage of fat sausages and steaks
arranged like a self-portrait by  Tony Matelli ? Or perhaps the
topless blonde with a slice of watermelon drawn by  Todd James .  This is the time when galleries present their summer group
shows and at the  Paul Kasmin Gallery , a happy group -- lots of
long locks and short frocks -- gathered to celebrate “Pretty on
the Inside.”  On view are nearly 50 works, a lot of them show-stoppers
like the neon-colored animal-creatures by Karl Wirsum or the
irksome black owl by Joyce Pensato.  “They’re jarring at first, but spend time with them and
you see the beauty,” said Erik Parker, co-curator of the show
with Brian Donnelly, the buzzy artist professionally known as
 KAWS .  He was staring at another Matelli assortment of rotting
meat (perhaps a memento mori, though most everyone seemed happy
enough to ponder the summer).  Paul Kasmin’s daughter Olivia said she was spending a month
in  Europe  before heading to her freshman year at  Brown
University .  “I’ll be in  Brooklyn  all summer,” said Donnelly. (He has
a good excuse to stay in the city: The  Standard Hotel  is
exhibiting his sculpture of a forlorn  Mickey Mouse .)  The Party  Matelli said he expects to stay in Brooklyn preparing for
two shows. If he takes a vacation, he said he’ll plan one that
gets him bored fast. “When I’m bored, I start thinking of
things in a fresh way,” Matelli said. “I hate the idea of
sightseeing. That’s work.”  After the opening, the gallery held a party at the Wooly, a
private club in downtown Manhattan. Here the show’s out-there
images were replaced with straightforward paintings of ships and
a handsome woolly mammoth above a fireplace.  DJ Illyse Singer was perched behind an old upright piano,
spinning the  Rolling Stones  and Fleetwood Mac from her laptop.
Guests reclined on the English-style couches, eating corn dogs.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 