-- 
LSE Loses With TMX Whether Bid Succeeds or Fails at Loonie Price: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   S e a n   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-24T02:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/lse-loses-with-tmx-whether-bid-succeeds-or-fails-at-loonie-price-real-m-a.html
In the bidding war for  TMX Group
Inc. (X) ,  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  may need to make an offer
it can’t afford for a deal it can’t afford to lose.  The London-based bourse, which announced in February its
all-stock offer for the owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange,
raised its bid valued at C$44.93 a share this week by agreeing
to pay TMX owners a special dividend of C$4 a share. Within
hours, it was topped by a C$50 proposal from a group of Canadian
banks and pension funds vying to keep TMX in local hands, a two-
dollar increase from their original unsolicited offer in May.  For the LSE to top Maple Group Acquisition Corp.’s offer by
one Canadian loonie and compensate its own shareholders, it may
need to spend a total of about a billion U.S. dollars on cash
payouts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While Maple
can defray the costs of its hostile bid among 13 members, LSE
risks taking on more debt and drawing down TMX’s cash balance to
gain a market venue that’s one of the least valuable versus
earnings. Without TMX, the bourse that traces its roots back to
the  coffee houses  of 17th century London may now become a
target, according to First  New York  Securities LLC.  “LSE is in a very vulnerable position,” said  Andrew Ross ,
partner and global equity trader at First New York, a New York-
based proprietary trading firm that bets on stocks, commodities,
currencies and derivatives. “They lack the financial capacity
to outbid the Maple group. It will be very difficult for them to
remain independent if they were to lose the Canadian deal.”  Canadian Banks  Victoria Brough, a spokeswoman for LSE, Carolyn Quick of
TMX and Maple’s Peter Block declined to comment.  Maple, made up of firms from  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  to
Manulife Financial Corp., said in a statement on June 22 that it
would offer C$3.8 billion ($3.9 billion), or C$50 a share, for
TMX, up from C$48 previously.  The group agreed to raise the cash portion of its hostile
bid to as much as 80 percent from 70 percent, and offered to
negotiate a reverse breakup fee if the takeover doesn’t win
regulatory approval. The non-cash portion is Maple shares.  Earlier in the day, LSE and TMX agreed to pay special
dividends of about C$660 million in an attempt to thwart Maple’s
previous bid. TMX shareholders would receive a cash dividend of
C$4 a share from the combined company once the takeover is
completed, while LSE shareholders would get 84.1 pence ($1.35) a
share, the exchanges said.  The LSE all-stock offer is currently valued at C$44.93 a
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. If the cash
dividend is included, it’s valued at C$48.93.  TMX rose 2.4 percent to C$45.30 yesterday in Toronto, while
LSE dropped 0.1 percent to 956.5 pence in  London .  Special Dividend  The prospective buyers sweetened their offers a week before
shareholders of  Canada ’s main bourse vote on the LSE proposal.  While LSE and TMX have already committed to spending about
$670 million in cash payouts, Maple’s counteroffer means that
the London bourse would now have to boost its special dividend
for TMX holders by C$2.07 share to trump Maple by one Canadian
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If LSE shareholders also get an increase in proportion to
TMX holders, the cost of the additional dividends to all owners
of the combined entity would reach almost $350 million.  “If the bid continues to go up, it just wouldn’t make
sense for LSE,” said Sang Lee, managing partner at research
firm Aite Group LLC in  Boston . “They’ve probably gone as high
as they can. At the end of the day, financially speaking, Maple
Group is much better positioned than LSE could ever be.”  ‘Getting Close’  LSE and TMX intend to finance the C$4 dividend to TMX
holders, as well as the 84.1 pence-a-share payout for LSE
owners, with a combination of cash held by both companies and
debt, LSE said in a statement dated June 22.  Together, they had cash reserves of about $818 million at
the end of March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That may not be enough for LSE, with an equity value of
$4.15 billion, to fend off a group whose three biggest companies
have a combined market capitalization of $166 billion, according
to  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at MKM Partners LP in
Stamford,  Connecticut .  LSE is “getting close to paying a price that may make it
difficult to pay off at least in the short run,” he said. “As
the price escalates, financially, it’ll be more difficult to
have it translate into the combined company’s operations.”  Still, LSE is likely to raise the offer, possibly by C$2 a
share, because they want to control the fate of their own
exchange, according to Moore.  “The real problem I see for LSE is if they can’t close on
this deal, they become a target themselves,” he said.  Exchange Consolidation  LSE’s original bid for TMX announced Feb. 9 was part of
more than $30 billion in takeover offers for exchanges in less
than six months, as bourses seek to cut costs and generate more
revenue from trading in stocks, options and futures.  LSE may now miss out on the wave of consolidation that
began in October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  bid A$8.35
billion ($8.3 billion) for  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  to create the world’s fifth-
biggest bourse. The deal was blocked by  Australia ’s government
in April.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  of Frankfurt and New York-based NYSE
Euronext agreed in February to combine to create the world’s
largest exchange, while New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  of Atlanta followed in April with
an unsolicited offer for NYSE Euronext. They dropped the bid
last month after U.S. regulators threatened to block the deal.  “It’s a consolidating industry,” said Roy Behren, a
manager at the $5 billion  Merger Fund (MERFX)  for Westchester Capital
Management Inc. in Valhalla, New York. “There are a limited
number of quality players, and the TMX Group is one of them.”  ‘Strategic Rationale’  Institutional Shareholder Services , which advises pension
and mutual funds on proposals in shareholder meetings,
recommended LSE’s bid yesterday.  “The strategic rationale for the merger appears to be
sound,” ISS said in an e-mailed report. “The merger should allow
TMX Group to achieve the cost synergies associated with
combination of technology platforms, leverage the combined
company’s depth of liquidity to gain new issuer listings, and
improve the company’s global competitive position.”  TMX trades at 15.2 times earnings, 55 percent less than
what the average exchange commands, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. LSE is valued at 17 times profit.  LSE earned 23 cents for every dollar of revenue in the past
12 months, versus an average of 37 cents for exchanges
worldwide. Analysts estimate LSE will increase per-share
earnings by just 3 percent next year, while TMX may boost profit
by 5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings at  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Deutsche Boerse  will climb 16
percent and 12 percent, respectively, the projections show.  TMX needs to make its offer more attractive for
shareholders if it wants to compete with Maple, said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at
Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York.  “TMX shareholders are not excited at the end of the day to
own LSE shares,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 