-- 
Shell Gets $876 Million for Canadian Carbon Capture Project

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-06-24T20:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/shell-gets-876-million-for-canadian-carbon-capture-project.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will receive
C$865 million ($876 million) from the governments of  Alberta  and
 Canada  to fund a carbon capture and storage project.  Shell and its partners will receive the money over 15
years, based on meeting certain performance targets, according
to a  statement  today on the Government of Alberta’s website. The
province of Alberta will contribute C$745 million and Canada
will provide the remainder.  Shell’s  Quest project  would be the first oil-sands
operation to capture the greenhouse gas for an upgrading plant,
Shell said. Development of Canada’s bitumen reserves has
contributed most of the nation’s increase in  carbon emissions 
since 1990 when output was supposed to begin to decline under
the  Kyoto Protocol .  “This is the second of four grants finalized by the
Alberta government for CCS, so the committed funds are starting
to flow to developers,”said Cheryl Wilson,  carbon capture  and
storage analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  Washington .  “Quest is Shell’s main carbon capture project after its
Barendrecht project near Rotterdam was canceled in November,”
Wilson said. The Canadian authorities pledged their support for
the project in October 2009.  Alberta has  committed  C$2 billion to fund four carbon
capture and storage projects including Quest, which it says will
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5 million tons a year
starting in 2015.  Slowing Carbon Emissions  Alberta, home to Canada’s oil and gas industry, is counting
on carbon capture and storage technology to help slow its output
of the gas amid criticism from environmental groups and
politicians in the U.S. and the European Union. Greenpeace has
said the technology is too expensive to rely on for reducing
carbon output on the scale needed to tackle  climate change .  Shell and its competitors in the oil and gas industry are
not only counting on the technology to allow them to continue
exploiting fossil fuel reserves, they also expect governments to
help pay for development of carbon capture and storage.  “CCS is recognized as one of the most promising
technologies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil
fuels,” said John Abbott, Shell’s executive vice president of
Heavy Oil in today’s statement. “Government support in this
important demonstration phase is essential.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Jeremy van Loon in
Calgary at   jvanloon@bloomberg.net 
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  