-- 
Singapore’s Production Declined for Second Month in May on Pharmaceuticals

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-24T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/singapore-s-production-declined-for-second-month-in-may-on-pharmaceuticals.html
Singapore ’s industrial production
fell for a second month in May, the first back-to-back decline
since 2009, after pharmaceutical and electronic manufacturers
reduced output as global demand eased.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about a quarter of the
economy, fell 17.5 percent in May from a year earlier after a
9.5 percent drop in April, the  Economic Development Board  said
in a statement today. That was more than the median estimate of
11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News for a 9.3 percent
decline.  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth are damping
demand for exports from  Asia , which may curb expansion in a
region that has led the global economic recovery. Exports by
Singapore companies such as electronics manufacturing services
provider Venture Corp. are predicted by the government to grow
in 2011 at about a third the pace of last year, when overseas
shipments jumped the most since 2003.  “It’s hard to decouple fully from the external economies
of the U.S. and E.U. because that’s where most of the major
export markets lie,” Chow Penn Nee, an economist at United
Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report. “The
technology sector seems soft, but we think it should pick up in
the second half of this year, although a great rebound is not
expected.”  IMF Forecast  Last week, the  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast
for U.S. growth in 2011 for the second time in two months,
warning that further setbacks to the recovery pose growing
threats to the world economy, along with potential contagion
from the European debt crisis.  Industrial production fell a seasonally adjusted 3.8
percent in May from April, when it dropped a revised 18.7
percent from the previous month, today’s report showed.  Electronics production decreased 5.4 percent from a year
earlier after declining a revised 7.6 percent in April.
Pharmaceutical output fell 43.2 percent.  Manufacturing will probably increase 8 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of 21 economists in a survey by
the Monetary Authority of Singapore released on June 8.  Singapore’s exports rebounded in May as drug companies
shipped more goods to customers, making up for a slump in
electronic sales. The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical
industry is volatile because production swings by companies such
as Sanofi-Aventis SA can cause industrial output to fluctuate
from month to month.  The IMF predicts developing Asian economies will expand 8.4
percent this year, compared with a growth rate of 2.2 percent in
advanced nations.  “The Asian growth story is still relatively intact, which
means Singapore’s manufacturing sector will be relatively
resilient,” Pay Shuzhen, a Singapore-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the
report. “We expect electronics output to pick up as  China ’s
domestic indicators remain relatively robust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  