-- 
Smith & Nephew, Kodak, Blockbuster: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-24T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/smith-nephew-kodak-blockbuster-bravado-viacom-intellectual-property.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,   Europe ’s
largest maker of shoulder and knee implants, said it was awarded
$85 million after a federal jury found  Arthrex Inc.  infringed
the company’s patent on surgical anchors.  The jury in  Portland ,  Oregon , ruled that Arthrex’s Bio-
SutureTak, Peek SutureTak, PushLock and Bio-PushLock violated
the patent rights, London-based Smith & Nephew said in a
statement yesterday. Closely held Arthrex pledged to appeal.  The devices are anchored to a bone to repair tears in the
rotator cuff or in the labrum, a fibrous ring in the shoulder
socket. The trial is the third time the case, which began in
2004, has gone before a jury. The first ended in a mistrial. The
second resulted in a $14.7 million award against Naples,
Florida-based Arthrex that an appeals court overturned because
the judge erred in interpreting key terms of the patent.  “We remain confident our SutureTak and PushLock anchors do
not infringe the patent in issue,” John W. Schmieding, general
counsel for Arthrex, said in an e-mailed statement.  The victory comes in the same week a U.S. appeals court in
a separate case ruled that Arthrex didn’t infringe a Smith &
Nephew patent over a device to fix grafts to a bone. The grafts
are used to replace the anterior cruciate ligament in the knee.  The Oregon case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc.,
04cv29, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  Apple Gets U.S. Antitrust Approval to Bid for Nortel Assets  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  got approval from U.S. antitrust regulators to
bid for the assets of bankrupt Nortel Networks Corp., according
to an agency statement.  The Antitrust Division of the  Justice Department  reviewed
Apple’s request to bid for a number of Nortel patents, according
to a person familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified because the process isn’t public.  While Cupertino, California-based Apple has won a green
light to participate in the bidding, the Antitrust Division will
continue to review any anticompetitive issues that could arise
if an agreement is reached, the person said.  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
bankruptcy in Wilmington, Delaware, in January 2009, agreed to
sell about 6,000 patents to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for $900 million unless
a competitor bids more at a June 27 auction. Nortel, based in
Mississauga, Ontario, delayed the auction for a week, citing a
“significant level of interest” in a June 16 statement.  Amy Bessette, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment.  For the auction to take place, at least one competitor
needed to top Google’s bid by at least $29 million by June 13,
according to rules approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin
Gross. Nortel attorney Lisa Schweitzer declined to say how many,
if any, bidders offered to pay more than Google.  Bidding will take place in the law offices of Nortel’s U.S.
law firm,  New York ’s Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, where
the biggest auctions for Nortel’s assets have been held during
the company’s bankruptcy. Some past auctions lasted more than 24
hours, with several rounds of bidding. The sales raised about $3
billion to pay Nortel creditors.  The patent portfolio will give the winning bidder rights to
control and license technologies including wireless video that
may be valuable for future generations of smartphones such as
Apple’s iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  ITC Delays Decision in Kodak Case Against Apple, RIM  A final ruling in  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) ’s patent-infringement
case against Apple Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd. was delayed
by the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The ruling, scheduled for yesterday, was put off until June
30, the Washington-based agency said in a notice on its website.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Blockbuster, Canadian Unit Seek Mediation on Trademark  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  and its Canadian unit will seek mediation
to resolve issues such as whether the company in  Canada  can use
the retailer’s trademark, which is claimed by  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH) , the buyer of Blockbuster’s U.S. assets.  Blockbuster lawyers said yesterday at a hearing in
 Manhattan  that the mediator also would hear the Canadian
company’s request for protection from U.S. creditors. Under
Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, foreign companies can
block lawsuits by U.S. creditors while they reorganize in
another court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  adjourned the hearing
until July 14. The announcement of the mediator was made after
almost two hours of private talks between the lawyers and the
judge. Lifland said there were “attempts to resolve the
issues” during the talks in chambers.  Blockbuster Inc., once the largest video-rental chain, won
U.S. Bankruptcy Court approval in April to sell its assets to
Dish for $320 million. Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, is
the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider after
DirecTV.  Blockbuster Canada was granted an extension of its right to
use the retailer’s trademark until July 14. It was scheduled to
expire on June 30.  Dish’s threat to end Blockbuster Canada’s use of the
Blockbuster logo is part of a strategy to acquire the Canadian
unit’s assets, Blockbuster Canada said in court papers June 6.  The U.S. Blockbuster business acquired by Dish asked for
bankruptcy court permission to end the trademark agreement with
the Canadian unit. The business, calling itself “New
Blockbuster,” said in court papers that the Canadian unit
shouldn’t be allowed to employ the U.S. bankruptcy process to
delay Dish’s use of “certain intellectual property” assets.  Blockbuster Canada, with 400 stores and 4,000 employees,
might experience a “devastating termination” of business if
its stores were suddenly stripped of signs and other uses of the
logo, Grant Thornton Ltd., the accounting firm that is a
receiver for the Canadian assets, said in court papers.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Bravado Seeks Fake-Goods Seizure Order for Katy Perry Tour  In anticipation of singer Katy Perry’s concert tour, which
began yesterday, the company authorized to sell souvenir items
at the tour venues sued 200 unidentified individuals and an
unnamed company for trademark infringement.  The lawsuit, filed June 22 in Detroit by  Bravado
International Group Merchandising Services Inc. , seeks a court
order permitting seizure and destruction of counterfeit
merchandise sold in the vicinity of the venues in the U.S. where
Perry will be performing.  According to the singer’s website,  the tour runs through
November , with Perry performing in more than 40 venues in the
U.S. and Canada.  Bravado, based in  Los Angeles , said Perry items sold by
counterfeiters are generally of lower quality than authorized
merchandise, and their sale is likely to confuse the public.  In addition to seizure orders, which would authorize law
enforcement officials or agents of the company to impound fake
merchandise, Bravado also asked for money damages and awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The company is represented by  Joseph J. Wright , of  Rutledge
Manion Rabaut Terry & Thomas PC  of Detroit, and Cara R. Burns,
of Hicks Mims Kaplan & Burns of Santa Monica,  California .  The case is Bravado International Group Merchandising
Services Inc., v. Does 1-100, 2:11-cv-12704, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Viacom Sues Cablevision Over Distribution of Shows on IPad  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  sued  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  in federal court
in New York over the distribution of its programming on Apple
Inc.’s iPad.  Viacom seeks a court order directing the Bethpage, New
York-based cable provider to halt “unauthorized distribution”
of its copyrighted entertainment programming via wireless
portable devices using an iPad application.  Viacom, based in New York, also seeks unspecified damages
stemming from Cablevision’s April 2 release of the computer
application allowing users to get live streaming feeds of what
Viacom says is its copyrighted entertainment.  “On April 2, 2011, despite Viacom’s repeated objections,
Cablevision launched the iPad to its cable television
subscribers, and included nineteen of Viacom’s programming
channels, in violation of the parties’ agreements and Viacom’s
intellectual property rights,” Viacom said in the complaint.  Viacom said that both sides have engaged in discussions to
resolve the dispute without success, while Cablevision
“continues to refuse to remove Viacom’s programming from its
iPad services.”  Cablevision said the iPad functions as a television and is
thus covered by licensing agreements.  “Cablevision’s very popular Optimum App for iPad, which has
been available to our customers for nearly three months, falls
within our existing cable television licensing agreements with
programmers -- including Viacom,” James Maiella, a spokesman for
Cablevision, said an e-mailed statement.  In April, Viacom and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  sued each other
in federal court in New York over the iPad application. In a
June 22 filing, both Viacom and Time Warner said they are
attempting to settle the litigation.  The case is Viacom Inc. v. Cablevision Systems Corp. 11-CV-
4265, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Medvedev Says His Copyright Reform Proposals to Be Aired Soon  Russia’s President  Dmitry Medvedev  said yesterday he will
soon submit proposals on Internet copyright regulation and
intellectual-property rights, the Russian News and Information
Agency  reported .  What he called “absolute copyright” is “a dead end” and
irrelevant, he told the news agency.  Medvedev also told the news agency that some leaders in
other countries aren’t ready for serious discussions of “the
complex processes occurring in the sphere of intellectual
property rights regulation.”  The Russian leader said he would investigate the reasons
that in May the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative kept his
country on its list of the worst copyright-infringement
offenders, according to the news agency.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Trade Secrets Limit Prison-Cost Data, Chronicle-Telegram Says  Opponents of Ohio’s plan to sell some of the state’s
prisons and juvenile facilities to private operators say they
can’t get necessary financial information about the costs of
private prisons because of trade-secret claims, Ohio’s
Chronicle-Telegram newspaper  reported .  Speaking at a panel on the proposed sale, Zach Schiller of
Policy Matters Ohio said cost estimates are faulty because the
state refuses to release data from private prisons, claiming
such issues as staffing are a trade secret, according to the
Chronicle-Telegram.  The state is considering the sale of five facilities,
including one that is state-owned and privately operated, the
newspaper reported.  The sale is expected to save the state almost $10 million a
year because the private operators must show cost savings of at
least 5 percent, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 