-- 
South Africa’s Ruling ANC Party Backs Down on Proposed State Secrecy Laws

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-24T16:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/south-africa-s-anc-calls-for-changes-to-planned-media-secrecy-laws.html
South Africa ’s ruling party agreed
to overhaul a draft law aimed at protecting state secrets,
buckling to pressure from civil rights activists, media
companies and labor unions who said the measure was draconian.  The  Protection of Information Bill  proposed wide-ranging
powers for government officials to classify documents and jail
sentences of as long as 25 years for anyone possessing them
without authorization. South African State Security Minister
Siyabonga Cwele had dismissed criticism of the law, saying it
complied with international standards and was needed to
safeguard national security.  More than 400 South African organizations and 16,000
individuals joined the  Right2Know  campaign, which opposed the
bill on the grounds that it would violate constitutional rights
to free speech and hobble investigative reporting and efforts to
expose corruption.  “The  African National Congress  has given very serious and
careful consideration to many concerns expressed about certain
provisions” of the draft law, the party said in an e-mailed
statement today. The authorities’ scope to classify information
“must be drastically reduced” from what is currently
envisioned, it said.  Secrecy Provisions  The ANC agreed that secrecy provisions should only be
applicable to the security services, that government agencies
would have to apply to be allowed to classify information and
that minimum sentences for accessing classified information
should be dropped. It also called for a retired judge to be
appointed oversee an appeals process.  “The bill’s provisions must ensure that this legislation
is not abused such that it is used to hide corruption and other
serious offences,” the ANC said. “The ANC believes that these
proposed changes to this bill will help meet the difficult and
competing demands of national security within a rights-based,
constitutional democracy such as ours.”  The proposed changes were a bold move in the right
direction, said Murray Hunter, coordinator of Right2Know. “While
they are proposing to limit the scope of the bill to the
security cluster, we must now see that the cluster is limited in
its power to classify information,” he told the South African
Press Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  