-- 
South African Opposition Calls for Reopening of BAE, Saab Arms Deal Probe

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-24T15:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/south-african-opposition-calls-for-reopening-of-bae-saab-arms-deal-probe.html
South Africa ’s main opposition party
urged the government to reopen a probe into graft allegations
stemming from its purchase of jets from  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and Saab
AB, citing new evidence of the companies’ dealings with a
defense ministry adviser.  The government’s Hawks investigative unit last year halted
a decade-long probe into claims that officials took bribes from
companies that won weapons contracts worth $5 billion, on the
grounds that it was unlikely to secure further convictions.  The Democratic Alliance yesterday circulated documents
showing Sanip (Pty) Ltd. agreed to pay 98 million rand ($14
million) for consultancy services to a company owned by Fana
Hlongwane, a one-time adviser to the late defense minister, Joe
Modise. Sanip, which changed its name to BFG Turnfloor (Pty)
Ltd. in 2006, is a unit of  Saab AB (SAABB) , the maker of the Gripen
fighter jet. South Africa ordered 26 of the planes in 1999.  “The investigation into the arms deal should be re-
opened,” David Maynier, a DA lawmaker, said in an e-mailed
statement. The Hawks must probe whether Hlongwane’s company
provided any services “in return for the enormous fees and
bonuses.”  Hlongwane didn’t immediately respond to a message on his
mobile phone seeking comment. Calls to his Johannesburg offices
did not connect.  Saab said about 24 million rand was transferred into
Sanip’s accounts in 2003 by its then-partner BAE Systems Plc and
the money was paid to Hlongwane’s company shortly thereafter.  Saab Unaware  “These transactions have never entered into the
accounts,” Saab CEO Hakan Buskhe said in a  statement  published
on the company’s website on June 16. “A person employed by BAE
Systems has without Saab’s knowledge” signed off on a contract
Saab was unaware of and also signed “the audited and apparently
inaccurate financial statement for 2003.”  BAE,  Europe ’s biggest defense company, agreed in February
last year to pay almost $450 million in fines to resolve bribery
and fraud investigations by U.S. prosecutors and the U.K.’s
 Serious Fraud Office  in both the U.S. and U.K., some of which
were linked to the arms sales in South Africa.  BAE spokeswoman Leonie Foster said on June 17 that the
matter of payments to South African officials was fully reviewed
by the Serious Fraud Office.  About 300 million rand may have illicitly changed hands in
South Africa’s dealings with BAE, Hawks head Anwa Dramat said on
Sept. 8 last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  