-- 
Spain to Cut 2012 Spending 3.8% in Deficit Fight

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-06-24T14:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/spain-to-cut-spending-3-8-next-year-deepening-deficit-fight.html
(Corrects year in headline to 2012 from 2011.)  Spain ’s Cabinet approved a 3.8
percent reduction in central-government spending next year as
the first step in drafting a budget that the minority Socialist
administration may struggle to push through Parliament.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  set a spending limit of
117.4 billion euros ($167 billion) for 2012, when she expects
the economy to grow 2.3 percent, she said after a Cabinet
meeting today in Madrid. The government “rules out” raising
taxes in next year’s budget, she told reporters.  “There are still very important efforts to make in 2012
but in better conditions than in 2011,” Salgado said.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, who doesn’t
plan to seek re-election next year, is facing growing political
and popular opposition to his efforts to rein in the euro area’s
third-largest budget deficit. His austerity plans have partially
shielded Spain from the worst of the fallout of the sovereign-
debt crisis that has prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts.  Spain’s deepest budget cuts in at least three decades, as
well as measures to raise the  retirement age  and reduce firing
costs, have prompted protests throughout the country and failed
to stem the increase in government borrowing costs. The yield
premium investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds over
comparable German debt rose to 283 basis points today,
approaching its Nov. 30 high of 298 basis points.  Seeking Support  Zapatero will need support from smaller parties to pass his
budget. A draft of the plan is scheduled to be presented in
September before final approval by the end of December. If the
plan fails to win the backing of parliament, the 2011 budget can
be rolled over for another year. Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, who is also the Socialists’ candidate for prime
minister in the general elections due in March, said today he
expects lawmakers to give their support.  Last year, the government secured a majority through deals
with two regional parties, Coalicion Canaria, a party with two
seats representing the  Canary Islands , and the  Basque
Nationalist Party  from the northern region. This week, the
government won approval for a wage-bargaining law that the Bank
of Spain and the  International Monetary Fund  have said is
crucial for the economy’s recovery only by convincing Catalan
and Basque regional parties to abstain.  Zapatero has repeatedly said he aims to complete his second
four-year term to finish a series of legislative overhauls
including changes to labor and pension rules. The government has
rejected calls from the opposition People’s Party to call
elections before the March 2012 deadline after the PP handed the
Socialists their worst local-election defeat in three decades on
May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 Abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  