-- 
State Lawmakers in U.S. Race to Close Budget Deficits as Deadlines Loom

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/state-lawmakers-race-to-close-budget-gaps-coast-to-coast-as-deadlines-loom.html
Lawmakers from  Boston  to Sacramento
are racing to cobble together spending plans in at least nine
U.S. states with just a week left before the fiscal year begins.  Minnesota is bracing for a government shutdown that may
idle more than 36,000 workers because Governor Mark Dayton, a
Democrat, remains at odds with the Republican-led Legislature
over closing a $5 billion deficit. California lawmakers have
forfeited their pay after missing a June 15 deadline. New Jersey
Democrats and Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, appear
headed to an 11th-hour showdown over alternative spending plans.  The last-minute tussles cap a struggle by states to close
gaps estimated to have totaled $103 billion this year, according
to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . It’s the fourth-
straight year states have grappled with fiscal fallout from the
longest recession since the Great Depression, this time without
extra federal aid they’ve received since 2009.  “Revenues aren’t growing fast enough to counteract the
drop-off in the stimulus funds,” said Brian Sigritz, who
follows fiscal policy for the National Association of State
Budget Officers in Washington. “It’s very difficult because of
the wind-down in the recovery act dollars.”  Starting in 2009, states received  $135 billion  of emergency
economic-stimulus federal aid, which offset tumbling  tax revenue 
and helped cover the rising costs of Medicaid. The health-care
program for the poor swelled as more people lost insurance along
with jobs. Only $2.8 billion of that money will remain next
year, according to the budget officers group.  Recession Effects Linger  While demands on government funds have grown in the past
three years, tax collections have yet to return to 2008 levels,
according to the U.S.  Census Bureau . The Budget Policy Center in
 Washington , a nonprofit group that focuses on issues that affect
lower-income Americans, said this month that the states that
still haven’t completed spending plans initially faced fiscal
2012 deficits totaling about $48 billion.  By yesterday, the legislatures in those nine states had yet
to send their governors an acceptable budget. Among them are
Iowa, Massachusetts,  Ohio , Oregon, Pennsylvania and  Rhode
Island . All have fiscal years that start next month.  Such delays aren’t uncommon in statehouses, said Jon Shure,
who tracks state finances for the Budget Policy Center. He said
most will have a plan in place by the end of next week.  “There’s often late-game drama but it doesn’t go into
extra innings,” he said. “Most of them are looking like they
are not going to have a problem.”  Connecticut  Drama  Residents of Connecticut may get a dose of budget drama
next week. Governor Dannel Malloy yesterday called the
Legislature to a June 30 special session in Hartford to take
steps to balance the plan they passed last month if state unions
reject $1 billion in concessions. The $40.1 billion two-year
spending plan includes about $2.6 billion in new taxes, the
biggest increase in state history.  In trying to close deficits, governors have sought to curb
employee pay and benefits, slash local aid and school spending,
or raise taxes, sparking political battles and union protests.  New Jersey  Democrats aim to boost funding for schools in a
spending proposal they intend to introduce June 27, Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney  said yesterday. That would come with
three days left to enact a budget or risk a government shutdown.
Christie has said he won’t sign a plan that raises taxes.  New Jersey’s constitution requires a balanced budget to be
in place by the start of the fiscal year July 1, a provision
that led to a partial shutdown in 2006 when then-Governor  Jon Corzine  deadlocked with his own party over proposed sales-tax
increases. The impasse lasted about a week.  Pennsylvania Outlook  Pennsylvania Senate Majority Leader Dominic Pileggi, a
Republican, is optimistic a budget will be in place before the
fiscal year begins, said Erik Arneson, a spokesman.  Republican legislative leaders in Ohio told reporters this
week that they plan to vote on a proposed $55.7 billion budget
on June 28. Passage would advance it to Governor  John Kasich ,
also a Republican. In Massachusetts, negotiators have been
closeted in the State House, working out differences in spending
plans passed by the Democrat-controlled Legislature’s two
chambers in order to send a final budget to Governor  Deval Patrick , also a Democrat, for his signature.  California  Governor Jerry Brown, a Democrat whose party
also runs the Legislature, is at an impasse with lawmakers over
how to erase a $10 billion deficit facing the most populous U.S.
state. Controller John Chiang began withholding legislators pay
after deciding they hadn’t met a voter-approved mandate to send
a balanced budget to the governor by June 15.  No Debt Sales  Without a budget, the biggest issuer of municipal debt in
the U.S. is unable to borrow on  Wall Street  to pay bills when
its fiscal year starts July 1. Such an impasse forced California
to issue IOUs to pay its bills in 2009.  Government workers in Minnesota may lose their pay because
of a budget impasse as well. The state is facing an imminent
shutdown of all except crucial functions without an agreement on
a spending plan. This month, the governor sent notices to more
than 36,000 employees alerting them they might be dismissed, at
least temporarily.  Minnesota ’s government shut down in 2005 when then-Governor
 Tim Pawlenty , a Republican, clashed with legislators on the
state’s spending. This time, Dayton has proposed raising taxes
on the wealthiest residents, a step that has drawn fire from
political opponents who control the Legislature.  Lawrence Jacobs, a  University of Minnesota  professor who
directs its Center for the Study of Politics and Governance in
Minneapolis, said the clash echoes the partisan gulf in
Washington that affects the debate over the national debt. He
said Minnesota residents aren’t optimistic the impasse in  St.
Paul  will be resolved next week and are preparing for halted
roadwork, job losses and shuttered state parks.  “It’s kind of like being along the Gulf coast and being
given a  hurricane warning ,” he said. “People are putting in
the plywood. The entire state is moving toward a shutdown.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 Wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  