-- 
Embryonic Stem-Cell Funding Challenge Should Be Dismissed, U.S. Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-24T22:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/stem-cell-challenge-should-be-thrown-out-obama-administration-tells-judge.html
A challenge to funding of human
embryonic stem-cell studies should be dismissed after an appeals
court found the government-backed research to be lawful, the
Obama administration said.  The  Justice Department  in a filing today urged U.S.
District Judge Royce Lamberth to end a lawsuit that seeks to
block the U.S. Health and Human Services Department and the
 National Institutes of Health  from spending federal funds on
researching human embryonic  stem-cells , known as hESC.  Last year, Lamberth temporarily barred U.S. agencies from
funding human embryonic research, finding it likely violated a
1996 law called the Dickey-Wicker Amendment. The law prevents
the government from spending money on research where a human
embryo is damaged or destroyed.  The U.S. Appeals Court in  Washington  in a 2-1 ruling in
April said the funding may continue while Lamberth considered
the merits of a challenge filed by two doctors.  “The court of appeals has conclusively resolved the
primary claim that plaintiffs have advanced in this case,” the
U.S. said in today’s filing. “The court held that Dickey-Wicker
is ambiguous, and that NIH reasonably read the statute to permit
funding of hESC research but to forbid funding for the
derivation of hESCs.”  The doctors who brought the lawsuit asked Lamberth again
today to block the funding, arguing that the appeals court only
considered one of their arguments.  ‘Risk of Injury’  “Each time grant-awarding officials and federally funded
scientists support or engage in hESC research, they ‘knowingly
subject’ human embryos to ‘risk of injury or death’ in violation
of Dickey-Wicker,” the doctors said in their filing.  In fiscal 2010, NIH spent about $200 million to fund more
than 200 human embryo research grants, the Justice Department
and the institutes’ director,  Francis Collins , said in court
papers.  Embryonic stem cells can grow into any of the 200 types of
cells in the human body. Scientists say these cells have the
potential to be used for repairing cells damaged by injury or
disease.  President  Barack Obama  in March 2009 opened up government
funding for the study of embryonic stem cells when he reversed
an executive order of his predecessor,  George W. Bush , limiting
research to about 20 existing lines of the cells.  NIH Guidelines  In response to Obama’s order, the NIH wrote guidelines
allowing research on cells derived from embryos that would
otherwise be disposed of following in vitro fertilization
procedures.  James Sherley, a researcher at Boston Biomedical Research
Institute, and Theresa Deisher of  Seattle  won the right to sue
by claiming they were unfairly disadvantaged in competing for
NIH funding with researchers who used embryonic cells.  The government said the stem-cell research is separate from
any that destroys the embryo because the cells must be grown in
a medium and are then “differentiated” into other cells, such
as nerve cells.  The appeals court agreed with the government’s contention
that because the Dickey-Wicker Amendment is written in the
present tense the “statute strongly suggests it does not extend
to past actions.”  ‘Linguistic Jujitsu’  In a dissenting opinion, Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson
accused her colleagues on the three judge panel of “linguistic
jujitsu” in parsing verb tenses in order to narrow the
amendment’s meaning from what Congress intended.  The plaintiffs’ challenge is likely to succeed because the
amendment prohibits federal funding of embryonic stem cell
research “in all of its sequences,” LeCraft Henderson wrote.  Since 2002, the government has spent $546 million on human
embryo research, Collins wrote in an Aug. 31 court filing. If
the ban were upheld, Collins said, it would result in the loss
of more than 1,300 full-time or part-time jobs, as well as “the
potential loss of top U.S. scientific talent as lead scientists
may be forced to move to other countries to pursue their
cutting-edge research.”  Stem-cell researchers are seeking cures for illnesses such
as  Parkinson’s disease , spinal cord injuries, and genetic
conditions. Embryonic stem cells can grow into any kind of
tissue and may have the potential to accelerate a range of
research.  The original case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 1:09-cv-01575,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The
appeal case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 