-- 
Strategic Oil Reserve or Short-Term Political Maneuver?: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/strategic-oil-reserve-or-short-term-political-maneuver-view.html
Releasing oil from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve makes sense in time of emergency, natural
disaster or a major disruption in supplies. None of those events
have occurred, which makes the decision yesterday by President
 Barack Obama  to tap the reserve puzzling.  Obama, in concert with the International Energy Agency,
plans to draw 2 million barrel a day during the next month from
U.S. and international reserves.  Oil prices  plunged.  Perhaps that was the desired effect. The argument offered
by Obama and IEA officials was that the released oil would
offset the reduced supply of crude from Libya. The release also
coincides, the Department of Energy said, with the onset of the
peak U.S. summer driving season.  But amid a run of gloomy economic news, it’s hard not to
imagine that other motives were at work. The  Federal Reserve  on
Wednesday lowered its growth  forecast  for the year. Unemployment
is heading in the wrong direction. The U.S. housing market still
is in decline.  This is only the fourth time since the petroleum reserve
was established after the mid-1970s oil crisis that a U.S.
president has tapped it. The others were in 1991 during the
first  Gulf War ; in 1996-97 to help reduce the federal deficit;
and in 2005, after  Hurricane Katrina  knocked out drilling rigs
across the  Gulf of Mexico .  Over the years Congress has adopted rules making it easier
for the president to release oil at times of high prices. But
with crude at about $95 a barrel before the announcement -- well
below the record of $147 in 2008 -- that hardly seemed to be the
case.  What’s confounding about the reserve release is that it
doesn’t seem to meet the president’s  professed  standards. “The
reserve should only be used in the event of an emergency,” Obama
said in 2005. Unless the administration can make a persuasive
case that disaster lurks, we will be compelled to face a
situation more corrosive than rising gas prices or the lack of a
comprehensive  energy policy  -- the sense that our leaders are
making short-sighted decisions for political gain.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  