-- 
Sugar Mills in India Seeking More Exports May Widen Supplies, Lower Prices

-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-06-24T04:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/sugar-mills-in-india-seeking-more-exports-may-widen-supplies-lower-prices.html
Sugar mills in  India , the second-
biggest producer, is seeking to export more sweetener after
winning government approval yesterday to ship 500,000 metric
tons, potentially widening global supplies and lowering prices.  A government panel allowed additional exports after
domestic stockpiles swelled from the highest output in three
years. Mills may have as much as 1 million tons of sugar for
exports from the crop season ending Sept. 30, Abinash Verma,
director general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said in
a phone interview from New Delhi today.  Increased Indian exports may accelerate a 19 percent
decline in sugar prices in  New York  this year and help cap
global food costs that the United Nations estimates climbed to a
record in February. Global supplies will outpace demand by 10.3
million tons next season, reversing a shortage of 500,000 tons
this year, as producers respond to high prices, according to C.
Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd.  “India’s return to the market as an exporter is likely to
be a key factor in that global equation,”  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said by
phone yesterday. “This is kind of one of those steps which is
likely to lead to easing supply concerns in the market.”  Raw sugar for October delivery dropped as much as 6.5
percent to 24.3 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
before ending 0.3 percent higher at 26.08 cents a pound. Futures
reached a 30-year high of 36.08 cents in February.  Global Declaration  Group of 20 farm ministers yesterday agreed to a plan to
set limits on export bans and create a crop database to tackle
what French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called the “plague” of
rising food prices. The agreement includes a call for
international market regulation, more agriculture production and
the development of a proposal for emergency food reserves, the
ministers said in a declaration in Paris yesterday.  India has now permitted mills to ship 2.2 million tons of
sugar since the crop season began on Oct. 1. Output in the 2011-
2012 season may climb as much as 9.5 percent to 26.5 million
tons from an estimated 24.2 million tons this season, according
to the sugar mills association.  “We would like more exports to happen before the end of
the season,” Verma said. “With the latest approval, carryover
stocks will be around 5.7 million tons to 6 million tons this
year, still higher than the 5 million tons we had last year.”  Inventory with mills totaled 14 million tons at the end of
last month, according to the group.  Farmers in India have planted sugar cane in 5.09 million
hectares (12.6 million acres) as of June 17, 223,000 hectares
more than a year earlier, according to the farm ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net 
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  