-- 
Swiss Stocks Rebound From 11-Month Low; Swatch, Richemont Shares Lead Gain

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-24T16:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/swiss-stocks-rebound-from-an-11-month-low-as-ubs-abb-advance.html
Swiss stocks gained, with the  Swiss
Market Index (SMI)  rebounding from an 11-month low, after European
Union leaders vowed to support Greece and orders for durable
goods in the U.S. climbed more than forecast.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, world’s largest jewelry
maker, climbed 1.2 percent and Swatch Group AG rose 1.7 percent.  The SMI gained 6.93, or 0.1 percent, to 5,998.02 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also climbed 0.1 percent.  Markets were “boosted by better-than-expected economic
data and after last night’s late rebound on the Greece deal
news,” said  Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets in
 London .  EU officials vowed at a summit in Brussels yesterday to
stave off a default in Greece as long as the country’s Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of budget
cuts and tax increases next week. Greek lawmakers are due to
vote on 78 billion euros ($111 billion) of austerity measures on
June 30.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, bookings for
equipment meant to last at least three years rose 1.9 percent in
May after a 2.7 percent decline the prior month that was less
than originally reported, the Commerce Department said today in
 Washington . Demand for non-military capital equipment also beat
expectations after revised April readings showed a smaller
decline than previously reported.  Central Bank  The Swiss central bank said the franc’s ascent and surging
real-estate costs are the largest threats to the economy.  “In Switzerland, the main risks remain, one the one hand,
the effects of the strong Swiss franc on the export industry
and, on the other, the danger of overheating in the real-estate
sector,” the  Swiss National Bank  in Zurich said in its
quarterly statement published today. Overall, “downside risks
predominate” including the euro-region debt crisis, it said.  Richemont rose 1.2 percent to 52.2 francs.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ,
the world’s biggest watchmaker, rallied 1.7 percent to 404.8
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  