-- 
Syrian Refugees Swell on Damascus Violence

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-24T16:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/syrian-refugees-swell-on-damascus-violence.html
Syrians fled across the border to
 Turkey  and violence flared in the suburbs of Damascus and Homs
today as security forces fired on protesters calling for an end
to President Bashar al-Assad’s government.  The number of Syrian refugees in Turkish camps has swelled
to 11,739, with more than 1,500 people fleeing in the past 24
hours, the Anatolia news agency said, citing a statement by the
office of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The influx came
as army units arrived in the border village of Khirbet al-Jouz.  At least 14 protesters died in the suburbs of Damascus and
Homs, Al Arabiya reported, without citing anyone. Five people
were killed and six injured in Kaswa near Damascus, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by
phone.  State-owned  Syria  TV said unidentified gunmen in the Barzeh
area of the capital shot dead at least three civilians, an
officer and several members of the security forces.  “We’re very concerned about the deterioration of the
humanitarian situation,” said Michael Posner, the U.S. State
Department’s assistant secretary for democracy, human rights and
labor. “The situation is getting more serious every day.”  Fleeing to Turkey  Syrians began leaving for Turkey this month to escape
violence in and around the towns of Jisr al-Shughour and
Ma’arrat an Nu’man, straining relations between the two
countries. While international pressure on Syria increased this
week after Assad blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
the deadlock over United Nations action continued in  New York .
The U.S. and Russia went head-to-head over the issue of whether
the UN  Security Council  should press Assad to halt his attacks.  The U.S. inserted an expression of “concern over reported
human rights abuses” in Syria into a Security Council draft
resolution to renew the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission
in the Golan Heights. The U.S. text also notes Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon’s report that anti-government demonstrations in
Syria have spread to the Israel-Syria border.  Before the U.S. draft could be formally introduced, Russia
put forward a version of the mandate renewal that doesn’t
mention the political unrest. The move ensured that the Security
Council would have to vote on  Russia ’s text first.  ‘Traditional Way’  “Many members of the  Security Council  said we need to go
the traditional way,” Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said,
meaning a routine extension of the mandate for six months. It
“should not be something completely different,” he said.  Russia has led opposition at the UN, along with  Brazil ,
 China ,  India  and  South Africa , to all statements proposed by the
U.S. and  Europe  on the situation.  “The Security Council should speak with one voice and be
clear in condemning what are obviously very irresponsible and
unacceptable actions taken by the government of Syria,” U.S.
Ambassador Susan Rice told reporters.  Protests against Assad’s 11-year rule began mid-March, and
at least 1,420 civilians have been killed since then, according
to a tally by the National Organization for Human Rights through
June 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  