-- 
Pound Heads for Weekly Drop Versus Dollar, Euro on Monetary Easing Concern

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 
2011-06-24T15:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-k-pound-trades-below-1-60-for-second-day-little-changed-versus-euro.html
The pound depreciated against the
dollar, posting a fourth weekly decline, amid speculation that
the  Bank of England  will keep monetary policy loose to counter
faltering growth.  The British currency fell against the euro for the first
week in three as European Union leaders pledged to stabilize the
euro-area economy and stave off a Greek debt default as long as
the country sticks to budget cuts. Minutes from the British
central bank’s last meeting, released on June 22, showed
officials voted 7-2 to hold  interest rates  at a record low,
while some members foresaw more bond purchases.  “The pound underperforms as the pendulum is swinging
toward further quantitative easing,” said  Adam Cole , head of
global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in
London. “Recent data and the minutes suggest the monetary
policy in the U.K. is likely to stay accommodative for a while."  The pound dropped 0.1 percent to $1.5992 as of 4:50 p.m. in
 London , after falling as low as $1.5951. It lost 1.4 percent on
the week, during which it dipped below $1.60 for the first time
since April. It yesterday slid to $1.5939, the lowest level
since March 28. Sterling traded at 88.73 pence per euro from
89.07 pence yesterday. It has fallen 0.4 percent from last week.  Gilts Gain  The British currency has fallen 7.1 percent in the past 12
months, making it the third-worst performer among 10 major-
economy currencies after the U.S. and Canadian dollars,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Gilts rose, pushing 10-year yields down two basis points to
3.14 percent. The yields fell six basis points from last week.
Two-year note yields dropped seven basis points on the week and
were at 0.70 percent.  The pound stayed lower after Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  said the euro-area debt crisis poses the biggest
risk to the stability of the U.K. financial system.  ‘‘The most serious and immediate risk to the U.K. financial
system stems from the worsening sovereign-debt crisis in several
euro-area countries,’’ King said in London today as the bank
published a record of the first meeting of the interim Financial
Policy Committee. The FPC is an ‘‘important step’’ toward
financial stability, he said.  The comments echo those of the European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who said this week that the
‘‘most serious threat’’ to financial stability in the European
Union stems from the mounting debt crisis. The Bank of England
panel, chaired by King, met last week for the first time as part
of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s shake-up of bank regulation to
prevent another financial crisis.  Slowing Growth  Investors have this week pushed back bets that the central
bank will raise interest rates to later than May 2012, according
to forward contracts on the sterling overnight interbank
average, amid signs that growth is slowing.  The central bank will refrain from raising its benchmark
rate by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent until after May 2012,
data from Tullett Prebon Plc shows. As recently as June 21,
traders were betting on an increase in that month, the data
showed.  A U.K. retail-sales index fell to its weakest level in a
year this month as Britons curtailed spending on groceries and
clothing, according to a survey by Confederation of British
Industry on June 23.  The 10-year breakeven rate fell 8 basis points from last
week to 3.04 percentage points. The rate, a market gauge of
inflation expectations, is derived from a yield gap between
regular and index-linked bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 