-- 
U.S. Economy Expanded at 1.9% Pace in First Quarter, Above Prior Estimate

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-24T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-economy-grew-1-9-in-first-quarter-above-prior-estimate.html
The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.9
percent pace in the first quarter, marking the start of what
Federal Reserve policy makers project is a temporary slowdown in
growth.  The revised rise in gross domestic product matches the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
follows a 3.1 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The government
last month estimated first-quarter growth at 1.8 percent. The
figures also showed inflation climbed more than previously
calculated.  The jump in commodity prices and the shortage of auto parts
stemming from the disaster in  Japan  earlier this year that have
also restrained growth this quarter are showing signs of
improving. Fed officials, who lowered their forecasts for growth
and employment this year and next, this week maintained record
stimulus to underpin the recovery.  “We’re going to see improvement in the second half of the
year, but I would not expect it to be stellar,”  Scott Brown ,
chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , said before the report. “We still have a
bunch of headwinds for growth.”  GDP projections of 71 economists in the survey ranged from
1.7 percent to 2.3 percent. The government’s GDP estimate is the
third and final for the quarter.  Revision Breakdown  The first-quarter revision reflected a smaller trade deficit
and a bigger increase in inventories than previously reported. A
4.2 percent drop in spending by state and local government
agencies that was larger than last estimated and the biggest drop
since 1981 held back the advance in GDP.  Orders for durable goods climbed more than forecast in May
after slumping the prior month, easing concern manufacturing will
share in an extended U.S. growth slowdown, other figures from the
Commerce Department showed today.  Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years
rose 1.9 percent after a 2.7 percent decline the prior month that
was less than originally reported. Demand for non-military
capital equipment also beat expectations after revised April
readings showed a smaller decline than previously reported.  Today’s GDP report showed consumer spending rose at a 2.2
percent annual pace, the same as previously reported. The 4
percent gain in the fourth quarter was the biggest since the end
of 2006.  Rising Profits  Some U.S. companies are projecting increased profits.  Bed
Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) , the operator of more than 1,100 stores in
 North America , said this week that profit in its current fiscal
year will gain more than the retailer previously expected as
sales climb.  The  auto industry  is among those that will probably rebound
next quarter, according to economists. A boost to motor vehicle
output, spurred by dwindling inventories following the earthquake
and tsunami in Japan in March, will add about 1.5 percentage
points to GDP for July through September, Morgan Stanley
economists, led by  David Greenlaw , wrote in a note to clients.  That follows an estimated 0.8 percentage point subtraction
for the second quarter, the economists said. Morgan Stanley this
week forecasted growth at a 2.7 percent pace for April through
June and 3.9 percent for the third quarter.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to  consumer
spending  and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 1.6
percent annual pace, up from the 1.4 percent rate previously
estimated. The gauge will rise 1.5 percent to 1.8 percent this
year, slightly higher than the 1.3 percent to 1.6 percent
estimated in April, Fed officials said this week.  U.S. central bankers said the economy will expand 2.7
percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from forecasts ranging
from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April. The revised outlook
this week was the second time this year that Fed officials
lowered their forecasts for growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  