-- 
U.S. First Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-24T12:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-first-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical
note of the Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce
Department.  This technical note provides background information about
the source data and estimating methods used to produce
the estimates presented in the GDP news release.  The
complete set of estimates for the first quarter is
available
on BEA's Web site at www.bea.gov; a brief summary of
"highlights" is also posted on the Web site.  In a few
weeks,
the estimates will be published in BEA's monthly journal,
the Survey of Current Business, along with a more
detailed analysis of the estimates ("GDP and the
Economy").  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 1.9 percent (annual rate) in the first
quarter, which was 0.1 percentage point more than
last months estimate.  The upward revision to GDP
reflected a downward revision to imports and an upward
revision to inventory investment that were largely offset
by downward revisions to exports, to nonresidential
fixed investment, and to state and local government
spending.  *       The downward revisions to both imports and exports
reflected the incorporation of revised Census Bureau  goods data for March and of the annual revision of
the international transaction accounts on a best-change  basis.
*       The upward revision to inventory investment
reflected upward revisions to wholesale trade inventories
and  to manufacturing inventories based on revised
Census inventory data for March.
*       The downward revision to nonresidential fixed
investment reflected a downward revision to software based  on newly available Census quarterly services
survey data.
*       The downward revision to state and local
government spending was primarily to gross investment in  structures based on revised Census value put in
place data for February and March.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases the prices
paid by U.S. residents for goods and services wherever
Produced increased 3.9 percent in the first quarter, 0.1
percentage point more than last months estimate.
The upward revision to prices was primarily to personal
consumption expenditures and reflected an upward revision
to the price for banking services based on Call Report
data.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production increased $48.7 billion,
or 2.9 percent (quarterly rate), in the first quarter.
Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $66.3
billion, domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations
increased $60.7 billion, and rest-of-the-world profits
increased $54.4 billion.  Annual Revision Scheduled for July 29  The annual revision of the national income and product
accounts (NIPAs) will be released along with the advance
estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2011 on July 29.
In addition to the regular revision of estimates for
the most recent 3 years and the first quarter of 2011, GDP
and some components will be revised back to the first
quarter of 2003 (see review of the Upcoming Annual NIPA
RevisionüEin the May Survey of Current Business).  The
August Survey will contain an article that describes the
annual revision in detail.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  