-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Oracle Drives Technology Slump, Italian Banks Retreat

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-24T21:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-stock-futures-advance-on-goods-hopes-accenture-gains-as-oracle-slips.html
U.S. stocks retreated, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a third straight day, as
concern about the European debt crisis intensified and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  dragged down technology shares.  Technology companies in the S&P 500 dropped 1.8 percent as
a group. Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , sank
4.1 percent after reporting lower hardware sales.  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  tumbled 14 percent as the maker of computer-
memory chips reported sales and profit that missed estimates.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  slumped at least
1.4 percent, following losses in European lenders.  The S&P 500 fell 1.2 percent to 1,268.45 at 4 p.m. in New
York, extending its drop in June to 5.7 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  declined 115.42 points, or 1 percent, to
11,934.58 today. More than 10.1 billion shares changed hands on
U.S. exchanges as of 5 p.m., the highest since March, as
investors bought and sold shares to match Russell Investments’
annual changes to its equity indexes. Russell says about $3.9
trillion is benchmarked to its global stock-market measures.  “The market has been in a correction mode for the month of
June,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at the
Solaris Group LLC in  Bedford Hills , New York, which manages $2
billion. “The focus really has been on the European debt
crisis, on  Greece  and on the potential for contagion.”  The  S&P 500  has retreated 7 percent from this year’s high
at the end of April amid weaker-than-estimated economic data and
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis. The index is still up 0.9
percent in 2011 on government stimulus measures and better-than-
expected earnings.  Moody’s Warning  Stocks fell as banks dragged on Europe’s benchmark index
after Moody’s Investors Service said it may downgrade 13 Italian
lenders because they would be vulnerable to a cut in the
government’s credit rating. The euro dropped a third day and
bond yields rose in Spain and  Italy . Declines in the financial
and technology companies overshadowed faster-than-forecast
growth in U.S. durable-goods orders and European leaders’ pledge
to support Greece if the nation approves austerity measures.  Equity futures rose earlier after the Commerce Department
said orders for durable goods, or equipment meant to last at
least three years, rose 1.9 percent, beating the median
economist forecast of 1.5 percent. Demand for non-military
capital equipment also beat expectations after revised April
readings showed a smaller decline than previously reported.  ‘Temporary Soft Spot’  “We’re getting indications that this is only a temporary
soft spot for the economy,” said Burt White, who helps oversee
$284 billion as chief investment officer at LPL Financial Corp.
in  Boston . “I do see a better economic picture in the back half
of this year.”  A gauge of technology companies in the S&P 500 dropped 1.8
percent as 70 of its 74 stocks retreated.  Oracle slumped 4.1 percent to $31.14. Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison  bought Sun Microsystems Inc. last year to
capitalize on demand for the servers and databases used in data
centers. While the hardware results may reflect Oracle’s effort
to pare less-profitable machines from the lineup, they were
disappointing enough to overshadow better-than-predicted
performance in profit and sales of new software licenses.  Micron Technology tumbled 14 percent to $7.21. The price of
dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, for personal computers
dropped as supplies increased and demand from makers of consumer
laptops and desktop PCs remained sluggish, the Boise, Idaho-
based company said. Orders are also slowing for chips used in
inexpensive mobile phones, pushing down prices, Micron Chief
Executive Officer Steve Appleton said.  Bank of America  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks fell 1 percent. Bank of
America, the largest U.S. lender by assets, retreated 1.8
percent to $10.52. JPMorgan declined 1.5 percent to $39.49.  The pace of profit growth by U.S. companies will slow as
the cost of labor increases and stock investors should be wary
of sovereign-debt concerns, according to Citigroup Inc.’s Tobias Levkovich.  “The rate of growth is going to diminish meaningfully,”
said Levkovich, Citigroup’s New York-based chief U.S. equity
strategist, in an interview today on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Margin pressures
are driven by labor-cost changes, so as we’re starting to come
and bring on some workers back, this is actually starting to
chop into margins.”  Levkovich recommended avoiding consumer-discretionary
stocks, including retail and media companies, as well as health-
care shares as the government considers budget cutbacks. He said
investors should be cautious about buying equities until there’s
more clarity on the debt situations in Greece and the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  