-- 
U.S. House Defeats Resolution Authorizing U.S. Military Operation in Libya

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-24T17:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-house-defeats-resolution-authorizing-u-s-military-mission-in-libya.html
The House voted against authorizing
President  Barack Obama  to continue U.S. air support for allied
bombardment against forces loyal to Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  and moved to try to restrict funds for the operation.  After defeating, on a 295-123  vote , the Democratic-
sponsored  resolution  to authorize military support for the
bombing operation, the House debated separate  legislation  to bar
U.S. forces from combat in Libya.  The resolution’s defeat reflected lawmakers’ questions
about the outcome of the Libyan conflict and frustration with
Obama’s assertion that he isn’t required to get congressional
permission because U.S. forces are not involved in hostilities.  “We find ourselves past the three-month mark with no end
in sight,” said California Republican Buck McKeon, chairman of
the House Armed Services Committee.  After Obama gave “the flimsiest legal rationale” for the
U.S. role in the conflict, the House shouldn’t “cover his lapse
with a blanket authorization,” McKeon said.  Seventy Democrats opposed the resolution and eight
Republicans voted for it.  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said the White House is
“disappointed by that vote” because “we think now is not the
time to send a mixed message.”  Democrats accused House Republican leaders, who forced the
votes, of trying to embarrass the president.  ‘Cynical Political Purposes’  U.S. commitments to allies to prevent a humanitarian crisis
in Libya “are too important to be exploited for cynical
political purposes,” said California Representative Howard Berman, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  The discontent over Libya is not as widespread in the
Senate. The resolution backing the mission was initially drafted
by a bipartisan group of senators led by Democrat  John Kerry  of
 Massachusetts  and Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona .  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee, of which Kerry is
chairman, is scheduled to debate the resolution next week, and
leaders of both parties predict the full Senate will approve it.  Florida Republican Tom Rooney, sponsor of the House measure
to restrict funding to non-hostile military activity, said it is
needed because the president “is breaking the law” by
conducting the military operations without Congress’s approval.  Without an assertion of Congress’s “power of the purse,”
Obama is “able to continue unfettered,” Rooney said.  Air Support  The measure would bar funds for U.S. military involvement
in Libya except for the specified air-support missions and
operational planning. Aerial intelligence and surveillance
flights would also be allowed along with aerial refueling
missions.  U.S. aircraft have flown 218 bombing missions in the last
30 days at Libyan ground anti-aircraft defenses or loyalist
troops attacking civilians in the effort to quell the rebellion,
according to Defense Department figures. The Libya mission began
in March.  Democrats who support the Libya mission warned that passing
Rooney’s measure would hobble U.S. military support for the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s bombing campaign.  The spending restrictions “would end our mission in
Libya” by barring the military from doing anything to
“suppress enemy fire,” said Washington representative  Adam
Smith , the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee.  Aerial Refueling  He and other Democrats argued that aerial refueling
missions won’t be conducted unless U.S. warplanes can defend
themselves from being shot down over Libya, Democrats said.  “If we don’t have the ability to suppress enemy air
defenses, the allies won’t be able to continue the bombing
campaign,” said Washington representative Norm Dicks, the top
Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee.  If the mission ends, “Qaddafi may well prevail,” said
Virginia Democrat Jim Moran. ‘ ‘His forces will kill, rape and
torture all those who opposed him as he has already tried to
do.”  Today’s debate capped a week in which House Speaker  John Boehner  has sought to address the growing frustration of
Republican House members, as well as of some Democrats, with
Obama’s argument that he didn’t need congressional authorization
under the 1973  War Powers Resolution . The president argues that
under that law, U.S. forces are not engaged in hostilities.  The administration sent Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
to  Capitol Hill , where she made a case for the mission during a
closed meeting with House Democrats.  ‘An Apology’  “The secretary started with an apology” for the
administration’s failure to adequately brief lawmakers,
Minnesota Democrat Tim Walz told reporters. “If this visit had
come in March, we would have been in an entirely different
position.”  Boehner yesterday sought to minimize the impact of today’s
vote, saying that with U.S. forces already involved, Congress
shouldn’t “do anything that would undermine NATO” or “send a
signal to our allies that we are not going to be engaged.”  The speaker termed the debate “primarily between the
Congress and the president over his unwillingness to consult
with us before making this decision.”  Clinton’s “very strong pitch for support” for the mission
was evidence of the administration’s “concern” that “Congress
would end the ability to go forward” in  Libya , Ohio Democratic
Dennis Kucinich told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  