-- 
U.S. First Quarter Third Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-24T12:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-first-quarter-third-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in the
first quarter of 2011, (that is, from the fourth quarter to the
first quarter), according to the "third" estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the fourth quarter, real
GDP increased 3.1 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the "second" estimate issued
last month.  In the second estimate, the increase in real GDP
was 1.8 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, exports, and
nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by
negative contributions from federal  government spending  and
state and local government spending.  Imports, which are a
subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased.   Annual Revision of the National Income and Product Accounts  The annual revision of the national income and product
accounts (NIPAs) will be released along with the "advance"
estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2011 on July 29.  In
addition to the regular revision of estimates for the most
recent 3 years and the first quarter of 2011, GDP and some
components will be revised back to the first quarter of 2003
(see "Preview of the Upcoming Annual NIPA Revision" in the May
Survey of Current Business).  The August Survey will contain an
article that describes the annual revision in detail.  FOOTNOTE.--Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.  Quarter-to-
quarter dollar changes are differences between these published
estimates. Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data
and are annualized.  ``RealüEestimates are in chained (2005)
dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  The deceleration in real GDP in the first quarter
primarily reflected a sharp upturn in imports, a deceleration in
PCE, a larger decrease in federal government spending, and a
deceleration in nonresidential fixed investment that were partly
offset by a sharp upturn in private inventory investment.  Motor vehicle output added 1.18 percentage points to the
first-quarter change in real GDP after subtracting 0.27
percentage point from the fourth-quarter change.  Final sales of
computers added 0.10 percentage point to the first-quarter
change in real GDP after adding 0.35 percentage point to the
fourth-quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 3.9 percent in
the first quarter, 0.1 percentage point more than in the second
estimate; this index increased 2.1 percent in the fourth
quarter.  Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for
gross domestic purchases increased 2.3 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.1 percent in the fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.2
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 4.0
percent in the fourth.  Real nonresidential fixed investment
increased 2.0 percent, compared with an increase of 7.7 percent.
Nonresidential structures decreased 14.8 percent, in contrast to
an increase of 7.6 percent.  Equipment and software increased
8.8 percent, compared with an increase of 7.7 percent.  Real
residential fixed investment decreased 2.0 percent, in contrast
to an increase of 3.3 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 7.6 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 8.6 percent
in the fourth.  Real imports of goods and services increased 5.1
percent, in contrast to a decrease of 12.6 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 8.1 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a decrease of 0.3 percent in the fourth.  National defense
decreased 11.8 percent, compared with a decrease of 2.2 percent.
Nondefense was unchanged, after an increase of 3.7 percent.
Real state and local government consumption expenditures and
gross investment decreased 4.2 percent, compared with a decrease
of 2.6 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 1.31
percentage points to the first-quarter change in real GDP, after
subtracting 3.42 percentage points from the fourth-quarter
change.  Private businesses increased inventories $55.7 billion
in the first quarter, following increases of $16.2 billion in
the fourth quarter and $121.4 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 0.6 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 6.7 percent in the fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
1.7 percent in the first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of
0.2 percent in the fourth.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 3.4 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 2.8 percent in the fourth.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which increased $51.1 billion in the first quarter after
decreasing $10.5 billion in the fourth; in the first quarter,
receipts increased $14.2 billion, and payments decreased $36.8
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation's
output of goods and services -- increased 4.0 percent, or $146.7
billion, in the first quarter to a level of $15,018.1 billion.
In the fourth quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 3.5 percent,
or $126.3 billion.  Revisions  The "third" estimate of the first-quarter change in real
GDP is 0.1 percentage point more than the second estimate.  A
downward revision to imports and an upward revision to inventory
investment were largely offset by downward revisions to exports,
to nonresidential fixed investment, and to state and local
government spending.  Adv Second Third
(Percent change from preceding quarter)  Real GDP                              1.8    1.8    1.9
Current-dollar GDP                    3.7    3.8    4.0
Gross domestic purchases price index  3.8    3.8    3.9  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
increased $48.7 billion in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of $38.2 billion in the fourth quarter.  Current-
production  cash flow  (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for
investment -- increased $16.7 billion in the first quarter,
compared with an increase of $36.9 billion in the fourth.  Taxes on corporate income increased $33.2 billion in the
first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $1.3 billion in the
fourth.  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital
consumption adjustments increased $15.5 billion in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of $39.5 billion in the
fourth. Dividends increased $14.8 billion, compared with an
increase of $8.9 billion; current-production undistributed
profits increased $0.7 billion, compared with an increase of
$30.6 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $66.3
billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of
$57.7 billion in the fourth.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations increased $60.7 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to a decrease of $10.1 billion in the fourth.  In the
first quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations increased, and profits per unit of real value added
increased.  The increase in unit profits reflected an increase
in unit prices and a decrease in the unit labor costs; unit
nonlabor costs were unchanged.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $54.4
billion in the first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $9.4
billion in the fourth.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.
The first-quarter increase was accounted for by an increase in
receipts and a decrease in payments.  Profits before tax with inventory valuation adjustment is
the best available measure of industry profits because estimates
of the capital consumption adjustment by industry do not exist.
This measure reflects depreciation-accounting practices used for
federal income tax returns.  According to this measure, domestic
profits of financial corporations decreased while domestic
profits of nonfinancial corporations increased.  The increase in
nonfinancial corporations reflected increases in all the major
subaggregates shown except for a small decrease in
transportation and warehousing.  Within manufacturing, the
increase reflected increases in all the industries shown except
computer and electronic products.  Profits before tax increased $140.3 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $48.3 billion in the
fourth.  The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as
does profits from current production, the capital consumption
and inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment decreased $90.5 billion in the
first quarter (from -$15.8 billion to -$106.3 billion), in
contrast to an increase of $153.5 billion in the fourth.  The
inventory valuation adjustment decreased $1.2 billion (from -
$103.2 billion to -$104.4 billion), compared with a decrease of
$66.8 billion.  The large decrease in the first-quarter capital
consumption adjustment reflects the expiration of bonus
depreciation claimed under the Small Business Jobs and Credit
Act of 2010.  (For detailed data, see the table at
www.bea.gov/national/xls/technote_tax_acts.xls.)  Profits from
current production are not affected because they do not depend
on the depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income
tax returns; rather they are based on depreciation of fixed
assets valued at current cost and using consistent depreciation
profiles based on used-asset prices.  Next release -- July 29, 2011, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:  Gross Domestic Product:  Second Quarter 2011 (Advance
Estimate)  Annual Revision of the National Income and Product Accounts  (First Quarter 2003 through First Quarter 2011)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  