-- 
U.S. Prosecutors Seek Life Sentence for Former Taylor Bean Chairman Farkas

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-24T19:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-prosecutors-seek-life-sentence-for-former-taylor-bean-chairman-farkas.html
Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., should be sentenced to
life in prison for leading a $3 billion fraud involving fake
mortgage assets, U.S. prosecutors told a judge in Virginia.  In a filing in Alexandria made public today, prosecutors
asked U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema to order Farkas to
prison for 385 years or no less than 50 years, “a period of
years that would ensure that Farkas will remain in prison for
life.” Farkas, 58, is to be sentenced June 30.  Prosecutors said in a sentencing memorandum that the
recommended punishment is consistent with punishments imposed on
“similarly situated” white-collar defendants, such as  Bernard
Madoff  and former WorldCom Inc. Chairman Bernard Ebbers. Madoff
is serving a 150-year sentence for a $13 billion Ponzi scheme
and Ebbers received 25 years for an $11 billion accounting
fraud, prosecutors said.  A federal jury convicted Farkas in April of 14 counts of
conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud  after a two-week
trial. Prosecutors said Farkas orchestrated one of the largest
and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S., which duped some of
the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted the
federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures of
 Taylor Bean  and Montgomery, Alabama-based  Colonial Bank .  ‘Ostentatious Wealth’  “Farkas fueled his lifestyle of ostentatious wealth by
ripping off banks and attempting to steal from the government,
all with little to no regard for the consequences to TBW’s or
Colonial Bank’s employees, thousands of whom lost their jobs
when TBW and Colonial Bank closed, or to the shareholders of
Colonial BancGroup,” prosecutors said in the filing.  Prosecutors are also seeking a money judgment of $42
million, claiming that Farkas was paid millions in salary and
“personally stole” more than $40 million from Taylor Bean and
Colonial Bank.  William Cummings , a lawyer for Farkas, in a filing today
urged Brinkema to send Farkas to prison no more than 15 years.  “The whole point of the financial transactions forming the
basis for the charges against Mr. Farkas was not to enrich
himself but to keep TBW a viable company so that the hard
working people who had helped him build TBW from nothing would
continue to have good, stable, well paying jobs,” Cummings said
in the filing.  Six conspirators to the fraud scheme who pleaded guilty
have been sentenced by Brinkema to prison terms ranging from
three months to eight years.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  