-- 
U.S. Regards Maintaining ‘Frustrating’ Pakistan Anti-Terror Ties as Vital

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-06-24T04:59:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-sees-frustrating-pakistan-relations-as-vital-to-security-interests.html
The U.S. is taking a more demanding
approach to  Pakistan  since Osama  bin Laden ’s May 2 death,
pressing for increased counterterrorism cooperation just as the
Pakistani public and the nation’s powerful officer corps are
calling for less.  The tension is reflected in a  Pew Research Center poll 
published June 21 that shows 69 percent of Pakistanis see the
U.S. as “more of an enemy” than a partner -- even after $20
billion in aid over the past decade -- and in U.S. threats to
cut assistance unless Pakistan steps up its terrorism fight.  Even so, Pakistan’s need for economic aid, status as a
nuclear power, vulnerability to militants and interests in
Afghanistan provide incentives for both nations to work through
current disputes.  “This is a long-term, frustrating, frankly sometimes very
outraging kind of experience,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said about dealing with Pakistan in an appearance before
the Senate Foreign Relations committee yesterday. “And yet, I
don’t see any alternative, if you look at vital American
national interests.”  Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, told the House Armed Services Committee yesterday that
“the entire chain of command in the  United States  through the
president thinks it’s important that we sustain this
relationship even through its most difficult times.”  At the heart of U.S.-Pakistani tension is how much
influence Pakistan will wield over Afghanistan as the U.S.
reduces its role there, beginning with a withdrawal of 33,000
soldiers by September 2012.  Close Bases  The U.S. has demanded since at least 2004 that Pakistan
close bases in its western borderlands from which Taliban
guerrillas attack American and Afghan government troops. Since
the 1980s, Pakistan’s army covertly has supported the Taliban
and allied guerrilla groups as a way to keep  Afghanistan  from
allying with Pakistan’s arch-foe,  India , and prevent it from
pursuing historic claims to rule parts of what is now Pakistan.  When asked by a lawmaker about Pakistan’s role, Mullen
replied that “there’s great risk in the strategy tied to
Pakistan. There has been from the beginning.”  Mullen and Clinton were the highest level administration
officials to visit Pakistan after the U.S. commando raid that
killed bin Laden, an operation the U.S. conducted without
informing Pakistani leaders. CIA chief  Leon Panetta  made an
unannounced visit there the day after his June 9 Senate
confirmation hearing to become defense secretary.  Task Force  Administration officials point to signs in the past few
weeks that Pakistani leaders also want to maintain the
relationship, including a recent accord establishing a joint
counterterrorism  task force  and the killing or capture of
“several very key extremists,” Clinton said.  In Pakistan, the question of whether to sustain the
relationship is up for debate, said Seth Jones, a senior
political scientist at the  RAND Corporation .  There is “an internal struggle within Pakistan’s key
national security agencies about the state of the relationship,
whether it’s worthwhile, whether it should continue, and that
will be an ongoing process,” said Jones, who has served as a
military adviser in the region.  The raid on bin Laden’s compound has been denounced by many
Pakistanis as a breach of sovereignty. In a May meeting, the
army’s top generals pushed General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani to
explain why Pakistan supports the U.S.  Second Term  While Pakistan’s army remains highly disciplined, Kayani’s
authority may face greater challenges from the officer corps as
he serves an unprecedented second term as commander, said Brian
Cloughley, a historian of the Pakistan military. An increasing
number of military officers “have begun to see this war as
America’s war,” said Javed Hussain, a retired Pakistani army
brigadier, in a June 16 phone interview.  The resistance from the officer corps may undermine U.S.
calls for Pakistani forces to attack the Jalaluddin Haqqani
guerrilla group, one of the Taliban factions most closely
aligned to Pakistan’s military. The Pakistan army’s Inter-
Services Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, “has a longstanding
relationship with the Haqqani network,” Mullen said in an April
20 visit to Pakistan. “I’m extremely concerned in particular
about that aspect.”  Drone Attacks  Pakistan shut down a U.S. Special Forces training program
and is planning to end the CIA’s use of an airbase in southwest
Pakistan used for launching drone flights, according to the
Washington Post. The army’s dozen top generals, who form its
most powerful decision-making council, issued a  statement  June 9
saying U.S. drone strikes against militants “are not acceptable
under any circumstances. There is no room for ambiguity in this
regard.”  The CIA continues to operate armed drones from Afghanistan
to strike militants in the border region of Pakistan. If the
missile strikes don’t stop, a parliamentary resolution
recommended closing NATO supply routes that, according to the
U.S. military’s Transportation Command, carry half of all war
materiel to Afghanistan.  At the same time, it is getting difficult for President
Barack Obama’s administration to defend its ties with Pakistan,
which has received economic and military assistance totaling
almost $21 billion since 2002. The  House Appropriations
Committee  on June 14 approved a defense spending bill that would
withhold 75 percent of the $1.1 billion in this year’s aid to
Pakistan until the Obama administration tells Congress how it
would spend the money.  Pakistani Toll  While the Pakistan government says it has lost 3,500
security personnel and 35,000 civilians in its war against
Islamic militants since 2006, Pakistani civilians and military
officers “hear mostly criticism from around the world that they
aren’t doing enough,” and they feel the army’s efforts are
being ignored, said Cloughley, an Australian military analyst of
 South Asia .  At yesterday’s hearing, Senator  Robert Menendez , a New
Jersey Democrat, told Clinton “I don’t think there’s an
American who believes” that Pakistan’s leaders weren’t aware of
bin Laden’s presence in Abbottabad, a garrison town 30 miles (50
kilometers) from the capital, Islamabad. Clinton replied that
the administration is convinced after thoroughly reviewing
intelligence that no top Pakistani leader knew of bin Laden’s
hideout.  Blunt Talk  “We do not in any way rule out or absolve those who are at
lower levels who may very well have been enablers and
protectors,” Clinton added.  Lisa Curtis of the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington policy
group, said “U.S. officials are more willing to call a spade a
spade when Pakistan’s cooperation is not satisfactory.”  U.S. lawmakers were outraged by Pakistan’s post-raid
detention of dozens of civilians suspected of helping either bin
Laden or the CIA. Suspicions of official Pakistani complicity
were further fueled when militants cleared out of two bomb-
making compounds after U.S. officials shared intelligence about
their location.  The U.S. is signaling to Pakistani leaders that military
aid depends on their level of cooperation. “We are not prepared
to continue providing that at the pace we were providing it
unless and until we see certain steps taken,” Clinton said.  Clinton did praise an improvement in Pakistani
counterterrorism efforts since the raid and analysts point to
some conciliatory gestures by Pakistan.  Islamic Militants  Pakistan’s army said this week it arrested a brigadier
general and was questioning four army majors for alleged
connections to Hizb ut-Tahrir, an Islamic militant group.
Pakistan has resumed issuing visas for CIA officers after
holding them back after an agency contractor,  Raymond Davis ,
killed two men in February, according to the  Associated Press .  “When it comes to Pakistan, there is a ledger,” said
Clinton. “On one side of the ledger are a lot of actions that
we really disapprove of and find inimicable to our values and
even our interests, and then on the other side of the ledger
there are actions that are very much in line with what we are
seeking and want. So we’re constantly balancing and weighing
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  