-- 
War Savings Dividend for U.S. ‘Nation-Building’ Years Away, Analysts Say

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-06-24T18:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/u-s-war-savings-in-afghanistan-drawdown-puts-nation-building-years-away.html
Any peace dividend from bringing
U.S. troops home from  Afghanistan  likely will take years, not
months, to make a dent in the federal budget, analysts said.  In his June 22 speech announcing the withdrawal of 33,000
U.S. troops from Afghanistan by September 2012, President  Barack Obama  said “it is time to focus on nation-building here at
home.”  His withdrawal plan could save as little as $7 billion in
fiscal year 2012, said  Travis Sharp , a fellow at the Center for
a New American Security, a defense-oriented policy institute in
Washington. Sharp said he based his analysis on data from the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  That amounts to less than 1 percent of this year’s
projected federal budget deficit, which the CBO estimates will
exceed $1 trillion.  “The cost-savings benefits of withdrawing troops from
Afghanistan have been majorly oversold by our political
leaders,” Sharp said. In the short term, he said, “the number
of troops coming out are quite small. And the pace of operations
for the troops remaining in Afghanistan will be quite high.”  The president didn’t detail estimated savings in his
remarks, and White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
yesterday that “I don’t have dollar figures.” Obama also
didn’t say how quickly he expects to withdraw the 68,000 U.S.
troops who would remain in Afghanistan after next summer.  ‘National Security Considerations’  Kenneth Baer , a spokesman for the White House Office of
Management and Budget, said the troop withdrawal plan is
“dictated by national security considerations. It will produce
savings, the extent of which we will assess after the full
schedule for the drawdown is set.”  House Appropriations Committee Democratic staff members
estimate the troop reduction will save $10 billion in the 2012
fiscal year and $15 billion in the 2013 fiscal year, said Ryan
Nickel, a committee aide.  Further troop cuts would result in greater savings. If the
troop levels in Afghanistan and  Iraq  are reduced from the
current 150,000 to a combined 45,000 by 2015, the CBO has
estimated a savings of $1 trillion through 2020.  In his televised address, Obama said, “Now we must invest
in America’s greatest resource, our people. We must unleash
innovation that creates new jobs and industries, while living
within our means. We must rebuild our infrastructure and find
new and clean sources of energy.”  No Specific Projects  He didn’t mention any specific projects where savings from
reduced war costs would be re-routed.  “Are we going to pave a new road, build a new high-speed
rail from  Los Angeles  to  Las Vegas ? Probably not,” said
Christopher Preble, director of foreign policy studies at the
 Cato Institute , a libertarian policy research center in
Washington. “If you’re doing that, you’re still robbing Peter
to pay Paul. We’re still borrowing money.”  Andrew F. Krepinevich, president of the Washington-based
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a policy
research institute that examines national security issues, said
that as much as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have cost --
more than $1 trillion over a decade -- Medicare and Medicaid
spending are projected to be bigger drivers of the debt.  Not Literal  Krepinevich said that in calling for domestic “nation-
building,” Obama isn’t being literal so much as promising to
redirect war spending to deficit reduction.  “I think what the president means to say is, ‘Look, we’re
spending $100 billion a year in Afghanistan. I’d rather be in a
position to put that $100 billion to work for the American
people, the American economy,’” Krepinevich said. “ Deficit
reduction  contributes to a strong economic foundation here at
home that provides for the economic growth that will benefit all
Americans over the long run.”  While troop reductions after World War II,  Korea ,  Vietnam 
and the  Cold War  resulted in savings, Krepinevich said that
post-Afghanistan could be different because of the changing
nature of terrorist threats and war.  “There are a number of emerging challenges that will
likely frustrate efforts to reduce the size of our military and
our  defense budget  as much as we would hope,” he said.  Cost Per Soldier  Officials have roughly estimated the cost of the war in
Afghanistan at $1 million per soldier per year.  Sharp said that doesn’t translate to a savings of $33
billion by the end of next summer, partly because the troops
aren’t withdrawing immediately and because anything saved is
offset by costs of transporting troops and equipment out of
theater and by increasing the training of Afghan security
forces.  He said the withdrawals the president announced could be a
catalyst for bigger savings if they lead to long-term cuts in
the size of the U.S. armed forces.  “This decision will save money if it is the opening spark
that leads to a much broader and more serious conversation about
the role of the  United States  military in the world today,”
Sharp said.  The Obama administration has set a goal of cutting $400
billion in national security spending through fiscal year 2023.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who retires next week,
already included cuts in the military’s headcount as part of the
$78 billion in budget reductions he proposed to help meet the
administration’s cost-cutting goals.  Gates has proposed reducing the force by as many as 47,000
troops starting in fiscal 2015, including 27,000 soldiers and
between 15,000 and 20,000 Marines. That would save $6 billion
through 2016.  More money could be saved if the Defense Department either
accelerated those reductions or sought larger cuts in the
military headcount, Sharp said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  