-- 
Hulu Said to Reach Tentative Deal for Renewed Disney Show Rights

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-24T21:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/hulu-said-to-reach-tentative-deal-for-renewed-rights-to-disney-tv-programs.html
Hulu.com, the online video site
considering a sale, reached a tentative agreement for renewed
rights to television shows from its part-owner,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  The agreement with Disney, which operates the ABC  broadcast
network , is similar to Los Angeles-based Hulu’s new arrangement
with another co-owner, Fox parent  News Corp. (NWSA) , said the people,
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The News Corp.-Hulu
renewal was reported by Variety this week.  Renewed license agreements will make the website more
attractive in a sale, said  Steve Beck , a managing partner at New
York-based management consultant Cg42 LLC. The new agreements
will allow more more ads to be sold against current shows,
including “Modern Family,” which airs on ABC, and Fox’s
“Family Guy,” the people said.  “A deal is relatively unlikely” without the agreements,
said Beck, whose clients include Microsoft Corp. “Any deal
would be contingent on ongoing access to that content.”  The deals may be signed within weeks, the people said.  A “Modern Family”  episode  on Hulu includes about 2.5
minutes of ads. On a broadcast network, commercial time totals
about 8 minutes per half hour.  Hulu Chief Executive Officer Jason Kilar said in a  February 
blog post on the site that, with fewer ads than traditional
television, the website is a more effective marketing medium.  Elisa Schreiber, a Hulu spokeswoman, declined to comment.
 Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Burbank, California-based Disney,
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Hulu, whose owners also include  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and
Providence Equity Partners, was approached by a potential buyer
and is weighing its options, a person with knowledge of the
situation said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 