-- 
Turkish Policy Built on Zero Real Interest, Gedikli Says

-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 
2011-06-24T12:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/turkish-policy-built-on-zero-real-interest-gedikli-says-1-.html
Turkey ’s economic policy is being
built on a goal of real interest rates of zero, as lower rates
help deal with the widening current account deficit by curbing
capital inflows, said Bulent Gedikli, a deputy chief of the
governing Justice and Development Party.  Capital flows have widened the deficit and keeping rates
low helps tackle that problem, Gedikli, who is responsible for
economic issues at the party, said in a televised interview
with Bloomberg HT television. Real interest rates are
negative in the U.S.,  Japan  and parts of  Europe , he said.  Turkey’s central bank cut rates to a record low of 6.25
percent in two reductions in December and January to discourage
foreign capital that boosted the lira’s value. It’s also raised
banks’ reserve requirements four times since December to help
slow growth in loans. The current account deficit widened to a
record $9.7 billion in March from a year ago and to $7.7 billion
in April, the second highest level on record.  The current account deficit is caused primarily by energy
imports, strong economic growth momentum due to low  interest
rates , a low savings rate, the country’s non-energy commodity
needs and higher gold imports,  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at
BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkish interest rates, net of inflation, “will fall and
must fall” and banks getting rich from selling money “should
be warned,” Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said on May 5.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell 2 basis points to
9.15 percent at 3:10 p.m. Inflation accelerated to 7.2 percent
in May from 4.3 percent in April, the statistics agency said on
June 3. Expectations for inflation in 24 months time averaged
6.39 percent, the central bank said in its fortnightly economic
survey on June 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  