-- 
Vitamin D May Help Prevent Development of Type 2 Diabetes, Researchers Say

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-06-24T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/vitamin-d-may-help-prevent-type-2-diabetes-researchers-say.html
Vitamin D may help prevent those at
risk for diabetes from developing the disease, giving doctors
and patients a potential tool against the condition, researchers
said.  Patients with the highest amounts of  vitamin D  in their
body were about 25 percent less likely than those with the
lowest amounts to develop Type 2 diabetes, according to a  study 
released yesterday at the  American Diabetes Association ’s annual
meeting in  San Diego . The research involved 2,039 people with
higher-than-normal blood sugar levels, a condition called
prediabetes.  Most Americans receive their vitamin D from fortified foods
like milk and from exposure to the sun. It is also found in
fatty fishes such as salmon and tuna, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . Vitamin D may help the body produce more
of the hormone insulin or may increase the body’s sensitivity to
insulin, said  Anastassios Pittas , the study’s lead author.  “Vitamin D level is an excellent marker for health,” said
Pittas, co-director of the Diabetes Center at Tufts Medical
Center in  Boston  in a June 21 telephone interview. “It may all
be explained by underlying good health behaviors that we aren’t
calculating. People who see this, they are looking for a magic
bullet to avoid what really needs to be done, which is lifestyle
modifications to avoid diabetes.”  220 Million  More than 220 million people worldwide have diabetes and
about 90 percent have the Type 2 form of the condition,
according to the  World Health Organization . People who are obese
are most  at risk  of developing Type 2 diabetes, in which the
body doesn’t produce enough insulin needed to convert blood
sugar to energy, or the cells ignore the insulin, according to
the NIH.  Left untreated,  Type 2 diabetes  can lead to heart attack,
stroke and blindness.  More studies are needed to understand whether vitamin D is
lowering the diabetes risk or some other factor, Pittas said.  A  separate Australian study  being presented at the meeting
found that young people with the Type 1 form of the disease who
were vitamin D deficient were twice as likely as those with
sufficient vitamin D to have eye problems. In Type 1 diabetes,
which is usually diagnosed in children and young adults, the
body doesn’t produce the hormone insulin, according to the
American Diabetes Association. It’s unclear why the deficiency
causes the eye problems, the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  