-- 
Vornado Acquires Junior Debt on Gluck’s Lower Manhattan Apartment Complex

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-24T15:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/vornado-acquires-junior-debt-on-gluck-s-lower-manhattan-apartment-complex.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  bought junior
debt on Independence Plaza, a lower Manhattan apartment complex
whose owners are seeking to restructure its senior mortgage.  The New York-based company acquired about $185 million of
the subordinated debt at a discount, according to a person with
knowledge of the purchase who asked not to be named because the
transaction is private. The deal was done “on a consensual
basis,” said John Marino, a spokesman for Stellar Management,
the owner of the 1,300-unit, three-tower property.  “Stellar Management continues to engage in an amicable
dialogue with various lenders to extend the overall debt on the
property,” Marino said in an e-mailed statement.  Stellar, founded by developer Laurence Gluck, put its $425
million senior mortgage on Independence Plaza into special
servicing in April as it seeks to extend an August maturity
date. Special servicers negotiate with commercial-property
borrowers who want to work out troubled loans.  Independence Plaza  consists of townhouses and three 39-
story apartment towers, just south of Citigroup Inc.’s trading
complex on Greenwich Street in the Tribeca neighborhood. It also
has 73,000 square feet (6,780 square meters) of commercial space
and a 230,000-square-foot parking garage.  Vornado, the fourth-biggest U.S. real estate investment
trust by market value, owns office buildings mainly in New York
and  Washington , as well as retail properties across the country.  In 2005, the company acquired 220 Central Park South, then
a rent-stabilized apartment tower, which it is converting into
condominiums. Vornado has done seven condo projects, according
to the annual letter from Chairman  Steven Roth  issued April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  