-- 
Wall Street Recruits Iraq, Afghanistan Veterans as Financial Jobs Decline

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-06-24T17:51:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/wall-street-recruits-u-s-war-veterans-as-financial-jobs-decline.html
Veterans of the Iraq and  Afghanistan 
wars are being recruited by banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as Wall Street jobs wane.  The New York-based banks joined  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  at a job fair hosted
yesterday by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for service personnel
aboard the USS Intrepid, a museum in the Hudson River.  “We’re looking for the right talent at the right time,”
Suni Harford, Citigroup’s head of markets for  North America ,
said while gripping a stack of resumes collected at the fair.  The veterans are aiming to work in an industry where jobs
fell in 2010 for a fourth straight year to an average 7.63
million, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics , or
8.4 percent below a 2006 peak. For veterans, unemployment rose
to 12.1 percent in May from 10.6 percent a year ago. President
 Barack Obama  said on June 22 he will withdraw 33,000 troops from
Afghanistan by September 2012.  The veterans said they hoped they had skills to fit a job
at one of the more than 100 employers recruiting.  “This was the first time at a job fair I felt like I was
getting a job,” said Dyron Snipe, in the National Guard while
getting a master’s degree in computer science at the University
of Westchester. Snipe brought 100 resumes. “I just want to be
hired by one, but I have a good feeling, for the first time.”  A military background can signal to recruiters that the
applicant is disciplined, has a clean record, and can pass drug
tests, giving them an edge over civilian candidates, he said.  Chicago  Fair  At a similar fair in Chicago in March, about 200 of the
1,200 participating veterans got jobs, said Kevin Schmiegel, a
retired lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps and the
Chamber vice president for veterans programs. Companies weren’t
invited to recruit unless they had jobs to fill, Schmiegel said.  Aboard the Intrepid, an  aircraft carrier  used in World War
II, the  Vietnam War  and to recover U.S. manned space capsules
after ocean splashdowns, little if any hiring took place on the
spot. Resumes were exchanged and some interviews conducted with
the promise of further contact, said Harford. Getting in the
door for the first interview is often difficult, she said.  “Veterans have a range of experience that make them a
great fit for Goldman,” said Holly Jackson, a recruiter. The
company doesn’t have a goal for filling positions, Jackson said
after speaking to hundreds of people and collecting a stack of
resumes. “We recognize the skill sets veterans have and in the
changing workforce, we need the best people,” she said.  Military Recruiters  Military veterans at Goldman help to recruit veterans and
ease them into non-military jobs, Jackson said. Even with fewer
jobs in the financial industry, the company is always looking
for new candidates, she said.  Former Marine Corps Captain Christopher Perkins, now head
of Citigroup’s derivatives operation in the Americas, said he
dealt with budgets and negotiation while stationed in  Japan , his
first education in business practices. Citigroup hired him based
on skills obtained in the military, not to burnish the firm’s
image, he said.  “It’s not about charity work,” Perkins said. “It’s about
making the firm better.”  Financial-service companies accounted for 29.3 percent of
U.S. corporate profits in the 12 months ended March 31, compared
with 31.6 percent in the previous decade, according to data from
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis . That’s off the high of 41.7
percent in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, 2002.  ‘Up And Down’  “We’re always up and down,” Seth Waugh, chief executive
officer of Deutsche Bank’s Americas division, said yesterday in
an interview at the fair with Bloomberg Television. “I would
say that we’re in sort of a flat mode, but that doesn’t mean
there aren’t opportunities and changes going on.”  Navy Commander John Hensel, who trains pilots at a base in
 Pensacola ,  Florida , said he was evaluating options about 18
months before he is eligible to retire. With a graduate degree
in business administration, Hensel was most interested in a  Wall
Street  job.  “If you’re managing millions of dollars in aircraft and
air crew or millions of dollars in assets, it’s all
management,” said Hensel, wearing his white Navy uniform.
Hensel said he felt optimistic about his chances of getting a
job after speaking with corporate recruiters.  David Kim, arrived late at Goldman Sachs’s tent aboard the
Intrepid, and ticked through the list of employers, circling
those that might be most interested in his accounting degree.
The Marine Corps veteran talked with recruiters, aware that Wall
Street is cutting back.  Future Events  “I have heard about that on the news,” he said looking
over the tent of potential employers. “But it seems like there
is something here.”  Similar events are planned by the Chamber, with about 100
fairs across the nation in the next year. It’s also assembling
an Internet network, aiming to match employers with servicemen.
The Chamber, joined by first lady  Michelle Obama , will announce
next week an initiative pushing companies to hire military
spouses.  “It’s not just about hiring 300 people,” said Schmiegel.
“You have a million more. We need to create a movement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  