-- 
Southern Union Bid War May Pit Institutional Investors Against Executives

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-06-24T20:39:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/williams-makes-offer-to-buy-southern-union-for-4-86-billion.html
A multibillion-dollar takeover
battle for  Southern Union Co. (SUG)  may pit institutional investors
against the pipeline company’s top two executives, analysts
said.  Williams Cos.’ unsolicited $4.86 billion all-cash bid
yesterday for Southern Union would benefit shareholders who
don’t want to see their stock converted. Southern Union’s chief
executive officer and president, who together own or control
about 13 percent of the company, stand to gain the most if a
$4.12 billion share swap proposed by  Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) 
last week is successful.  The Williams offer represents a 38 percent premium to
Southern Union’s share price on June 15, before either bid was
announced. Energy Transfer’s offer, with a 17 percent premium,
would force investors to sell or convert their Southern Union
shares to partnership units.  As a master-limited partnership, or MLP, Energy Transfer
was set up to own long-term assets like pipelines that pay
steady returns. It pays no federal income taxes and its payments
to investors are often tax-deferred for individuals.  Institutional investors such as pension funds, which are
already tax exempt, frequently have barriers to owning MLP
units. That would mean those investors, which make up 77 percent
of Southern Union’s shareholders, may have to sell their shares
if Energy Transfer wins the bidding.  Management Price  “The internal tension here is basically between those who
can own MLP units and those who can’t,” said Carl Kirst, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Houston. The perception is
that Southern Union’s “management got a far superior price than
shareholders in general,” Kirst, who rates Southern Union
market perform and doesn’t own the shares, wrote in a note to
clients.  Southern Union, based in Houston, rose $5.70, or 17
percent, to $39.85 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Williams fell 68 cents, or 2.3 percent, to
$28.55. Energy Transfer fell $2.51, or 5.5 percent, to $43.06,
the biggest drop in more than two years.  Energy Transfer’s offer may provide a better long-term
payoff to individual investors who would benefit from the MLP
tax structure, said Darren Horowitz, an analyst with Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Houston.  Investors can earn a dividend while the transaction is
pending, and they would also have a stake in Energy Transfer’s
future, said Horowitz, who rates Dallas-based Energy Transfer’s
units “outperform” and doesn’t own them.  Severance Payments  Southern Union Chairman and CEO George Lindemann is
entitled to severance payments and other benefits worth an
estimated $21.2 million under certain circumstances if the
company is sold, according to a March 25 regulatory filing.
President Eric Herschmann is entitled to $25 million under the
same circumstances, the company said.  Both executives have consulting and non-competition
contracts with Energy Transfer that will pay them each $10
million a year for the next five years, according to regulatory
filings.  “That’s a big number,” said  Charles Elson , a law
professor and director of the University of  Delaware ’s Weinberg
Center for  Corporate Governance . Southern Union’s board has a
legal obligation to accept the best offer and “if payments to
the CEO diminish the offer, then there’s a problem.”  Lindemann’s 2010 salary and bonus amounted to $7.7 million
and Herschmann’s was $7.3 million, according to Bloomberg data.  Largest Shareholder  Lindemann has been CEO since 1990 and is Southern Union’s
largest individual shareholder, according to Bloomberg data. The
former mobile-phone entrepreneur has an estimated net worth of
$1.7 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  Herschmann, who became president in 2008, also serves as a
law partner at the Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP law
firm, which provided $8.8 million worth of legal work for
Southern Union in 2010, according to a regulatory filing.  Jeff Pounds, a spokesman for Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Williams, declined to comment on Southern Union’s severance
agreements.  “We’re focused on the cash purchase price, which is paid
to all shareholders,” he said. The Williams offer values
Southern Union at $39 a share, while Energy Transfer would issue
units worth $33 for each Southern Union share.  Under the Energy Transfer sale agreement, Southern Union
must pay its former suitor $92.5 million if it accepts a higher
offer before July 25 and $135 million if it does so after that
date.  Interstate Pipelines  Both Williams and Energy Transfer want to use Southern
Union’s lines to connect to customers in  Florida  and to new
sources of natural gas in Texas and  Oklahoma .  Southern Union operates 15,000 miles (24,000 kilometers) of
interstate pipelines, a terminal to import liquefied natural gas
and systems that serve a half-million gas customers in Missouri
and  Massachusetts .  If Williams’s bid is successful, it would become the
largest interstate gas shipper, with a capacity of 22 billion
cubic feet a day, CEO Alan Armstrong said yesterday. Energy
Transfer would nearly double in size if its offer wins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  