-- 
Facebook Lawsuit by Winklevoss Twins is Thrown Out by Federal Judge

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-22T22:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/winklevosses-seek-suppressed-evidence-to-revive-facebook-court-dispute.html
A federal judge in  Boston  dismissed
suits by Cameron and  Tyler Winklevoss , who claim that Facebook
Inc. co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  stole the idea for the world’s
most popular social-networking site.  U.S. District Judge Douglas Woodlock today ordered two
consolidated suits dismissed, after a federal appeals court
refused in April to reopen a $65 million settlement of a 2004
lawsuit the Winklevosses, who are twin brothers, and Divya Narendra filed against Facebook and Zuckerberg.  The three, who attended  Harvard University  with Zuckerberg,
were seeking in the Boston suit to force Facebook to turn over
information, including instant messages they said may have been
improperly withheld in the litigation.  Tyler Meade, who represents the Winklevosses and Narendra,
said in an e-mail today they expected the court would enter a
judgment in the case. Meade said he plans a post-judgment motion
to try to pursue additional evidence from Facebook.  Facebook spokesman Andrew Noyes declined to comment on the
ruling.  The Winklevosses were unsuccessful in trying to persuade a
federal court in  California  to revoke the 2008 settlement,
claiming that Palo Alto, California-based Facebook didn’t
disclose an accurate valuation of its shares before they agreed
to the cash and stock deal. The appeals court ruled that the
accord barred future lawsuits and was “quite favorable” to
them. Last month the twins and Narendra decided not to appeal to
the U.S. Supreme Court.  The three had sought to reopen their original claim against
Facebook in Boston federal court, based on published reports
suggesting the company may have withheld evidence it was
required to turn over in the case.  The case is ConnectU v. Facebook, 07-10593, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  