-- 
Two-Faced Mutual Funds Get Supreme Court Break: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/two-faced-mutual-funds-get-supreme-court-deal-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
The hundreds of thousands of
Americans who own shares in publicly traded mutual-fund
companies -- not to mention fans of corporate accountability --
should be feeling a little unsettled by a recent U.S. Supreme
Court ruling.  Janus Capital Management LLC, a mutual-fund adviser, was
sued for fraud in 2003 by shareholders who said Janus and its
publicly traded parent company, Janus Capital Group Inc., had
lied in mutual-fund prospectuses, and that those lies had cost
them a lot of money. On June 13, the  Supreme Court  threw out
their case.  Here’s why they sued: Investors dumped shares of  Janus , the
parent company, in September 2003 after the  New York  State
Attorney General’s Office accused the Denver-based group of
entering into secret agreements to help hedge funds and other
favored customers engage in market timing. This is a
controversial -- but legal -- practice in which select investors
trade in and out of funds to take advantage of pricing
inefficiencies. As far as Janus investors knew, it wasn’t
happening at Janus, which said in several of its prospectuses
that it deterred market timing.  The firm wound up  settling  various regulatory complaints
for $226 million. The settlements may have addressed the alleged
wrongs to buyers of the mutual funds. But investors who were
stuck with sunken shares of the parent company were never made
whole. Now, the Supreme Court has said they never will be,
either.  Copycat Suit  Mark Perry , a lawyer for Janus, said it “paid a
significant amount of money” to resolve cases with New York and
the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that the “copycat
suit” was properly dismissed.  To understand why the decision is a slap in the face for
Janus shareholders, and potentially those of other mutual-fund
companies, you need to know a little about the strange corporate
structure that most mutual funds use. There are the mutual funds
that investors actually purchase, such as Janus’s Mercury Fund.
Investors own the funds, which generally have no employees but
“retain” a separate investment adviser to run the business and
decide what the funds will invest in. In this case, Janus
Capital Management played the adviser role. If the fund is
publicly traded, there can also be another entity, a parent
corporation like Janus Capital Group.  Suing Yourself  If something goes awry, this nifty arrangement makes it
impractical to sue the fund -- what’s the point of suing
yourself? -- and with the new  Supreme Court  ruling, it has now
become exceedingly difficult for a shareholder to take action
against the company that runs the fund, too. Thus, you purchase
shares of companies in the mutual-fund business at your own risk
because managements are no longer answerable to shareholders if
the investment vehicles they “advise” get caught in a fib. (I
garnish the words “advise” and “retain” with quotation marks
because mutual funds have about as much control in choosing
their advisers as most of us do when picking a cable-television
provider.)  In Janus’s case, the fund and the adviser shared the same
business address and the funds’ officers were also officers of
the adviser. “The funds are inert, on life support, dominated
by Janus Capital Group,” says William A. Birdthistle, an
associate professor of law at Chicago-Kent College of Law and
the co-author of a Supreme Court brief supporting the investors
who sued Janus.  Clintonesque Opinion  The Supreme Court, though, said that both Janus, the
publicly held company, and Janus, the  investment adviser , were
off the hook because neither was the entity that stated in a
prospectus that market timing was discouraged. In a Clintonesque
“it depends on what the meaning of the word ‘is’ is” opinion,
Justice  Clarence Thomas  wrote that the defendants didn’t
“make” the misstatements in the prospectuses -- the mutual
fund did.  Rule 10(b) 5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 says
it’s unlawful for a public company “to make any untrue
statement of material fact,” and if you’re going to win a
lawsuit based on that rule, you need to show that someone lied.
The court says only the mutual fund could have “made” any
untrue statements in this case.  Big Win  So Janus is acquitted with the aid of a dictionary, and
public companies have a lot less to worry about when they shade
the truth to shareholders. The decision is such a big win, in
fact, that Birdthistle expects corporations outside of the
investment-management business to alter their legal structures
to gain the same protection that funds now enjoy. “In  Delaware ,
with 30 minutes and $50, you can create a legal entity,” he
says.  In its Corporate Code of Business Conduct, Janus Capital
Group counsels employees that the letter of the law isn’t always
enough. “While we monitor laws and regulations that apply to
our business worldwide, we trust you to do the right, ethical
thing even when the law is unclear,” it says.  When it comes to shareholders, though, the letter of the
law, not to mention the general vocabulary, seems not to include
the word “accountability.”  (Susan Antilla is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
 Susan Antilla  at  santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  