-- 
Lopez Beats Roddick in Wimbledon Third Round; Sharapova, Wozniacki Advance

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-24T21:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/wozniacki-beats-razzano-in-straight-sets-in-second-round-match.html
Andy Roddick , a three-time runner-
up, was upset in the third round of Wimbledon by Feliciano Lopez.  Five-time champion Venus Williams, former title holder
 Maria Sharapova , top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  and Britain’s No.
4 seed  Andy Murray  all advanced on another rain-stricken day.  Roddick, a losing finalist to six-time winner Roger Federer
of Switzerland in 2004, 2005 and 2009, lost to the 44th-ranked
Feliciano Lopez, 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (7-2), 6-4.  It was the Spaniard’s first win over the former top-ranked
American in eight meetings. Roddick, the last American man to
win a major at the 2003 U.S. Open, had lost in the fourth round
last year. Lopez, who was beaten by Roddick two weeks ago at a
grass-court warmup at Queen’s, is a two-time quarterfinalist at
Wimbledon.  “It’s a great win,” Lopez said in a televised courtside
interview. “I’ve never beaten Andy, so it was important to me
to win today. He won there, but I’m happy to repay it here at
Wimbledon.”  Rain forced a stoppage in play at 5:39 p.m. local time, and
outside matches were rescheduled for tomorrow shortly after 7
p.m. Centre Court play resumed, with fourth-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  beating Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia in a third-round
match.  Sharapova Wins  Earlier, Sharapova overcame a challenge by British 17-year-
old Laura Robson to join women’s top seed Wozniacki in the third
round.  The 2004 champion beat Robson 7-6 (7-4), 6-3 on Court No. 1
at the All England Club. Their match had originally been
scheduled for yesterday, when rain frequently interrupted play
on all courts apart from Centre Court, which has a retractable
roof.  “I felt like I started off really slow and she started off
really well,” Sharapova said in a news conference. “Quite the
opposite of me, I think she was much more aggressive than I was
in the beginning.”  Sharapova, who lost to eventual championLi Na in her first
French Open semifinal earlier this month, needed 25 minutes to
get on the scoreboard. The Russian, who won Wimbledon at 17,
fought back from 4-1 down to force a tiebreaker, which she won
as Robson dumped a return into the net. She won the match as
Robson hit a forehand wide.  Murray Last Standing  The 254th-ranked Robson, who took the junior title at
Wimbledon in 2008, had won her first Grand Slam match here
earlier in the week. Shortly before Robson’s defeat, British No.
1 Elena Baltacha was beaten on Court 18 by  China ’s Peng Shuai,
4-6, 6-2, 7-5. That means there are no more British women left
in the draw.  Murray, the only British man left in the singles draw, beat
former world No. 3 Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia, 6-4, 4-6, 6-1, 7-6
(7-4) in a third-round match played under the retractable roof
on Centre Court that ended at 9:49 p.m. local time.  “It was a tough one, both of us were struggling a bit on
our second serves,” Murray said in a televised interview. “It
was heavy out there.”  The Scot, a two-time semifinalist, will play Richard Gasquet next. The Frenchman defeated Simone Bolelli of  Italy  in
straight sets earlier today.  Wozniacki beat Virginie Razzano of  France , 6-1, 6-3, to
move to the third round. The 20-year-old Dane is playing her
third Grand Slam event as the world’s best female tennis player,
but has yet to win a major. Her best performance at Wimbledon
was reaching the fourth round in 2009 and 2010.  Just like four-time winner and defending champion  Serena Williams  yesterday, Wozniacki’s match was scheduled on Court 2,
a small show court a five-minute walk from the main Wimbledon
complex.  “I think I deserve to play on one of the bigger courts,”
Wozniacki said. “Obviously, everyone wants to play in there.
It’s up to the tournament to decide where we’re going to play. I
just go out there and I try to win.”  Women’s Results  Venus Williams  beat Spain’s Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez 6-
0, 6-2. The American’s next opponent,  Tsvetana Pironkova , scored
the biggest upset so far in the tournament when she defeated
second-seeded Vera Zvonareva of  Russia  6-2, 6-3 in a third-round
match. The Bulgarian had ousted Venus Williams last year in the
quarterfinals.  “I’m ready to bring my best game and my best
competition,” Williams said in a news conference. “Last year,
I just got unhappy with how I was playing and I let that affect
my game. This year, I won’t let that happen.”  Svetlana Kuznetsova, a former French Open and U.S. Open
champion, was beaten by Belgium’s Yanina Wickmayer, 4-6, 6-3, 6-
4.  Marion Bartoli , a runner-up in 2007, advanced to the third
round by defeating  Spain ’s Lourdes Dominguez Lino in three sets.  Andrea Petkovic , the No. 11 seed from  Germany , was upset by
Russia’s Ksenia Pervak, 6-4, 7-6 (7-2). American teenager Ryan
Harrison of the U.S. lost to the No. 7 seed from Spain David Ferrer, 6-7 (6-8), 6-1, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.  The match between top-seeded Rafael Nadal and Gilles Muller
of Luxembourg was moved to tomorrow after rain stopped play just
as the Spaniard had taken the first set. Muller defeated him at
the 2005 tournament. Last year’s runner-up Tomas Berdych was
leading Alex Bogomolov Jr. of the U.S., 6-2, 6-4, 4-3 when rain
stopped play.  Jurgen Melzer of  Austria  beat Dmitry Tursunov of Russia and
 Australia ’s Bernard Tomic overcame Igor Andreev of Russia in
second-round matches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  