-- 
WPP On Course to Double Its Business in Emerging Markets Every Five Years

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-24T10:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/wpp-may-double-emerging-market-business-every-five-years.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Sorrell  said the world’s largest advertising company is
on course to double the size of its business in high-growth
economies every five or six years.  Countries such as China, where WPP will surpass $1 billion
in sales for the first time this year, and  India  are adding
employees and offices as the advertising market in those
countries grows, Sorrell said in an interview at the Cannes
Lions advertising conference today.  “If the GNP continues to grow at 7-to-8 percent, which is
where India and China are at the moment, you would expect the
business to grow certainly in the double digits,” or about 10
percent to 15 percent, Sorrell said. “Which means you’re going
to double every five or six years.”  Advertising companies are pushing into  China  and other
emerging economies to make up for slower growth in some
established markets such as Western Europe. WPP already has more
than 28,000 employees in the BRIC countries of Brazil,  Russia ,
India and China, making the group larger than the U.S. or U.K.,
Sorrell said.  WPP rose as much as 2 percent to 749.5 pence in London
trading and was up 1.5 percent as of 11:44 a.m. Before today,
the stock had declined 7 percent.  Expansion Strategy  While the company will spend as much as 300 million pounds
($481 million) on acquisitions this year, focused on emerging
markets and assets for digital advertising, it doesn’t make
sense to buy companies in some countries, Sorrell said.  Existing companies in India and China are small in
comparison to the revenue that WPP is generating in those
countries, Sorrell said. However,  Brazil  and Russia have some
larger agencies that would make more compelling targets, he
said.  Beyond acquisitions, the Dublin-based company will have
cash to increase its dividend this year if it meets analysts’
earnings forecasts, Sorrell said. Analysts expect earnings to
rise 10 percent to 15 percent this year, according to Sorrell.
In that case, the company would be able to raise its dividend by
20 percent.  WPP paid dividends per share of 17.79 pence for last year
compared with earnings per share of 45.9 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Cannes,  France  via 
 Athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  