-- 
Zloty Advances From 2 1/2-Month Low as German Business Improves

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-06-24T13:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/zloty-advances-from-2-1-2-month-low-as-german-business-improves.html
The Polish zloty rebounded from the
weakest level in 2 1/2 months after a report showing German
business confidence unexpectedly improved in June eased concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will spread.  The zloty advanced 0.4 percent to 3.9862 per euro as of
3:25 p.m. in Warsaw, the steepest appreciation among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It slumped
to 4.0190 against the common European currency yesterday, the
weakest intraday level since April 5.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 114.5
from 114.2 in May. Economists forecast a drop to 113.4, the
median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Germany is Poland’s biggest trading partner accounting for 26
percent of exports in the first four months of the year,
according to the  statistics office .  “The Ifo has helped ease some concern,” said Baron Chan,
foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Suisse AG in  London .
“Still the overall sentiment remains cautious.”  European Union leaders vowed to stave off a Greek default
as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a
package of budget cuts next week, pledging to do whatever it
takes to stabilize the euro economy.  Polish Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said today the zloty is
in “very stable relation” against the euro and the dollar.  There is no need to regulate the exchange rate of the zloty
against the Swiss franc, which is the currency of some  mortgage
loans  in Poland, Tusk told reporters in Brussels today. The
franc jumped to its strongest level on record against the zloty
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  