-- 
Facebook May Turn Over 175 Zuckerberg E-Mails in Court Battle With Ceglia

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-24T22:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-24/zuckerberg-e-mails-offered-in-ceglia-court-fight.html
Facebook Inc. said it is willing to
produce more than 175 e-mails between co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg 
and  Paul Ceglia , the New York man who claims half of
Zuckerberg’s Facebook holdings, only after Ceglia turns over the
original contract and e-mails on which he bases his lawsuit.  Facebook and Zuckerberg today reiterated their request that
a federal judge in Buffalo, New York, order Ceglia to produce
the documents immediately for forensic examination, along with
all of Ceglia’s computers. They claim the action is necessary to
unmask what they say is a fraud on the court. Facebook contends
Ceglia’s e-mails are fabricated and the contract is a forgery.  Both sides agree that Ceglia, 37, hired Zuckerberg, then a
freshman at  Harvard University , to work on Ceglia’s
StreetFax.com project in April 2003. Facebook said it has the
genuine e-mails between Zuckerberg and Ceglia, which make no
mention of Facebook and show Ceglia making a series of excuses
for not paying Zuckerberg money he owed him.  “Defendants have no objection to producing all the e-mails
between Zuckerberg and Ceglia (and/or other persons associated
with StreetFax) that were captured from Zuckerberg’s Harvard e-
mail account,” lawyers for Facebook and Zuckerberg said in the
papers today. “These indisputably genuine e-mails directly
contradict Ceglia’s make-believe narrative and demonstrate that
Ceglia’s story is a lie.”  Ceglia’s Claim  Christopher Hall, a partner with DLA Piper LLP who
represents Ceglia, didn’t immediately return a voicemail seeking
comment on Facebook’s filing today.  In an amended complaint filed in April, Ceglia quoted from
e-mails he said he exchanged with Zuckerberg. He said the
messages support his claim that the two men formed a partnership
that gave Ceglia half ownership of Facebook when it was started
in 2004.  Ceglia hasn’t shown the original contract publicly or to
representatives of Facebook. The two-page document is in a bank
safe-deposit box in Hornell,  New York , according to Ceglia’s
lawyers. Ceglia claims he cut and pasted his e-mails with
Zuckerberg from a Web-based e-mail program into word-processing
documents that he saved on floppy discs.  “The e-mails from Zuckerberg’s Harvard e-mail account
exist in their original, native form and can be conclusively
established as genuine,” Facebook said in its court papers. The
e-mails quoted in Ceglia’s complaint can’t be authenticated, the
company said.  Ceglia’s Request  Ceglia’s lawyers asked the court to order both sides to
turn over evidence, including all of Zuckerberg’s documents, e-
mails and instant messages relating to Facebook before July 30,
2004. Ceglia also asked the court to order the parties into
mediation.  Facebook, which runs the world’s biggest social-networking
site, said it opposes Ceglia’s demand for “a massive production
of documents” unrelated to the question whether the contract is
genuine.  Twin brothers Cameron and  Tyler Winklevoss , who settled a
suit claiming Zuckerberg stole the idea for Facebook from them,
are trying to get a federal judge in  Boston  to reopen the case.
They say they are trying to determine whether Facebook hid
instant messages that would have helped their case.  Facebook lawyer Neel Chatterjee said in an e-mail yesterday
that the Winklevosses’ claims are “old and baseless” and that
they’ve been rejected by other courts.  In its papers today, the company called Ceglia “a career
scam artist with a proven track record of falsifying documents
and ripping off innocent people.”  Ceglia’s lawyers said in court papers a week ago that he
showed no deception on a June 11 polygraph test in which he was
asked if he’d forged or doctored the contract.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 