-- 
‘Contagion’ Is Weekend’s Top Movie, Ending Three-Week Reign of ‘The Help’

-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/-contagion-is-top-u-s-movie-with-23m-sales.html
“Contagion,” Steven Soderbergh’s
thriller about a global epidemic, generated $23.1 million for
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , to lead the box office in the U.S. and  Canada .  “Warrior,”  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s mixed martial
arts drama, made its debut in third place, taking in $5.6
million in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales,  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Contagion,” kicks off the fall movie-going season on a
mature note after a summer filled with superheroes and 3-D
spectacles. The movie, featuring stars like  Matt Damon ,  Gwyneth Paltrow ,  Kate Winslet  and Laurence Fishburne, drew audiences
partly because the alternatives were so lackluster, said Gitesh Pandya, the editor of movie-tracker BoxOfficeGuru.com.  “In ‘Contagion’ you had good marketing, a great concept, a
lot of star power, and disaster movies usually sell very well,”
he said. “You also had a lack of competition. There was nothing
else really to see, so this was the only game in town.”  The weekend following the U.S. Labor Day holiday is
typically one of the slowest of the year, as more people tune
into professional football on Sundays and college football on
Saturdays, Pandya said.  “Contagion,” a medical thriller, follows the global
spread of a disease from the viewpoints of the characters. The
movie showcases the ensemble cast, which also includes Jude Law
and  Marion Cotillard . The film’s debut exceeded Pandya’s
forecast for about $19 million.  ‘Warrior’  Finishing second was  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “The Help,” a
civil rights-era drama about black maids in the racially
segregated South. It had sales of $8.69 million and has
collected $137.1 million since its Aug. 10 release. The movie
has become a surprise hit and is now benefiting from early Oscar
buzz, Pandya said.  “Warrior,” starring Tom Hardy, Nick Nolte and Joel Edgerton, is a drama about two brothers, both fighters, on a
path to meet in a high-stakes championship bout. Nolte plays the
alcoholic father who trains one son and is estranged from the
other.  The movie’s average per-theater take of $3,000 was just
“passable” for a “young-male-skewing film,” Pandya said.  “Even though it got great reviews and has been getting
good buzz, it’s just so hard to reach male audiences right now
because of football,” Pandya said. “You also have kids going
back to school, so the population of younger people is not
available as much.”  ‘The Debt’  “The Debt,” an espionage thriller, ranked fourth with
$4.9 million after opening the prior weekend in second place.  The Miramax movie, distributed by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Focus
Features , tells the story of three Israeli Mossad secret agents
and their efforts in 1966 to track down a Nazi war criminal.
 Helen Mirren ,  Tom Wilkinson , and Sam Worthington are featured.
The film has generated $22 million in two weeks.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Colombiana” was fifth with $4 million in
receipts.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose less than 1
percent to $66.4 million from the year-earlier period,
Hollywood.com said. Domestic box-office receipts this year have
declined to $7.57 billion, while attendance is down 6 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
Sept. 9 and Sept. 10 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  