-- 
Ending AIDS Starts at $6 Billion as Donors Pull Back

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-14T13:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/aids-cure-starts-at-6b-as-donors-pull-back.html
(Corrects to show that price of Atripla is for branded
product in 19th paragraph of story published Sept. 12.)  Michel Kazatchkine and Eric Goosby
may be able to halt the spread of HIV. They just need the money.  The two men control the funds that buy drugs for most of
the world’s AIDS patients. Studies in July provided the
strongest evidence yet that medicines used since 1994 to treat
HIV can almost eliminate the chance an infected person will pass
the virus to a sex partner. Given to healthy people, the
treatments can also protect against infection, offering the
potential to end a pandemic that has killed 30 million people in
30 years.  Governments are now planning projects to assess whether
those findings can be replicated in the real world, and what
that might cost. Getting the drugs just to those patients who
should be treated under existing guidelines would cost another
$6 billion a year, according to the  United Nations . Treating all
those infected, in some of the world’s poorest countries, would
cost tens of billions more.  Finding more money will be difficult with economic growth
stalling and nations including the U.S., the biggest donor to
the AIDS fight worldwide, trying to curtail overall spending to
rein in debt. Funding for AIDS in poorer nations fell 10 percent
to $6.9 billion in 2010 from 2009 levels, according to the UN.  “We may well be able to overcome AIDS,” Kazatchkine, the
director of the Geneva-based  Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria , said in an interview. Still, “the gap
between what the science is telling us we can achieve and what
we would be able to achieve is at risk of increasing.”  Cutting Transmission  The latest findings, presented at a conference in Rome in
July, show that when treatment with antiretroviral drugs started
straight after diagnosis, transmissions of the virus were
reduced by 96 percent.  “We all gasped at the starkness,” said Goosby, who
oversees the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief,
which pays for the drugs that treat 3.2 million people
worldwide. Kazatchkine’s Global Fund also supports treatment for
3.2 million.  Under current World Health Organization guidelines,
however, patients don’t start treatment until their immune
systems deteriorate to a certain level, postponing side effects
that may include kidney damage and nausea and reducing costs.
Abbott Laboratories, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., GlaxoSmithKline Plc,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , Pfizer
Inc., Johnson & Johnson and Merck & Co. make antiretrovirals.  More than 34 million people were living with HIV worldwide
in 2010, according to the Joint United Nations Programme on
HIV/AIDS, or UNAIDS.  Qualifying for Treatment  Of those, about 15 million qualify for treatment under the
WHO guidelines that recommend patients start receiving medicines
when their CD4 cells -- the immune system cells that HIV infects
and kills -- fall below 350 in every microliter of blood. Fewer
than half those who qualify, about 6.6 million people, are
receiving the drugs, UNAIDS says.  At a special session of the  United Nations General Assembly 
in New York in June, world leaders agreed to expand treatment to
all 15 million patients by 2015, and committed to increase
funding to at least $22 billion a year from $16 billion now.  The WHO plans to make guidelines available within 12 months
on how to use antiretrovirals for prevention, said Gottfried Hirnschall, the director of the Geneva-based agency’s HIV/AIDS
department.  Condoms lower the risk of transmitting HIV by more than 90
percent when used consistently. Still, less than half of people
with more than one sex partner reported using a condom the last
time they had intercourse, UNAIDS said in a report last year.  Policy Choices  While the latest data may give policymakers a new weapon in
the fight against AIDS, they also present them with choices
about how to allocate resources, and which approach is the best
investment, said Helen Rees, co-chair of the South African
National AIDS Council’s Programme Implementation Committee.  “In the absence of a guideline that will come in a year,
we’ve got to make a decision,” Rees said in  Rome . “Do we keep
pouring condoms into the system, or is there a glass ceiling?
Are we going to now buy 600 million condoms or a billion? It’s
that level of decision-making.”  The council’s first priority is to expand treatment to all
patients with a CD4 count below 350 within the next five years,
Rees said. Patients now start treatment with an average count of
about 100, she said. The council is also supporting
demonstration sites aimed at seeing whether treating people with
counts higher than 350 is feasible, she said.  While the latest trials support starting treatment even
earlier than current guidelines recommend, Kazatchkine said the
first priority must be to treat the 9 million people who need
the pills now just to survive and aren’t getting them.  Setting Priorities  “I cannot prioritize treatment for a patient with 800 CD4
cells when there’s still a line of patients with less than
200,” he said.  Most patients in developing nations receive a three-drug
combination of generic copies of Glaxo’s Epzicom, Boehringer
Ingelheim’s Viramune and Bristol-Myers’ Zerit. The treatment
costs about $61 per patient per year, according to Doctors
Without Borders. Newer, less toxic combinations such Gilead’s
Atripla, the preferred treatment in developed countries, cost as
much as $1,033 a year, the Geneva-based charity said in July.  The drugs reduce the virus to undetectable levels in the
blood, and boost CD4 cells. That wards off the opportunistic
infections that characterize AIDS, and reduce the chances an
infected person can pass the virus on.  Seeking Treatment  Still, most people in developing nations are only diagnosed
with HIV when their immune systems have already dropped well
below the cutoff of a 350 CD4 count, and more than 60 percent of
those infected worldwide don’t even know they have the virus,
according to UNAIDS.  “People are coming in for treatment far too late,” said
Tim Hallett, a researcher at Imperial College  London  who has
developed mathematical models of what effect the new findings
might have and what conditions would be needed to achieve the
best results. “They’ve already done most of the transmission
they’re going to do by the time you see them in the clinic.”  Two other studies presented in Rome showed Gilead drugs,
when given to uninfected people at risk of catching HIV, can
reduce their chances of infection by as much as 73 percent.  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is
designing projects to test the feasibility of pre-exposure use
in groups hardest hit by AIDS, including black gay and bisexual
men, and black women, said Kevin Fenton, director of the
agency’s Center for HIV/AIDS.  Expanded Testing  The CDC is planning projects in four U.S. locations
involving about 300 gay and bisexual men each, though it doesn’t
yet have funding, said Elizabeth-Ann Chandler, a spokeswoman.  A combination of expanded treatment for the infected, pre-
exposure use of the drugs, condoms and circumcision will likely
be needed to halt HIV, Hallett said. It will also require a
massive expansion in testing to identify patients earlier,
adding to costs that neither Kazatchkine nor Goosby can meet at
the moment.  When Kazatchkine passed the hat around at the Global Fund’s
triennial replenishment meeting in  New York  last year, he got
$11.7 billion, less than the $13 billion he needed to keep
putting patients on treatment at current rates, and a little
more than half of the $20 billion he wanted to make serious
inroads into the pandemic.  European Governments  While in Rome for the conference, Kazatchkine met with
members of Silvio Berlusconi’s government to seek funds. Italy
was the fifth-largest donor to his fund until 2009, and hasn’t
contributed since then, he said. The nation’s Cabinet last month
approved 45.5 billion euros ($62.1 billion) in spending cuts and
tax increases to balance the budget and convince investors the
country can tame its debt.  The U.S. is now talking to European governments, along with
those such as  China ,  Saudi Arabia  and  South Korea  that haven’t
been major contributors previously, to increase their spending,
Goosby said.  “We are now in a position where the global community needs
to share in this responsibility more aggressively and bring
resources toward it,” he said in an interview. “We are so
close to this goal, that now the conversation must shift to,
‘You need to do your part so we can get across the finish
line.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Rome at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  