-- 
ANC Mulls Law to Supersede Mining Contracts as Party Pushes National Needs

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-09-12T10:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/anc-mulls-law-to-supersede-mining-contracts-as-party-pushes-national-needs.html
South Africa ’s national needs
should take precedence over mining companies’ desire to export
and a law to overrule mine contracts may be considered, the head
of the ruling party’s task team formed to study a proposal to
nationalize mines said.  The country’s coal, iron ore and other mineral reserves
should benefit the continent’s biggest economy, the  African
National Congress ’s Enoch Godongwana said in an interview in
Johannesburg on Sept. 8.  South Africa’s policies should be guided by “to what
extent we can utilize our resources to achieve a number of
goals, among them growth and redistribution,” Godongwana, 54,
said. “Legislation that supersedes any contract you have” to
ensure the assets meet the country’s needs is an option, he
said. “In certain circumstances, national interest must
prevail.”  Citigroup Inc. last year valued the country’s mineral
resources at $2.5 trillion, the most of any nation. Leaders of
companies including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s biggest
gold producer, and Standard Bank Group, the continent’s largest
lender, have said nationalizing mines will curb growth and
hinder  job creation  in a country where one in four is
unemployed.  South Africa has the world’s largest reserves of platinum,
 30 percent  of the world’s gold and supplies coal to Indian and
European power stations.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , Rio Tinto Group and
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have assets in the country, which is also home
to two of the world’s four biggest gold miners and the two
largest platinum producers.  ‘Insulting the Intelligence’  The ANC’s Youth League and the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, the country’s largest labor grouping and a party
ally, say that the ANC will adopt nationalization as a policy at
its national conference next year, and is only looking into the
details of how best to do it. The study was agreed to after
repeated demands by the youth wing, which is led by the 30-year
old  Julius Malema .  “If there are some people who say we’re going to
nationalize and we’re just looking at the modalities, I’d
suggest that that person is insulting the intelligence of ANC
delegates,” said Godongwana, who opposes state control of
industry. “I don’t believe we should take on managing more than
we can.”  November Report  As a motivation for such a law Godongwana, who is also the
country’s deputy minister of economic development, cited the
example of a  coal mine  that lies next to a state-owned power
plant yet focuses on exports while the fuel needed to generate
electricity is brought in from another mine. He also criticized
the level of South African steel prices even though the country
has abundant deposits of  iron ore .  The ANC will in November publish a report on findings by an
independent task team that is examining models of
nationalization or increased state participation in mining
around the world, he said. Those findings, based on visits by
the team to countries including Chile and Botswana, will be made
available for public comment.  With a jobless rate of 25.7 percent, South Africa’s
government is aiming at the 7 percent annual economic growth
that it says it needs to create 5 million jobs by 2020. The
economy expanded 1.3 percent in the second quarter, its slowest
pace in two years, according to the Pretoria-based national
statistics office.  Government companies already run a coal mine and a diamond
operation, while the Public Investment Corp., which manages
pension funds for state workers, and Industrial Development
Corp. hold stakes in mining companies.  Investor Concern  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , which owns the country’s largest iron-
ore mine, is 17 percent held by the two state-owned companies
and coal producer  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  is 5.3 percent held by
the PIC, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ANC Youth League’s campaign to wrest mine ownership
from what it calls a white capitalist elite, has caused “an
uneasiness from investors particularly from outside South
Africa” who don’t understand that the discussion is at a party
rather than government level, Godongwana said. Sixty-six percent
of South African lawmakers are representatives of the ANC.  “While it's being debated all the investment is on hold and
that's not helping anybody,” Peter Major, head of Cadiz
Corporate Solutions’ mining and resources unit, said in an
interview from  Cape Town  today. “Nobody is putting new money
into anything here. We have foreign investment but they are
buying our bonds and our shares but bricks and mortar is very
negligible. It’s not really creating jobs.”  Urgency, Inequality  Still, the youth league has raised issues that South
African society needs to tackle, Godongwana said.  “One thing positive is that it’s introduced a sense of
urgency on some of the social ills engulfing our society,”
referring to the Youth League’s lobbying.  South  Africa ’s Gini coefficient, a measure of  income
inequality , is 0.68, according to the South African Treasury,
one of the highest in the world and higher than in 1994, when
the country held its first all-race elections and ended the
apartheid system of institutionalized racial discrimination. A
reading of zero means complete equality, while a reading of one
means complete inequality.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  