-- 
Tata Motors Forced to Search for Chief Executive While Jaguar Sales Plunge

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-12T12:03:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/tata-motors-forced-to-search-for-chief-executive-while-jaguar-sales-plunge.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of the
Jaguar and  Land Rover  brands, is being forced to search for a
new chief executive officer as it struggles to revive sales of
luxury cars amid a worsening debt crisis in Europe.  Carl-Peter Forster, 57, who helped the Jaguar Land Rover
unit turn to profit in the year ended March 31, quit on Sept. 9
after less than two years as the global head of India’s biggest
automaker citing “unavoidable personal circumstances.”  Forster’s replacement will face the challenge of reversing
six straight months of declining sales at Jaguar as economies in
Europe stall. Tata Motors, which last year got 35 percent of its
revenue from the U.S. and  Europe , needs to find a head for the
company soon to avoid derailing a plan to invest $2.4 billion
annually in new models and expanding into China, according to
Deepesh Rathore, managing director for IHS Automotive.  “They are going to be left wondering who is going to
replace him,” said  Andrew Jackson , an analyst at research firm
Datamonitor in London. “This is a big blow really for Jaguar
Land Rover. He signed off on a very bold change in direction for
the company.”  Tata Motors’ shares declined 4.3 percent, the most since
Aug. 19, to 146.35 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The
company’s shares have dropped 44 percent this year, making it
the worst performing stock in the BSE  India  Sensitive Index.  Credit to Management  “The credit for the turnaround of Jaguar Land Rover goes
to the management team and workforce of the company,”  Ratan Tata , chairman of Tata Motors, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “No single person can or should take credit for the
improvement in the company’s operations.”  Prakash Telang, managing director of the company’s Indian
operations, and Ralf Speth, chief executive officer of Jaguar
Land Rover, will represent their respective units on Tata
Motors’ board, according to an e-mailed statement on Sept. 9.  Forster presided over a 20-fold jump in Jaguar Land Rover’s
profit before tax in the year ended March 31. He also led Tata
Motors plan to tap  China ,  Asia ’s largest economy.  China is the No. 1 growth market for Jaguar Land Rover,
Forster said in a Bloomberg TV interview in May. Tata Motors  is
looking for a local partner in China to set up assembly
operations in the country, and the company has shortlisted
manufacturers, Forster said in a separate interview the same
month, without naming any of the potential partners.  ‘Difficult to Replace’  Forster helped by “pulling Jaguar and Land Rover out of
the mud and making them profitable,” said  Peter Schmidt ,
managing director of Warwick, England-based Automotive Industry
Data. “It will be very, very difficult to replace him in the
short term, and possibly in the long term.”  The Jaguar Land Rover unit, based in Gaydon,  England ,
generated 57 percent of Tata Motors’ revenue for the year ended
March 31, up from 53 percent a year earlier.  The division’s pretax profit surged 20-fold to 1.12 billion
pounds for the fiscal year. Jaguar aims to challenge Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG with a hybrid supercar and an entry-level sedan
to compete with the 3-Series.  The new models are part of Tata’s plans to invest 1.5
billion pounds ($2.4 billion) annually in product development at
Jaguar and Land Rover over the next five years. The spending
will include 40 new vehicles or upgrades, including the Range
Rover Evoque, for which the company has begun deliveries.  Concept Cars  Jaguar will unveil its C-X16 concept car at the Frankfurt
Motor Show tomorrow, according to the company’s website. The 186
miles (299 kilometers) per hour two-seater sports car is the
company’s smallest car in more than fifty years. Land Rover also
intends to introduce a new Defender model in 2015 and will show
the Land Rover DC100, its concept for a potential successor.  Europe’s debt crisis drove a 23 percent decline in Jaguar
sales to 4,372 in July, according to a company statement. Almost
25 percent of Jaguar and Land Rover sales come from the U.K.,
where the economy grew at the slowest pace in the second quarter
since it contracted in the first three months of 2010.  North
America  and Europe account for about 22 percent each of sales,
according to a company  presentation .  Forster, who was hired in February 2010, will remain as a
non-executive member on the company’s board, Mumbai-based Tata
Motors said in the statement. The company recruited Forster from
 General Motors Co. (GM)  where he was head of European operations.  Nano Sales  Passenger-vehicle sales at Tata Motors slumped 33 percent
in August from a year earlier after India’s central bank raised
its benchmark  interest rate  to 8 percent in July, the highest
among Asia’s biggest economies.  Deliveries of the  Nano , the world’s cheapest car, plunged
85 percent to 1,202 units in August, Tata Motors said in a
statement on Sept. 1. The  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said last week it may cut the industry’s sales
forecast after economic growth slowed to the lowest in six
quarters in the three months ended June.  “I would expect Forster’s position to be filled up in the
next two to three months if the company wants to keep their
plans on track,” said Rathore.  Tata Motors bought Jaguar Land Rover from Ford Motor Co. in
2008 for $2.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  