-- 
Mauritius May Keep Rate at 5.5% as Currency Slows Inflation

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-09-12T08:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/mauritius-central-bank-likely-to-keep-benchmark-rate-unchanged.html
Mauritius’s central bank will keep
its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 5.5 percent for the
first time this year after a stronger currency helped curb price
pressures, a survey of economists showed.  Twenty-three of 30 analysts surveyed by Port Louis,
Mauritius-based PluriConseil Ltd., an economic research company,
expected the rate to stay unchanged, the l’Express newspaper
reported on Aug. 17.  The Monetary Policy Committee increased the benchmark rate
at its past two meetings to control inflation after it
accelerated to 7.2 percent in March, the fastest pace in almost
two years. Since then, the inflation rate has slowed, dropping
to 6.5 percent in August as the rupee’s 8.7 percent gain against
the dollar this year helped to contain import costs.  “There is no major indication of a higher long-term
inflation rate,” Kriti Taukoordass, an economist at Mazars LLP
in the capital,  Port Louis , said in an e-mail on Sept. 5. He
expects the rate to be kept steady in a decision that’s due to
be published by the central bank at 6 p.m. local time.  The central bank is also under pressure to support the
Indian Ocean island’s economy as growth in  Europe , its biggest
trading partner, stalls.  “Increasing the rate will be a worst case scenario for the
economy,” Ravin Dajee, managing director of Barclays Bank Plc’s
Mauritian unit and chairman of the Mauritius Bankers’
Association, said in an interview. “Growth is more important.”  The rupee weakened 2 percent, its biggest drop since June
6, and was trading down 1.1 percent to 28.55 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, at 10:20 a.m.  Mauritius, located about 500 miles (805 kilometers) off the
east coast of  Madagascar , gets most of its foreign-currency
income from tourism and the export of sugar, clothing and
textiles. About two-thirds of tourists come from Europe,
according to the country’s statistics agency.  The international business outlook has deteriorated and
there is now “sufficient space” for an interest rate cut,  Raj
Makoond, director of the country’s Joint Economic Council, a
grouping of industry associations, said Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  