-- 
Aussie Resilience Spurs Biggest Rally in Bonds Since ’08: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-12T01:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/aussie-resilience-spurs-biggest-rally-in-bonds-since-08-australia-credit.html
Australian  government bonds  are
poised for their biggest quarterly rally in more than two years
as investors seeking alternatives to the U.S. dollar and euro
buy the so-called Aussie.  The nation’s debt has delivered a 5.33 percent return this
quarter, the most since posting a 9.18 percent gain in the last
three months of 2008, Bank of America Corp. indexes show. The
Australian dollar has risen 5.5 percent from its 2011 closing
low on March 17, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes, which track 10 developed-market peers.  Global investors are seeking out nations that offer
protection from the debt and deficit turmoil roiling developed
markets such as Europe, the U.S. and Japan. The Aussie has
surged 48 percent versus the  U.S. dollar  since the end of 2008,
beating all of more than 150 peers tracked by Bloomberg, as
investors sought to benefit from Australia’s links with  China ,
the fastest-growing major economy.  “Though Australian bond yields are quite low historically
they’re still very high on an international comparable basis and
that is what’s important for the currency,” said  Richard Grace ,
the Sydney-based chief foreign-exchange strategist and head of
international economics at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
“Sovereign downgrades in the U.S. and Europe and the very low
interest-rate environment that’s likely to persist in both
economies for some time means reserve managers are looking
elsewhere for yield.”  Renewed fears that European policy makers are failing to
prevent a Greek default and contain their debt woes last week
prompted investors to sell stocks and push the euro to a more-
than-six-month low against the dollar.  Relative Yields  Australia ’s benchmark 10-year government bond yield fell 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 4.15 percent, set for
its lowest close since March 2009. While that is down from this
year’s high of 5.84 percent in February, the rate compares with
1.92 percent on similar-maturity notes in the U.S., 1.77 percent
in  Germany  and 0.99 percent in Japan.  The U.S. dollar’s share of global currency reserves dropped
in the first quarter to the lowest level in at least 12 years,
the most recent International Monetary Fund data show. The
euro’s share fell to 26.6 percent from 27.6 percent at the end
of 2009. Holdings in the other currencies category -- which UBS
AG said in July is “most likely” to be the Aussie and Canadian
dollar -- climbed to 4.7 percent from 3.1 percent.  “There’s been an ongoing flow into Australian assets,”
said  Dale Thomas , head of currency management at Insight
Investment Management Ltd. in  London , who helps oversee more
than $121 billion. “We’re not very big fans of either the U.S.
dollar or the euro, and I think that’s a fairly standard
position, so in that environment people will want to continue to
hold the Australian dollar.”  ‘Global Meltdown’  This year’s rally in Australian debt is also being driven
by investors hedging against a “global meltdown,” seeing the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia as one of the few developed-nation
central banks with the scope to substantially cut  interest
rates , Thomas said. Australian bonds returned 10.2 percent this
year, the most of 26 markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS Bond
Indexes after Hungary’s 10.3 percent gain.  Yields on bonds due in 10 years have dropped from an eight-
year high of 6.81 percent on June 17, 2008, as the RBA lowered
rates from 7.25 percent to 3 percent by May 2009. An investor
who had bought the March 2019 benchmark notes on June 17 and
sold the securities seven months later would have earned a 28
percent return, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global stocks dropped last month by the most since May 2010
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s credit rating from AAA on
Aug. 5 and  Europe  struggled to bail out indebted nations.  ‘Dramatic Change’  “If we did see a very dramatic change for the worse in the
global economy, certainly we have plenty of interest rates to
play with if need be,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  told
lawmakers on Aug. 26. “There would be not that many countries
who could say they had more than us in the event of a really big
episode.”  Stevens raised borrowing costs seven times beginning
October 2009 to 4.75 percent reach 4.75 percent in November 2010
to help control inflation amid the nation’s biggest-ever mining
investment boom.  That spurred gains in the Australian dollar to as much as
$1.1081 on July 27, the strongest since it was freely floated in
1983, before trading at $1.04 as of 10:20 a.m. in Sydney.  One of the things that is “good about the Australian
dollar is that the central bank endorses free markets and
welcomes a free floating currency as a way to mitigate domestic
inflationary pressures,” said  Axel Merk , president and chief
investment officer at Merk Investments LLC in Palo Alto,
 California .  Franc Ceiling  The Swiss central bank on Sept. 6 imposed a ceiling on the
franc for the first time in more than three decades. The move
followed the Bank of  Japan ’s Aug. 4 intervention, when it sold
4.5 trillion yen ($58 billion) to weaken the currency.  Futures traders increased bets the Australian dollar will
gain against the U.S. currency, while they cut wagers on
advances in the yen and franc, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in Aussie compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 48,041 on Sept. 6,
compared with net longs of 47,569 a week earlier.  Yields Below Cash  Benchmark 10-year bond yields in Australia slid for an
eighth month in August, the longest stretch of declines since
1991. The yield fell 14 basis points last week. Yields on all
Australian bonds, including the longest-dated security maturing
April 2023, have been lower than the cash rate since Aug. 9.  Cash-rate futures show traders are betting Stevens will cut
the benchmark to 3.98 percent by December from 4.75 percent
currently.  Fed policy makers pledged Aug. 9 to keep the U.S. benchmark
at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent at least through
mid-2013 to bolster the economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
Sept. 8 the central bank will discuss the tools they could use
to boost the recovery at this month’s meeting.  “Small and large investors alike are seeking to spread the
risk of something as mundane as cash by diversifying to other
currencies, including the Australian dollar,” Merk said. “As
Fed action on the U.S. appears more likely now, we started
increasing our Australian dollar holding again in recent days,”
after reducing investments when the currency neared $1.10, he
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Selling Euros  Merk said separately in an e-mailed note Sept. 9 that his
hard currency fund with $700 million in assets has re-allocated
some euro assets into Aussie as the  European Central Bank  may
cut interest rates as early as next month.  The Australian currency dipped below parity with the U.S.
dollar on three occasions since the end of February; just before
Japan’s March 11 earthquake; after that temblor; and on Aug. 9
as the U.S. downgrade triggered concern  France ’s rating may also
be cut. The Aussie averaged 73.78 U.S. cents in the 10 years to
Dec. 31.  Three-month implied volatility for the Aussie-U.S. dollar
exchange rate peaked this year at 18.6 on Aug. 9, lower than
2010’s peak of 23.1 which came a day before German lawmakers
approved their country’s share of a 750 billion euro ($1.04
trillion) bailout package for the region on May 21. In 2009, the
gauge of price swings in the currency reached a high of 27.6
amid the global financial crisis.  ‘Larger Players’  “In the three major financial market episodes we’ve had
since 2009, the volatility we’ve seen in the Aussie has been
proportionately less,” said CBA’s Grace. “You’ve got more and
larger players coming in and buying the Aussie on dips.”  The currency will end this year at $1.06, according to the
median forecast of 34 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey, up
from predictions at the start of the year for 97 U.S. cents.  Concern the global economic recovery is stalling boosted
the perceived risk of Australian corporate bonds.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
rose 20 basis points to 192.5 basis points as of 8:53 a.m. in
Sydney, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
The bond risk benchmark is on course for the biggest daily
increase since May 7, 2010, and the highest close since July
2009, according to CMA.  The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds in
Australia instead of similar-maturity government debt rose to
224 basis points last week, the most since 2009, from 222 at the
end of last month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Australian Corporate & Collateralized Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  