-- 
Australia Jobs Data Underestimate Demand for Nation’s Workers, Swan Says

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 
2011-09-11T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/australia-jobs-data-underestimate-demand-for-workers-swan-says.html
Australia ’s rise in unemployment
last month doesn’t fully reflect the demand for workers in an
economy that “continues to outperform” the U.S. and Europe,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “Recent jobs data has underestimated the strength of
demand for labor in our economy given an increase in working
hours,” Swan said yesterday in his weekly economic  note .  Australia’s jobless rate jumped to a 10-month high of 5.3
percent in August, the second straight monthly rise, according
to a government report Sept. 8. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
administration is trying to counter declines in consumer and
business sentiment that last month helped lift the ranks of the
jobless to 636,800, the most since October.  “Many part-time workers have been picking up a few extra
hours each week,” Swan said. “Had employers met the increase
in labor demand by hiring new workers, we would have seen an
additional 110,000 jobs created since the start of the year.”  Swan and Gillard yesterday announced an Oct. 6 conference
in Canberra focusing on  job creation , the future of
manufacturing and “adapting to the high dollar.” The meeting
will include 80 participants from business, unions, academia and
government, they said.  The Australian economy, which has avoided a recession for
two decades, is getting a lift from mineral extraction. Mining
investment is projected to total A$82.1 billion ($86 billion) in
the 12 months ending June 30, 45 percent higher than last fiscal
year, as companies such as BHP Billiton Ltd. feed  China  and
 India ’s demand for coal,  iron ore  and natural gas.  GDP Report  Australia’s gross domestic product grew 1.2 percent from
the first quarter in the three months through June, a government
report showed Sept. 7. That gain was stronger than the 1 percent
advance estimated by economists in a Bloomberg News survey, and
the 1.4 percent rise in GDP from a year earlier was double the
forecast increase.  “Our economy grew at six times the pace of  Europe  and the
U.S. last quarter,” Swan said. “It was a reality check for the
doomsayers that have been talking our economy down in recent
times” because “businesses are investing with confidence,
incomes are rising, and household consumption remains healthy at
around its trend level.”  The mining boom has helped boost the nation’s currency 13.5
percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past year, hurting the
export competitiveness of manufacturers such as Melbourne-based
BlueScope Steel Ltd., the shares of which matched a record
closing low on Sept. 9.  ‘Cautious’ Consumers  “On top of this, the lingering effects of the global
financial crisis and continuing international uncertainty have
resulted in Australian consumers being a lot more cautious in
their spending,” Swan said. “This is making life harder for
sectors like manufacturing, tourism and retailing.”  Weighing on consumers are the highest borrowing costs in
the developed world. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia earlier this
month kept the official cash rate target at 4.75 percent, a
level it said Sept. 6 “has been exerting a degree of
restraint.” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  hasn’t changed the
benchmark rate since he last raised it in November.  Clouding Australia’s outlook is concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August as employers became less confident in the
strength of the recovery, and the jobless rate held at 9.1
percent, according to a Sept. 2 report.  Swan also said a tax forum he’s convening next month will
focus on ways to keep Australia’s government debt under control.  “We’ve seen how important it is to maintain a strong
budget position in recent months as the  United States  and Europe
have struggled to get their public finances on a sustainable
footing,” he said. “The government will not be in the cart for
any measures that compromise our strict fiscal discipline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  