-- 
Springboks Avoid Rugby World Cup’s First Upset

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-11T13:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/australia-beats-italy-32-6-in-first-rugby-world-cup-pool-c-game.html
South Africa opened its Rugby  World
Cup  defense by coming back to beat  Wales  17-16 and avoid the
first upset of the 20-nation tournament in New Zealand.
Australia and Ireland also began with victories.  The Springboks, the No. 3 team in the International Rugby
Board’s rankings, trailed Wales 16-10 in Wellington last night,
though rallied with Francois Hougaard’s converted try with 15
minutes remaining. Wales missed a drop goal attempt and penalty
kick in the last 10 minutes.  “We’ll take a lot out of it,” South Africa captain  John Smit  said at a news conference. “A win in the World Cup like
that is probably more valuable than just running away with it by
40 points.”  Two-time champion  Australia  began yesterday’s program of
games by pulling away from Italy with 26 second-half points to
win 32-6 in Auckland. Ireland defeated the U.S. 22-10 in the
other Pool C match, which was played in slippery conditions in
New Plymouth.  Wales came the closest to beating a higher-ranked team on
the opening weekend after New Zealand,  Scotland , Fiji,  France 
and  England  also began their campaigns with victories. England,
the 2003 champion, was the only one of those teams which failed
to secure the maximum five  competition points  for scoring at
least four tries. The 45-day tournament resumes Sept. 14 with
three matches.  In Wellington, replacement back Hougaard scored a 65th-
minute try that Morne Steyn converted to push  South Africa  ahead
after Wales had taken a six-point lead with 25 minutes left. It
was the first World Cup match decided by a single point since
Australia beat Ireland 17-16 at the 2003 edition.  ‘Massive Step’  The Springboks, seeking to win rugby’s four-yearly
championship for the third time, held on for the victory in a
match in which Wales had 60 percent of the possession though
only managed one try through No. 8 Toby Faletau.  “For us to have 60 percent of possession is a massive step
in terms of where we’ve come as a team,” Wales coach Warren Gatland told reporters. “At the end of the day, we weren’t
quite clinical enough to win the game. Good sides take
disappointment on the chin and they face up next week.”  Minutes after Hougaard darted over for his try, Wales fly-
half Rhys Priestland failed with a close-range drop goal attempt
that would have put his team ahead.  James Hook  missed a 72nd-
minute penalty and also had a first-half penalty waved away by
the touch judges that appeared to have gone between the posts on
television replays.  “I thought it was over,” Wales winger Shane Williams said
in a televised interview. “We could have won the game in other
ways. It’s disappointing that we missed a couple of kicks. Rhys
went for a drop goal and came agonizingly close as well. It just
didn’t seem to be our day.”  Wallabies Win  Second-ranked Australia pulled away from  Italy  with 26
points in 20 minutes at North Harbour Stadium in Auckland. The
teams were tied 6-6 at the break with two penalties apiece.  “Getting that result was key,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said in a televised interview. “We’ve got a lot of
respect for the Italian side. They’re tough, they defend very
well and they’ll create some grief for some teams.”  Australia, the world champion in 1991 and 1999, is rated
the tournament’s second-favorite behind host New Zealand after
last month winning its first Southern hemisphere championship in
a decade.  Ben Alexander , Adam Ashley-Cooper,  James O’Connor  and Digby Ioane all touched down as the Wallabies took advantage of gaps
in the tiring Italian defense to claim a bonus point.  Impact Off Bench  O’Connor, suspended for the Tri-Nations title-clinching win
over the All Blacks for missing Australia’s World Cup squad
announcement, also booted three conversions after coming on as a
47th-minute replacement. Deans used all seven reserves.  “The guys coming off the bench had a real impact,” said
Ashley-Cooper. “They changed the dynamic of the game.”  The Wallabies top Pool C with five points, one ahead of
Ireland. The top two teams from each of the four groups advance
to the quarterfinals.  In New Plymouth, the U.S. restricted an Ireland team ranked
10 places higher to a 3-0 lead until the last play of the first
half, when winger Tommy Bowe sliced through a gap and  Jonathan
Sexton  converted to make it 10-0.  James Paterson’s 54th-minute penalty kick made it 10-3
before Rory Best and Bowe added further tries for the Irish in
wet conditions at Stadium Taranaki. Paul Emerick scored an
intercept try in the final minute, which was converted by Nese
Malifa to end the match.  “You have to win ugly at times,” Ireland captain  Brian O’Driscoll  said at a news conference. “Today might not have
been a thing of beauty but we got across the line.”  The teams observed a moment’s silence before kickoff and
wore black armbands on the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. The Eagles earlier attended a memorial
service in the west coast city on  New Zealand ’s  North Island .  “In the grand scheme of things, this is a game,” U.S.
captain Todd Clever said in a televised interview. “We’re
talking about thousands of lives. I’m so glad that we were able
to pay our respects to them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  