-- 
Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Rises to Highest Since ’09 on Greek Default Concern

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-09-12T02:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/australia-bond-risk-rises-to-highest-since-2009-on-greece-default-concerns.html
The cost of insuring Asia-Pacific
bonds from default rose to the highest level in more than two
years as speculation  Germany  is preparing for a Greek default
spurred turmoil in financial markets worldwide.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps on 50
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan increased 13 basis
points to 175 basis points as of 10:02 a.m. in  Singapore , Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. The bond risk benchmark
is headed for its highest close since July 17, 2009, according
to data provider CMA.  “Greece is at the forefront again and investors willing to
take risk are nowhere in sight,” said Jason Watts, Sydney-based
head of credit trading at National Australia Bank Ltd.  Officials in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government are
debating how to shore up German banks in the event that  Greece 
fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is
unable to get a bailout-loan payment, three coalition officials
said Sept. 9. BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and  Credit
Agricole , France’s largest banks by market value, may have their
credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service as soon as this
week because of Greek holdings, two people with knowledge of the
matter said on Sept. 10.  The euro dropped to its lowest level since 2001 against the
yen today as the prospect of the common currency region’s first
default spurred investors to seek the safest assets.  Australia Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 18 basis points to
191 basis points as of 11:59 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. That’s on course for the biggest daily
increase since May 7, 2010, and the highest close since July 17,
2009, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index advanced 12 to 164 as of
11:04 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. That’s the
highest since May 25 last year, CMA prices in New York show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net 
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  