-- 
BHP Billiton’s Coal Miners Resume Strikes After Talks Fail

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-09-11T03:39:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/bhp-billiton-s-coal-miners-resume-strikes-after-talks-fail.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s coking coal
miners in Australia have resumed strikes after failing to agree
with management on pay and  work conditions , further disrupting
the largest exporter of the steelmaking material.  “Strikes are continuing and now we are considering an
escalation,” said  Stephen Smyth , president of the Construction,
Forestry, Mining and Energy Union’s mining and energy division
in Queensland, in a phone interview. Strikes that disrupted
operations at the three BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance mines
yesterday will continue until at least Sept. 13, Smyth said. The
action may be extended to BMA’s four other mines, pending a
member vote later this week, he said.  About 3,500 coal miners have taken part in rolling work
stoppages that began in June, the first in a decade at BHP’s
Australian coal mines. The Melbourne-based company said it will
allow all workers at the mines to vote on its proposal at a
meeting at the end of September.  “We have reached an impasse in negotiations,” after a
meeting with unionists yesterday failed to reach an agreement,
BHP spokeswoman Samantha Stevens said in an e-mailed statement
today. “We are keen for employees to take the time in the
coming weeks to review and understand the agreement in detail,
before the end-of-September ballot.”  Labor unions globally are stepping up demands for higher
wages and improved conditions as surging commodity prices swell
profits at mining companies including BHP. About 1,200 workers
at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Peruvian  copper mine 
this week began the first of a series of strikes planned over
pay increases.  Shipping Coal  BMA is equally owned by BHP and Mitsubishi Development Pty.
It directly employs more than 4,800 people, according to its
website. Almost all the coal mined at the BMA sites, with annual
capacity of 58 million metric tons, is shipped overseas for
steel production, it said.  A full-day strike may cut output by 130,000 metric tons a
day from the mines, Melinda Moore, an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a June 27 report. She also said protracted
strikes could sustain current  price levels .  Steelmaking-coal prices rose 47 percent to a record $330 a
metric ton for three-month contracts starting April 1 after
heavy rain and flooding in  Australia  shut mines. In June, Asian
steelmakers agreed to pay  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  $315 a ton for the
September quarter, according to UBS AG.  The strikes have had a “modest impact” on production, BHP
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said last month.  “BHP believes it’s negotiated enough and further talks
won’t assist,” the CFMEU’s Smyth said today. “Negotiations
should be alive and active. BHP is setting itself up to roll out
an agreement that it will present to workers that the union
doesn’t support in any shape or form.”  BHP closed 0.7 percent lower to A$37.91 in Sydney trading
on Sept. 9. The shares have fallen 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  