-- 
BHP Billiton’s Coking Coal Miners Resume Strikes After Talks on Pay Fail

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-09-12T06:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/bhp-billiton-coal-miners-resume-strikes-after-pay-talks-fail.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s coking coal
miners in  Australia  went back on strike after failing to agree
on pay and  work conditions  with management, further disrupting
operations at the largest exporter of the steelmaking material.  “Strikes are continuing and now we are considering an
escalation,”  Stephen Smyth , a division president at the
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union in Queensland,
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Stoppages that disrupted operations at the three BHP
Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance mines on Sept. 10 will continue
until at least tomorrow, Smyth said. The action may be extended
to BMA’s four other mines, pending a member vote later this week,
he said.  About 3,500 coal miners have taken part in rolling work
stoppages that began in June, the first in a decade at BHP’s
Australian coal mines, after they rejected BHP’s initial offer
for a new contract. The Melbourne-based company said it will
allow all workers at the mines to vote on its proposals at a
meeting at the end of September.  “We have reached an impasse in negotiations,” after a
meeting with unionists on Sept. 10 failed to reach an agreement,
BHP spokeswoman Samantha Stevens said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “We are keen for employees to take the time in the
coming weeks to review and understand the agreement in detail,
before the end-of-September ballot.”  BHP fell 3.9 percent to A$36.45 at the 4:10 p.m. close on
the Australian stock exchange, reaching its lowest closing price
since May last year. The benchmark  stock index  fell 3.7 percent.  Prices, Profits  Labor unions globally are stepping up demands for higher
wages and improved conditions as surging commodity prices swell
profits at mining companies including BHP. About 1,200 workers
at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Peruvian  copper mine 
last week began the first of a series of strikes planned over
pay increases. More stoppages are planned if no agreement with
management is reached this week, union official Leoncio Amudia
said Sept. 9.  BMA is equally owned by BHP and Mitsubishi Development Pty.
It directly employs more than 4,800 people, according to its
website. Almost all the coal mined at the BMA sites, with annual
capacity of 58 million metric tons, is shipped overseas for
steel production, it said.  Lower Output  BMA’s initial offer for the workers for a 5 percent pay
rise in addition to a A$5,000 ($5,193) bonus was rejected in
June, when they began the industrial action. A full-day strike
may cut output by 130,000 metric tons a day from the mines,
Melinda Moore, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a
June 27 report. She also said protracted strikes could sustain
current  price levels .  Steelmaking-coal prices rose 47 percent to a record $330 a
metric ton for three-month contracts starting April 1 after
heavy rain and flooding in Australia shut mines. In June, Asian
steelmakers agreed to pay  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  $315 a ton for the
September quarter, according to UBS AG.  The strikes have had a “modest impact” on production, BHP
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said last month.  “BHP believes it’s negotiated enough and further talks
won’t assist,” the CFMEU’s Smyth said yesterday. “Negotiations
should be alive and active. BHP is setting itself up to roll out
an agreement that it will present to workers that the union
doesn’t support in any shape or form.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  