-- 
Bordeaux Flows, Grapes Fly as Saint-Emilion Starts Harvest Fest

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-09-11T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/bordeaux-flows-grapes-fly-at-saint-emilion-s-harvest-festival-elin-mccoy.html
On Saturday night, a torch-lit
procession of chateau owners in bright red toques and flowing
robes will parade through Bordeaux’s famous medieval village of
 Saint-Emilion . Naturally, wine will flow as fireworks explode.  The next day, this vinous group -- the Jurade -- will
proclaim the beginning of the harvest from the top of the stone
Tour du Roy. They’ll wave their hats and release clusters of
purple-black balloons that look like huge bunches of flying
grapes as the wind carries them away.  For wine pageantry, the annual weekend event can’t be beat.
And during this year’s harvest, local chateaux are making the
birth of a vintage more accessible than ever to outsiders.  For the first time,  Chateau Troplong Mondot  is inviting
visitors to share the traditional daily harvest lunch with the
owners and winemakers for 100 euros (about $140) a head. Until
Oct. 16, you can savor vintages of its powerful, opulent,
expensive reds alongside homemade country pate, pot-au-feu,
local cheeses and fresh-fruit tart in the grand dining room.  It’s a celebration, too. The  French government  confirmed
the chateau’s promotion to premier grand cru classe status when
it signed off on the region’s latest classification in June.  In mid-May, grand cru classe  Chateau Soutard , a 10-minute
walk from the town’s central Place du Clocher, started giving
wine lovers free access to its 22-hectare vineyard.  At the new L’Orangerie terrace, I relax with a glass of
spicy 2010 Rose de Chateau Soutard (3.50 euros) while perusing
an illustrated map highlighting three self-guided treks (there’s
even one for kids).  Roman Grapes  The “Poetic Trip” takes me past a grand view of the town,
60-year-old vines, and a fascinating reconstruction of the way
Romans once grew grapes here. At harvest, the vineyard is filled
with pickers; the air thick with the scent of fermenting grapes.  Among the chateau’s half dozen other new activities is the
chance, for 90 euros, to play hands-on winemaker and work with
the cellarmaster and vineyard manager for half a day, learning
how Soutard’s intense, deep vines are created.  Surrounded by ancient, cream-colored, stone ramparts,
Saint-Emilion is a tiny museum of a city, with a maze of winding
cobbled streets, many dangerously steep for walkers not wearing
rubber-soled shoes. These are essential for climbing the 196
steps to the impressive panoramic vineyard view from the bell
tower of the cavernous monolithic church, carved out of the
rock. Underneath the town and vineyards are 70 hectares of
limestone caves.  Creepy Caves  A five-minute stroll brings me to  Chateau Villemaurine ’s
new cave tour (12 euros), a one-hour kitschy but entertaining
sound-and-light show. Photo montages projected against cave
walls along with vivid narration convey Saint-Emilion’s history
of the lone monk who founded the town, and the quarrymen who
created the caves.  On the other side of town,  Chateau Canon ’s caves are
damper, creepier, more authentic-looking and 13 degrees celsius.
Tunnels split off, and it would be easy to get lost if there
were no guide. We’re walking under the vines, whose roots are
kept cool by this natural air-conditioning, even when
temperatures soar.  Before dinner, I wander along the Rue du Clocher, ducking
into its jewel-box wine shops for tastes from uncorked bottles.
Just-opened Maison Paul Cousin specializes in Saint-Emilion’s
hard-to-find, reasonably priced second wines. Under the pergola
outside Comptoir des Vignobles, a sandwich board advertises
bottles of Petrus from neighboring Pomerol, going back to 1952
(3,400 euros) and 1961 (10,000 euros). Inside, a Thai collector
shows me his long wish list.  Nuns’ Recipe  No visit is complete without a stop at Nadia Fermigier’s
storefront on Rue Gaudet for the town’s best macarons. Soft, yet
chewy and crunchy, these traditional cookies are made according
to the recipe of 17th-century nuns, eventually passed on in 2008
to Fermigier.  A few years ago, her predecessor Madame Blanchez showed me
how she selected, roasted and ground almonds by hand in the
shop’s bakery. This deliciously rustic macaron bears no
resemblance to the gussied-up, pastel-colored version from
Paris’s Laduree, which makes its debut in  New York  this month.  Food? My dining rule is to follow the locals, meaning
winemakers. Which is why I regularly end up at wine bar and
restaurant L’Envers du Decor.  To feel like a real chateleine, I like to stay at  Chateau
Franc Mayne , an elegant 18th-century wine estate a kilometer
from the town center that’s now a luxury bed-and-breakfast.  Some of the nine, themed rooms ($300 and up) seem weirdly
out of character, like the “African Lodge,” with its giant
elephant and zebra portraits. But the soothing beige tones,
classic white stone fireplace and antique gold mirror give the
“Campagne Francaise” room an authentic chateau feel,
especially at harvest time, when you can watch from your window
pickers bringing in the grapes.  Just how good a vintage 2011 will be depends on this
month’s weather. Hailstorms hit Bordeaux’s Left Bank in early
September prompting early picking last week at Cos d’Estournel
and Lafite-Rothschild.  Let’s hope Saint-Emilion’s harvest festivities don’t
suffer.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 