-- 
China Hard Landing May Be ’Distant Scenario’ as Data Show Demand Strength

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-12T04:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/china-strength-defies-hard-landing-scenario.html
China ’s record imports and a
rebound in lending signaled strength in demand that offers a
bright spot in a global economy contending with  Europe ’s debt
crisis and weakening U.S. job gains.  Shipments from abroad jumped 30 percent and new local-
currency loans were a more-than-forecast 548.5 billion yuan ($86
billion), government reports in the past two days showed. At the
same time, August figures released Sept. 9 indicated that policy
makers have made progress in stemming inflation, which eased
from a three year high, to a 6.2 percent year-on-year pace.  The data may bolster confidence that the world’s second-
largest economy is weathering both Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign
to defuse price pressures and financial turmoil abroad. Group of
Seven finance chiefs vowed “a concerted effort” to support
expansion on Sept. 9 as Europe’s debt woes and zero jobs growth
in the U.S. increase the risks of a renewed recession.  “This all points to a robust economy, and a hard landing
looks an increasingly distant scenario,” said Liu Li-gang, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. who previously worked for the  World Bank . “China is
less reliant on external demand and more dependent on investment
and consumption, so the deteriorating global outlook will have
less of an impact than during the previous financial crisis.”  Stocks Slide  Asian stocks sank today on speculation that  Greece  may be
edging closer to a default. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 3.4
percent as of 11:54 a.m. local time. China’s stock markets are
closed for a holiday.  New local-currency loans rebounded in August from July,
central bank data showed yesterday. At the same time, M2, the
broadest measure of money supply, expanded only 13.5 percent,
the least in almost seven years.  The central bank said today that M2 is underestimating
 money-supply  growth because of financial innovations such as
off-balance-sheet products developed by lenders this year. The
monetary authority described liquidity as “appropriate” and
said it is studying the use of a broader version of M2.  China’s Contribution  China, the biggest contributor to world growth last year
according to the  International Monetary Fund , may expand more
than five times faster than the U.S. and 16-nation  euro zone 
this year, according to forecasts from Citigroup Inc. and HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Citigroup estimates China will grow 9 percent this year and
next year after a 10.4 percent pace in 2010, as Wen’s campaign
to rein in consumer prices takes effect and export growth slows.  August’s inflation rate declined for the first time in four
months as gains in food costs eased to 13.4 percent, the
statistics bureau said on Sept. 9. Industrial output growth
moderated to 13.5 percent and expansion in fixed-asset
investment in the first eight months of the year slowed to 25
percent.  The data “fell short of signaling any acute economic
difficulties while inflation showed only modest improvement,”
said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale
SA. “The authorities are most likely to wait and see for
another month at least before making any clear shifts in policy
direction.”  Import Gains  Wen reiterated last month that stabilizing prices remains
the top priority and that the government won’t alter the
direction of economic policies after a global stocks rout and
fears that developed nations will sink into recession triggered
speculation he may start to unwind monetary tightening.  Growth in August imports, which topped the estimates of all
29 economists in a Bloomberg survey, adds to evidence tightening
measures aren’t choking expansion.  Purchases of crude oil rose to a three-month high, copper
climbed to the highest since January and iron-ore purchases were
the largest since March, the customs bureau said on Sept. 10.  Exports in August jumped a more-than-estimated 24.5 percent
to $173.3 billion, near the previous month’s record.  “There’s a huge amount of resilience in the economy, which
is supporting higher imports,” said Alastair Thornton, a
Beijing-based economist with IHS Global Insight. “But it’s
inevitable that weakness in the U.S. and euro zone economies
will slow export growth.”  Borrowing Costs  The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  five
times over the past year and curbed lending by boosting banks’
reserve requirements nine times to a record 21.5 percent for the
biggest institutions. The benchmark one-year lending rate is
6.56 percent and the one-year deposit rate is 3.5 percent.  Domestic loans used to fund fixed-asset investment grew
only 9 percent in the first eight months of the year while so-
called “self-raised funds” jumped 29.4 percent, according to
statistics bureau  data .  Some companies are taking advantage of tighter credit
conditions to lend at higher interest rates using banks as
intermediaries. Time Publishing and Media Co. made an entrusted
loan of 60 million yuan through the Bank of Communications at an
annual interest rate of 25.4 percent, according to an Aug. 29
statement to the Shanghai stock exchange.  Time is among 35 listed companies that made a combined 16.9
billion yuan of entrusted loans at rates higher than the
benchmark in the first eight months of the year, the official
People’s Daily  reported  on its website on Sept. 5. Many of the
borrowers were property developers, the newspaper said.  --Zheng Lifei, Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Helen Sun,
Zhang Dingmin, and Penny Peng in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, 
Paul Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net  or
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  