-- 
Czech Finance Minister Sees Revenue in 2012 Cut on Slower Growth

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-09-11T10:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/czech-finance-minister-sees-revenue-in-2012-cut-on-slower-growth.html
Czech Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek said revenue for the state budget in 2012 may be lower
by as much as 15 billion koruna ($222.7 million) as the economy
grows more slowly than forecast.  “All of  Europe  is quite turbulent and we cannot exclude
that we are heading toward another recession,” Kalousek said
today in a television debate show on Prima TV. “We will know
more by the end of October but it is almost impossible that
someone will be able in December with certainty to say what will
happen to the economy through 2012.”  Czech economic growth eased in the second quarter for the
first time since the 2009 recession as a slowdown in the
European Union dented demand for exports and government
austerity measures curbed domestic spending. The inflation rate
has been below the central bank’s target for three months, while
industrial output growth slowed and retail sales fell.  Kalousek said today the signals point to slower than
expected growth although the potential loss of revenue may be
compensated by existing budget cuts and lower debt servicing.
The ministry is evaluating what to do should growth slow even
more than forecast at present but for now believes that
additional budget cuts are not needed, he said.  “We can expect some development but we must be prepared to
be flexible during the whole of the budget year,” he said.
“Our fiscal strategy in this situation is completely right.
Europe is entering an era of sharp cuts.”  Changes in pension programs and health care approved by
parliament last week that are aimed at making the budget
planning easier will take as long as four years to work into the
economy, while the goal for now is to keep the  budget deficit  as
narrow as possible, he said.  Wages must not outpace growth of work productivity, he
said, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  