-- 
DAX Divides Analysts From Investors as Valuations Tumble 54%

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-12T16:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/dax-divides-analysts-from-investors-on-valuations.html
Never before have investors
disagreed more with equity analysts about the outlook for
profits in  Germany .  Companies in the  DAX Index (DAX)  will earn 723.43 euros a share
next year, up 11 percent from 2011, according to securities
industry estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark gauge
for German common equity is trading for 7.2 times forecasts, the
lowest multiple on record. Should the ratio revert to its five-
year average of 15.6 and stock prices stay the same, profits
would fall to 331 euros next year, the data show.  Concern about the cost of keeping other European
governments from defaulting has cut the DAX’s gain since the
 bull market  began to 41 percent from as much as 104 percent in
May, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The index has declined to
its lowest level since July 2009 after gross domestic product
slowed and the party of  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who has led
efforts to preserve the common currency, lost five straight
regional elections.  “Germany is the economy of last resort in Europe and as
such would be bearing a significant bill from the bailout,”
said James Buckley, who helps oversee $52 billion at Baring
Asset Management in  London . “If you are downgrading GDP
expectations globally, one of the first markets you are going to
sell is Germany. If analysts haven’t started publishing their
downgrades, then they are in the pipeline.”  The DAX lost 2.3 percent to 5,072.33 today, dropping to the
lowest level since July 2009.  Economic Hazards  Germany is the chief underwriter of emergency loans offered
to  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  because it is the region’s
biggest economy, contributing about 27 percent of GDP. European
Union governments agreed to lend 440 billion euros ($599
billion) to the most-indebted countries. The program is in
addition to the almost $1 trillion fund approved last year.  The DAX dropped 6.3 percent to 5,189.93 last week as
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said threats
to the euro region’s economy have intensified and three German
officials said Merkel’s government is preparing plans to protect
banks in case Greece defaults. The index has fallen 31 percent
since reaching its 2011 high of 7,527.64 on May 2, pushing its
valuation to 9.2 times reported profit from 15.8.  At 7.2 times forecast earnings for 2012, the DAX is trading
at a discount to benchmark indexes in  Spain ,  France , Portugal
and Ireland, and 14 percent below the average valuation of the
Stoxx Europe 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the country’s biggest lender, is priced at 3.7
times 2012 estimates, compared with 5.3 for Banco Santander SA
in  Madrid  and 4.3 for UniCredit SpA in Milan.  Peak Profits  Forecasts for DAX earnings growth in 2012 peaked on July 13
after rising 17 percent since the start of the year. They have
since declined by 5.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For Spain’s IBEX 35 and Italy’s  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB) ,
projections have been reduced by 13 percent and 15 percent since
peaking on May 2, the data show.  “We are expecting earnings downgrades,” Patrick Moonen,
who helps oversee about $500 billion as senior strategist at ING
Investment Management in The Hague,  Netherlands , said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 8. “I would not be surprised that
next year earnings growth in the country will be close to
zero.”  Analysts say Deutsche Bank’s profits will rise 9 percent
next year even after  Josef Ackermann , the chief executive
officer, said on Sept. 5 that stock and bond markets are
reminiscent of the financial crisis of late 2008. The price-
earnings ratio of 3.7 times 2012 profit forecasts is lower than
the stock has ever traded relative to reported income, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Stronger Economies’  “Deutsche is still certainly one of the best-run banks in
 Europe ,” Guido Hoymann, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus
Metzler, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 8. He has a
“buy” rating on the stock. “It’s also still a German bank,
and Germany’s one of the stronger economies in Europe. Above
all, they’ve always proved to be excellent in managing risks.”  The stock gained as much as 6.5 percent on Sept. 8 after
Ackermann said his Frankfurt-based firm may reach its full-year
income estimate of 10 billion euros if European capital markets
and the sovereign crisis improve. The stock has fallen 41
percent in 2011, cutting its rally since March 2009 to 31
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The price of options to protect against losses in Deutsche
Bank shares is rising more than other European lenders. Three-
month options that pay owners should the bank drop 10 percent
cost 1.3 times the price of bullish contracts, according to
Bloomberg data. That’s up from 1.14 at the end of July, the
biggest increase among financial firms in the Stoxx 600. Stocks
subject to bans on short selling were excluded.  ThyssenKrupp Profits  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, has lost 38
percent in two months after climbing to a three-year high of
35.84 euros on June 30. Analysts expect profits to increase 62
percent in 2012, pushing its valuation down to 6.7 times
forecast profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
shares have traded at a median valuation of 18 times reported
earnings since 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “ThyssenKrupp should be able to weather a macroeconomic
downturn fairly well,” Ingo-Martin Schachel, a Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank AG analyst who has a “buy” rating, said in a Sept.
8 telephone interview. “The stock has fallen in line with other
steel companies. I find that surprising given the company has a
more resilient portfolio structure, the earnings were positive
and the balance sheet is healthy. The decline in the stock is
unjustified and the valuation is most attractive.”  Steel Demand  Steel demand slowed last quarter after a “strong” prior
period, and European consumption dropped “sharply,”
ThyssenKrupp said Aug. 12. The Essen, Germany-based company
affirmed full-year forecasts for a 10 percent to 15 percent
increase in sales and adjusted earnings.  The German economy almost stalled in the second quarter.
Gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal effects, rose 0.1
percent from the first quarter, when it expanded at a 1.3
percent rate, the government said Aug. 16. Economists had
forecast growth of 0.5 percent, according to the median of 33
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  German investor confidence fell more than economists
forecast in August to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years, a
report from the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim showed Aug. 23. Sentiment among German business leaders
slipped to the lowest level in more than a year last month, the
Ifo institute in Munich said a day later.  U.S. Economy  Stocks plunged worldwide on Aug. 18 after the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index dropped to
minus 30.7 in August, the lowest since March 2009, when the
economy was in a recession. The U.S. failed to create any jobs
last month, the Labor Department said Sept. 2.  “As investors looked at the weakness of the peripheral
nations in the first half of the year, they concentrated their
firepower in the big German names,” said Frankfurt-based  Neil Dwane , who helps oversee $154 billion as chief investment
officer at Allianz Global Investors’ RCM unit. “When global
growth was put in doubt, they looked into their portfolios and
what most people had to sell was German stocks.”  Merkel said Aug. 21 that she won’t let financial markets
force politicians’ hands after reiterating her opposition to the
creation of common euro bonds that would overtake each nation’s
debt. Her  Christian Democratic Union  suffered its fifth election
loss this year, failing on Sept. 4 in Merkel’s home state as
voters grew skeptical of her handling of the euro-area debt
crisis.  Bought Bonds  While investors dumped German equities, they bought bunds.
Yields on 10-year and 2-year  government bonds  on Sept. 9 reached
records lows of 1.77 percent and 0.39 percent. At the same time,
credit-default swaps to insure investments in bunds rose to the
highest since March 10, 2009 on Aug. 11, Bloomberg data show.  The pattern mirrors the U.S., where 10-year Treasuries
rallied after S&P lowered the country’s credit rating to AA+
from AAA. Gains in the securities pushed yields below 2 percent
for the first time this month.  DAX shareholders now get 9.1 percent of their investment
back in earnings, Bloomberg data show. That tops the expected
returns on 10-year German government bonds by 733 basis points,
the highest spread ever for German stocks and the biggest
differential among the five largest developed markets.  “You can’t look at Germany in isolation,” William Fries,
the Sante Fe, New Mexico-based manager of the $26-billion
Thornburg International Value Fund, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 8. His fund owns shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
Deutsche Bank. “Germany is certainly the strongest, the biggest
economy in Europe. Right now, the biggest issue it has is
whether to bail out the rest of Europe that doesn’t have its
financial strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  