-- 
Dixons Retail to End Three Years of Capital Spending Growth in Scandinavia

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-11T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/dixons-retail-to-end-three-years-of-capital-spending-growth-in-scandinavia.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the owner of
Scandinavia’s largest electronics chain, plans to end three
years of increased capital expenditure in the region as it opens
fewer stores and focuses on lower-cost online sales.  Spending on the business is “back at the same level” it
was before 2008, Ronny Blomseth, managing director of the Nordic
unit, said in an interview at the Stockholm El Giganten store.  “Nobody is growing space in the market, competitors are
closing stores, so there will be less and less space,” Blomseth
said. “We are growing a little bit.”  The 285-store Nordic unit, considered by analysts to be
Dixons’s strongest business, will this year open two new stores,
having added 16 last year. It also plans to convert five outlets
to its larger Megastore format. The owner of the Elkjop, Lefdal
and El Giganten brands boosted same-store sales 4 percent in the
first quarter of the fiscal year, compared with a 10 percent
decline in Dixons’s domestic business in the U.K. and Ireland.  “It’s a very good business and they can make it even
better, even more competitive and improve the operating margin
even more by taking costs out,” said  David Jeary , an analyst at
Investec Securities. He has a “hold” recommendation on Dixons.  The Nordic unit operates from a 95,000 square-meter central
distribution center in Jonkoping, Sweden, hires part-time staff
in peak periods, is adding zero-investment franchise stores and
has moved its accounting department to the  Czech Republic .  Slumping Shares  Dixons, based in  Hemel Hempstead ,  England , gets about 27
percent of sales from the Nordic region, with only the U.K. and
Ireland contributing more. Its shares have slumped 52 percent
this year, the worst performer in the FTSE 350 General Retailers
Index, as consumers, weighed down by inflation and government
austerity measures, pare spending on items such as televisions.  In  Norway , where the unit’s Elkjop and Lefdal stores have a
share of about 30 percent, the electronics market is no better
than stagnant, the executive said.  It’s even tougher in Sweden, the unit’s largest country
with 53 stores, while Denmark is the most difficult part of the
region, he said. Dixons operates  El Giganten  outlets in both
countries, which seek to promote their low-price credentials
with in-store posters saying “employees have the authority to
make all customers happy regardless of costs,” with staff able
to match competitors’ offers.  Blomseth expects online spending to help lead a revival in
demand for electronics next year in the Nordic region, where the
retailer is market leader with a share of about 25 percent.  Internet Sales  “The market will grow in the future, but the growth will
be online, which is a very big opportunity for us,” he said.
The unit’s Internet sales have doubled every year since 2007.  The retailer plans to match the prices and ranges offered
online and in stores in the medium term, Blomseth said.  Elkjop’s 11 percent share of the online market has the
potential to rise to as high as 20 percent, he said.  “The big opportunity for us is franchise in  Sweden  and
 Finland , online in all countries and higher sales densities in
existing stores,” Blomseth said. “For us, actually, it’s good
because it gives us an opportunity to work with the important
things, like the people, like marketing the brand, not just
opening stores because that takes a lot of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  