-- 
Djokovic, Nadal in U.S. Open Is First Repeat of Men’s Final Since 1988

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-11T04:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/djokovic-nadal-in-u-s-open-is-first-repeat-of-men-s-final-since-1988.html
Novak Djokovic and  Rafael Nadal 
won semifinal matches to set up the first  U.S. Open  men’s
championship rematch in 23 years, while  Serena Williams  moved
within one victory of her fourth women’s title.  Djokovic, the top seed from  Serbia , rallied from a two-set
deficit and withstood two match points yesterday to eliminate
five-time champion  Roger Federer  in the semifinals for the
second straight year. Nadal, the No. 2 seed and defending
champion from  Spain , won in four sets against  Andy Murray .  The last time the U.S. Open men’s final featured the same
players in back-to-back years was 1987-88, when  Ivan Lendl  and
Mats Wilander split their meetings. Nadal beat Djokovic last
year to win the tennis season’s final Grand Slam, yet Djokovic
has won all five of their matches this year -- all in
tournament finals -- en route to a 63-2 record.  “He’s playing with high confidence,” Nadal, who has lost
11 of 14 sets against Djokovic this year, said in a news
conference. “I am not very happy about my mental performance
against him this year because for moments I didn’t really
believe 100 percent. That’s what I’m going to try to change for
Monday.”  The men’s final was pushed back to tomorrow from today --
the tournament’s fourth straight Monday finish -- because of
delays and cancellations caused by rain earlier this week.  Williams will play Samantha Stosur of  Australia  in the
women’s final today after ousting top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki 
of Denmark 6-2, 6-4 in yesterday’s last semifinal match.  Williams, who won the U.S. Open in 1999, 2002 and 2008, is
seeking her 14th Grand Slam title. The 29-year-old American
entered the tournament as the favorite among oddsmakers even
though she was seeded 28th after two seasons marred by injury,
including a torn tendon in her foot that forced her to miss
last year’s U.S. Open.  Stosur Makes Final  “It’s been such a long, arduous road and I can’t believe
it,” said Williams, who will be playing on the 10th
anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and
 Washington . “I really want to play on such a special day for
the  United States , so I’m very excited.”  Stosur is aiming for her first major after beating
unseeded Angelique Kerber of Germany 6-3, 2-6, 6-2 yesterday to
become the only Australian woman to reach the U.S. Open final
since Wendy Turnbull in 1977.  Comeback Victory  Djokovic, 24, rallied to beat Federer 6-7 (7-9), 4-6, 6-3,
6-2, 7-5 yesterday and then danced for the crowd in Arthur Ashe
Stadium. He became the second player in 184 matches to beat the
16-time major champion at a Grand Slam after losing the first
two sets.  “When he’s in control, he’s confident and it’s really
hard to get back into the match,” said Djokovic, who had a 43-
match win streak earlier this season. “But I managed to play
better, to switch gears and played two incredible sets. Then I
felt it was the moment.”  Djokovic now gets a chance to avenge his four-set loss to
Nadal in last year’s U.S. Open final. Although he trails the
Spaniard 16-12 in their all-time series, Djokovic’s 5-0 record
this year includes a finals win at Wimbledon and hard court
Masters series victories in Miami and  Indian Wells ,  California ,
where he rallied from a set down against Nadal both times.  Third Major?  With titles at Wimbledon and the Australian Open already
this season, Djokovic will attempt to become the sixth men’s
player in tennis’s Open era to win three majors in a season.
Nadal did it last year, while the others -- since 1968 -- are
Federer, Wilander,  Jimmy Connors  and Rod Laver.  “It’s obvious that this is the best year of my career, by
far,” said Djokovic, who last month became the first player to
win five ATP World Tour Masters titles in one season. “The
confidence level that is very high at this moment helps me get
into these big matches and go for shots that maybe in some
situations wouldn’t go for in past years.”  Nadal is back in the championship match after a 6-4, 6-2,
3-6, 6-2 win against the fourth-seeded Murray that improved him
to 59-10 this year, second only to Djokovic.  Nadal’s win was his fifth straight over Murray and extends
the Grand Slam drought for the U.K., which last had a men’s
major title won by  Fred Perry  in 1936.  Nadal Seeks Repeat  Nadal will now attempt to become the eighth repeat U.S.
Open winner since 1968, joining Federer, Patrick Rafter,  Pete
Sampras , Stefan Edberg, Lendl, Connors and John McEnroe.  Connors was the last player to beat the same opponent in
consecutive U.S. men’s finals, against Lendl in 1982-83.  Federer, who won the U.S. Open each year from 2004-08,
lamented a “lucky shot” that Djokovic hit yesterday to stay
alive while withstanding a first match point.  Federer’s loss means he’ll go without a major title for
the first time since 2002. Since winning his 16th Grand Slam at
the 2010 Australian Open, Federer’s lone final appearance at a
major was a loss to Nadal at the  French Open  in June.  “Sometimes in sports it just goes the other way, you
know,” said Federer, who also blew a two-set lead in losing to
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the Wimbledon quarterfinals in June.
“Maybe you’ve already won so much that it evens it out a bit.
But for me, it was still a good run here. Sure it’s a bit of a
bummer. I guess it happens occasionally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at the National Tennis Center in  New York , at
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  