-- 
Draghi May Struggle to Deliver ECB Stimulus as Stark Resigns Over Bonds

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-12T12:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/draghi-may-struggle-to-deliver-on-ecb-stimulus-as-stark-resigns-over-bonds.html
Mario Draghi  may find it harder to
keep the  European Central Bank  in the vanguard of the battle
against the euro region’s debt crisis after  Juergen Stark 
resigned in protest at the bank’s bond purchases.  With speculation of a Greek default heaping pressure on the
ECB to step up its bond buying and reverse interest-rate
increases to ease market tensions, Stark’s shock move has
publicly exposed a rift among policy makers that may undermine
its ability to act quickly, economists said. German opposition
to further ECB stimulus may also make Draghi less inclined to
ease policy when he takes over from ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet on Nov. 1, said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist
at UniCredit Group in Milan.  “It would be very easy for Germans to say here comes the
Italian, he’ll cut rates and buy  government bonds  in massive
amounts,” Valli said. Draghi “will probably prefer to err on
the side of hawkishness on standard measures, which means he may
be reluctant to go for a rate cut.”  The ECB has shouldered the main burden of fighting the
crisis as governments dithered over fixing their budget
deficits, restructuring their banks and giving more firepower to
the region’s rescue fund. Investors last week dumped stocks and
pushed the euro to a six-month low on renewed fears that policy
makers will fail to prevent a Greek default. Stark’s resignation
on Sept. 9 further unsettled markets by raising doubts about the
ECB’s commitment to do what’s needed to hold the 17-nation euro
zone together.  Anchor of Stability?  “It’s bad news because the ECB is the only functioning
European institution, it’s supposed to be an anchor of
stability,” said Laurent Bilke, a former ECB economist now
working at Nomura International in  London . “For the central
bank to be functioning in its role, its interventions need to be
forceful. This whole affair will put them and any decision they
make under the spotlight.”  Stark, a former Bundesbank vice president, cited “personal
reasons” for his decision and will remain in his role as the
ECB’s chief economist until a replacement is found for him on
the six-member Executive Board. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Sept. 10 he will propose his deputy,  Joerg Asmussen , for the job.  German Opposition  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann also opposed the ECB’s
decision to reactivate its bond-purchase program last month,
when it started buying Italian and Spanish assets after the debt
crisis spread, an official familiar with the discussions said.  Asmussen and Weidmann were both economics students of Axel Weber, the former Bundesbank president whose opposition to the
ECB’s bond program led him to resign in February and drop out of
the running to succeed Trichet.  “This is the second resignation in less than a year, this
is clearly not good news,” said  Klaus Baader , co-head of euro-
area economic research at  Societe Generale  in London. “This
will raise doubts about the real commitment of Germany to the
ECB, and that is why it’s highly damaging.”  Stark’s resignation may harden German public opinion
against the region’s rescue fund, making it harder for
governments to fight the crisis, said  Joerg Kraemer , chief
economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . It “makes the
European bailout scheme more unpopular among German voters,
which lowers the long-term credibility of the bailout policy
among investors,” he said.  Rescue Fund  Fifty-three percent of Germans oppose further aid for
Greece and would not save the country from default if it doesn’t
fulfil the terms of a rescue, Bild am Sonntag newspaper reported
yesterday, citing a poll.  While European leaders have agreed to retool the region’s
440 billion-euro ($602 billion) rescue fund -- the European
Financial Stability Facility -- to take over government bond
purchases from the ECB, the proposal has to be ratified by
national parliaments first.  Stark’s resignation “shows why the ECB is so desperate for
the EFSF to take over the bond purchases,” said  Julian Callow ,
chief European economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “The
division over bond purchases goes right to the heart of the ECB,
with the triple A-rated countries opposing it.”  Trichet said today at a press briefing in Basel that he
respects Stark’s reasons for resigning. “We are one central
bank, one Governing Council,” he said. “We have a great level
of credibility that we will preserve in all circumstances, as we
have done since the start of this crisis.”  Blurred Line  Stark expressed his strong opposition to buy more
distressed assets on an ECB conference call on Sept. 4 and was
backed by the central banks of  Austria  and the Netherlands,
according to a central bank official familiar with the meeting.  The ECB, which started its bond program in May last year
when  Greece ’s fiscal crisis began to spread to other euro-area
countries, has so far spent 129 billion euros on the secondary
market in an attempt to lower yields. The ECB says it is trying
to ensure the transmission of its  interest rates .  Stark told Bloomberg News on Aug. 18 that the purchases
also mean the ECB is lowering borrowing costs for distressed
governments, blurring the line between monetary and fiscal
policy. Weidmann on Sept. 1 urged the ECB to “scale back the
extra risk monetary policy has taken on.”  “Although the Bundesbank does not technically have a veto
at the ECB, you do wonder how far along this path the ECB can go
with  Germany  and the Bundesbank so adamantly against it,” said
 Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro in Amsterdam.
“Following Stark’s resignation, the credibility of the ECB
intervening in a sustained way over time has clearly been hit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  