-- 
Dubai Shares Decline to Lowest in a Week Low on Europe Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-11T07:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/dubai-shares-decline-to-lowest-in-a-week-low-on-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
Persian Gulf shares fell, sending
Dubai’s index to the lowest level in almost a week, on concern
Europe’s policy makers won’t be able to stop the region’s
sovereign debt crisis from growing and after oil retreated.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
tower, slipped as much as 0.7 percent. Dubai Financial Market
PJSC, the only Gulf Arab stock market to sell stock to the
public, fell the most in almost a week. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
lost 0.4 percent to 1,475.4, the lowest intraday level since
Sept. 6, at 11:05 a.m. in Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of
the region’s stocks dropped less than 0.1 percent.  “Equities in the  Middle East  continue to track global
markets and the current backdrop does not provide any buying
conviction,” said  Julian Bruce , equity sales head at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Dubai. “Gulf Cooperation Council markets are
drifting lower due to an absence of domestic drivers.”  European stocks tumbled last week after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s party suffered its fifth election loss this year
as she faced criticism over the handling of the debt crisis.
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet on Sept. 8
said threats to the euro region worsened. Planned rescue loans
to Greece have been put in doubt as countries including Finland
demand the country provide collateral in exchange for the funds.
The Stoxx 600 Europe Index lost 3.7 percent last week.  Oil’s Decline  Oil for October delivery retreated 2 percent Sept. 9 to
$87.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Gulf Arab
oil exporters, including the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi
Arabia , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar decreased for the first time in four days to as low
as 2.83 dirhams.  Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  dropped 1.7 percent, the
most since Sept. 5, to 1.14 dirhams. About 9 million shares
traded so far in Dubai, compared with a 12-month daily average
of 123 million shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oman’s MSM 30 Index and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
declined 0.2 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  lost 0.1 percent.
Kuwait’s gauge slipped 0.4 percent, while Bahrain’s BB All Share
Index was little changed.  -- Editors: Claudia Maedler, Susan Lerner  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  