-- 
Medvedev to Propose Shell-Gazprom Expansion During Cameron Visit

-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 
2011-09-11T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/medvedev-to-propose-shell-gazprom-expansion-during-cameron-visit.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
will propose  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  expand cooperation with
state-run OAO Gazprom during the first visit by a U.K. prime
minister in six years, as the leader seeks to improve relations
between the countries.  Medvedev and U.K. Premier  David Cameron  will discuss a plan
for Gazprom and Shell to increase output at Sakhalin-2, Russia’s
only liquefied natural gas project, boosting supplies to Asia,
said a Kremlin official who declined to be identified, citing
state policy. Shell agreed to cede control of the project to OAO
Gazprom in 2006 after months of pressure from regulators.  Russia expects Cameron’s visit to signal better relations
between the two countries, which soured in 2006 after  Alexander
Litvinenko , a former Russian agent, was poisoned in  London  with
the radioactive isotope polonium-210. Litvinenko on his death
bed blamed then-President  Vladimir Putin  for the murder, an
accusation the Kremlin called “absurd.”  “We’d like to make it clear to both Russian and British
business that the show must go on,” the official said,
commenting on the impact of the Litvinenko case. “It’s wrong
when a topic that’s sensitive to a certain part of society leads
all other directions into a dead end.”  Scotland Yard suspects Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent,
of Litvinenko’s murder and has unsuccessfully sought his
extradition from Russia. Lugovoi will not dominate the talks
between the two leaders, the official said.  BP Raid  The offer to Shell may be an attempt to balance some of the
troubles  BP Plc (BP/)  has faced in Russia this year. The U.K. energy
company’s planned share swap and Arctic exploration deal with
state-controlled OAO Rosneft collapsed after a challenge from
its billionaire partners in Russian oil producer TNK-BP, who
claimed it violated their shareholder agreement. Rosneft last
month selected  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  as its partner for the Arctic.  A group of minority investors in TNK-BP’s traded unit sued
BP for about $3 billion in damages they say result from the lost
opportunity, and court bailiffs searched BP’s Moscow office for
documents starting Aug. 31.  Medvedev won’t discuss BP or the raid with Cameron, the
official said. BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  may
accompany Cameron,  Sky News  reported, without saying where it
got the information.  “Gazprom and Shell are discussing and analyzing the
possibility of boosting production at the Lunskoye field to feed
the liquefied natural gas lines,” the official said, without
specifying the extent of the expansion.  Sakhalin LNG  The venture produces at the Lunskoye and Piltun-Astokhskoye
offshore fields and runs an LNG plant with a capacity of 9.6
million metric tons a year on Sakhalin Island north of Japan.  Shell may offer Gazprom assets in Asia in exchange for a
deal to expand Sakhalin-2, people with knowledge of the
negotiations said in February. The talks follow an agreement in
November to expand cooperation under a possible global alliance.
Shell wants to add a third liquefied natural gas production unit
at the $22 billion venture, which could raise output by 50
percent.  Gazprom, Russia’s biggest gas producer and export monopoly,
bought just more than 50 percent of the Sakhalin-2 venture for
$7.45 billion from Shell and its partners,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and
Mitsui & Co. Shell controls 27.5 percent of the Sakhalin Energy
Investment Co. operator, and Mitsubishi and Mitsui hold the
balance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  