-- 
Men Selling Panties May Disappear as Saudi Lingerie Stores Can Hire Women

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-09-11T20:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/men-selling-panties-may-disappear-as-saudi-lingerie-stores-can-hire-women.html
When Saudi student Sarah Abdul-
Mohsen asked the salesman for a nude, 32C padded bra, she didn’t
expect an argument about her cup size.  After all, Abdul-Mohsen was wearing the mandatory black
cloak and veil that disguise her shape, in a kingdom where
custom forbids men from looking intimately at women.  “He told me, ‘No, you’re not a C,’” Abdul-Mohsen, who was
buying the bra for a cousin, said in an interview at a Ramadan 
meal for women in Riyadh. “I felt disgusted. It felt very
degrading.”  Abdul-Mohsen, like many women in oil-rich  Saudi Arabia , is
hoping that decades of embarrassing exchanges with salesmen
about thongs, bras, frilly negligees and panties will soon come
to an end. She may get her wish as stores begin implementing a
July Labor Ministry directive to push male salesmen aside and
hire women after a failed effort in 2006.  Managers representing three boutiques said last week their
stores will soon be staffed by women, though the transition
won’t be easy. Male guards may be stationed outside to keep men
shoppers away, while storeowners are considering posting signs
saying the establishments are for “Families Only” and hanging
heavy curtains to shield store windows so that men won’t look in
and see women working.  “It’s a good thing to happen, but it requires planning,”
Ghaith Azzam, brand manager for La Vie En Rose, owned by Fawaz
Alhokair Group, said in a telephone interview in Riyadh. He said
another shop, La Senza, also owned by Alhokair, is making the
switch too.  No Mall Job  Saudi Arabia enforces restrictions interpreted from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. Men and women are strictly
segregated in public, including at schools, restaurants and even
at lines at fast-food takeouts. That keeps women out of sales
jobs in malls and stores -- unless the store caters exclusively
to a female clientele.  King Abdullah , who has promised to improve the status of
women, opened the first co-educational university in 2009. He
appointed the kingdom’s first female deputy minister, Nora bint Abdullah al-Fayez, the same year and has said he will provide
more access to jobs for women. Women are still not allowed to
drive, though.  The changeover at lingerie stores is part of an order by
Labor Minister Adel Faqih setting a deadline for all-female
staffs by the end of the year. The minister’s decision followed
a royal decree by King Abdullah in June, carried by the official
Saudi Press Agency, requiring that only women work in “shops
selling women’s necessities.”  Non-Working Women  Saudi women have the lowest employment rate in the six-
nation Gulf Cooperation Council, estimated at 12 percent in 2008,
Hatem Samman, director and lead economist of the Booz & Company
 Ideation Center , said in an interview from Dubai. The employment
rate for women was 25 percent in Qatar and 28 percent in the
U.A.E., he said. The U.S.  rate  for women 20 years and over was
about 55 percent in August.  The minister’s directive also includes shops that sell
cosmetics and perfume, which have been given a year to replace
their staff. Until then, women will continue buying make-up from
men who smear lipstick or eye shadow on hairy wrists or rub
cream on the back of their hands as they promote new products.  Saudi women have been pushing for women vendors in lingerie
stores for years. In 2008, Reem Asaad, a financial adviser at a
bank in  Jeddah , spearheaded a campaign that has included
postings on Facebook, letters to international lingerie stores
that operate in the kingdom and workshops to train Saudi women
to work as vendors. After Faqih’s new directive, Asaad says she
feels women’s efforts have paid off.  Bearing Fruit  “The publicity from the campaign bore fruit,” she said in
a telephone interview from Jeddah. “The government has woken
up.”  A similar directive in 2006 was never implemented. It was
opposed by religious hardliners who are against women working in
a mixed-gender environment.  Brand manager Azzam said the female staff will be given
general as well as brand-specific training. The switch at La Vie
En Rose, which has 30 stores in the kingdom, and La Senza, which
has 45, should happen by end of September, he said  Rabih Masarani, site manager for Bodique boutique, said one
of the brand’s 11 stores converted on Sept. 5 at a mall in the
western seaport city of Jeddah. Azzam and Masarani said the male
workers will be provided jobs in other establishments owned by
their companies.  Lacy Thongs  Nawwaf al-Harbi, 26, has yet to be told whether he will
need to change careers. He was hired in July by a new store
after selling makeup for 10 years. Standing in front of a
display of lacy thongs, some decorated with sparkling hearts,
al-Harbi said he doesn’t think the government’s effort will
succeed.  “When I was selling makeup, women would always tell me
they hate buying from female staff because they felt they were
being judged,” said al-Harbi.  Al-Harbi said he took a two-day course on selling panties,
the only lingerie items carried by the store, and didn’t feel
embarrassment during the training. He said his sales technique
depends on the kind of shopper who walks through the door.  “If she looks conservative, I leave her alone,” said al-
Harbi. “If she looks curious, I approach her and show her the
rest of the collection.”  University student Shadi al-Salem, 22, said in an Aug. 6
interview in  Riyadh  he supports the new law because it “bothers
me that salesmen ask intimate questions, like bra sizes.”  Hello Sugar  To avoid such exchanges, some women take along a male
relative. At a Riyadh store recently, a man with a salt-and-
pepper beard stood in front of an underwear collection called
“Hello Sugar” as two women, totally covered in black, pointed
to the items they liked. Picking a hanger with a white bra
decorated with a pattern of red roses, the man asked the vendor
if he had it in large.  Kholoud al-Fahd, 33, chose another solution. She shops in
 Bahrain , a short distance from her home in Dammam in the  Eastern
Province  after a salesman three years ago picked an orange bra
and told her it would suit her.  “I cursed him and left the store,” said al-Fahd, 33, who
helps run the family’s interior decorating business.  Another reason she shops in Bahrain is that fitting rooms
are banned in Saudi stores, which means women end up buying bras
that don’t really fit.  “This is a country that covers you up and then sends
people to strip you down,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  