-- 
Erdogan Punishing Israel May Test Turkey’s Claim as Regional ‘Great Power’

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-11T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/erdogan-punishing-israel-may-test-turkey-s-great-power-claim.html
Turkish rulers in past centuries
held sway from  Palestine  to the Persian Gulf. Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s bid to emulate them may mean casting
aside a once-valued ally.  Erdogan has frayed relations with Israel with his demand
for an apology for the killing of Turkish activists on a
flotilla to Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  last year. In the past
week, he expelled the Israeli ambassador, halted defense
purchases, announced plans to send more warships to the eastern
Mediterranean and said he may visit Gaza.  In a Middle East transformed by war and revolution, Turkey
is playing a growing role in issues such as the Palestinian
campaign for statehood. Erdogan, whose bid to fast-track his
country into the European Union was rebuffed, now says the
heritage of the  Ottoman Empire  gives Turkey an historic charge
to be a “great power.” The costs of his shift away from
Western-centered foreign policy include a wrecked partnership
with Israel and strained ties with its backer, the U.S.  “Turkey championed the cause of the Palestinians and has
taken a tough stance against Israel -- the question is whether
at some point that has an impact on the Turkish relationship
with the West,” Bulent Aliriza, director of the Turkey Project
at the Center for Strategic & International Studies in
 Washington , said in an interview. “A lot of Turkey’s influence
in the region comes from the fact that it has relationships with
the West and that it belongs to both worlds.”  Gaza Trip  Erdogan is in  Egypt  today on the first leg of a tour of
three countries that toppled leaders this year; he has signaled
an interest in visiting Gaza while there, and is later due to
meet transitional rulers in Tunisia and  Libya . Accompanying him
are dozens of Turkish executives -- a sign of the way Erdogan’s
new diplomatic priorities overlap with business interests.  Trade with the  Middle East  and North Africa has surged
sixfold since Erdogan came to power, reaching $30 billion last
year. That’s 27 percent of  all overseas sales , more than double
the 2002 share. Two-way trade with Israel was $2.7 billion in
the first seven months of the year, according to Turkish Trade
Minister Zafer Caglayan.  Erdogan’s criticisms of Israel won praise in Arab countries
and he dedicated his latest election victory in June to Islamic
countries seeking democracy.  “Among the public in the Muslim world, the ‘made-in-
Turkey’ brand’s prestige has definitely increased,” said
Seyfettin Gursel, a professor in the economics department of
 Bahcesehir University  in Istanbul.  ‘Hard Line’  The growth has slowed this year as unrest spread across the
region. Countries affected included Libya, a key market for
Turkish builders such as  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , and
 Syria , where Turkey has sought to ease cross-border commerce.  Turkey has also attracted Middle Eastern investment. Saudi
Oger Ltd.’s $6.6 billion acquisition of  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM) 
in 2005 remains the country’s biggest takeover.  Saudi Arabia ’s
biggest lender, National Commercial Bank, bought 60 percent of
Turkiye Finans Katilim Bankasi AS in 2008.  Erdogan’s latest diplomatic offensive, even if it impresses
Arab public opinion, won’t help attract more such investments
from the Persian Gulf, Gursel said. “No one will give money to
Turkey because it’s taking a hard line on Israel,” he said.
“Money has no religion or faith.”  Trade Risk  Europe  is still Turkey’s biggest trade partner, yet the
share of Turkish exports going there was shrinking even before
the debt crisis of the last two years. With Turkey’s membership
application frozen and senior European leaders including French
President Nicolas Sarkozy openly opposing it, Erdogan has
accused the bloc of applying “double standards” to its
application. That disappointment has probably encouraged his
push for Middle East influence, said  Ilan Berman , vice president
of the Washington-based American Foreign Policy Council.  “Having spent a tremendous amount of time, far longer than
it should have, on the outside of western civilization in the
context of the European Union, the Turks have made a decision
that they’re going to go a certain way,” Berman said in a phone
interview.  Turkey is  Israel ’s sixth-biggest export market, according
to Caglayan, with companies including arms supplier Elbit
Systems Ltd. and Oil Refineries Ltd. among exporters. Bank of
Israeli Governor Stanley Fischer warned last week that the
diplomatic dispute with Turkey will hurt the economy, and Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sept. 9 his government’s main
policy is “to prevent a deterioration in relations.”  ‘Cool It’  “Israelis would like to have better relationships with
Turkey, but have come to the conclusion, because of Erdogan’s
policies, that there’s nothing more Israel can do,” Michael Rubin, a Middle East scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute  in Washington, said in a phone interview. The standoff
“may help Turkey in the Middle East, but then again it’s easier
to burn bridges than to build them.”  The U.S., which has helped foster ties between two of its
closest regional allies, expressed concern at their falling out.
Both countries should “cool it and get back to a place where
they can have a proper relationship,” State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said Sept. 9.  The Turkish-Israeli alliance has been driven by cooperation
between the country’s armies. Erdogan, whose party has Islamist
roots, has sought to curb the influence of  Turkey ’s military,
which has ousted four governments since 1960, and make it
subservient to civilian politicians.  Plan B  Relations with Israel were shaken when Turkey invited Hamas
leaders after they won the 2006 Palestinian legislative
elections. They worsened after Erdogan criticized Israel’s
December 2008 assault on Gaza, which killed more than 1,300
Palestinians, and walked out of a panel discussion with Israeli
President Shimon Peres at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland , a month later.  After Israel’s deadly raid on the aid ship last year,
Turkey demanded an apology, compensation for the relatives of
people killed aboard the ship and the lifting of Israel’s naval
blockade of Gaza. A United Nations report found that while
Israel used “excessive and unreasonable” force, it has the
right to enforce the embargo.  Turkey also says it will back the demand for statehood that
the  Palestinian Authority  plans to bring to the UN General
Assembly this month. “We will do everything in our power to
make sure that negotiations in the UN General Assembly are
guaranteed,” Erdogan said last week.  The premier called the latest measures against Israel
Turkey’s “Plan B” and said more may follow. That probably
would involve severing ties completely, said Kemal Kirisci, a
professor of international relations at Bogazici University in
Istanbul.  “I don’t suppose Plan C means going over there and hugging
Israelis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 