-- 
Terror Threat Spurs NYC Frozen Zones, Searches

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-11T13:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/terror-threat-spurs-frozen-zones-truck-inspections-heavily-armed-police.html
New York  officials have increased
security with frozen zones, truck inspections and heavily armed
police after reports of a credible, uncorroborated threat that
al-Qaeda may be plotting an assault in the city today, the tenth
anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attacks.  A decade ago, a group of men tied to the terrorist group
hijacked four airliners, flying two into the World Trade Center
towers in New York; a third into the Pentagon in Arlington,
 Virginia ; and crashing a fourth in Shanksville, Pennsylvania,
after passengers thwarted the hijackers. Close to 3,000 people
were killed that day.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  attended the annual memorial
ceremony at  Ground Zero  today with former President  George W. Bush . Large concrete blocks have been placed at lower  Manhattan 
intersections, including Barclay and Church streets, as well as
at Park Place and at West Broadway, to prevent traffic from
getting close to the site. Metal barricades line streets to
prevent cars from stopping or parking.  Earlier this weekend, police cruisers took up positions on
midtown Manhattan blocks as officers stopped trucks and other
vehicles for inspection. Police yesterday were questioning
drivers on Broadway near Fulton Street in lower Manhattan, a few
blocks from Ground Zero, and as they exited the Holland Tunnel.  ‘Full Complement’  “We have already had a full complement of people working
shifts because of the Sept. 11 anniversary,”  Jim Margolin , a
spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New York
office, said Sept. 9. “We are taking the logical investigative
measures to assess this threat.”  New York police officers have extended their shifts by four
hours through Sept. 12, said New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly. They have increased vehicle checks and monitoring of
bridges and tunnels, are performing more baggage screenings in
subways, patrolling outside places of worship and government
buildings and conducting bomb sweeps of public garages.  “We will deploy quick-reaction teams consisting of heavily
armored officers,” Kelly said.  City landmarks, including Grand Central Terminal and
 Pennsylvania  Station, will have heightened security today, as
will major events including the U.S. Open tennis tournament in
Queens.  ‘Frozen Zone’  The heavily guarded “frozen zone” near Ground Zero
extends from West Street to Broadway and Murray to Albany
streets. Several streets in the area will be closed during the
weekend. To assist police, the FBI has mobilized specialized
teams, including bomb technicians, tactical and hazardous-
materials crews.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said Sept. 9 that he has
deployed additional state police and National Guard troops
throughout the New York City area this weekend, to supplement
law enforcement patrols already assigned to regional airports,
bus terminals and subway and train stations.  New York police have stopped at least 13 terrorist attacks
since 2001, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said. While the killing of
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden earlier this year has helped
reduce the threat, the mayor said, “The one thing we know is
the terrorists have not gone away.”  The latest threat concerns a possible al Qaeda-sponsored
attack targeting New York or  Washington , said a U.S. official,
who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The
official said the intelligence concerns a possible vehicle-borne
attack, perhaps on a transportation hub or bottleneck, and
cautioned that the options may be broader than a car or truck
bombing.  ‘Doing Everything’  U.S. authorities are “doing everything” possible to
confirm the threat, House  Homeland Security  Committee Chairman
 Peter King  said.  “There are literally hundreds if not thousands of names
being scrubbed” in a database of suspected terrorists, King, a
New York Republican, said in an interview. Investigators are
“going to suppliers and store owners, anyone who’s had a car
stolen, anyone who’s leased certain types of trucks, anyone who
sold explosives,” he said.  A U.S. official in Washington said the credible
intelligence revolved around a plot possibly hatched by al-Qaeda
in  Pakistan  involving three individuals, including possibly one
American. Another U.S. official cautioned that information
wasn’t yet confirmed. The officials weren’t authorized to
publicly discuss the intelligence.  American Documents  A U.S. intelligence alert that federal officials sent to
local  law enforcement  said operatives in the suspected plot may
be carrying American documents, according to two people familiar
with the alert who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  U.S. officials learned of the possible threat in
intercepted communications among suspected al-Qaeda operatives
in the tribal areas of western Pakistan, three U.S. intelligence
officials said.  However, they said, the “chatter,” as they described the
intercepted conversations, didn’t name the alleged attackers and
included only vague descriptions of vehicle-borne attacks on the
two most likely targets on a day of obvious significance and
media attention.  U.S. intelligence agencies have found no evidence that al-
Qaeda has sneaked any terrorists into the country for a strike,
the  Associated Press  reported yesterday, citing unidentified
senior officials.  Confirm Tips  The intelligence community works with law enforcement to
confirm tips. Some information is vetted by the 106 FBI-led
Joint Terrorism Task Forces, said Juliette Kayyem, a former
assistant secretary at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
who oversaw coordination between the department and state and
local law enforcement.  Tips also can be analyzed at so-called fusion centers of
analysts and law enforcement, run by state and local governments,
Kayyem said.  By publicizing the threat, the DHS has added millions of
potential tipsters who can help confirm the information, she
said.  “There is a sense of empowerment that the public is being
used,” said Kayyem, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard
University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Three weeks ago, 100  New Jersey  state police detectives
began contacting 2,500 businesses that may be used by terrorists,
including fertilizer suppliers, truck rental agencies and hotels
in a so-called trip-wire operation designed to produce leads,
New Jersey State Police Superintendent Rick Fuentes told
reporters in Ewing, New Jersey, earlier this week.  ‘People You Need’  “Those are the people you need to connect to; the people
who are going to give you the initial leads that are going to
get you to the bottom of terror operations,” Fuentes said.  In  New York City , evidence of increased security was seen
in several locations. At the subway station in the Port
Authority bus terminal at 42nd Street in Manhattan, two police
officers stood guard at the turnstiles yesterday while two
others patrolled the platform.  Officers stood on the subway platform at Broadway and
Murray streets in lower Manhattan, giving directions to tourists
making their way to and from the site of the 2001 attacks, four
blocks south.  In Pennsylvania Station at 2 a.m., police with bomb
sniffing dogs patrolled the Long Island Railroad corridor as
late night revelers headed for trains home.  Machine Guns  In  Brooklyn , U.S. marshals armed with machine guns guarded
the federal courthouse and increased security was observed in
front of the nearby city emergency management office.  “We have threats all the time,” Bloomberg said during his
weekly appearance on WOR radio. “Each time we increase our
security, which obviously we had done for this. Are we
increasing a little more? Yes, we’re increasing a little more
but there’s a limit to how much you can have, just because you
can’t have a cop on every corner. But remember, a lot of the
precautions we take, you don’t see.”  “As we head into the 9/11 anniversary weekend, we continue
to urge the American public to be vigilant and report any
suspicious activity to law enforcement authorities,” Secretary
of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano said in a statement. “We
take all threat reporting, including the recent specific,
credible but unconfirmed threat information, seriously.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York 
 pathurado@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in Brooklyn, New York, at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at +1-212-617-1962 or  mtannen@bloomberg.net . 