-- 
Europe Banks Valued at Post-Lehman Lows Show Sovereign Risks Intensifying

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-09-12T11:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/europe-banks-at-post-lehman-lows-show-sovereign-risks-escalating.html
Investors are valuing European
banks at levels not seen since the depths of the credit crunch
that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as
concern over a Greek default and debt contagion escalates.  A Bloomberg index shows 46 lenders trading at 0.56 times
book value, the cheapest since the post-Lehman lows of March
2009, signaling investors estimate their net assets are worth
less than the companies claim and are demanding discounts for
perceived risks. Valuations reflect the impact of a potential
sovereign default for some banks, according to Barclays Capital
analysts led by Jeremy Sigee.  Group of Seven finance chiefs meeting in Marseille,  France ,
over the weekend vowed to support banks amid growing concern
that the debt crisis is morphing into a banking crisis. As
doubts linger about the ability of some European lenders to
withstand a Greek default and its ripple effects, the cost of
insuring their debt rose to records, while a measure of their
reluctance to lend to each other climbed to a 2 1/2-year high.  “Politicians need to get their heads together and deal
with the inevitable: a Greek default and recapitalization of
some banks,” said  Peter Thorne , a London-based analyst at
Helvea Ltd. “You have to make the banks look financially stable
and secure so that people are prepared to deposit money with
them for more than 24 hours.”  Funding Costs Rise  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said on Sept. 5 that market conditions remind him of late 2008,
and urged lawmakers to act to avoid a repeat of the financial
crisis, which spawned the worst global recession since the Great
Depression.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers increased 12 basis points to 312 and the
subordinated index jumped 25 to 560, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. The difference between the three-month euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, and the overnight indexed swap rate, a
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other, rose to
0.853 percentage point, the widest gap since March 2009.  August was the worst month for long-term debt issuance for
the region’s lenders in more than five years, Bank of America
Corp. analysts led by Derek De Vries said in a note last week.  The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index of
stocks dropped 4.1 percent today to the lowest level in almost 2
1/2 years. The index has slumped 37 percent so far this year,
led by financial companies based in peripheral Europe, such as
Banco Comercial Portugues SA and National Bank of Greece SA, as
well as those with investments there, such as Commerzbank AG of
Germany and France’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  Implied Writedowns  In the case of some banks, the plunge implies writedowns
beyond the current level of sovereign bond prices, according to
a note from Sigee on Sept. 7.  BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
France’s largest banks by market value, are trading at levels
that imply a 100 percent loss on Greek, Irish and Portuguese
holdings, according to Barclays. In the case of Paris-based
Societe Generale, the share price even implies full writedowns
on Italian and Spanish debt, according to Barclays.  “The current discounts to book are driven by much broader
macro concerns, and attributing all of the discount to a single
risk factor like sovereign is too simplistic,” Sigee wrote,
adding that the French banks’ risks remain manageable.
“However, it does give a sense of how severely sovereign risks
have been priced into equity valuations.”  Credit Ratings  BNP Paribas (BNP) , Societe Generale and  Credit Agricole  tumbled
in Paris trading on a possible ratings cut by Moody’s Investors
Service, extending their more than 40 percent slide in the last
three months. They may have their credit ratings cut as early as
this week because of their Greek holdings, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Societe Generale said today it plans to sell 4 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) in assets by 2013 to reassure investors
about its finances. The lender said it holds about 900 million
euros of Greek bonds and has “no significant” Irish or
Portuguese debt.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said French banks
are capable of facing any Greek response to sovereign-debt
difficulties and have no liquidity or solvency problems.  “Whatever the Greek scenario, and whatever provisions have
to be made, French banks have the means to face it,” Noyer said
in an e-mailed statement today. “French banks have neither
liquidity nor solvency problems.”  Greek Cuts  The 90 banks that underwent European stress tests would
face an estimated capital shortfall of 350 billion euros if
Greek, Portuguese, Irish, Italian and Spanish government bonds
were written down to market values, according to Nomura analysts
led by  Jon Peace . No “practical” amount of capital can prepare
them for a large sovereign debt impairment or default, Nomura
said in a note on Sept. 7.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou , vowing to avoid a default
and keep  Greece  in the euro, approved new measures to help plug
a yawning budget gap as resistance builds to extending more aid
to the European Union’s most-indebted nation.  Greek 10-year bonds are trading at a 52 percent discount to
face value, according to Bloomberg data. By comparison, some
banks agreed in July to write down the value of their Greek
securities by an average 21 percent as part of a bond exchange
and debt buyback program for Greece.  ECB Rift  Reflecting concern that Greece may fail to meet the terms
of its aid package and miss its payment obligations, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is preparing plans to
shore up its nation’s financial sector, three coalition
officials said Sept. 9. The surprise resignation of Juergen Stark from the  European Central Bank  on the same day exposed the
policy rifts aggravating the debt turmoil.  “Stark resigning is another development that suggests
 Germany  isn’t really behind a lot of what the ECB needs to do to
shore up the situation,” said Jonathan Fayman, a  fund manager 
at BlueBay Asset Management Plc in  London . With Merkel preparing
banks for the possibility of a default, “the market is scared
and it looks like it should be,” he said.  Henrik Drusebjerg, senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, said the financial turmoil will force policy makers
to find a solution that would otherwise have taken decades.  “Why?” he said. “Because the alternative is a total
breakdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  