-- 
Euro Falls to June 2001 Low Versus Yen on Greece Default Concern

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T21:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/euro-drops-below-1-36-on-greek-concern.html
The euro fell, touching its lowest
level since 2001 against the yen, as speculation German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is preparing for a Greek default curbed
demand for the 17-nation currency.  The euro erased losses against the dollar after the
Financial Times reported that Italy was in talks with a Chinese
investment firm that may buy its bonds. The euro declined
earlier to the lowest level versus the greenback since February
after Greece’s chance of default in the next five years soared
to 98 percent. The yen advanced against all its most-traded
counterparts as demand for refuge increased and as the Swiss
National Bank-imposed ceiling on the franc leaves Japan’s
currency as one of the few haven assets.  “With the market in the very fractious state that it’s in,
it provides the pretense for a little bit of euro short
covering,” said Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist in
 New York  at BNP Paribas SA. “The dollar is strong because it’s
a very risk-averse market environment of which euro-zone
specific concerns are a fairly key part of, although there’s
also global growth worries.”  The euro dropped 0.4 percent to 105.62 yen at 5:01 p.m. in
New York, from 105.99 on Sept. 9, after sliding to 103.90, the
lowest level since June 2001. The euro traded at $1.3679 after
decreasing to $1.3495, the weakest since Feb. 15. The yen gained
0.5 percent to 77.21 per dollar.  Market Swings  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent after
falling as much as 1.6 percent. Crude oil futures rose 1.9
percent to $88.90 a barrel and the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note touched a record low 1.8770 percent.  The 14-day relative strength index for the euro against the
dollar fell to 28.52, less than 30 for a second day, signaling
it may have declined too fast and may reverse.  One-month implied volatility on the  currency pair  reached
17.9 percent, the highest level since May 2010. The cost of
options protecting on a drop in the euro also increased relative
to options hedging an advance.  “We’ve come quite far quite fast,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. “There’s a sense that the market got ahead
of itself in terms of thinking this weekend might see an exit of
Greece from the monetary union.”  Italian officials have held talks with Chinese counterparts
about potential investments in the euro region’s third-largest
economy, a government official said.  The purchase of Italian bonds by  China  was not the focus of
the talks, which took place in the past few weeks, the official
said on condition of anonymity. A spokesman for Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  declined to comment.  Less carry  Slowing global growth is punishing investors who bet on
Australian and Brazilian assets using money borrowed in dollars
and yen with the biggest losses in more than a year. A UBS index
tracking the performance of carry trades in which investors sell
currencies with low  interest rates  to buy ones in 24 markets
with higher yields has tumbled 2.6 percent this month.  It now costs a record $5.8 million upfront and $100,000
annually to insure $10 million of Greek debt for five years
using credit-default swaps, up from $5.5 million in advance
Sept. 9, according to CMA.  Merkel’s government is debating how to shore up German
banks in the event that  Greece  fails to meet the budget-cutting
terms of its aid package and is unable to get a bailout-loan
payment, three officials said Sept. 9. Merkel held talks on the
debt crisis today with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso.  Progress Report  Germany  will decide on a course of action after receiving
the results of a Greek progress report, a government spokesman
said, speaking on the customary condition of anonymity.  The Greek Cabinet voted yesterday to cut one month’s wages
from all elected officials and impose an annual charge on all
property for two years, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
told reporters. The nation has the cash reserves to cover its
needs for October, Ta Nea newspaper reported, citing comments
from Deputy Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis.  Traders are betting that the ECB will cut rates by 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, in the next 12 months,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index. That compares to a
25-basis-point increase projected Aug. 1. ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said last week after the central bank’s meeting
that “downside risks” to the region’s economy have
intensified.  French Banks  BNP Paribas SA,  Societe Generale  SA and Credit Agricole SA,
 France ’s largest banks by market value, led European equity
declines after two people with knowledge of the matter said
Moody’s Investors Service may cut their credit ratings as soon
as this week because of their Greek holdings.  Japan ’s yen was the best performer among the 10 developed
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes, rising 1.5 percent today. The yen tends to
gain during economic and financial turmoil because Japan’s
current account surplus makes it less reliant on foreign
capital.  “One of the safe havens was taken away -- the Swiss franc
-- and the yen is one of the remaining safe havens,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk in
New York at Societe Generale. “Euro-yen is reflecting that
euro-Swiss is taken out of the equation at the moment. I
wouldn’t be surprised to see the yen strengthen a little bit
more.”  The  Swiss National Bank  last week imposed a ceiling on the
franc at 1.20 per euro, the first time such a limit was set
since 1978, in an effort to curb the currency’s gains. The franc
had rallied 13 percent against the single currency this year
before the ceiling was announced.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi ended his first Group
of Seven meeting without his counterparts objecting to his
pledge to take “bold actions” to stem yen gains, paving the
way for a fresh intervention if he deems it necessary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  