-- 
Euro May Weaken Against Dollar as German Exports Decline: Chart of the Day

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/euro-may-weaken-against-dollar-as-german-exports-decline-chart-of-the-day.html
The euro is poised to weaken
against the dollar as falling German exports add to evidence
that the region’s largest economy is losing momentum, according
to FxPro Financial Services Ltd.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows seasonally adjusted German
exports grew 16 percent in the year through April, while the
euro gained 11 percent. They slid 1.8 percent in July from June,
when they dropped 1.2, according to the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden on Sept. 8. The 17-nation currency was
little changed against the dollar in the period. The decline in
exports increases the likelihood that the euro will decline,
FxPro said.  “Should the German export machine continue to lose
traction, then this is likely to place further pressure on the
euro,” Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro in London, said
by telephone on Sept. 9. “ Germany  relies on foreign demand to
prosper, so with the rest of  Europe  and the U.S. hunkering down,
it will suffer. A weakened Germany cannot be good for the euro
at such an incredibly uncertain time.”  The euro fell 1.6 percent against the dollar to $1.3710 at
4:37 p.m. in London on Sept. 9. That left it 3.8 percent lower
versus the dollar, on course for its biggest weekly drop since
Aug. 13, 2010.  German growth is slowing as Europe’s debt crisis prompts
governments from  Spain  to Ireland to cut spending, sapping
demand for German products. The  European Central Bank  said on
Sept. 8 that the euro region’s economic outlook has worsened as
it cut its growth forecasts for this year and next. U.S. job
growth stalled last month, adding to signs the world’s largest
economy is weakening.  Derks said the euro may fall around 1.6 percent to $1.35 in
the next two to three weeks. The shared European currency has
weakened 0.8 percent this year against a basket of nine major
peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  