-- 
Europe May Need to Bail Out, Nationalize Some Banks, Westpac’s Jones Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-09-11T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/europe-may-need-to-bail-out-nationalize-some-banks-westpac-s-jones-says.html
European officials may have to bail
out and nationalize some private banks to avoid another global
recession, said Russell Jones, global head of fixed-income
strategy at  Australia ’s second-biggest lender.  “The last thing really the global economy needs now is a
major banking crisis in the  euro zone ,” Jones, of Sydney-based
Westpac Banking Corp., said in an interview yesterday on the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside Business” program.
“The governments are going to have to put their hands in their
pockets.”  Group of Seven finance chiefs and central bankers vowed in
recent days to support banks and buoy slowing economic growth.
“We will take all necessary actions to ensure the resilience of
banking systems and financial markets,” they said in a
statement released during weekend talks in Marseille, France.  A European banking collapse is “the sort of shock to the
system when things are very fragile, as they are at the moment,
that could really push us back into the sort of downturn we
experienced in 2008 and 2009,” Jones said, according to a
transcript of the interview. Nationalization is possible, “at
least temporarily so,” he said.  Emergency steps such as unlimited loans from the  European
Central Bank  are keeping many banks in  Greece , Portugal,  Italy 
and  Spain  solvent and easing the lending of others, while low
 interest rates  and debt buying are containing borrowing costs.
Such aid is needed to counter concerns about slowing economic
growth and sovereign debt that are prompting banks to curb
lending, stockpile dollars and hoard cash.  Market Turmoil  Stocks sank and the euro slid to a six-month low against
the dollar on Sept. 9 as three German officials said that
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is preparing plans to
shore up banks should Greece default.  European bank credit risk surged to an all-time high on
Sept. 9 and stocks fell worldwide on concern that the debt
crisis is escalating. German two-year yields declined to a
record as investors sought a haven and Greek two-year note
yields added as much as 86 basis points to 55.91 percent, a
euro-era record.  There’s little sign of a rebound in Europe.  France ’s
economy stalled in the second quarter, Germany’s expanded 0.1
percent and the U.K.’s gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent  “A lot of the European banks had a lot of the  government
bonds  which have been issued by some of the more, shall we say,
struggling economies around the periphery of the euro zone,”
Jones said. “They are not going to get all of the money back”
should those nations default on their debts, he said.  Australia’s Slowdown  Australian households are saving more as assets including
stocks and houses decline in value as the Reserve Bank of
Australia maintains the benchmark lending rate at a developed-
world high of 4.75 percent.  A 13.5 percent increase in the Australia dollar in the past
year, spurred by a boom in mining investment to meet demand from
India and  China , is hurting the nation’s manufacturing and
tourism industries.  On top of the high currency, “the lingering effects of the
global financial crisis and continuing international uncertainty
have resulted in Australian consumers being a lot more cautious
in their spending,” Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
yesterday in a weekly economic note. “This is making life
harder for sectors like manufacturing, tourism and retailing.”  Swan also said a tax forum he’s convening next month will
focus on ways to keep Australia’s government debt under control.  “We’ve seen how important it is to maintain a strong
budget position in recent months as the  United States  and  Europe 
have struggled to get their public finances on a sustainable
footing,” he said. “The government will not be in the cart for
any measures that compromise our strict fiscal discipline.”  Watching Rates  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has signaled a willingness to
keep rates on hold while the nation’s consumers retrench and
global financial markets create instability for the
“foreseeable future.” Last week he held rates for a ninth
straight meeting, citing “unsettled” international markets.  Westpac’s Jones said the RBA may need to cut rates as signs
emerge the economy is slowing, such as the jobless rate in
August climbing to 5.3 percent from 5.1 percent, the highest
since October.  The Australian economy “is not performing quite the way
that the authorities thought it would or would like it to,”
Jones said. “Irrespective of what is going to go on in the
global economy, there are growing reasons for the  Reserve Bank 
to embrace a more accommodative approach to monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  