-- 
Femmes Fatales Take Paris, Johnny Acts, Toy Trove: Fall Season

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-09-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/femmes-fatales-take-paris-johnny-acts-toy-trove-fall-season.html
The Paris theater season starts
with two seniors not exactly known for their acting talents:
Johnny Hallyday and Mikhail Baryshnikov.  Hallyday,  France ’s only real rock star, appears for the
first time in a play as Chicken in Tennessee Williams’s rarely
revived “Kingdom of Earth.” Chicken is, according to the text,
“a young man of 30 or 35.” Hallyday is 68.  As Napoleon is supposed to have said, “Impossible n’est
pas francais.” Information:  http://www.theatreedouard7.com   Baryshnikov, 63, dances a bit but mostly talks in Russian.
“In Paris” (Sept. 8-17) is a dialogue between two refugees
adapted from a 1940 novella by Ivan Bunin,  Russia ’s first winner
of the  Nobel Prize  for Literature.  Information:  http://theatre-chaillot.fr   Another two-hander, written by another Nobel Prize winner,
is Toni Morrison’s “Desdemona,” directed by Peter Sellars. The
second character is Barbara, the dead maid whose sad song of the
willow Desdemona recalls in her own hour of death. The show,
which also features musicians and a chorus, runs Oct. 13 to 21
and travels to  Los Angeles  and  New York .  Information:  http://www.nanterre-amandiers.com   Predatory Lulu  If Desdemona is the archetypal victim of a male-dominated
society, Lulu is the opposite -- the man-eating femme fatale.
She appears twice, in Frank Wedekind’s play, directed by  Robert Wilson  with music by  Lou Reed , a guest performance of the
 Berliner Ensemble  (Nov. 4-13), and in a revival of Alban Berg’s
work at the Opera Bastille, directed by Willy Decker and
conducted by Michael Schonwandt (Oct. 18-Nov. 5).  Information:  http://www.theatredelaville-paris.com   The first new production at the Opera Bastille is Gounod’s
“Faust,” with Roberto Alagna in the title role and Inva Mula
as Marguerite. Jean-Louis Martinoty directs, Alain Lombard
conducts (Sept. 22-Oct. 25).  Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr   California  Collectors  The safest bets in visual arts are, as usual, the museum
shows. The Grand Palais starts with an appeal to the inner child
in all of us: “Of Toys and Men” (Sept. 14-Jan. 23, 2012)
traces the history of toys from antiquity to now.  Later, (Oct. 5-Jan. 16, 2012), the collectors Gertrude,
Michael and Leo Stein take center stage at the Grand Palais. In
1903, the rich kids from California settled in Paris and
explored the avant-garde long before French curators.  “Matisse, Cezanne, Picasso -- The Adventure of the
Steins,” an exhibition coming from San Francisco and later
traveling to New York, will be on view from Oct. 5 to Jan. 16,
2012. “Cezanne et Paris” at the Musee du Luxembourg (Oct. 12-
Feb. 26, 2012) presents a different angle of the story.  Information:  http://www.rmn.fr  or
 http://www.museeduluxembourg.fr   Two exhibitions at the Louvre dive into the distant past:
“The Forbidden City” (Sept. 29-Jan. 9, 2012) explores
relations between the Chinese emperors and the French kings;
“The Kingdom of Alexander the Great” (Oct. 13-Jan. 16, 2012)
traces the history of Macedonia. Information:
 http://www.louvre.fr   “Beaute, Morale et Volupte”  at the Musee d’Orsay (Sept.
13-Jan. 15, 2012), a show organized by  London ’s  Victoria &
Albert Museum  and traveling next year to  San Francisco , evokes
the Aesthetic Movement of the late 19th century that preached
the gospel of beauty even if it collided with Victorian
morality. The collision sometimes ended badly, as in the case of
 Oscar Wilde .  Information:  http://www.musee-orsay.fr   (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 