-- 
Fiat Frets Volkswagen Up! With Europe Turnaround at Risk: Cars

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-12T13:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/fiat-frets-volkswagen-up-with-europe-turnaround-at-risk-cars.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s revamped Panda could be
hurt by a competing compact from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , jeopardizing
efforts to turn around the Italian carmaker’s unprofitable
European business.  Fiat, which relies on minis and compacts for 75 percent of
European deliveries, will introduce a new version of the best-
selling Panda this week at the International Motor Show in
Frankfurt, where VW will enter the segment with the new Up! city
car. VW’s smallest and cheapest model is projected to surpass
the Panda in sales by 2013, according to IHS Automotive.  “Fiat seems very worried by the Up!,” said Giuseppe Berta, a business professor at Milan’s  Bocconi University , who’s
written books on the carmaker. “They feel a lot of pressure, as
the new German subcompact has a bit of Italian flair. The new
Panda is something that Fiat can’t afford to get wrong.”  Turin-based Fiat, which controls Chrysler Group LLC, is
betting on the Panda to lead a recovery in market share and
narrow annual losses estimated at 800 million euros ($1.1
billion). The rollout will be a test of Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne ’s ability to compete head to head with larger
European rivals as he seeks to craft a global auto group from
two struggling regional manufacturers.  ‘Not Enough’  “The new Panda is not enough,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, who
oversees 200 million euros at Alisei SIM in Milan, including
Fiat shares. “Marchionne should invest more in new models, but
he won’t have enough resources to spend before completing the
Chrysler tie-up.”  Marchionne, who also heads Chrysler, acknowledged in an
April interview that he neglected Europe as he pushed for a
turnaround at the third-largest U.S. carmaker. Fiat’s market
share in the region shrank to 7.2 percent in the first half from
8.1 percent a year earlier, while VW expanded its share to 22.8
percent from 21.1 percent, according to data from the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  Fiat’s goal of ending European losses is also hampered by
its relative strength in southern  Europe , where governments are
battling a growing debt crisis. Fiat is “most at risk” among
European carmakers, Exane BNP Paribas analyst Thierry Huon wrote
in a note to clients today. Huon, who has a “underperform”
rating on the stock, cut his target price on Fiat by 33 percent
to 4.7 euros.  Fiat fell as much as 5.9 percent to 3.49 euros, its lowest
intraday price since May 25, 2010, and was down 3.9 percent at
3.56 euros at 3:14 p.m. local time. The carmaker has fallen 47
percent this year, making it the worst performer in the 13-
member Euro Stoxx Automobiles & Parts Index.  ‘Critical Model’  “The Panda is a critical model for Fiat’s market share and
to keep dealers busy,” though it won’t likely be enough to end
losses, said  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, who has a “market perform” rating on Fiat. “It’s a
hard segment to make money in.”  Fiat’s decision to switch factories for the model won’t
likely help. The new version, which goes on sale in December,
will be produced at a costlier plant in Pomigliano, near Naples,
while the current version was built in  Poland . Fiat will start
Panda production at the Pomigliano plant Nov. 3, the Italian
company told unions today.  The Up! may more than double sales to 244,700 in 2013 from
118,600 next year, boosted by VW’s global presence, while sales
of the Panda may decline 2.2 percent to 203,300 in 2013,
according to IHS figures. Fiat aims to sell about 250,000 new
Pandas a year, said a person familiar with the company’s goals,
who declined to be named before the official presentation of the
car at the  Frankfurt  motor show tomorrow.  Panda Edge  Still, in some areas the Panda may have an edge. It’s 11
centimeters (4.3 inches) longer than the Up! and offers five
rather than four seats. The Up!, which will cost about 9,500
euros, also won’t likely be able to match the Panda’s price,
which currently starts at 8,800 euros, Warburton said.  Fiat’s reputation and experience in the segment will also
help, said Piero Carlomagno, a dealer who has been selling
Pandas in the southern town of Rende since the early 1980s.  “While competition will be tougher, we benefit from being
city-car specialists,” Carlomagno said in an interview. “We
have expertise that VW doesn’t have.”  VW has acquired some of that. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based
manufacturer last year purchased the company of Giorgetto Giugiaro, who designed the first Panda in 1980 and helped to
develop the Up!. Walter Da Silva, a former Fiat director, heads
VW’s design, and Luca De Meo was one of Marchionne’s key
managers before joining VW in 2009 as head of marketing.  Government Role  Expanding in the city-car segment is a key part of VW’s
strategy of becoming the world’s largest carmaker by 2018, as
demand is lifted by governments pushing for more fuel-efficient
cars. Deliveries of small cars may rise 30 percent to 7.61
million by 2014, according to IHS.  The Panda still has its fans. Ferrari Chairman Luca Cordero
di Montezemolo uses the car for navigating  Rome ’s narrow
streets. His daughter Clementina and her husband drove a Panda
away from the church after their  wedding  in Bologna in 2008. The
economic slump may boost the model’s appeal.  “The new Panda comes at just the right time, as customers
are looking for small, cheap cars to help them get through
another recession,” Fiat dealer Carlomagno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 