-- 
French Banks Slide as Greek Holdings Might Prompt Moody’s to Cut Ratings

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-12T17:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/french-banks-steep-slide-may-limit-drop-on-possible-moody-s-cut.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Societe Generale SA
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  plunged in Paris on a possible ratings
cut by Moody’s Investors Service, extending their more than 40
percent slide in the last three months.  Societe Generale fell 11 percent to its lowest level in 19
years. Credit Agricole tumbled 11 percent to its lowest on
record. BNP Paribas dropped 12 percent to a 2 ½-year low.
Credit-default swaps tied to the senior debt of the three banks,
reflecting the cost of insuring against default, rose to
records, according to CMA.  France’s three largest banks by market value may have their
credit ratings cut as early as this week because of their Greek
holdings, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The
country’s lenders top the list of Greek creditors with $56.7
billion in overall exposure to private and public debt,
according to a June report by the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank
for International Settlements.  “SocGen’s market value has lost about 20 billion euros
over two months, you can’t explain that only with sovereign
risks and a potential downgrade from Moody’s,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps manage about $14 billion at Landesbank
Berlin Investment GmbH and owns shares in  Societe Generale (GLE) , BNP
Paribas and Credit Agricole. “The market is playing broader
themes. The fear is liquidity, banking crisis and of course
recession.”  Asset Sales  Moody’s placed the three banks’ ratings on review in June,
citing “the potential for inconsistency between the impact of a
possible Greek default or restructuring and current rating
levels.” Cuts are likely as the review period concludes, said
the people who declined to be identified because the matter is
confidential.  Societe Generale said today it plans to sell assets to free
up 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) of capital by 2013 in an
effort to reassure investors about its finances. The Paris-based
bank has “manageable” exposure to Greece,  Portugal , Ireland,
 Italy  and  Spain , Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said on
a conference call.  Oudea said Moody’s is studying a possible downgrade. Credit
Agricole spokeswoman Anne-Sophie Gentil declined to comment as
did BNP Paribas spokesman Antoine Sire.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said today that
French banks are capable of facing any Greek situation. They
don’t have liquidity or solvency problems, he said.  Falling More  Before today, Societe Generale had slid 55 percent since
June 15, while Credit Agricole declined 45 percent and BNP
Paribas 42 percent. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial
Services Index of 46 companies fell 30 percent in the period.  “French banks are falling more than others because Moody’s
is planning a downgrade,” said Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based
analyst at AlphaValue. “This isn’t a deterioration of the
French banks’ franchises per se because one ought also to bear
in mind that Moody’s is acting late compared with other rating
agencies.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its ratings on
Societe Generale and BNP Paribas in 2009 and on  Credit Agricole 
in May. Moody’s currently rates BNP Paribas’ long-term debt at
Aa2, the third-highest investment grade. Credit Agricole is
rated Aa1, the second highest, while Societe Generale is Aa2.  Government Support  The reviews of Credit Agricole and BNP Paribas are unlikely
to lead to downgrades of more than one level, Moody’s said when
it put the banks under review. Societe Generale’s debt and
deposit ratings may be cut as much as two grades because of the
“uplift it receives from systemic support, which is currently
higher than average for the French banking system,” the rating
company said at the time.  Further declines in the shares of BNP Paribas, Credit
Agricole and Societe Generale may depend on Moody’s rationale
for the downgrade, said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $10
billion, including shares in the three banks, at Banque Martin
Maurel in Marseille.  “If it’s simply  Greece , then I think it’s all in the
price, but if they talk about liquidity or funding problems,
then it could bring back fears of 2008” when bank shares
tumbled after  Lehman Brothers  collapsed, he said. “But I can’t
see a return of 2008. Governments and central banks will never,
never, repeat never allow a systemic bank to fail.”  Greek Risks  Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed on Sept. 9 to support
banks and buoy slowing economic growth as Europe’s debt crisis
roiled markets and threatened a global recession. Renewed fears
that policy makers are failing to prevent a Greek default and
contain their debt woes prompted investors to sell stocks and
push the euro to a six-month low against the dollar.  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure the
resilience of banking systems and financial markets,” G-7
finance ministers and central bankers said in a statement
released during talks in Marseille,  France .  Credit Agricole’s main risk arises from its Greek
subsidiary Emporiki Bank of Greece SA, Moody’s said in June.
Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank by market value,
faces risks from its stake in General Bank of Greece. Credit
Agricole is France’s third-largest bank. BNP Paribas doesn’t
have a local unit in Greece and is instead at risk from direct
holdings of Greek government debt, Moody’s said.  Bond Prices  Credit default swaps insuring the bonds of the three French
banks have widened since the end of July, rising to a record
today. Contracts on Societe Generale increased 26 basis points
from 390 to 416. Swaps on the senior bonds of BNP Paribas rose
24 basis points to 299 from 275, while those on the securities
of Credit Agricole gained 25 from 290 to 315.  SocGen’s 1.25 billion euros of 4 percent, April 2016 senior
unsecured bonds declined 0.13 cent to 98.46 cents on the euro,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. The Paris-based lender’s 1
billion euros of 4.196 percent subordinated perpetual notes
dropped 0.8 cent to 55.7 cents on the euro.  BNP Paribas’s 2 billion euros of 3.75 percent, senior
unsecured bonds due in November 2020 fell 0.2 cents to 100.27
cents on the euro, after climbing to a closing-day record of
100.56 cents on Sept. 9, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The bank’s 375 million euros of 5.2 percent subordinated
securities due September 2017 declined 0.04 cents to 100.98,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet at   hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at   gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 