-- 
Funds Boost Bullish Commodity Bets on Outlook for Economic-Stimulus Plans

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-12T05:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/funds-boost-bullish-commodity-bets-on-outlook-for-economic-stimulus-plans.html
Funds increased bullish bets on raw
materials for a fourth straight week, the longest series of
gains this year, on speculation that economic-stimulus programs
will lift demand for metals, grains and energy.  In the week ended Sept. 6, speculators raised their net-
long positions in 18 commodities by 0.2 percent to 1.28 million
futures and options contracts, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the highest level since June 14. Funds
became bullish on copper for the first time in three weeks, and
wagers on a gold rally increased for the first time since early
August.  Last week,  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
policy makers this month will discuss tools they may use to help
the recovery, and President  Barack Obama  proposed a $447 billion
plan to spur job growth. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities has surged 22 percent in the past year as the Fed
kept U.S. borrowing costs near zero percent and bought
Treasuries in a bid to stimulate growth.  “The printing presses of various governments running
overtime is likely to keep the commodity markets hot and
volatile for quite some time,” Philip Gotthelf, the president
of Equidex Brokerage Group Inc. in Closter, New Jersey, said in
a telephone interview on Sept. 9.  Investors poured $240 million into commodity funds in the
week ended Sept. 7, the first inflow in four weeks, according to
EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company.  ‘Move Into Gold’  “It was more a move into gold and precious metals,”
 Cameron Brandt , EPFR’s director of research, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 9. “The train of thought is the Federal
Reserve is probably going to move again on some kind of stimulus
program that’s going to weaken the dollar” and boost demand for
gold as an alternative asset, he said.  Speculators increased net-long positions in gold by 1.3
percent to 197,844 contracts, the first gain since Aug. 2, data
from the U.S. Commodity and Futures Trading Commission showed.
Bullish silver bets jumped 6.9 percent to 28,256 contracts.  Gold futures, which surged to a record $1,923.70 an ounce
on Sept. 6, are up 31 percent this year as escalating debt woes
in  Europe  and the U.S. boosted demand for a haven. December-
delivery bullion in  New York  shed as much as 0.8 percent to
$1,844.60 an ounce before trading at $1,852.50 as of 12:23 p.m.
Singapore time.  “The move that we’ve seen higher in gold is really all
about what’s going on in Europe,” Nic Johnson, who helps manage
about $30 billion in commodities at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 9.  Greece Crisis  The MSCI All-Country World Index fell 3.4 percent last week
on speculation that Greece’s debt crisis could worsen. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is preparing plans to
shore up banks in the event that  Greece  fails to meet the terms
of its aid package and defaults, three coalition officials said.  “The macro monetary policy and market conditions continue
to make gold attractive,”  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage
about $15 billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San Francisco ,
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 9. “We’re still
believers, long term, in the use of commodities as a significant
asset class. If you believe in the worldwide growth story, I
think that long term it’s a positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  