-- 
Germany May be Ready to Surrender Over Greece

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-11T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/germany-readies-surrender-in-fight-to-save-greece-euro-credit.html
Germany  may be getting ready to
give up on Greece.  After almost two years of fighting to contain the region’s
debt crisis and providing the biggest share of three European
bailouts,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is laying the ground for what
markets say is almost a sure thing: a Greek default.  “It feels like Germany is preparing itself for a debt
default,”  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in an interview.
“Fatigue is setting in. Germany could be a first mover or other
countries could be preparing too.”  Officials in Merkel’s government are debating how to shore
up German banks in the event that  Greece  fails to meet the
budget-cutting terms of its aid package and is unable to get a
bailout-loan payment, three coalition officials said Sept. 9.
The move capped a week of escalating German threats that Greece
won’t get the money unless it meets fiscal targets and investors
raising bets on a default.  Ring-fencing their banks and a hardening of rescue terms
risk isolating Germany and unnerving global policy makers
already fretting that the region’s political tussles are roiling
markets and threatening growth. Underscoring the tone of weekend
talks of Group of Seven finance chiefs, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  told Bloomberg Television that European
authorities must “demonstrate they have enough political will”
to end the crisis.  Credit Risks  European bank credit risk surged last week to an all-time
high and the euro fell by the most against the dollar in a year.
Investors have doubts whether Greece, whose two-year notes now
yield 57 percent, will implement austerity moves fast enough to
get a sixth payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($151
billion) bailout.  The Greek government’s top priority is “to save the country
from bankruptcy,” Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said in a
Sept. 10 speech in the northern Greek city of Thessaloniki. “We
will remain in the euro” and this “means difficult decisions,”
he said.  More evidence of rifts at the heart of policy making was
exposed with the unexpected Sept. 9 announcement that Juergen Stark, a German, will quit the European Central Bank’s executive
board over his opposition to the ECB’s purchases of bonds from
debt-laden countries.  “Stark’s departure could be seen by financial markets as
another indication of growing disenchantment in Germany towards
the euro,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London. “This could complicate Germany’s
involvement in additional bailout programs.”  Marseille Gathering  At the G-7 gathering in the French port of Marseille, ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said they knew nothing
about the talk in Germany of the so-called Plan B to protect
banks. French officials said they weren’t working on a parallel
proposal and Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said his
country’s banks have the capital to withstand a Greek default.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
France’s largest banks by market value, may have their credit
ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service as soon as this week
because of their Greek holdings, two people with knowledge of
the matter said on Sept. 10.  Moody’s said in June that the three banks were placed on
review to examine “the potential for inconsistency between the
impact of a possible Greek default or restructuring,” and the
companies’ current rating levels.  Deutsche Bank  German banks were the biggest holders of Greek  government
bonds  at the end of 2010 with $22.7 billion, according to data
from the Bank for International Settlements. As of June 30,
Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank, had  1.15 billion euros 
of net sovereign risk to Greece, down from 1.6 billion euros at
the end of 2010.  The aim of the contingency plan is to shield German banks
from losses from a possible Greek default, which has a more-than
90 percent chance of happening, prices for insurance against
default show.  The plan involves measures to help banks and insurers that
face a possible 50 percent loss on their Greek bonds if the next
portion of Greece’s bailout is withheld, said the three
officials, who declined to be identified because the
deliberations are being held in private. The successor to the
government’s bank-rescue fund introduced in 2008 might be
enrolled to help recapitalize the banks, one of the people said.  Merkel Policy  The discussions aren’t intended to shove  Athens  out of the
euro, said Klaus-Peter Flosbach, budget-policy spokesman of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and the  Christian Social
Union  in parliament.  “It would be of central importance to keep the possibility
of contagion in the euro zone as low as possible,” Flosbach
said in an e-mail. “In any case, we’re not looking into pushing
Greece out of the euro zone.”  Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said Germany’s
concern is broader than Greece, which is in its third year of a
deepening recession, and centers on how its banks and economy
would cope if the debt crisis spreads.  “Germany is preparing for the worst, which is that the
crisis in the  euro zone  is going to be much bigger for
everyone,” Erixon said.  German Critics  German lawmakers, who are scheduled to vote Sept. 29 on a
second Greek aid package and revamped rescue fund, stepped up
their criticism of Greece after an international mission to
Athens suspended its report on the country’s progress two weeks
ago.  “There can be no doubt” that Greece must fulfil the terms
of aid to receive it, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said in Marseille. “Everybody must stand by the agreements.”  With a loss in her home state of Mecklenburg-Western
Pomerania this month, Merkel’s coalition has been defeated or
lost votes in all six state elections this year as voters reject
putting more taxpayer money on the line for bailouts. Merkel has
also antagonized markets and fellow leaders by initially holding
out against aid for Greece and demanding investors pay a share
of the assistance.  Fifty-three percent of Germans oppose further aid for
Greece and wouldn’t save the country from default unless it
fulfils terms of the rescue agreement, Bild am Sonntag reported,
citing an Emnid poll of 503 respondents conducted Sept. 8.  Greek Response  After European markets closed last week, Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos dismissed “rumors” of a default
and said his nation is committed to “full implementation” of
the terms of the July accord for a second aid package.  Venizelos told reporters in Thessaloniki yesterday that
budget measures, including a special levy on real estate, will
be enough to meet targets set for 2011.  The market fallout served as the backdrop for the G-7 talks
where Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said  Europe ’s woes
were the “number one” topic and that Greece may even need to
quit the euro if it can’t consolidate its budget. Geithner said
authorities “need to do whatever they can do to calm these
pressures” and that rich European nations need to provide
“unequivocal” support for their weak neighbors.  G-7 officials vowed to “take all necessary actions to
ensure the resilience of banking systems and financial
markets,” and to make a “concerted effort” to support a
flagging world economy. They detailed no new policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Marseille at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  