-- 
Gillard Plans Revised Australia Migration Law After Court Ruling, Backlash

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-09-12T09:10:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/gillard-meets-with-labor-party-after-refugee-issue-hurt-ratings.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will
present changes in  Australia ’s migration law to parliament after
the High Court rejected her refugee policy in a blow to a
government facing record-low approval ratings.  Gillard will submit a proposal to parliament next week to
make it legal for the government to send asylum-seekers to
another nation for their refugee claims to be processed there.
The announcement came after the Cabinet and Labor party caucus
held meetings today to discuss the rebuff of Gillard’s deal with
Malaysia to process illegal immigrants to Australia.  "This proves her to be resolute and determined, with the
ability to get the caucus behind her," said John Warhurst, a
professor at Australian National University in Canberra. "But it
leaves a lot of loose ends, including whether the change will
pass parliament and whether it will improve her public
standing."  Gillard is seeking to shore up support after her approval
slumped six points to 32 percent in a Nielsen poll published in
 Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  newspapers today, with the refugee issue
deepening public dissatisfaction previously sparked by her
efforts to rein in carbon pollution. Gillard, Australia’s first
female prime minister, may have to depend on opposition support
to get a bill through parliament.  ‘Policy Failure’  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , who has criticized the prime
minister for failing to stem a flow of Asian boat people lured
by Australian economic growth, said today his coalition would
consider any legislative proposals from Gillard. The agreement
with Malaysia has been a “proven policy failure,” Abbott said
in an e-mailed statement.  The Labor party relies on the support of three independents
and a Greens party member in the lower house and on the Greens
in the upper-house Senate to pass legislation. Greens leader  Bob
Brown  has said his party is against the proposed changes from
Gillard, who has pledged to stay on and fight the next election,
due in 2013.  “These amendments will provide for the government to
proceed with transfers under the agreement with  Malaysia ,”
Gillard told reporters in Canberra today. “They will ensure the
government of the day can determine the border protection policy
that it believes is in the best interest of the nation.”  Falling Approval  The drop in Gillard’s approval rating in the Nielsen poll
follows a record-low 23 percent support level in a Newspoll
survey published last week in the Australian. The prime
minister’s public backing plummeted after News Ltd. newspapers,
a unit of  Rupert Murdoch ’s media enterprise, this month said
that unnamed Labor party members wanted her to quit.  Senior Labor lawmakers -- including Deputy Prime Minister
and Treasurer  Wayne Swan , Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten , and
Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  -- have publicly rallied around
Gillard, saying she is best positioned to head the party. Labor
relies on independents and Greens to support its minority
administration after the nation’s closest election result in 70
years in 2010.  Gillard will be leader of the  Labor Party  until the next
election, Smith said yesterday on the Australian Broadcasting
Corp.’s “Inside Business” program. Labor lawmakers have “made
our judgments about leadership and I don’t believe there’s any
enthusiasm on the part of the party to revisit those issues," he
said.  Preferred Leader  Kevin Rudd , Gillard’s foreign minister and predecessor, is
the preferred head of Labor, with 44 percent support compared
with Gillard’s 19 percent, the Nielsen poll of 1,400 people
showed. Support for the opposition Liberal-National coalition
was 58 percent versus Labor’s 42 percent. Forty-eight percent
said Abbott would be a better prime minister, compared with 40
percent who backed Gillard, according to the poll, which had a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  Gillard, 49, won the leadership after the party dumped Rudd
because of a drop in poll ratings amid a battle with miners like
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  over his plans for a 40 percent tax on
resource profits and after he reneged on establishing a plan to
control  carbon emissions .  A small group of Labor members who backed Rudd in last
year’s leadership battle is trying to convince colleagues that
there will be no retribution should he return to power,
 Perth.now  reported Sept. 10, citing senior government officials
it didn’t identify.  Gillard’s challenges have escalated since the High Court on
Aug. 31 overturned the government’s July 25 agreement with
Malaysia, saying it didn’t provide adequate protection for
asylum seekers under international or domestic law.  ‘People Smugglers’  The prime minister had said the arrangement -- under which
Australia would send 800 asylum seekers to Malaysia and would
accept 4,000 people from that country who have been verified as
legitimate refugees by the  United Nations  -- would ‘‘smash the
business model of people smugglers.”  The court’s decision had made it unlikely that the
processing could be carried out elsewhere outside Australia,
Immigration Minister Chris Bowen said on Sept. 4. Asylum seekers
are currently processed at Christmas Island, between  Indonesia 
and Australia’s west coast.  “This is a very challenging and difficult issue for the
Labor party and the government, as it is for the nation,” Smith
said yesterday. “The  High Court  has effectively changed the
rules as far as offshore processing is concerned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  