-- 
Hedge Funds Weather August Financial Market Rout Trading Gold at a Record

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-12T08:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/gold-bets-help-hedge-funds-weather-august-global-market-rout.html
Hedge funds run by Orix Investment
Corp., Superfund and Four Elements Capital Management Pte
benefited from the surge in gold last month, weathering the U.S.
sovereign downgrade and  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis.  The Orix Commodities Fund, which uses computer programs to
search for price signals in  futures markets , gained 3.5 percent
in August, while Superfund Blue Gold, which invests in global
equities and tracks the bullion price, jumped 13.45 percent, the
firms said. Gold investments in the Earth Element Fund, run by
former commodity traders at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
returned 1 percent, helping trim losses in the fund.  Gold surpassed $1,900 an ounce for the first time in August
as investors sought protection for their wealth on concerns that
global economic growth is slowing. The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund
Index lost 1.9 percent in August and the MSCI World Index slid
7.3 percent, their worst month since May 2010.  “Gold has become a very volatile asset class so if you’re
good at trading through the volatility you can profit from it,”
said  Peter Douglas , principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which
advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds and
runs a wealth-management business.  Gold Hedge  Bullion is up 32 percent this year, outperforming global
stocks, commodities and Treasuries as investors seek to
diversify away from equities and some currencies, and central
banks add to their reserves for the first time in a generation.
Holdings in exchange-traded products reached a record 2,216.756
tons on Aug. 8.  Gold is in the 11th year of a  bull market , the longest
winning streak since at least 1920 and reached a record
$1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6. After reaching $1,913.50 an ounce
on Aug. 23, it suffered its biggest drop since February 2010.  The metal fell for a second day as concern about a
potential Greek default drove the dollar higher and some
investors sold the metal to cover losses in other markets on
speculation the European debt contagion is worsening. It
recently traded at $1,841.80.  Continuing to be overweight gold, or holding more bullion
relative to benchmarks, to boost performance might not be
prudent, said Satoko Koshida, founding partner of KTOs Capital
Partners Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund.  “Betting on gold only just because the mandate allows you
to do so may be too risky,” Koshida said. “If you are looking
for a mid-to-long-term gain, you should be diversifying your
assets; after all, gold is just one of many asset classes.”  ‘Thanks to Gold’  The $48 million Orix Commodity Fund held long positions in
bonds and gold, while shorting equity futures, said Atsuhito Mori, Orix Investment’s chief trader in  Tokyo . The fund, also
run by  GCI Asset Management Inc. , has returned 11.2 percent
since its inception in June 2010, said Shinichiro Nagai, a
senior manager at the investment group of Tokyo-based GCI, a
Japanese hedge-fund firm.  “August performance by far was thanks to gold’s gain,”
Mori said. “People used to think that $400 was the ceiling for
gold and some argue that the current price doesn’t reflect the
fundamentals or the supply and demand conditions, but if this
continues, it could well become the new fundamental for gold.”  Superfund, which oversees $1.4 billion in assets, has been
betting on gold since the firm founded in Vienna in 1995 started
offering funds that track the price of bullion in 2005, said
Johann Peter Santer, president of Superfund Securities Japan Co.  ‘Not Surprised’  Superfund Blue Gold, which uses a computer-driven model to
trade global equities, offers a gold class by investing in metal
futures to take advantage of movements in bullion, according to
the firm. The gold class combines the performance of equities in
the fund and the price of gold, Tokyo-based Santer said.  “We’re not surprised that this is happening,” he said.
“We started educating on gold when it was about $370 per ounce.
Back then, people thought these Austrian guys were crazy.”  The gold price may reach $3,000 an ounce in the next one to
two years, Santer said, adding that it will depend on how much
money will be printed globally. He cited buying by central banks,
demand from India and  China , introduction of ETFs, and gold
becoming the “de facto for safe haven investments” as reasons
for further gains.  Central bank and government institutions buying of bullion
rose almost fivefold to 69.4 tons in the second quarter, taking
the first-half total to 192.3 tons, according to the World Gold
Council. In 2010, central banks became net buyers for the first
time in two decades and will remain net buyers this year, it
said.  The Earth Element Fund lost 0.29 percent in August,
according to Managing Director Lionel Semonin at Singapore-based
Four Elements Capital, with $23 million in assets.  Offsetting Metals, Oil  Gold holdings in the fund, which invests in about 40
commodities products around the world including metals,
agriculture and energy, helped limit losses it made on base
metals and energy, Semonin said. Aluminum dropped 5.9 percent in
August, while crude oil slid 7.2 percent.  The firm’s computerized analysis picked gold to invest at
the end of July and cut its position in August, Semonin said.
Earth Element is up 3.07 percent this year through August,
compared with the 1.3 percent decline by the Eurekahedge Global
CTA/Managed Futures Index.  Investments in precious metals yielded 1.66 percent in
August for U.K.-based  Quality Capital Management Ltd. , which
manages about $880 million in managed futures funds, said
Founder Aref Karim. Of those gains, gold made up 1.63 percent
last month, while the sell-off in aluminum and copper markets
led to a loss of 3.26 percent for the fund, he said.  Astmax  Astmax Co., a Tokyo-based asset management firm, which
focuses on commodities, is planning to start a hedge fund later
this year that will invest in global markets including the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and Chicago Board of Trade based on
computerized trades, said  Tetsu Emori ,  fund manager  at the
Tokyo-based firm.  The fund returned 18 percent in the past year based on
simulated trades and 5 percent last month as gains in metal
prices including gold and silver contributed, Emori said.  “Long positions in flight-to-quality assets, mainly fixed
income, have again showed their ability to hedge out
uncertainty,” Quality Capital’s Karim said. “Gold has been a
store of value for centuries. Its price reflects global anxiety,
political and economic uncertainty, and even long-term
implications of  climate change .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  