-- 
Guatemalans Vote as Violence Fuels Former General’s Election Bid

-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-09-11T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/guatemalans-vote-as-violence-fuels-former-general-s-election-bid.html
Guatemalans vote in presidential
elections today as mounting violence damps investment in Central
America’s biggest economy and raises the popularity of a former
general who has promised to clamp down on drug gangs.  Opinion polls predict  Otto Perez  Molina will run well ahead
of rivals Manuel Baldizon and Eduardo Suger, though he’s
unlikely to garner the 50 percent plus one vote needed to win
outright and avoid a Nov. 6 runoff.  Perez, who heads the opposition Patriot Party, emphasized
during the campaign his role in ending the country’s 36-year
civil war in 1996. He has denied the 1999 findings of a United
Nations-sponsored truth commission, which said massacres and
abuses described by about 9,000 witnesses and survivors amounted
to a government policy of genocide.  “I was in the army for 30 years, but I have a democratic
vision,” Perez said in an interview broadcast on Canal Antigua
on Sept. 9. “I was part of the country’s process of
democratization. The next president’s responsibility is to
strengthen institutions.”  Voters are likely to ignore human rights abuses committed
during the conflict, for which officers under Perez’s command
were jailed, and elect Perez on his pledges to take a hard line
against crime, said Heather Berkman of the Eurasia Group, a
political risk consulting firm.  “Perez’s security experience is an easy way to make a mark
with voters,” Berkman said in a phone interview from  New York .
“Violence is the main issue on everyone’s mind.”  Opinion Poll  Perez has 48.9 percent support against 18.1 percent for
Baldizon and 11.4 percent for Suger, according to a  poll 
published by El Periodico, a Guatemala City-based newspaper. The
survey of 1,008 people, conducted by  Borge y Asociados  between
Aug. 30 and Sept. 2, had a margin of error of 3.1 percentage
points.  Guatemala is the world’s eighth-largest coffee  producer  and
an exporter of vegetables, bananas, sugar and gold. It has a
murder rate of 45 per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with 20 for
all of Latin America, according to the  World Bank .  Perez, 61, has campaigned on the same “mano dura,” or
strong hand, slogan as in his 2007 presidential bid, when he
lost to President Alvaro Colom in a runoff. He was the head of
military intelligence and part of the negotiating team that
ended a civil war that pitted indigenous groups demanding civil
rights against the state. More than 200,000 people were killed
during the conflict.  Organized Crime  Perez consolidated his lead after  Guatemala ’s
constitutional court last month threw out the candidacy of
former first lady Sandra Torres, who divorced Colom to try to
circumvent a constitutional ban on relatives succeeding the
sitting president. The country’s constitution also prohibits
Colom from seeking a second, consecutive term.  In its 2011 World  Report , New York-based  Human Rights Watch 
blamed “weak and corrupt law enforcement” for failing to
contain “powerful organized crime groups.”  Colom has ordered two state of emergencies since December
as he seeks to dislodge drug traffickers from jungle-laden areas
near the Mexican border. In May, he sent additional security
forces to the region after  Los Zetas , one of Mexico’s most
violent drug gangs, was linked to the killing of 27 ranch
workers. The Zetas may be competing for Guatemalan turf with
 Mexico ’s Sinaloa cartel, according to a U.S. State Department
report released in March.  Criminal gangs have forced coffee farmers to hire armed
escorts and install global positioning systems in trucks to
prevent theft, Guatemala’s National Coffee Association said in
March. Colom blamed the drug mafia for the killing in July of
Argentine folk singer Facundo Cabral, who was gunned down in a
car while on tour in  Guatemala City .  Rivals  Baldizon, 41, a congressman and logistics business owner
who opposed a free trade agreement with the U.S., recently moved
family members from his hometown in the drug-scourged Peten
region after they received death threats. This is the third
presidential bid for Suger, 72, a doctor of mathematical physics
from Austin-based  University of Texas  and the founder of
Guatemala’s Universidad Galileo.  Victory in the first round, with more than 50 percent of
the vote, would give Perez a stronger mandate for increasing
taxes, which are among the lowest in the region, to fund a
security buildup, said  Boris Segura , an economist who covers
 Latin America  at Nomura Securities.  The  central bank  forecasts Guatemala’s economy will expand
3.5 percent this year, led by growth in mining. The IMF in April
forecast 3 percent growth, below the 4.7 percent expansion it
predicts for the entire Latin American and Caribbean region.  Investment Stagnates  Investment in the $41 billion economy has stagnated ahead
of the vote, said Carolina Castellanos, head of the American
Chamber of Commerce in Guatemala City. After jumping 22 percent
in 2010, foreign direct investment is expected to grow 1 percent
this year to $668 million, according to an October review of the
country’s finances by the  International Monetary Fund .  “Investors will be waiting to see what decisions and
concrete actions the next government takes to confront high
insecurity,” Castellanos said by e-mail.  Standard & Poor’s  put Guatemala’s credit rating on negative
watch in August, citing low tax revenue and pressures to
increase security spending. The company rates the country’s debt
at BB, two levels below investment grade, while Moody’s
Investors Service rates Guatemalan bonds Ba1, or one level below
investment grade.  Guatemala last sold debt in international markets in
September 2004, issuing $330 million of 30-year bonds. The yield
has increased 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 6.47
percent in the past year.  Crime and social challenges may be beyond the power of the
next president to resolve, no matter who is elected, said Kevin Casas-Zamora, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institute, a
Washington-based public policy research organization, and former
vice president of  Costa Rica .  “Guatemala has such profound problems that I’m not sure
any of the candidates can turn the country around,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 