-- 
Libyan Leader Jalil Pledges Respect for Law as Fighters Push Toward Sirte

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 
2011-09-13T00:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/libyan-opposition-advances-on-sirte-after-halting-assault-on-bani-walid.html
Libya  will be a nation that follows
the rule of law, respects the tenets of Islam, and rejects
extremism, the head of the transitional leadership said.  Mustafa Abdel Jalil, chairman of the National Transitional
Council, spoke to thousands of cheering Libyans yesterday in
central Tripoli, his first public address in the former
stronghold of  Muammar Qaddafi .  “We are seeking to establish a state of law, a state of
prosperity, and Islamic Sharia will be the basis of
legislation,” he said, according to video broadcast on  Al
Arabiya .  Meanwhile, Qaddafi, speaking from hiding, called on Libyans
to keep up the fight against “colonialism,” according to a
Syrian-based satellite television station.  As the former rebels demonstrated their control of the
capital, their fighters pushed toward Sirte, the coastal
birthplace of Qaddafi that remains controlled by his loyalists.
The council-backed fighters cut off the last escape route, south
toward the desert town of Waddan.  Fighters from Misrata, in a convoy of 300  pickup trucks ,
met up Sept. 11 with other opposition fighters already in
Waddan, said rebel fighter Farouk Ben Ahmeda.  “It was like Mad Max,” he said. “We drove through the
desert. There was not much opposition.”  That would leave Sirte’s loyalists cut off from southern
Libya, with rebel forces already controlling routes the east and
west from the city on the country’s main coastal highway.  In Position  A rebel commander, Omar Elewaieb, said forces are preparing
for a renewed assault on Sirte in the next few days, while
negotiations seek the surrender of the city.  Some loyalists already have fled south to neighboring
Niger, where a convoy including Qaddafi’s son Saadi, who led a
unit in the Libyan army, arrived Sept. 11.  Niger  welcomed the Libyans for “humanitarian reasons,”
while those who are guilty of “serious crimes” may be
extradited, the country’s justice minister, Marou Amadou said
yesterday in an interview with Voix du Sahel, a Niamey-based
radio station.  China  yesterday became the latest country to recognize the
transitional council as the “ruling authority,” the official
Xinhua news service reported. The  International Monetary Fund 
said Sept. 11 it also recognized the NTC as holding Libya’s seat
at the Washington-based fund.  ‘No Oppression’  The rally yesterday was the largest in Tripoli since rebels
took the capital August 21. Abdel Jalil proclaimed a “free
Libya.”  “No retribution, no taking matters into your own hands and
no oppression,” he said, according to the  Associated Press . “I
hope that the revolution will not stumble because of any of
these things.”  Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril, head of the council’s
executive committee, said Sept. 11 in a televised press
conference in the capital that bringing rebel fighters under
civilian control was a priority.  The Military Council, led by former general Suleiman
Mahmoud, had already agreed to fall under NTC jurisdiction and
he was waiting to hear from other rebel commands across Libya,
he said.  The conflict to end Qaddafi’s 42-year rule has reduced oil
output, the country’s main source of revenue. Libyan crude
production slumped to 60,000 barrels a day in July from 1.7
million barrels in January, according to the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency .  Refinery Hit  Forces loyal to Qaddafi staged twin attacks on Libya’s
largest refinery at Ras Lanuf yesterday, killing at least 15
guards, the Associated Press reported, citing Hamid al-Hasi, the
commander of opposition forces in eastern Libya.  An oil tanker, the Newlead Avra, was sailing yesterday to
the Libyan port of Mellitah, a sign the nation may be resuming
energy exports, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Libya will be able to restore most of its oil production
within six months and resume full output within 18 months, the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said in a monthly
report yesterday.  Brent oil futures surged as high as $127.02 a barrel in
April following the halt of Libya output. Prices have since
dropped 12 percent, with Brent oil for October settlement
declined 52 cents to $112.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe Exchange yesterday.  A brief message attributed to Qaddafi, in which he vowed to
fight on and accused the opposition of surrendering the
country’s oil to foreign interests, was read yesterday on
 Syria ’s Arrai TV.  “We can’t give our oil to the French people to get benefit
from it, we can’t hand Libya to colonialism,” Qaddafi said,
according to Mishan Jabouri, owner of Arrai, which has broadcast
several of Qaddafi messages since he went into hiding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  