-- 
Ikea Cuts Price of U.S. Shelves as Spending Holds Back Recovery

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-09-11T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/ikea-cuts-price-of-u-s-shelves-as-outlook-dims.html
Ikea, the world’s biggest home-
furnishings retailer, has slashed the price of its Billy
bookshelves in the U.S. by 17 percent as unemployment and a
sluggish housing market weigh on  consumer confidence .  U.S. outlets now sell the  signature bookshelf  for $49.99,
compared with the $59.99 listed a year ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News from the Netherlands-based company’s 
website . Based on dollar prices, the average cost of the item in
39 countries rose 13 percent to $62.49 in that period.  With unemployment above 9 percent and housing starts about
73 percent below a 2006 peak, confidence among American
consumers is at the lowest in more than two years. Payrolls
growth stalled last month, and President  Barack Obama  proposed a
$447 billion jobs plan last week to boost growth.  “Housing is not participating in the recovery, so  consumer
spending  related to housing is not growing,”  James Shugg , a
senior economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in London, said in a
telephone interview. “Given that furniture’s been the worst
category in a pretty sick retail sector, it doesn’t surprise me
that you’ve seen pretty hefty price reductions.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded less than previously estimated in
the second quarter, prompting some Federal Reserve officials to
call for more stimulus. Furniture sales fell 1.1 percent in July
from a year earlier, while overall retail sales grew 6.5
percent, data on Aug. 12 showed.  Ikea Index  An index compiled by Bloomberg News showed the price of
Billy shelves fell from a year earlier in 21 countries served by
Ikea relative to a global average. The biggest decline on the
index was recorded by  China , with a 27 percent drop.  Based on that measure, prices rose in 15 countries, led by
a 34 percent gain in Hungary and a 30 percent increase in the
Dominican Republic. Data for two countries wasn’t available to
make a year-on-year comparison.  Globally, the lowest dollar prices for Billy shelves were
in the Netherlands, where they cost $42.82, and France and
Belgium, where they were listed at $49.97. The highest were in
the Dominican Republic and Israel, with prices of $111.54 and
$96.87 respectively.  Prices were collected Sept. 7 and converted to U.S. dollars
at the average  exchange rate  over the past 30 days. The dollar
dropped against all but one of the currencies of the U.S.’s 16
most-traded peers in the year through Sept. 9.  The Economist magazine’s Big Mac index, which also compares
dollar prices in a gauge of international pricing power, showed
in July that the most expensive place to buy the McDonald’s
sandwich this year was in Switzerland, at $8.06.  Hong Kong  was
the cheapest, with Big Macs on sale at $1.94.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Kristian Siedenburg in Budapest at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  