-- 
Iraq’s Kurdish Region Stops All Crude Oil Exports, Minister al-Luaibi Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 
2011-09-11T16:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/iraq-s-kurdistan-stops-oil-exports-minister-al-luaibi-says-1-.html
The semi-autonomous Kurdish region
of northern  Iraq  halted all exports of crude today, Iraqi Oil
Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said.  The Kurdistan Regional Government had been exporting
100,000 barrels to 150,000 barrels a day before the
interruption, al-Luaibi told reporters in Amman, Jordan.  “Today I was surprised that production had gone down,” he
said. “Yesterday it was 37,000 barrels a day, and today there
is nothing.”  Iraq, the third-biggest producer in OPEC after  Saudi Arabia 
and  Iran , is struggling to boost oil exports, its main source of
revenue for rebuilding an economy crippled by years of conflict
and sanctions. It exported a total of 2.19 million barrels of
crude a day in August, Falah al-Amri, chairman of the State Oil
Marketing Organization, said by telephone on Sept. 3.  An official at Iraq’s North Oil Co. confirmed the
suspension of crude exports from the Kurdish region to the
Mediterranean port of Ceyhan,  Turkey . The official, declining to
be identified in line with company policy, said he had no
information about the reason for the halt.  Running Dispute  Kurdish authorities and the central government in  Baghdad 
have been mired in a dispute over revenue from the sale of oil
produced at Kurdish fields. Their wrangling has been a chief
obstacle to the passage of Iraq’s new energy law, under study
for about five years. Qassim Mohammed Qassim, an Iraqi lawmaker,
said on Sept. 7 that parliament had returned a draft energy law
to the governing cabinet because it was incomplete and had
numerous “shortcomings.”  Al-Luaibi, the oil minister, denied that the halt in
Kurdish exports arose from differences over Iraq’s nascent
energy law. “It is not linked to a law or anything,” he said,
adding that “the first loser will be the Kurdish people.”  Ashti Hawrami, the Kurdish government’s natural resources
minister, said on July 7 that his region was sending 180,000
barrels a day through Iraq’s pipeline to Turkey. Kurds planned
to increase exports to Ceyhan to 200,000 barrels a day by the
end of this year, he said in an e-mailed statement.  Kurdish authorities received a boost last week when
Vallares Plc, the investment vehicle led by BP Plc’s former
Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , announced a merger with
Turkey’s Genel Energy International Ltd. in a $2.1 billion deal
to gain rights to  oil fields  in Iraq’s Kurdish region.  Hayward’s Imprimatur  “The Kurdistan region of Iraq is undoubtedly one of the
last great oil and gas frontiers,” Hayward said in a statement
on Sept. 7.  Hess Corp. (HES) , the New York-based oil company, was barred from
competing in an auction of exploration licenses that Iraq plans
for January, after having signed a production-sharing agreement
with Kurdish authorities, Iraqi Kurdish lawmaker Bayazid Hasan
said Sept. 6.  Iraq, home to the world’s fifth-biggest oil reserves,
pumped 2.68 million barrels of crude a day in August, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is the only member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries not bound by an
output quota.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .
Kadhim Ajrash at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  