-- 
Egypt, Israel Stocks Lead Mideast Decline on Embassy Attack, Global Slump

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-11T14:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/israel-s-shares-fall-on-europe-debt-crisis-cairo-embassy-attack.html
Israel’s stocks fell to a two-year
low and Egyptian shares dropped on concern over  Europe ’s debt
crisis and as tensions between the Middle Eastern states rose
after protesters attacked the Israeli embassy in Cairo.  Ampal-American Israel (AMPL)  Corp., which has a stake in the
company that supplies gas from  Egypt  to Israel, fell to the
lowest level on record.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , Egypt’s
biggest publicly traded builder, lost 1.7 percent. The TA-25
Index slumped 3.6 percent to 1,024.93, the lowest since November
2009, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
declined 1.3 percent, the most since Aug. 21. In the Persian
Gulf, the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  declined 0.2 percent.  Israeli stocks declined after “overseas markets fell over
the weekend and also because of geopolitical events such as what
happened in Egypt,” Terence Klingman, head of research at
Meitav Brokerage in Tel Aviv, said by telephone. “People are
preferring to buy  government bonds  and stay away from
equities.”  Israel ’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his nation
last night that the embassy incident had damaged “the fabric of
peace” between the two countries while declaring his commitment
to the 32-year alliance. Since the February ouster of President
Hosni Mubarak, there have been increasing calls by many
Egyptians to end the peace treaty between the nations. Egypt’s
ruling military council declared a state of emergency to restore
order after the protesters attacked the embassy.  Persian Gulf  Ampal slumped 8.1 percent to 1.286 shekels, the lowest
since the shares began trading in Tel Aviv in August 2006.
Orascom Construction fell the most since Aug. 21 to 239.73
Egyptian pounds.  In the Persian Gulf, the  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.5 percent
to 1,473.46, the lowest since Aug. 25. Abu Dhabi’s measure
declined 0.2 percent.  “Equities in the  Middle East  continue to track global
markets and the current backdrop does not provide any buying
conviction,” said  Julian Bruce , equity sales head at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Dubai.  European stocks tumbled last week after European Central
Bank PresidentJean-Claude Trichet on Sept. 8 said threats to
the euro region worsened. The STOXX Europe 600 Index slumped 3.7
percent. Oil for October delivery retreated 2 percent Sept. 9 to
$87.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Gulf Arab
oil exporters, including the United Arab Emirates and Saudi
Arabia, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Oman’s MSM 30 Index fell 0.4 percent, while Qatar’s  QE
Index (DSM)  gained 0.1 percent and Kuwait’s gauge rose 0.3 percent.
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  were little changed.  Israeli government bonds rose, with the yield on the
benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit notes due January 2020
dropping five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.46
percent.  Standard & Poor’s  lifted Israel’s foreign-currency
credit rating by one level to A+, the fifth-highest investment
grade, on Sept. 9, citing economic growth and prospects for
lower debt.  -- Editors: Claudia Maedler, Susan Lerner, Linda Shen  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  