-- 
Israel’s A+ at S&P Is No Relief for Shekel’s Biggest Decline in Two Years

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-11T09:49:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/israel-s-a-at-s-p-is-no-relief-for-shekel-s-biggest-decline-in-two-years.html
Standard & Poor’s  raised  Israel ’s
credit rating for the first time in four years just as slowing
economic growth and escalating tensions with  Turkey  spur the
shekel’s biggest retreat since the global financial crisis.  The currency fell 0.3 percent versus the dollar to the
weakest level in seven months on Sept. 9 even after S&P lifted
Israel’s foreign-currency credit rating by one step to A+,
citing “rapid” economic growth and prospects for lower debt.
The shekel will probably drop further as faltering global demand
curbs exports and diplomatic tensions with Turkey deter
investors, said Societe Generale SA and Bank of America Corp.  While Israel’s economy expanded by about 4.6 percent in
2010, growth fell to the slowest pace in two years during the
second quarter. The shekel has tumbled 8.3 percent since June as
 Europe ’s debt crisis worsened, Turkey said it will station more
warships in the east Mediterranean and Israelis staged
nationwide protests against rising prices for housing and food.  “The timing is a bit awkward” for S&P’s upgrade, said
 Benoit Anne , the head of global emerging-market strategy at
SocGen in London. “The future doesn’t really look bright for
Israel from a macro perspective.”  The threat of weaker exports, which make up about 40
percent of the country’s economy, may prompt Bank of Israel
Governor Stanley Fischer to consider cutting borrowing costs
after 10 increases in the benchmark rate since August 2009, said
Arko Sen, an emerging-markets strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  London . Europe and the U.S. are Israel’s
largest export markets, according to the Jerusalem-based Central
Bureau of Statistics.  ‘More Pressure’  Lower interest rates “will be another reason for the
shekel to stay weak,” Sen said in a phone interview. “With
growth expectations falling globally, a country like Israel
that’s relatively small and relies on exports for growth will
see more pressure on its currency.”  The shekel’s retreat since June to 3.712 versus the dollar
is poised to be the biggest on a quarterly basis since the three
months ended March 2009, when the Israeli currency weakened 10
percent amid the global recession. The shekel is the fourth-
worst performer among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg in
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  this quarter, after Turkey’s
lira,  Hungary ’s forint and the Polish zloty.  Credit-default swaps insuring Israeli  government bonds  rose
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 174 on Sept. 9,
the highest level in almost seven months, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Stable Outlook  Swaps on Slovakia, also rated A+ at S&P, increased 11 basis
points to 162 while contracts on identically-rated  Chile  rose
eight basis points to 107, according to CMA.  The derivatives are used to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness. They pay the buyer face value if
a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt.  Yields on the Israel’s 4.625 percent euro-denominated bonds
due March 2020 slipped two basis points to 4.16 percent on Sept.
9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the
benchmark Mimshal Shiklit notes due January 2020 fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.47 percent at 12:10 p.m.
in  Tel Aviv , the lowest level since Sept 5.  ‘Expression of Trust’  Israel is poised to cut its government debt burden from the
current level of 75 percent of gross domestic product, S&P said
in a Sept. 9 statement. The country’s  budget deficit  will
probably fall toward 2 percent of GDP from 3 percent this year
despite protests calling for the government to cushion the
impact of higher living costs, the ratings company said. The
outlook for Israel is “stable” and tensions with neighboring
countries including Turkey still pose “serious constraints” on
the country’s rating, S&P said.  The S&P upgrade is “an exceptional expression of trust in
the Israeli economy, with the way Israel contended with the
financial crisis, with our budgetary discipline,” Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz told  Army Radio  today. “It will help us
regarding other concerns out there coming at us from other
directions.”  U.S. Downgrade  Even as economic growth slowed, Israel’s unemployment rate
declined to 5.5 percent in the second quarter, the lowest level
since at least 1985. The jobless rate dropped from a seasonally
adjusted 6 percent in the previous quarter, the  Central Bureau
of Statistics  said on Aug. 31.  The rating change followed the first review of Israel’s
credit grade by S&P using new criteria that place greater weight
on “the coherence of economic policies,” John B. Chambers,
chairman of S&P’s sovereign-debt committee, said by telephone
from  New York , adding that the protests won’t derail the
government’s plan to sustain economic growth.  S&P upgraded Peru and Paraguay on Aug. 30 and raised its
ranking on Estonia on Aug. 9. The ratings company cut America’s
AAA credit rating on Aug. 5 for the first time, citing U.S.
policy makers’ failure to agree on a “credible” plan to reduce
the budget deficit.  S&P’s upgrade of Israel is justified and credit-default
swaps linked to the country may drop toward other A+ nations
such as Chile, according to Bartosz Pawlowski, head of CEEMEA
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. He recommended buying the
shekel versus the euro.  Equity Slump  Investor concern that the U.S. and Europe may fall back
into recession will drag down currencies of smaller economies
including Israel, said Peter Kinsella, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG who forecasts the
shekel will weaken about 2.3 percent by December.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of global stocks tumbled
3.4 percent last week after the  European Central Bank  cut its
economic growth forecasts and U.S. data showed rising jobless
claims.  Traders of Israeli interest-rate swaps are betting the
central bank will cut borrowing costs to bolster the economy.
The cost of fixing Israeli  interest rates  for two years declined
to 3.37 percent on Sept. 5, the lowest level on record, and was
at 3.51 percent on Sept. 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Big Risks’  “I don’t have any concerns about Israel’s sovereign credit
but the upgrade does not lessen the already high probability
that the country is heading into a very tricky economic
period,” said  Michael Shaoul , whose $704 million Marketfield
Fund beat 88 percent of peers during the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “The latter will be a much more
important determinant of currency levels than the S&P rating.”  The escalation of tensions with Turkey may weaken the
shekel, according to SocGen’s Anne. Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said last week that his government may further
reduce ties with Israel unless Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
apologizes for the killing of nine Turks last year in an Israeli
commando raid at sea.  “Going forward, you have big risks,” SocGen’s Anne said.
“The shekel will be more vulnerable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  