-- 
Noda’s Nuclear Revival Plans Set Back as Minister Forced Out Over Comments

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-09-12T02:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/japan-minister-s-resignation-tests-nuclear-plan.html
Japan Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda ’s effort to win public support for restarting nuclear
reactors faces a setback after his minister in charge of the
industry was forced to resign just nine days into the job.  Yoshio Hachiro stepped down as head of the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry on Sept. 10, under fire for using
“towns of death” to describe the evacuation zone around the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant and joking about radiation.  “Japan has had sloppy trade ministers who lack
leadership,” said Minoru Morita, a Tokyo-based independent
political commentator. “That post is responsible for ending the
nuclear disaster and boosting the economy,” Morita said. “We
need strong leadership there.”  Noda, 54, was elected Aug. 30 as the country’s sixth leader
in five years, inheriting a fractured political party and the
world’s biggest nuclear crisis since Chernobyl 25 years ago.
Faced with threats from business leaders to move factories
overseas unless stable power supply is assured, Noda has tried
to convince the public that despite the Fukushima crisis, atomic
power is needed to save the economy.  “Noda’s attempts to win over the public about atomic power
may not go smoothly,” said Morita, in commenting on the effect
of Hachiro’s performance.  Former Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano will replace
Hachiro as head of the ministry known as METI, which oversees
 Japan ’s nuclear industry, public broadcaster NHK reported this
morning, without saying where it obtained the information.  Revolving Again  Since breaking the Liberal  Democratic Party ’s half-century
grip on power two years ago, Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan
has seated three prime ministers and four finance chiefs, while
other Cabinet officers have been forced to step down for
inappropriate remarks.  Hachiro came under criticism for his comments and actions
during a visit to Fukushima on Sept. 8 to inspect progress in
recovery from the nuclear crisis.  At one point he rubbed the sleeve of his protective
coverall against a reporter saying, “Do you want some
radiation?” local media including the Nikkei newspaper reported
Sept. 10.  “Disappointed, that is the only word I can say,”  Goshi
Hosono , minister in charge of the response to the Fukushima
nuclear crisis, told reporters yesterday when asked about
Hachiro’s resignation. “We don’t have time for these kinds of
setbacks as we try to contain the accident and set the new
 energy policy .”  Threat to Industry  Noda’s predecessor Naoto Kan was criticized for comments by
Ryu Matsumoto, who quit one week into the job of reconstruction
minister after publicly chastising the governor of tsunami-
devastated  Miyagi prefecture  for being late to a meeting.  Matsumoto ordered the media present not to report the
incident, before a video of the exchange was posted on the
Internet.  Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused the meltdown
of three reactors at the Fukushima plant, leading to radiation
leakage and the evacuation of almost 160,000 people in a 20-
kilometer (12-mile) zone. The earthquake and tsunami left almost
20,000 people dead or missing.  Nuclear power provided about 30 percent of the electricity
in the world’s third-biggest economy before March 11. About 80
percent of Japan’s 54 reactors are now offline, with more
shutting for scheduled maintenance in the months ahead.  Industry leaders have said they may shift production
overseas if power supplies aren’t stable, threatening an
economic recovery. Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an
annualized 2.1 percent rate in the three months ended June 30,
the Cabinet office said Sept. 9.  Nuclear Opposition  With the majority of opinion polls showing Japan’s public
opposes nuclear power, Noda needs to convince his electorate so-
called stress tests of reactors will make them safe to restart.  Sixty-eight percent of respondents to an Asahi newspaper
poll published on Aug. 8 said they wanted Kan’s successor to
continue his policy of phasing out atomic energy.  Noda’s approval rating was 65 percent in a poll published
Sept. 4 by the Yomiuri newspaper, the country’s biggest. The
Nikkei newspaper and  Kyodo News  rated his popularity at 67
percent and 63 percent respectively. None of the polls gave a
margin of error.  “When Matsumoto resigned Kan’s ratings tumbled,” Morita
said. “Matsumoto’s remarks were far worse than Hachiro’s, so I
don’t expect a huge impact. Still, opposition parties will
likely be energized and the DPJ will lose some momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in 東京 at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  