-- 
Nazi-Plundered Jewish Museum Shows Lost Collection in Berlin

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-09-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/nazi-plundered-jewish-museum-shows-lost-collection-in-berlin.html
Berlin’s first Jewish Museum opened
in January 1933, just one week before the Nazis seized power.
Karl Schwarz, its founder, realized immediately that the museum
was doomed and his life was in danger.  He fled Berlin for Tel Aviv months after opening the
museum, which he’d worked for years to turn into a reality.  “The new museum had only just been founded and I had to
leave it!” he wrote in his memoir. “But these considerations
were hardly worth anything; much more important things were at
stake -- my life, my work, my children’s future. I knew
absolutely: There was nothing to hope for here.”  Almost 80 years and much painstaking research later, the
Centrum Judaicum, on the site of the former museum, has
reassembled some of the lost art for an exhibition titled “ The
Berlin Jewish Museum (1933-1938): Traces of a Lost Collection. ”  Schwarz described his last tour of the museum in June 1933,
the day before he left. “It seemed to me that the smell of
Death already wafted through the halls,” he said.  Next to the New Synagogue on central Oranienburgerstrasse,
the museum did survive for another five years, becoming an
important refuge for Jewish artists, before being taken over and
sealed by the Nazis in the pogroms of November 1938.  Its content, including paintings by Max Liebermann,  Marc Chagall , Lesser Ury, Moritz Oppenheim and Leonid Pasternak, was
seized and hidden: Some paintings were stashed in a vault on the
other side of the city.  Lengthy Quest  The new show is the result of a 30-year quest by Hermann
Simon, the director of the Centrum Judaicum, aided since about
1990 by his deputy Chana Schuetz.  Most of the recovered artworks are in Berlin on temporary
loan for the exhibition, though the quest -- and the show --also
paved the way for at least one restitution.  An examination of the back of a painting by Max Liebermann
revealed that it never belonged to the Berlin Jewish Museum but
was on loan from Liebermann’s widow, Martha. It will be returned
by  Jerusalem ’s  Israel Museum  to the artist’s family after the
show, the museum said in a statement yesterday.  The 1934 painting, one of Liebermann’s last, shows “The
Return of Tobias,” a scene from the Book of Tobit. Liebermann
intended it as a call to German Jews to return to Judaism in the
face of Nazi persecution -- just as Tobias returned home to try
to heal his father’s sight, Schuetz explained.  Scattered Paintings  More than 280 pictures were recovered from the West Berlin
vault after World War II. Most were handed over to the  Israel 
Museum and to the Skirball Cultural Center in  Los Angeles .  A retirement home in Britain returned two paintings that
once belonged to the museum to the Centrum Judaicum after
discovering their provenance, Simon said. The Centrum Judaicum
also purchased back one of its most important lost paintings, a
self-portrait by Liebermann. Other objects were tracked down in
 Poland , Israel and the U.S., he said.  There is still no trace of the museum’s large collection of
silver Judaica, Simon said.  “I don’t think these things have gone forever,” he said.
“They are somewhere, and we will find them.”  A collection of North African antiquities is still missing.
Schuetz said they have so far also failed to track down some of
the biggest-format paintings, which must have been hidden
somewhere other than the vault in western Berlin by the Nazis.
Two big paintings by Lesser Ury, and the famous “Exile” by
Samuel Hirszenberg are reproduced in black-and-white in full
size for the exhibition.  “Exile” shows a group of Jews in flight, trudging through
a wintry landscape, huddled in layers of clothing.  “This is the most-wanted picture in the Jewish world,”
said Schuetz. “We have looked for it everywhere. But the search
is still on -- we are sure the Nazis didn’t destroy it and it
must be somewhere.”  “In Search of a Lost Collection” is showing at the
Centrum Judaicum in Berlin through Dec. 30. For more
information, go to  http://www.centrumjudaicum.de   To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  