-- 
9/11 Remembered as U.S. Officials Monitor Threat

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n ,   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-11T19:48:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/obama-bush-will-join-new-yorkers-marking-10th-anniversary-of-9-11-attacks.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  joined
former President  George W. Bush  at the World Trade Center in
Manhattan to mark the 10th anniversary of the terrorist attacks
that killed almost 3,000 people, reading a passage from the
Bible at a ceremony attended by the families of the victims.  Obama was later greeted with cheers and applause when he
visited memorials near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and at the
Pentagon, sites where two of the four hijacked airliners
crashed. He laid a wreath at each location.  The  New York  ceremony, in the shadow of a new skyscraper
that will be the tallest building in the U.S., took place while
thousands of police officers worked overtime under a terror
alert stemming from what Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  called a
“credible but not corroborated” threat.  The president was joined at Ground Zero by Bloomberg,
former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Governors Andrew Cuomo of New
York and Christopher Christie of New Jersey. The men read
letters, poems and religious passages as surviving family
members recited the names of the victims in New York,  Washington 
and Pennsylvania. Also honored were the six killed in the 1993
bombing of the World Trade Center.  “Ten years later, I’d say America came through this thing
in a way that was consistent with our character,” Obama said in
an interview with NBC News. “Some things haven’t happened as
quickly as they needed to. But overall, we took the fight to al-
Qaeda, we preserved our values, we preserved our character.”  Moment of Silence  In New York, Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama , Bush and
his wife Laura Bush, walked along the perimeter of the north
pool of the 9/11 memorial, stopping for a moment of silence.  “They were our neighbors, our friends, our husbands,
wives, brothers, sisters, children and parents,” Bloomberg said
at the ceremony. “They were the ones who rushed in to help,
2,983 innocent men, women and children. We have asked their
families to come here to speak the names out loud to remind each
of us of a person we lost in New York, in Washington and
 Pennsylvania .”  John Brennan , Obama’s counterterrorism adviser, said today
that U.S. officials are working “round the clock” to
investigate a “specific and credible” threat of a terrorist
attack against Washington or New York.  Counterterrorism officials have “some information” about
the nature of the possible plans and the people who may be
involved, Brennan said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. No
new information has come to light since last week’s initial
alert, a White House official said.  Assess the Threat  “We’re continuing to attempt to assess the threat,” said
 Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York Office, in an
interview today. “Even after the Sept. 11 anniversary passes,
we will continue to try to determine whether people entered the
country with the intent to cause harm.”  A U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly said last week the intelligence concerned a possible
vehicle-borne attack, perhaps on a transportation hub or
bottleneck, and cautioned that the options may be broader than a
car or truck bombing.  “Obviously, each 9/11 we start seeing threat streams
coming up,” Obama said in a taped interview on NBC broadcast
today. “The fact that this is the 10th anniversary means that
we’re seeing more of these.”  In the days before today’s ceremonies, New York officials
increased security with frozen zones, truck inspections and
heavily armed police throughout the city. There were increased
patrols of transportation networks in and around Washington.  Concrete Blocks  Large concrete blocks were placed at lower  Manhattan 
intersections to prevent traffic from getting close to Ground
Zero. Metal barricades lined streets to prevent cars from
stopping or parking. Police cruisers took up positions on
midtown Manhattan blocks as officers stopped trucks and other
vehicles for inspection. Drivers in lower Manhattan and those
exiting the nearby Holland Tunnel from New Jersey were being
stopped and questioned.  Police increased monitoring of bridges and tunnels,
performed more baggage screenings in subways, patrolled outside
places of worship and government buildings and conducted bomb
sweeps of public garages. City landmarks, including Grand
Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station, had heightened
security today, as did major events including the U.S. Open
tennis tournament in Queens.  Terrorists ‘Not Gone’  New York police have stopped at least 13 terrorist attacks
since 2001, Bloomberg said. While the killing of al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden earlier this year has helped reduce the threat,
the mayor said, “The one thing we know is the terrorists have
not gone away.”  A U.S. official in Washington said the credible
intelligence revolved around a plot possibly hatched by al-Qaeda
in  Pakistan  involving three individuals, including possibly one
American. Another U.S. official cautioned that information
wasn’t confirmed. The officials weren’t authorized to publicly
discuss the intelligence.  A U.S. intelligence alert that federal officials sent to
local  law enforcement  said operatives in the suspected plot
might be carrying American documents, according to two people
familiar with the alert who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. U.S. officials learned of the threat in intercepted
communications among suspected al-Qaeda operatives in the tribal
areas of western Pakistan, three U.S. intelligence officials
said.  They said the “chatter,” as they described the
intercepted conversations, didn’t name the alleged attackers and
included only vague descriptions of vehicle-borne attacks.  Ground Zero  Ceremony  The observance in New York started with a moment of silence
at 8:46 a.m., the time when the first jetliner smashed into the
complex’s North Tower. Another silent moment occurred 17 minutes
later, marking when a second airplane hit the South Tower.  The ceremony, mixed with musical interludes, paused at 9:37
a.m., when a jet hit the Pentagon; at 9:59 a.m., when the South
Tower fell, and at 10:03 a.m., when passengers on United Air
Lines Flight 93 wrested control from hijackers and the plane
crashed near Shanksville.  The final moment of silence, at 10:28 a.m., marked the time
when the North Tower fell.  In  Shanksville , Obama laid a wreath in honor of the
passengers of Flight 93 and visited with their families.  Cheers and applause greeted Obama when he entered the
memorial. After laying the wreath in front of a wall made up of
marble panels bearing names of Flight 93 victims, he went to
shake hands while the crowd chanted “USA, USA.”  Site of Impact  After shaking hands for more than an hour with victims’
families, the president and first lady visited the site where
Flight 93 made impact, marked by a large boulder.  At the  Pentagon . Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  held a
commemoration with Vice President Joe Biden and Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen. Panetta cited the
more than 6,200 soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines who have
died in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.  “In the wake of the attacks, a generation of Americans
stepped forward to serve in uniform, determined to confront our
enemies and respond to them swiftly and justly,” Panetta said.
“For 10 years, they have taken on the burden of protecting
America, relentlessly pursuing those who would do us harm, who
would threaten our homeland. Because of their sacrifices, we are
a safer and stronger nation today.”  ‘9/11 Generation’  Biden saluted those in the Pentagon who ran to the site
where the plane had hit to aid in the rescue. The attack and
response “galvanized an entire new generation of patriots, the
9/11 generation,” he said.  Members of each of the armed services laid a wreath for
each victim at the Pentagon memorial ground.  Lisa Dolan, a member of the Pentagon Memorial advisory
board, said her husband, Navy Captain Robert Dolan, was working
in the Naval command center in the building when Flight 77 hit.  The center had already been on alert after the New York
attack, she said. A father of a nine-year-old son and a 15-year-
old daughter at the time, he was among the 184 killed in the
Pentagon attack.  Dolan, who has come back to the memorial every year, wore
her husband’s U.S. Naval Academy class ring on a gold chain
around her neck. It was found in the wreckage by an FBI agent,
she said.  “I know he left it for me,” said Dolan, 50, of
Alexandria,  Virginia . “Even though it’s 10 years instead of
five years or six years or seven, it’s still an emotional time
for all the family members.”  Museum in New York  In New York, a museum with artifacts from the destroyed
towers and the people who died is scheduled to open a year from
today. Together with a memorial, it will create a $700 million
commemoration of the attack on half the 16 acres that make up
the  World Trade Center site.   The focal point of the revival is 1 World Trade Center, a
$3.2 billion 1,776-foot building that has reached the 80th of
104 floors. It’s rising by one floor per week and will be
completed by 2013, said Christopher Ward, executive director of
the  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey , which owns the
site.  Two other towers designed by architects Richard Rogers and
 Norman Foster , and a transit terminal designed by Santiago Calatrava-Valls, will be completed by 2015, said developer Larry Silverstein. Bloomberg, who is chairman of the  National Sept. 11
Memorial and Museum ’s board of directors, is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Lower Manhattan  Lower Manhattan, devastated by the attack that felled the
twin towers, has doubled its residential population since, added
19 hotels and invested $552 million in new parks, streets and
water mains, Bloomberg said last week.  “What I’m struck by is how much continuity there is,”
Obama told NBC News. “New York is still this incredibly
vibrant, dynamic place.”  The memorial on the  World Trade Center site , called
“Reflecting Absence,” was created by Michael Arad, a city-
employed architect whose design was chosen from 5,000
submissions.  It features two waterfalls pouring into pools on the
original footprints of the two towers. The pools are surrounded
by granite walls bearing the 2,982 names of victims of the two
separate attacks at the trade center, at the Pentagon and on
Flight 93.  Those who died in 2001 included more than 400 rescue
workers. Among them were 343 firefighters and 60 police officers
from  New York City  and the  Port Authority . Their names are
emblazoned on plaques in firehouses, at police headquarters and
in memorials throughout the city and neighboring counties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Arlington, Virginia, at   vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 