-- 
Obama Wins Argument as Republicans Seize Narrative: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-09-11T15:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/obama-wins-argument-as-republicans-seize-narrative-albert-hunt.html
Two notions, trickle down and
stimulus, crystallize why President  Barack Obama  has bigger
problems than just a 9.1 percent jobless rate. He has been
losing the political-economic narrative.  Trickle down was the pejorative phrase attached a
generation ago to Republican efforts to cut taxes for the rich,
assuming the benefits would flow down to the masses. Today’s
party leaders, from House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  to
the would-be presidential candidates, are proposing precisely
that and not getting a lot of pushback.  Stimulus is what most economists and politicians have been
advocating as the economy suffered. In his speech to a joint
session of Congress on Sept. 8, Obama proposed a $447 billion
economic program, without uttering the S word.  More than 400 days before the presidential election, the
battle lines were clearly delineated this past week with the
Republican debate and the president’s jobs proposal and the
partisan reaction that ensued. Both sides concur: It’s about the
economy, stupid.  For all the furor over differences between the Republican
front-runners Mitt Romney and  Rick Perry  on Social Security and
 climate change , the party’s basic economic proposition is clear,
regardless of who wins the nomination.  They assume that in bad times the incumbent gets the blame.
That’s historically been true unless there are discernible signs
of things getting better.  Bush Legacy  Republicans believe that the U.S. is a center-right country,
and that most voters now accept their agenda of free markets,
lower taxes and pro-growth policies. They contend that the
difficulties of recent years underscore those virtues, and say
privately that Americans are forgetting that a lot of the
problems began under President  George W. Bush .  Moreover, Republicans say that Obama, such an effective
communicator and storyteller during the last presidential
campaign, has fumbled and faltered on the public presentation of
his economic policy and message.  The White House communications strategy this year,
Republicans say with relish, has ranged from embarrassing to
pathetic. They believe that the agenda now is being fought more
on their terrain.  For their part, Democrats say they realize that if the
election is a referendum on Obama’s record, they lose. Therefore,
they hope to make the contest a little about contrasting visions
of the future and a lot about the evils of a  Republican Party 
that’s supposedly been captured by its right wing.  Tough Posture  Democrats generally seem pleased in the aftermath of
Obama’s jobs speech to Congress, even though that venue raises
expectations. They like the president’s tough, forceful posture
and hope he retains this focus, which he hasn’t always done in
the past.  Moreover, they predict Republicans will have little choice
but to give the president most of the tax-cut provisions he
proposed. It’s hard for a party that worships at the altar of
lower taxes to say that their bedrock beliefs don’t apply when
it comes to a proposal from Obama.  Although it’s unlikely the president will get many of the
other elements in his package, Democrats see some appealing
political touchstones for next year: They relish running against
Republicans who oppose proposals such as the one preventing a
quarter of a million teachers from being laid off, or the one
giving a tax incentive for hiring veterans, the “returning
heroes tax credit,” as the White House calls it.  Political Winner  The president believes that pushing for more job-creating
infrastructure projects also is a political winner.  There’s a recognition that it’s going to take the election
in 2012 to resolve the deep partisan divides, but look for Obama
to repeatedly stress that the nation can’t wait for more than a
year to help the economy. This sets the predicate to reprise
 Harry Truman ’s famous 1948 run against a “do nothing
Congress.”  Team Obama salivates over the prospect of running against
Perry after last week’s Republican debate, when the Texas
governor called Social Security a “ Ponzi scheme ” and expressed
skepticism about global warming. This anticipatory glee is
reminiscent of the Jimmy Carter White House’s desire 32 years
ago to run against  Ronald Reagan .  The basic view from the White House is that Obama inherited
a horrible economic hand, worsened by a string of bad luck this
year: the natural disasters in  Japan , the European financial
mess, and the consumer confidence-destroying battle over the
debt ceiling. There is a realization that while, ironically, the
debt-ceiling debate was a victory for the president, it also
damaged his standing.  Stimulus Plan  The Obama-ites also think they get unfair raps. The public
believes that the 2009 Obama stimulus plan was an abject failure,
even though, according to almost every detached analysis, it
created or saved millions of jobs.  Many voters also believe the Obama health-care proposal
amounts to a massive government takeover. In fact, the
administration rejected the notion of a public option for the
non-elderly.  What really infuriates the White House from Obama on down
is what it views as the “equivalency” that the press makes
between Democrats and Republicans on the current deficit debates.
That’s a valid point.  Every independent bipartisan group that has examined the
long-term debt issue has reached the same conclusion: The
problem can only be addressed by cutting the growth of
politically sensitive entitlements such as Social Security and
Medicare and by raising revenue.  Entitlement Cuts  The president and congressional Democratic leaders
(grudgingly) are willing to accept significant cuts in
entitlement spending, in defiance of the party’s base.  “With an aging population and rising health-care costs,”
Obama said of Medicare in his address to Congress, “we are
spending too fast to sustain the program.”  By contrast, major Republican congressional leaders and all
the presidential candidates have flatly rejected tax increases.  A pattern has emerged: Even when the administration should
have the better argument, the Republicans often win the
narrative, starting with their initial success in defining Obama
as a traditional big-spending liberal.  Sure, these are unusually tough times, yet successful
presidents who faced equal or greater challenges ranging from
 Franklin D. Roosevelt  to Reagan still managed to shape the
agenda and dominate the discussion.  Unless the 44th president can start emulating those
successes, re-election may be an uphill battle.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 