-- 
Obama to Send Congress $447B Jobs Package

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-12T13:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/obama-said-to-plan-sending-447-billion-jobs-bills-to-congress-tomorrow.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
send the text of his $447 billion job-growth package to Congress
tonight and urge quick action on the legislation, according to
an administration official.  Obama will speak at 10:40 a.m. in the Rose Garden, the
White House said today. He will be joined by a group of
teachers, police officers, construction workers and small
business owners, said the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity before the schedule was released. Obama will send the
legislation to the Capitol later when Congress returns to work.  “Right now, one of the smartest things we can do” is
“put people back to work,” Obama said in an interview
broadcast this morning on NBC’s “Today” program. He said
independent economists are describing the American Jobs Act as a
program that “buys us insurance against a double-dip
recession.”  The package, which the president outlined in a Sept. 8
address to a joint session of Congress, is weighted toward tax
cuts, which account for more than half the dollar value of the
plan. The rest would provide money for improving infrastructure,
modernizing schools and aid for states to keep teachers and
emergency workers on the job.  The centerpiece is a cut in the  payroll tax , which covers
the first $106,800 in earnings and is evenly split between
employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion paid by
workers next year to 3.1 percent from 4.2 percent now. The rate
was cut two percentage points under the terms of a tax deal
reached last year. That cut is set to expire Dec. 31, which
would push the tax rate back to 6.2 percent.  Job Growth  Job growth stalled last month and the unemployment rate has
hovered at or above 9 percent for more than two years. The
president’s job-approval ratings are falling to new lows as
public doubts about his stewardship of the economy rise. Public
opinion of Congress has dropped even lower.  “The question is whether, in the face of an ongoing
national crisis, we can stop the political circus and actually
do something to help the economy,” Obama told a joint session
of Congress on Sept. 8.  Obama stressed that he would pay for the entire jobs
package with offsetting spending cuts and increases in  tax
revenue  over the next decade. He said he would announce the
offsets by Sept. 19.  House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and
two other members of the House Republican leadership sent a
letter to Obama Sept. 9 in which they signaled that some items
in the package may be broken out for individual consideration
and that they may insert their own bills dealing with  job
creation .  Trade Deals  The Republican leaders also said they will continue to
insist on stand-alone votes on free trade agreements with
Panama,  Colombia  and  South Korea . The accords have been held up
while the administration negotiates passage of legislation to
extend aid to workers who lose their jobs to overseas
competitors.  “We share your desire for bipartisan cooperation, and
assume that your ideas were not presented as an all-or-nothing
proposition, but rather in anticipation that the Congress may
also have equally as effective proposals to offer for
consideration,” the leaders wrote.  Obama plans to campaign for passage of the measure by
appealing to voters to step up pressure on their
representatives. He appeared in Richmond,  Virginia , which Cantor
represents in Congress, on Sept. 9 and he plans an event
tomorrow in Ohio, Boehner’s home state. The following day he’ll
go to the Raleigh-Durham area of  North Carolina .  Growth Forecasts  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Moody’s Analytics
Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said last week that the  U.S.
economy  would get a boost of up to 2 percent under Obama’s plan.  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in West
Chester,  Pennsylvania , said the proposal would create 1.9
million jobs and lower the  unemployment rate  by one percentage
point compared with current policy. He forecast it would add 2
percent to next year’s GDP.  Goldman Sachs estimated that the plan would add 1.5 percent
to the economy, while Macroeconomic Advisers LLC said 1.3
percent and UniCredit Research said up to 2 percent.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in December
lost 1.62 percent to 1,133.60 at 9:06 a.m. in  New York  amid
concern about a potential default by  Greece . The benchmark
measure of U.S. equities slumped 1.7 percent last week, wiping
out its rally since Sept. 2 on the final day amid concern the
debt crisis is worsening.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  