-- 
Officials Have Information on Specific Terror Threat, Adviser Brennan Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-11T16:04:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/officials-have-information-on-specific-terror-threat-adviser-brennan-says.html
John Brennan , President Barack Obama’s counterterrorism adviser, said U.S. officials are
working “round the clock” to investigate a “specific and
credible” threat of a terrorist attack against  Washington  or
 New York .  Counterterrorism officials have “some information” about
the nature of the possible plans and the people who may be
involved, Brennan said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program, on the 10-year anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.  The Department of  Homeland Security  received “specific,
credible but unconfirmed threat information” as the anniversary
neared, agency spokesman Matt Chandler said Sept. 8 in a
statement. The threat concerns a possible vehicle-borne attack,
sponsored by al-Qaeda, against New York or Washington, according
to a different U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to discuss
the matter publicly. Brennan declined to comment today on
whether the reported plot involved a vehicle bomb.  “We do have some information about the nature of the
attack that is being reported,” Brennan said. “We also have
some information about the possible individuals, but I don’t
want to get into any operational details. I don’t want to
compromise anything that could lead us to individuals who may be
part of this plot.”  Reviewing Intelligence  President  Barack Obama  met with his national security team
yesterday, and again this morning, to review the intelligence
and ensure U.S. officials were pursuing all possible leads,
Brennan said.  “When this information first came in, he told us very
clearly, ‘I want everything to be done to find out whether or
not this information from these sources has any credibility to
it,’” Brennan said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “So
we’ve been doing that. We’ve been working very closely with
state and local partners. Bulletins have gone out. We’ve had a
number of individuals who have called in about suspicious
vehicles. That is something that we want people to do.”  The U.S. is also working with officials in  Libya  to track
down Muammar Qaddafi’s cache of weapons, Brennan said.  “We’re working very closely with Libyan authorities in
Tripoli and other areas of country so that we can help them to
ensure that the weapons that are available in the country do not
fall into the hands of terrorists,” Brennan said. “There are
concerns about man pads, the shoulder fired missiles that could
be used against aircraft, and there were a large number of these
in the Libyan inventory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  