-- 
Osborne Open to More Stimulus to Spur Growth

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-09-11T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/osborne-open-to-more-stimulus-to-spur-growth.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  left the door open to a new round of monetary stimulus
and signalled he had no objections to the Bank of England buying
private-sector debt.  Governor Mervyn King is free to request an extension to the
200 billion-pound ($318 billion) program, which also allows for
the purchase of assets other than  government bonds , Osborne told
reporters in Marseille,  France , yesterday after meetings with
Group of Seven officials.  “The arrangements put in place by my predecessor are
arrangements that in practice and in spirit I would intend to
follow,” Osborne said, when asked whether he would allow the
program to be extended and include private securities.  Citigroup Inc. and BNP Paribas SA say the  Bank of England 
may be forced to add further stimulus within months as the
recovery threatens to go into reverse amid slowing global
growth. In July, Business Secretary Vince Cable said the central
bank should consider expanding quantitative easing “in more
imaginative ways, not just acquiring  government securities .”  Gilts make almost all of the assets purchased since the
central bank began quantitative easing in March 2009, when the
British economy was in the grip of its worst recession since
World War II.  With the government refusing the compromise on the pace of
deficit reduction, Osborne has signalled he is relying on the
Bank of England to support an economy that has barely grown
since September. International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said the U.K. authorities should be ready to
act if economic conditions deteriorate further.  Osborne and Cable will update Cabinet colleagues this week
on progress in the government’s so-called “plan for growth,” a
program for boosting the economy by cutting business taxes and
red tape.  “Implementing our plan for growth is my top priority,”
Osborne said. “I am determined to put growth first and take the
political risks necessary to make it happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Marseille, France, at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  