-- 
Home-Shortage Myth Pits Blogs Versus Banks in Call Australia Set for Crash

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-12T06:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/housing-bears-say-shortage-myth-means-australia-set-for-crash.html
Australia, where  home prices  are
falling at the fastest rate in more than two years, may have a
glut of properties and be set for a U.S.-style crash.  The warning from tax-reform advocate David Collyer,
commentator Kris Sayce and academic Steve Keen contrast with
banks and developers that say a shortage of about 200,000 homes
will underpin prices. The housing bears say builders and lenders
are pushing flawed government data to keep prices afloat in the
English-speaking world’s costliest place to buy a home.  “It’s important for the government and banks to keep the
myth of a shortage alive,” said Sayce, editor of Melbourne-
based online newsletter  Money Morning Australia . “Without it,
prices drop, and negative equity results in housing
repossessions and insolvent banks.”  More than two-thirds of the government’s shortage estimate
arises by including people who can’t afford housing, such as the
homeless or those living in trailer parks, Sayce said. Collyer
at tax-reform lobby group  Prosper Australia  says there’s
actually a surplus of more than 250,000 dwellings after 15 years
of overbuilding, while Keen  argues  the shortage estimate is
swollen by inflated demand from handouts to property buyers of
as much as A$21,000 ($21,700).  Banks in  Australia  have more than A$1 trillion of  housing
loans  outstanding, with the four-biggest lenders accounting for
about 87 percent of the total. The Australian Bankers’
Association said it doesn’t have a position on the so-called
housing shortage myth and declined to comment.  Australia has the most unaffordable homes in the English-
speaking world, Illinois-based consulting company Demographia
said in January, with homes costing 6.1 times the average annual
income.  Slowing Market  The median price of apartments and houses in Australia’s
eight state capitals has declined 3.4 percent in 2011 -- the
most since 2009 -- to A$455,000 in July, according to a report
from Brisbane-based researcher RP Data on Aug. 31. The average
full-time workers’ annual earnings is about A$70,860.  The ratio of  household debt  to disposable income in
Australia is 155 percent, higher than the 133 percent  Americans 
accumulated at the height of the subprime mortgage boom. Demand
for housing credit in Australia has plunged to the slowest
annual growth pace since central bank records begin in 1977,
 data  Aug. 31 showed.  The most commonly cited data pointing to a dwelling
shortage in Australia is the annual State of Supply report
released by the government’s  National Housing Supply Council .  Under Building?  In its inaugural report in March 2009, the council broke
down the estimated gap of 85,000 homes in the year to June 2008.
It  included  9,000 dwellings needed to house people who were
homeless, 35,000 properties for those staying with friends or
relatives, 13,000 dwellings needed to house people living in
caravan parks, and 26,000 needed to increase the rental vacancy
rate to 3 percent, and rounded that to the nearest 5,000.  That shortfall had swollen to 178,400 in the year to June
2009, according to the 2010 State of Supply report, which used a
different methodology and didn’t specify which areas are short
on dwellings. The 2011 report is yet to be published.  “We look at underlying demand, how many dwellings are
needed to house our population, as opposed to market demand,”
said Owen Donald, chairman of the Housing Supply Council.
“There are submarkets that aren’t being supplied adequately and
there may well be a surfeit in other submarkets. And in any
market, there are going to be people who struggle to find a
product they can afford.”  Price Paradox  The  Housing Industry Association , a Canberra-based
builders’ group, said on Sept. 1 the nation will have a shortage
of about 500,900 homes by 2020 if it continues to build at the
pace it has over the past 20 years. The greatest shortages will
be in Brisbane, Queensland; Stirling, Western Australia; and the
 Gold Coast  in Queensland, the group said.  Recent statistics show that projection is doing little to
buoy prices or lower delinquency rates in those areas.  Prices in Brisbane fell 6.6 percent in July from a year ago,
the biggest decline among Australia’s capital cities, according
to RP Data figures.  House prices  in the Gold Coast dropped 5.4
percent and apartment prices plunged 7.7 percent in the year to
March 2011, RP Data said in a July report.  Stirling, a suburb 10 kilometers north of Perth’s city
center, was among the 100 worst postcodes in Australia with
mortgage repayments more than 30 days late as of March 31,
according to  Fitch Ratings . Across the nation, home loans more
than 30 days overdue rose to a record 1.79 percent of
residential mortgage-backed securities in the first quarter,
while the number of riskier “low-doc” loans more than 30 days
late climbed to a record 6.74 percent, Fitch said in May.  Bank Research  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-biggest lender, in
an October report on the nation’s housing market estimated a
shortage close to 200,000.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  -- the largest and
third-largest banks -- have also published reports in the past
year that attribute the run-up in prices over the past decade in
part to an undersupply of housing.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  is among
those flummoxed as to why homes are so pricey in a nation almost
as big as the U.S., with just 22.7 million people.  “How is it that a country of our size -- we are not short
of land -- how is it that we cannot add to the dwelling stock
for the marginal new entrant more cheaply than we seem to be
able to do,” Stevens told a parliamentary panel in Melbourne on
Aug. 26.  U.S. Slump  The challenge to the shortage numbers echoes warnings
before the U.S. housing crash from doomsayers including New York
University Professor Nouriel Roubini, “The Black Swan” author
 Nassim Taleb , and Peter Schiff, chief executive officer of Euro
Pacific Capital Inc.  U.S. home prices soared from 2000 to mid-2006, propelled by
banks and other lenders that extended credit to homebuyers who
later defaulted, leading to a collapse in the subprime mortgage
market. The nation’s economic leaders during the boom times
downplayed the notion that a housing price bubble left the
country vulnerable.  “Overall, while local economies may experience significant
speculative price imbalances, a national severe price distortion
seems most unlikely in the United States, given its size and
diversity,” then-Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said
in a  speech  in October 2004.  Australia Slowdown  U.S. home prices have slumped 32 percent since their July
2006 peak, according to the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index,
and the  proportion  of people who own their homes has fallen to
66 percent, from a peak of 69 percent in 2004. Australia
maintained its  homeownership  rate of the last four decades of
about 70 percent throughout the global financial crisis,
government statistics show.  Recent Australian indicators have pointed to a slowdown in
2011, with the  unemployment rate  rising. Australia faces as many
as 100,000 job losses and rising unemployment that will force
the central bank to cut  interest rates  by November, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch strategists said last month.  ‘ The Block ’ -- one of Australia’s top-rated television
shows -- highlighted the housing market’s recent malaise.  The series followed four couples as they renovated homes to
attract the highest price at auction over set targets. More than
3 million watched the finale on Aug. 21 as just one of the four
homes sold, for A$855,000, versus its A$840,000 asking price.  Australand,  Stockland (SGP)   Australia had a total of 377,315 homes listed for sale
online in July, a 22 percent jump from a year earlier, according
to  SQM Research . The percentage of successful sales at auction -
- a common sales method in Australia -- in the week ended Aug.
21 was 50 percent, down from 60 percent a year earlier and 78
percent at the same time in 2009, according to RP Data.  Developers including  Australand Property Group (ALZ) , Stockland
and  Meriton Pty , and developer-backed  Urban Taskforce Australia ,
are among groups arguing an undersupply of homes will underpin
prices. Urban Taskforce Chief Executive Officer  Aaron Gadiel 
said most Australians live in a small number of coastal cities,
exacerbating the shortage and driving prices higher.  Prosper Australia’s Collyer says there’s actually an excess
of 256,324 homes, equivalent to double the housing stock in the
nation’s capital, Canberra. That’s because Australia has built
one new dwelling for each 2.32 new people for the past 15 years,
Collyer said, more than is needed for a nation with an average
2.66 people per home.  Real Estate 4 Ransom  “When residential property prices blow into a bubble, the
tragic error often made is in attributing price rises to housing
shortages,” Melbourne-based Collyer said. “The U.S. experience
shows this conviction is shattered as soon as price declines
begin.”  Prosper Australia’s documentary ‘ Real Estate 4 Ransom ’ is
scheduled to play in cinemas in Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne and
Hobart this month and next.  While an increase in the number of people per dwelling
would reduce the Housing Supply Council’s assumed shortfall, the
increase itself could in part be attributed to a lack of
adequate supply, the Housing Supply Council’s Donald said.  “Our methodology is logically sound,” Melbourne-based
Donald said. “But none of us would bet our own house on the
precision of our estimate of the extent of undersupply.”  More than 100,000 properties lie vacant across Australia,
46,220 in metropolitan Melbourne alone, according to Karl
Fitzgerald, director of  Earthsharing Australia , a subsidiary of
Prosper. The group’s estimate is based on the number of homes
that used less than 50 liters (13.2 gallons) of water a day
between July 1 and Dec. 31.  Credit, Supply  “When a credit bubble has been created, the only things
that keep it growing are more credit and the belief that the
commodity is in short supply,” Sayce, who has been warning of a
collapse since late 2008, said. “Credit supply has grown
exponentially and is starting to taper off, so all that’s left
is the shortage argument.”  Sayce expects home prices will fall by as much as 40
percent from their peak in the second quarter of 2010. Money
Morning Australia offers commentary on financial news -- paid by
advertisers -- to 87,000 subscribers.  The government’s  first-homeowner grant  and a resulting
spike in mortgage debt have created a false perception of under-
supply, according to the University of Western Sydney’s Keen,
who expects a drop of as much as 10 percent in prices over the
next year.  The government introduced in July 2000 a payment of A$7,000
to first-home buyers to offset the impact of a  sales tax .
 Dwelling prices  responded, surging 15.5 percent in 2001.  Housing Handout  As the global credit freeze dented Australian home prices,
the government doubled the grant in October 2008 for those
purchasing existing homes, and tripled it for buyers of newly
constructed housing.  Home prices  jumped 13.6 percent in 2009.  “Households simply can’t and won’t take on more debt
relative to income than they already have,” said Keen, an
associate professor in economics who is publishing the second
edition of his book  Debunking Economics  in October. “So this
avenue for profits for the banks has come to an end.”  Keen, who said his  Debtwatch blog  draws an average of
200,000 hits a day, sold his Sydney apartment in the inner-ring
Surrey Hills suburb in 2008, missing out on further gains over
2009 and into 2010. He walked 224 kilometers (139 miles) from
Canberra to the top of Mount Kosciuszko in April 2010 after
losing a bet made in November 2008 that home prices would drop
40 percent to then Macquarie Group Ltd. economist Rory Robertson.  “Dr. Keen continues to bang his one-dimensional drum on
the Australian housing market, still oblivious to the stark
differences between the situation in Australia and what occurred
in  Japan  and the U.S.,” Robertson, who no longer provides
housing forecasts in his current role as an economic analyst at
Westpac, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Most economists are not so silly as to literally ‘bet the
house’ on an economic forecast,” said Robertson, who has owned
his own home since 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  