-- 
Papandreou Unveils Property Taxes, State Wage Cuts to Avert Greek Default

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-09-12T10:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/papandreou-oks-taxes-cuts-to-dodge-default.html
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ,
vowing to avoid a default and keep Greece in the euro, approved
new measures to help plug a yawning budget gap as resistance
builds at home and in Europe to extending more aid to the
European Union’s most-indebted nation.  The Cabinet yesterday voted to cut one month’s wages from
all elected officials and impose an annual charge on all
property for two years, to be levied through electricity bills
to ensure rapid collection, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
told reporters in the northern Greek city of Thessaloniki.  The measures will help the country meet deficit targets of
17.1 billion euros ($23.6 billion) in 2011 and 14.9 billion
euros in 2012, covering a 2 billion-euro shortfall for this year
that has been exacerbated by a deepening recession, he said.  “We have to do everything we can to emerge from this
difficult situation,” Venizelos said. “We cannot give anyone a
pretext to say that we are at fault.”  The salary cuts and taxes come after the euro slumped to a
six-month low and Greek two-year notes yields surged to a record
on concern the country is sliding toward default. EU leaders’
divisions threaten to scupper a second bailout approved in July,
and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on Sept. 10
repeated a threat to withhold the next 8 billion-euro payment
from the original rescue unless Greece shows it can meet fiscal
targets agreed with the EU.  Euro, Stocks  Against the dollar, the euro lost 0.2 percent to $1.3625 at
1:02 p.m. in Athens, after earlier touching $1.3555, the weakest
since Feb. 22.  Papandreou said two days ago that the government’s top
priority is “to save the country from bankruptcy” and said he
would do whatever’s necessary to meet targets.  The government now expects the economy to shrink 5 percent
this year, worse than the June estimate of 3.8 percent from the
EU and International Monetary Fund, and a deeper contraction
than in the past two years. The forecast damps hopes that  Greece 
will meet its pledge to lower its  budget deficit  to 7.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2011, with the government blaming
the slump for a budget gap that widened 22 percent in the first
eight months of the year.  ‘Critical’ Situation  The shortfall, which excludes outlays by state-owned
institutions and companies, increased to 18.1 billion euros to
end August from 14.8 billion euros a year earlier, preliminary
data released by the Athens-based  Finance Ministry  showed today.
The figure beat a target of 18.9 billion euros set in June.  Greek 10-year government bonds erased a gain, pushing the
yield on the securities up 62 basis points to 21.2 percent as of
11:39 a.m. in  London .  Venizelos, who on Sept. 6 promised to speed austerity
measures pledged in return for the emergency loans, said
yesterday the situation was “critical” and that the next two
months would be “hellish.”  The government must draft a credible 2012 budget, proceed
with state asset sales and complete a voluntary debt swap by the
end of October while EU leaders work on the final touches to the
European Financial Stability Facility, he said.  Speculation of a Greek default is aimed at the euro and
must be countered if the region is to stop the spread of the
debt crisis, Venizelos said on Sept. 10.  ‘Too Small’  Yesterday he said the lack of institutions in the euro area
underpinned the volatility in global markets in recent days.  “Greece is too small to be a catalyst for the future of
the euro area,” he said. “It accounts for 2 percent of the GDP
of the euro area and less than 3 percent of the area’s debt. We
can’t let our country become a pretext for divisions that aren’t
about us.”  Concerns about the prospect of default have deepened since
a scheduled quarterly review of Greece’s progress by the EU and
IMF was unexpectedly suspended for 10 days last week. The cost
of insuring Greek debt against default jumped 212 basis points
Sept. 9 to a record 3,238, according to CMA. The five-year
contracts signal there’s a 92 percent probability the country
won’t meet its debt commitments.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said yesterday he welcomed the commitment by the Greek
government to meet fiscal targets this year and in 2012.  ‘Verifiable Change’  The measures announced yesterday “will go a long way to
meeting the fiscal targets,” Rehn said in an e-mailed
statement. European Commission staff will return to Athens in
coming days to provide “technical support” to Greek
authorities.  “European Union representatives and government officials
in the euro zone member states have reminded Greece in no
unclear terms that the heart of the matter is not anymore what
you decide but how you implement, deliver, execute,” said Jens Bastian, the Alpha Bank Fellow for Southeast  Europe  at St.
Antony’s College at the University of Oxford. “Verifiable
change on the ground in the real economy is what matters.”  Greece has already announced 6.4 billion euros in savings
through the end of the year to meet the 2011 deficit target,
part of a 78 billion-euro package of state-asset sales and
budget measures that threatened to topple Papandreou in June.  Papandreou will today preside over a meeting of his
parliamentary group. He said yesterday he had faith in his party
and that they supported and believed in the government’s
efforts. He ruled out any thought of calling early elections and
said speculation Greece would leave the euro wasn’t serious.  Nine in 10 Greeks are dissatisfied with the government and
opposition’s handling of the crisis, according to a poll of
1,216 Greeks by researcher Public Issue published in Kathimerini
newspaper yesterday.  Opposition New Democracy party’s lead over the governing
Pasok party is now four percentage points, with the poll showing
neither party would win an outright majority in parliament if
elections were held now. The poll was conducted Sept. 2 to Sept.
7 and the margin of error is 2.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  