-- 
Reinsurers May End 2011 With Fuller Coffers, Aon Benfield Says

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-09-11T09:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/reinsurers-may-end-2011-with-fuller-coffers-aon-benfield-says.html
Reinsurers will probably have more
capital at the end of the year than the $470 billion at the end
of 2010, enough to supply its customers, according to  Aon
Benfield Group Ltd. , the world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  “The second quarter showed a linked-quarter increase, and
without events in excess of expected second-half losses,
reinsurers will again have capacity in excess of demand from
insurers in every region,” the London-based broker said in a
reinsurance market outlook presented in  Monte Carlo  today.  Reinsurers are seeking price rises for catastrophe coverage
after record losses following the temblors in  Japan  and  New
Zealand  that drove up claims and as low  interest rates  hurt
investment returns.  Total insured losses from natural catastrophes and man-made
disasters reached about $70 billion in the first half of this
year, which may make 2011 the second-costliest year in history
for insured catastrophe losses, Swiss Re Ltd. said on Sept. 9.  Large natural-catastrophe claims can cut into excess
capital, which serves as a buffer against unexpected losses and
supports reinsurers’ credit ratings.  Meanwhile, excess capital could drive more share buybacks
or reinsurers may deploy funds to support organic growth as that
generates “immediate, risk free gains,” the report said.  Reinsurers and their customers, such as  France ’s Axa SA,
have been meeting in Monte Carlo since Sept. 10 to start
negotiations for 2012 contracts. They’ll convene again in the
German town of Baden-Baden in October to continue talks.  Insurers buy reinsurance to cushion the effect of costly
disasters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 