-- 
Reinsurers, Brokers Clash on Outlook for Prices

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-09-11T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/reinsurers-brokers-clash-on-outlook-for-prices-in-monte-carlo.html
Munich Re and  Scor SE (SCR)  said overall
reinsurance prices will increase, driven by more expensive
catastrophe coverage, while brokers said claims haven’t risen
enough to push prices higher.  “We are of the firm opinion that prices for catastrophe
capacity will be more expensive in the near future,” said
Munich Re’s Chief Executive Officer Torsten Jeworrek during a
presentation in  Monte Carlo  yesterday. “I can promise you we
will not see price decreases in our portfolio.”  Reinsurers’ earnings have been stressed by natural
catastrophes, including the earthquake and tsunami that struck
Japan in March, causing record insured losses of $70 billion in
the first half of the year, according to  Guy Carpenter  & Co.,
the reinsurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. At the same
time, low  interest rates  are crimping investment returns, which
typically provide a buffer for earnings when claims rise. Yields
on benchmark 10-year German  government bonds  fell to a record
low of 1.77 percent on Sept. 9.  “The pricing environment has been improving for both
insurance and reinsurance.,” Victor Peignet, CEO of Scor’s
global property and casualty unit said at a press conference in
 Monte Carlo  yesterday. “If the primary market is driving in
that direction there is no reason why reinsurance should not
follow.” The reinsurer,  France ’s largest, aims to have annual
sales of 10 billion euros ($14 billion) in 2013.  The companies and their customers, insurers such as  Axa SA (CS) ,
began meeting in the principality on Sept. 10 to start
negotiations for 2012 contracts. They’ll convene again in the
German town of Baden-Baden in October to continue talks.
Insurers buy reinsurance to cushion the effect of costly
disasters.  Brokers’ View  Munich Re  and Swiss Re, the two largest reinsurers,
typically renew about two-thirds of their annual property and
casualty contracts in January, and the remainder in April and
July. The renewals on April 1 focus on the Asia-Pacific region.
Both reinsurers have said that rates will have to climb as a
result of this year’s disaster bill.  Brokers, which are in Monte Carlo to help their clients
negotiate better prices, say they don’t expect a marked increase
as the losses this year have been too isolated and not big
enough to drive prices up next year.  A European natural catastrophe would contribute more to a
change in price trends than the Japan earthquake, because most
reinsurance coverage is for U.S. hurricanes and earthquakes, and
European windstorm losses, said Bryon Erhart, chief strategy
officer of Aon Benfield, the world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  ‘Hard Bargains’  “Given the uncertainty in the marketplace, signals of
increase is something that you would expect from one side of the
market,” as reinsurers say capital has diminished,  Guy
Carpenter ’s Chief Executive Officer Alex Moczarski said in an
interview yesterday. “We do drive hard bargains and rates have
gone down.”  Reinsurance rates declined in four of the last five years,
according to the  Guy Carpenter World Property Catastrophe Rate
on Line Index , which tracks prices on a worldwide basis. During
that period, the industry escaped natural disasters on the scale
of  Hurricane Katrina , which flooded New Orleans and caused $62.2
billion of insured losses in 2005.  In 2008, writedowns on equity investments and losses
related to the financial crisis hurt earnings at reinsurers
worldwide. The firms were able to use to use those losses as an
argument to increase prices in the January 2009 renewals. Rates
declined again in the following two years, mostly because of an
absence of major natural catastrophes.  Market to ‘Drift’  “In absence of significant loss events we except the
global market to drift, without substantial decreases for the
2012 renewal,” said Chris Klein, head of sales operations for
the U.K. and  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa regions and market
relationships at Guy Carpenter, during a presentation in  Monte
Carlo  on Sept. 10. The broker expects prices in Europe to be
flat or slightly down next year.  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday that reinsurers’ earnings
prospects remain “uncertain” because of the economic slowdown,
adding they could gradually recover next year if catastrophe
losses normalize, which would mean losses of between $30 billion
and $35 billion. Companies’ ability to raise prices into 2012
will depend on the catastrophe losses during the remainder of
this year, including from  Hurricane Irene , which made landfall
Aug. 27 as a Category 1 hurricane in  North Carolina  before
striking  New York  the next day as a tropical storm.  “We don’t expect to see a massive rate increase,” Chris Waterman, head of EMEA insurance ratings at Fitch Ratings, said
during a presentation.  ‘Pockets of Growth’  Irene may result in insured damages of $2.6 billion, less
than initial estimates, according to Kinetic Analysis Corp., a
firm that predicts the effects of disasters. The Atlantic
hurricane season runs from June through the end of November.
Munich Re said on Sept. 9 it expects claims from Irene in the
“low three-digit million euro range.”  Damages from the events in  Japan , an earthquake in  New
Zealand , floods in  Australia  and other catastrophes led to a
first-half loss of 211 million euros ($298 million) at Munich
Re, and a 70 percent plunge in net income to $295 million at
Zurich-based Swiss Re.  “We are not saturated in reinsurance,” said Victor
Peignet. “We still have enough pockets of growth in our core
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  