-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Slowed on Limited Growth for Jobs, Incomes

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-11T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/retail-sales-probably-slowed-in-august-u-s-economy-preview.html
U.S. retail sales rose in August at
the slowest pace in three months, tempered by limited job and
income growth, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.2 percent gain would follow a 0.5 percent
increase in July, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department figures on
Sept. 14. Production slowed in August and inflation cooled from
the previous month, other reports may show.  Retailers J.C. Penney Co. and  Target Corp. (TGT)  say sales gains
are more difficult because of a stagnant labor market that’s
battered confidence. The risk of a broader pullback in spending,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, increases
pressure on the  Federal Reserve , Obama administration and
Congress to craft a plan to ensure the recovery is sustained.  “Consumers are reluctant to spend on anything outside of
what they need,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at
4Cast Inc. in New York. “Policy support is going to be
needed.”  The retail report may also show purchases excluding
automobiles rose 0.2 percent last month after a 0.5 percent
increase in July, economists said. The  auto industry  is
recovering from supply disruptions due to  Japan ’s earthquake in
March, which hurt production and sales the past few months.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 12.1 million seasonally
adjusted annual rate in August, down from a 12.5 million pace in
the first half of the year and little changed from July,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Labor Market  Spending on so-called big-ticket items such as cars and
appliances is threatened by a lack of  job creation . Payrolls
were unchanged last month and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent, Labor Department figures showed.  A plan from President  Barack Obama , announced before a
joint session of Congress on Sept. 8, called for an extension of
a payroll-tax break for Americans and unemployment assistance.
He also pushed for a payroll tax break for small businesses, an
increase in infrastructure spending and more aid for cash-
strapped state governments.  Congressional approval “would dramatically reduce the risk
of a long period of much weaker growth,” Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said in a Sept. 9 interview with Bloomberg
Television in Marseille,  France .  Americans are pessimistic, a report may show on Sept. 16.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to 56.6 in September from an almost
three-year low of 55.7 the prior month, economists in the
Bloomberg survey projected.  ‘More Challenging’  Sales gains at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, are “a bit more challenging” than expected at the
beginning of the year, according to executives.  “What we’re experiencing now is what we expect for quite
some time,” Douglas Scovanner, chief financial officer of
Minneapolis-based Target, said at a Sept. 8 conference. “This
is a challenging environment.”  Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney, like other retailers, is
seeing less mall traffic and more cautious consumer spending on
non-essential products, according to Chief Executive Officer
Myron Ullman.  “Everybody wishes the economy were better, the job growth,
real income growth and the things that drive the economy were
more vibrant,” he said in a Sept. 7 conference presentation.
“The upper-income customer, with more exposure to the stock
market, has been more enthusiastic about discretionary spending
and the bottom quartile customer has had to make it work with
high unemployment and gas prices and food prices.”  Luxury Chains  Some retailers are faring better. Luxury chains  Saks Inc. (SKS) 
and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  said last week that demand from high-end
consumers is holding up, and they’re sticking to their sales
forecasts.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
fallen 9.3 percent since July 15, while the broader  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  declined 12 percent during the same period.  Manufacturing, which has been a source of strength for the
recovery, is also losing steam. Fed data will show output at
factories, mines and utilities increased 0.1 percent in August,
the smallest gain in four months, after a 0.9 percent rise in
July, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The industrial
production figures are due on Sept. 15.  The slowdown may have extended into this month. Regional
Fed reports, also scheduled for Sept. 15, may show manufacturing
in the  New York  and Philadelphia areas contracted in September,
economists forecast.  With economic growth softening, inflation is easing, a
Labor Department report may show this week. The consumer-price
index, the broadest of the monthly price gauges, rose 0.2
percent in August after a 0.5 percent gain the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  