-- 
Rolex Oysters Navigate Swiss Franc Crisis With Help From Federer, Domingo

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-09-12T10:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/rolex-oysters-navigate-swiss-franc-crisis-with-help-from-federer-domingo.html
Along an Alpine fairway veiled
between the private banks of Geneva and the lakefront estates of
their jumpy Swiss depositors, Jean-Noel Bioul taps his wrist and
offers clients the ultimate in luxury shielding for perilous
economic times.  The product costs around $7,000 and current investors
include guitarist  Eric Clapton  and actor  Daniel Craig . It was
developed in 1956 with the help of physicists at the nearby
 European Organization for Nuclear Research , site of CERN’s
Hadron Collider. The item weighs 157 grams and is guaranteed to
tell the correct time during thermonuclear incidents that
release up to 1,000 Gauss of magnetic field density.  “The Milgauss is the one model that comes with a lightning
bolt as the second hand,” says Bioul, the 57-year-old
international sponsorship director of the Geneva-based
watchmaker Rolex Group. It’s the only maker of timepieces that
also can supply an unscripted photograph of  Pablo Picasso 
wearing an American Indian war bonnet on his head and a Rolex
Oyster Perpetual Chronometer on his wrist.  Luxury watchmakers are specialists at concocting marketing
campaigns to explain why their brand can take a licking and keep
on ticking. Yet closely held  Rolex  doesn’t disclose its
financial details let alone tell how a GMT-Master -- strapped to
the wrist of Che Guevara in 1956 -- sailed into Cuba with  Fidel Castro  aboard the yacht Granma and was used to time guerilla
activities. Select Rolex owners, though, play a key role in the
company’s classy branding strategy.  Swiss Bank  “We have the reputation of operating like a Swiss bank,”
Bioul chuckles on a patio at the  Geneva Golf Club ’s Rolex
Trophy-Challenge Tour, an annual event since 1991. “That’s
changing, slowly.”  Rolex annually makes 700,000 watches, Bioul says. Growth
markets in  China  and  India  helped cushion the company against
the Swiss franc’s overvaluation against the euro during this
summer’s currency crisis, he says. A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
report in August slashed Swiss growth forecasts for next year to
0.6 percent from 2 percent. On Sept. 7, the  Swiss National Bank 
decided to cap the franc’s rate to protect trade.  “We’re still doing well in  Europe  and  North America , even
in a global economy that’s difficult,” says Bioul, who joined
Rolex in 1993 after helping manageMark McCormack’s London-based
sports marketing company International Management Group. “Rolex
has never been pressured by time, but we pride ourselves on
being able to change with the times to ensure growth in a
dignified manner.”  Scraps of Paper  Central to that philosophy, set down by Rolex co-founder
Hans Wilsdorf, are some 102 years of Rolex chronicles kept in
the company’s archives. Bioul says these scraps of paper,
photographs and statements on the reliability and enduring
fashion of a Rolex watch are the institutional backbone of the
company’s continuing financial success under Chief Executive
Officer Gian Riccardo Marini, who in May succeeded Bruno Meier
as head of the biggest luxury-watch brand.  The characters in these stories who capture Rolex’s
imagination are singularly called “Testimony,” a grammatically
clumsy proper noun that refers to individuals or organizations
(such as tennis star  Roger Federer , tenor Placido Domingo and
the  Royal & Ancient  Golf Club of  St. Andrews ) tapped to
contractually star in ad campaigns.  The first thing Bioul does when he spots someone wearing a
Rolex is to ask them to recount the story of the watch.  Rolex Family  “Every Rolex owner has a personally passionate story to
tell about their watch and everyone who wears a Rolex is
immediately looked upon as an investor and a member of the Rolex
family,” Bioul says. “They’re our representatives and we want
to know about them.”  Elevation to Testimony status is rigorous. “Virtually all
Testimonies already wear a Rolex,” Bioul says. “We listen and
then fact-check the story behind them and their watch. Do the
story and individual meet the dignity of the brand? If so, we
offer Testimony. It’s not about money. You don’t become rich
with a Rolex watch deal.”  Testimonies usually receive a three-year contract valued at
around 35,000 Swiss francs ($39,561) and 30,000 Swiss francs
worth of Rolex watches over the duration of the agreement,
according to a former Testimony who asked to remain anonymous
because the parties to the negotiation had promised to keep
details confidential.  “You’ll never find a baloney story at Rolex,” Bioul says.
“A Testimony must already be in love with the watch and its
capabilities. If they’re in it for the money we’re not
interested.”  Channel Swimmer  Although Rolex’s first official Testimonies were 1960s
sports superstars  Arnold Palmer , Jackie Stewart and Jean-Claude Killy, Bioul says Wilsdorf started the program in 1927, when he
asked Mercedes Gleitze to wear a Rolex during her swim of the
 English Channel  to show a skeptical public that the Oyster case
was rugged and waterproof.  “That was the beginning of Testimony,” says Bioul, who
today manages a stable of 120 Testimonies in categories that
include golf, yachting, tennis, equestrian, exploration, auto
racing, the arts and an eight-man and -woman scuba team who last
year explored life in the minus-50-degree waters under the  North
Pole  wearing Sea-Dweller DEEPSEA watches.  “We keep our eyes open, we quietly look for achievements
of discovery, human qualities, regardless of how famous or as of
yet accomplished the individual,” Bioul says.  Executive's Challenge  Back in the mid-1970s, for instance, Rolex’s then Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Heiniger was at a  golf tournament  when
he spotted a despondent young man who failed to make the cut.
“Heiniger took him aside and said, ‘let’s go out and play the
back nine. If you can beat me, I want you to represent Rolex,’”
Bioul says.  The kid whipped Heiniger and became a Testimony. His name
was Seve Ballesteros.  In the often balmy world of product placement, Barry Hyde,
45, is an authority on the etiquette of pitching pricey
aspirational goods. He’s chief marketing officer for the  United
States Golf Association  in Far Hills,  New Jersey . His job is to
ensure professional golf doesn’t become entangled with
underwriters who might tarnish the USGA’s reputation.  “Golf, tennis, even the arts have a culture ripe to be
exploited by sponsors,” is Hyde’s verdict. “This happens all
the time but never with Rolex. I might not know much about the
fine arts, but if I see a Rolex ad about an artist I’m going to
read it because I know the person will be compelling.”  Racing Daytona   Tom Kristensen is Testimony even though he didn’t wear his
Rolex Daytona race watch during the eight first-place finishes
at the wheel of an Audi in the  24 Hours of Le Mans .  “The Daytona does nothing in the cockpit of a modern race
car,” Kristensen, 44, says. “All the analog information the
watch supplies is digitally transmitted to the car by computer.
Yet the Daytona is useful when I drive AC Cobras and other
classic racers at competitive events like  Goodwood .”  Kristensen says Rolex values the protocols of his risky
culture. “Traditional sponsors are not like that,” says the
Testimony Rolex describes as “the man who can’t slow down.”  “There’s no obligation for me to attend any Rolex event,”
Kristensen says after sinking a birdie putt. “But I do because
Rolex family members and Testimonies are fascinating people to
meet.”  Over at the clubhouse, Bioul remains on the prowl. He spots
a writer wearing a vintage 1975 GMT-Master. There’s another
story to tell back at the office.  Information:  http://www.rolex.com   http://usga.com 
 http://www.deepseaunderthepolenews.com/videos.asp   To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net  or @ACraigInParis  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 