-- 
Weakened Storm Nate Reaches Mexican Coast

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-09-11T16:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/tropical-storm-nate-reaches-mexican-coast-weakening-on-path-to-veracruz.html
Tropical Storm Nate is about to
make landfall north of Barra de Nautla in the Mexican state of
Veracruz and is forecast to weaken and dissipate by tomorrow.  Nate, with top winds of 45 miles (75 kilometers) per hour,
down from 60 mph earlier today, is moving west at 9 mph, and is
expected to continue on that path today, according to a U.S.
National Hurricane Center advisory at 11:50 a.m. New York time.
The storm is 10 miles from Barra de Nautla, and about 55 miles
southeast of Tuxpan,  Mexico .  “We haven’t had damages yet, everything is pretty calm,”
said Saul Miranda, a spokesman for the Veracruz weather center.
“No areas have been evacuated and all roads remain open.”  The government of Mexico replaced the  hurricane warning 
from Tuxpan to Veracruz with a tropical storm warning, according
to the U.S. National Hurricane Center. The storm is forecast to
weaken to a tropical depression as the center moves inland and
to dissipate by tomorrow, according to the website.  Mexico reopened oil export terminals in Dos Bocas and
Frontera in the  Gulf of Mexico , the country’s Merchant Marine
said in a bulletin today on its website. Terminals in Cayo Arcas
and Isla del Carmen remain closed since yesterday, while the
port in Tuxpan was closed today.  The storm has prompted  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Latin America ’s
largest oil producer, to “defer” 178,700 barrels of crude
output from offshore facilities and close two ports and evacuate
five offshore platforms.  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. Four production platforms are
shut, or 0.7 percent of the 617 crewed structures, the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement  said Sept.
9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  