-- 
Rush to Restaurant Real Estate Brings 53% Increase in Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-12T20:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/rush-to-restaurant-real-estate-brings-53-increase-in-valuation-real-m-a.html
The cheapest restaurants in America
are luring activist investors who are betting companies from
 Ruby Tuesday Inc. (RT)  to  Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. (CBRL)  can
make more money selling their own real estate than food.  The 10 biggest U.S. restaurants that sell for less than the
value of their property, plants and equipment trade at 70 cents
on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With the
restaurants slumping twice as much as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index this year, firms from  Biglari Holdings Inc. (BH)  to Carlson
Capital LP and Becker Drapkin Management LP are agitating for
board seats at eateries with fixed assets that are worth an
average of 53 percent more than the companies themselves. Ruby
Tuesday has $1 billion of such assets, twice its market value.  Activist funds are targeting land and buildings owned by
restaurants after U.S. commercial property values rose for a
second month following the biggest gain on record. While profits
at eateries are being squeezed as food costs increase and diners
pare spending in the face of an economic slowdown, investors
still stand to gain by forcing managers to sell real estate as
demand for commercial mortgage-backed bonds rises to the highest
level since the credit crisis, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said.  Selling property “certainly is an avenue to do something
to benefit shareholders,” Josh Zamir, managing principal at
Capstone Equities LLC, a New York-based private equity firm that
specializes in real estate, said in a telephone interview.
“When a company’s stock is trading at or about or below the
real estate value, it means the market is not recognizing the
value of their real estate.”  Eating Out  Meridith Hammond, a spokeswoman for Maryville, Tennessee-
based Ruby Tuesday, declined to comment on whether it would
consider property sales.  Julie Davis  of Lebanon, Tennessee-based
Cracker Barrel said in an e-mail that selling property is “a
form of financing and at this time it’s more expensive than
other financing that’s available.”  Shares of  restaurant chains  have declined on concern
consumers will spend less money on meals with U.S. economic
growth deteriorating two years after the  longest recession  since
the Great Depression ended.  The economy expanded 0.7 percent in the first half of this
year, the weakest stretch since the recovery began in June 2009.
As job growth stalled last month, a RBC Capital Markets survey
showed one-third of Americans now plan to spend less dining out
in the next 90 days, the largest proportion in almost a year.  Valuation Gap  The Bloomberg U.S. Full Service Restaurant Index, which
includes Ruby Tuesday, Cracker Barrel and 15 other companies,
had fallen 24 percent through last week after reaching a record
in July. That’s almost double the retreat in the  S&P 500 , the
benchmark gauge of American common equity, over the same span.  The slump left 22 publicly traded U.S. restaurants selling
for less than the value of their property, plants and equipment
after deducting depreciation, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The 10 biggest, which include Ruby Tuesday and Cracker Barrel,
now trade at an average 30 percent discount.  Ruby Tuesday, valued at $459 million after plummeting 44
percent this year, sells for the biggest discount to its net
fixed assets. Cracker Barrel has about $1 billion in land and
buildings, exceeding its market capitalization by 16 percent
after the company lost almost a third of its value.  The valuation gap is enticing investment firms, which are
trying to make a “quick buck” from property sales that could
be used to buy back shares or fund cash payouts, according to
Steve West, a St. Louis-based analyst at Stifel.  Wall Street Embrace  The real estate could then be rented back in so-called
sale-leaseback arrangements, according to Sam Yake, an analyst
at BGB Securities Inc. in Arlington, Virginia.  “Wall Street loves” companies that sell their real estate
and then lease those properties instead, he said. “It’s one
tool in an investor’s arsenal” to boost value, he said.  Ruby Tuesday climbed 3.4 percent today, while Cracker
Barrel advanced 4.9 percent. Both companies outpaced the S&P
500’s 0.7 percent gain.  Last month, Dallas-based firms Carlson Capital and Becker
Drapkin increased their combined stake in Ruby Tuesday to 8.6
percent after they began buying shares last quarter.  At the time, the funds said in a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission they bought shares with the intention of
nominating their own directors and seeking discussions with
management on ways to “maximize  shareholder value .”  After the firms made their initial investment, Ruby Tuesday
said in July that it had appointed Steven Becker and Matthew Drapkin as members of its board. Neither Becker nor Drapkin
returned telephone calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Zero Hour  Clint Carlson, president and chief investment officer of
Carlson Capital, also didn’t respond to a telephone call or e-
mail requesting comment.  Biglari Holdings, which owns 9.3 percent of Cracker Barrel,
plans to nominate Sardar Biglari, its chairman and chief
executive officer, to Cracker Barrel’s board of directors at its
annual shareholder meeting, a regulatory filing this month said.  “Now is the hour to place real owners in the boardroom to
deliver real value for all owners,” Biglari wrote in a letter
to Cracker Barrel Chairman Michael Woodhouse, which was dated
Sept. 1 and included in the filing.  Cracker Barrel said it rejected an earlier demand by
Biglari to appoint himself and his company’s vice chairman to
the board. Biglari refused a proposal from Cracker Barrel that
would have allowed him to appoint two other independent
directors, subject to certain guidelines.  Burgers and Shakes  San Antonio-based Biglari Holdings, which began amassing
its stake in Cracker Barrel last quarter, also owns Steak ‘n
Shake. The chain, which specializes in burgers and shakes, sold
13 of its outlets from 2008 through 2009 and began leasing the
properties instead, according to a company filing.  At Steak ‘n Shake, “real estate is a source of great
value,” Biglari wrote in a January 2008 letter to shareholders
urging a new slate of directors to help turnaround the chain.  Biglari declined to comment, according to his assistant.  “Selling the real estate is an obvious way to optimize
return,”  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at  Fort Lee , New
Jersey-based Palisade Capital Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview. The firm manages $3.7 billion, including
about 465,000 Cracker Barrel shares. “Activists can be an agent
of change to force the sale of these restaurants’ real estate.”  “We’ve always felt there was a lot of value” in Cracker
Barrel’s property, he said.  Residual Value  Investors are eyeing land and buildings owned by
restaurants as property values recover from the depths of the
financial crisis. U.S. commercial real estate prices rose 0.9
percent in June, the second straight advance, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report last month.  The increase followed a 6.3 percent surge in May, which was
the biggest ever recorded by Moody’s. Prices had fallen five
consecutive months to an all-time low in April.  More than $23 billion in commercial-mortgage bonds have
also been sold this year, double last year’s total and the most
since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even when a restaurant is struggling, “there is residual
asset value that the shareholders would have a claim on --that’s
the land,” said Bryan Elliott, an analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . That’s why activist
investors “push for property sales,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in  New York  at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at +1-212-617-7261 or  rajello@bloomberg.net . 