-- 
Scotch Whisky Exports Rise on Emerging Markets

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-09-11T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/scotch-whisky-exports-bounce-back-on-emerging-market-customers.html
Scotch whisky exports increased in
the first six months of 2011 as consumers in countries including
 Singapore  and Brazil bought more bottles of the spirit,
reversing declines last year.  Shipments of whisky from  Scotland  rose by the equivalent of
92.5 million bottles, or 19 percent, to 569.3 million bottles,
the Scotch Whisky Association said in an e-mailed statement.
Volumes slid 2 percent in 2010 as consumers in countries
including Greece and Spain bought fewer bottles.  The value of exports rose 22 percent to 1.8 billion pounds
($2.9 billion), a 321.1 million-pound increase, the SWA said.
That was a faster pace than the 10 percent growth in 2010, aided
by Taiwan and Singapore.  “While traditional export markets remain important, we are
making excellent headway in other regions,” Gavin Hewitt, SWA
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “Emerging
markets are becoming increasingly important to Scotch whisky
producers.”  The U.S. remained the largest market by revenue and  France 
the largest by volume, the SWA said.  “We have great ambition for exports from Scotland,” Richard Lochhead, Scotland’s rural affairs secretary, said in a
statement. “Other industries should be learning from the long-
term strategy and continuing investment of the Scotch whisky
industry.”  Johnnie Walker , Chivas Regal  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie Walker whisky, and Pernod-
Ricard SA, which sells the Chivas Regal and Glenlivet brands,
both reported increased annual sales for the year ended June 30,
aided by sales of Scotch. Diageo’s scotch sales rose 16 percent
in developing economies, the company said August 25, as
consumers purchased more “super-deluxe” bottles at higher
prices.  Distillers are looking to emerging markets to drive sales
growth in both volume and value, targeting wealthy drinkers in
markets including  China  as well as emerging middle-class
consumers.  The  Scotch Whisky Association , based in Edinburgh, uses
data from the U.K.’s Revenue and Customs department, based on
company declarations of shipments. Scotch is defined as whisky
that has been produced and matured in Scotland, according to the
SWA. The bottle size quoted in the SWA’s data totals 700
milliliters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 