-- 
Williams Has No Faults, Goes to U.S. Open Final

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-11T05:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/serena-williams-has-no-faults-on-way-to-u-s-open-final-against-stosur.html
Serena Williams  will be back on
center court at the U.S. Open in the women’s final tonight, two
years after she left  New York  on a match-ending foot fault.  Williams will be seeking her fourth U.S. Open title and
14th Grand Slam championship against Samantha Stosur of
 Australia , who is bidding for her first Grand Slam title.  Williams, 29, an American seeded 28th in the tournament
after two injury marred years, reached the final with a 6-2, 6-4
victory last night against  Caroline Wozniacki , the top seed from
 Denmark .  Stosur, 27, who is seeded ninth and lost to Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  at the 2010 French Open in her only previous
Grand Slam final, advanced with a 6-3, 2-6, 6-2 semifinal
victory against unseeded German Angelique Kerber.  Williams was sidelined from July 2010 to this June because
of two foot operations and a blood clot in her lungs that she
said put her “literally on my deathbed.” The world’s former
top player dropped to No. 175 on the WTA tour and needed a
special injury ranking to qualify for the  U.S. Open .  “I really feel like I don’t have anything to lose, I’ve
beaten all odds, six months ago I was in the hospital and now
I’m in the final,” Williams said in a news conference after her
win against Wozniacki. “I’ve come a really long way.”  Williams, who missed the 2010 U.S. Open because of injury,
spent the early part of this year’s tournament trying to parry
questions about the way she left the 2009 tournament.  Williams was two points from losing a semifinal match to
 Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium  when she was called for a foot fault on
a second serve. She was penalized a point for verbally abusing
the lineswoman, ending the match and leading to a $175,000 fine.  ‘Two Years Later’  She was asked in a news conference before the first round
this year what she had learned from the incident.  “I don’t think about it, are you still thinking about
it?” Williams responded. “Oh, my God, that was like two years
ago. This is like two years later.”  Stosur is the first Australian to reach the U.S. Open
women’s final since Wendy Turnbull in 1977, the year before the
tournament moved to its current home at the National Tennis
Center.  She’ll be seeking to become the first Australian to win the
U.S. Open women’s title since Margaret Court, who in 1973 beat
Evonne Goolagong Cawley for the last of her record 24 Grand Slam
singles titles. Cawley, who’s also Australian, lost four
straight U.S. Open finals from 1973-76.  “To now be in that same round as those guys who were able
to win and make Grand Slam finals, I can’t even describe it,”
Stosur said in a news conference. “To have my name up against
those women is quite amazing.”  Williams’s 4-2 Record  Williams has a 4-2 career record against Stosur, including
a 6-4, 6-2 win in mid-August in Toronto. They’ve split two
meetings at Grand Slams, with Williams winning in the fourth
round at the 2010 Australian Open and Stosur winning 6-2, 6-7
(2-7), 8-6 in the 2010 French Open quarterfinals.  “The one good thing is that one of the matches I beat
Serena was actually in a Grand Slam,” Stosur said. “So I think
that’s obviously a big confidence booster to know that I have
been able to do it in a major tournament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  