-- 
Australia’s Stosur Beats Williams to Secure First Grand Slam Tennis Title

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/stosur-beats-williams-for-first-grand-slam.html
Samantha Stosur is the  U.S. Open 
champion, ending two Australian droughts of women’s Grand Slam
singles titles that stretched back to tennis Hall of Fame
members Margaret Court and Evonne Goolagong Cawley more than
three decades ago.  In the process, she stopped pre-tournament favorite Serena Williams of the U.S. from creeping closer to Court’s record of
24 major singles championships.  Stosur, the 27-year-old ninth seed, beat the 28th-seeded
Williams 6-2, 6-3 at the National Tennis Center in New York
yesterday. Williams hadn’t lost a set in the two-week tournament
coming into the final.  “I’m still kind of speechless,” Stosur said in a news
conference. “I can’t actually believe I won this tournament.”  Stosur won $1.8 million for the championship, twice
Williams’s prize. She became the third consecutive women’s
player to capture her first major this year after  China ’s  Li Na 
took the French Open title and Petra Kvitova of the  Czech
Republic  won Wimbledon.  Stosur, a former top-ranked doubles player, is the first
Australian woman to win one of the four Grand Slam championships
since Cawley in 1980 at Wimbledon. She was playing in her second
major final, having finished as runner-up to Francesca Schiavone
of  Italy  at the 2010 French Open.  The last time an Australian took the U.S. Open women’s
title was in 1973 when Court claimed her record-extending 24th
women’s major singles titles. The tournament was then held on
grass at the West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills, New York.  Day’s Delay  The women’s final was pushed back one day after rain forced
officials to extend the tournament into a third week for the
fourth straight year. The men’s final is today, with top-ranked
Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  playing defending champion and second-
ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain .  Williams, a three-time U.S. Open champion who was seeking
her 14th Grand Slam singles title, ended her previous appearance
at the U.S. Open in a 2009 semifinal loss with a foot fault and
a penalty point when she threatened a lineswoman. There was more
controversy against Stosur.  Tournament referee Brian Earley is deciding whether to fine
Williams for a code violation for comments to the referee after
losing a point, and a service game, in the second set when she
yelled “Come on!” before the point was over. Williams faced a
break point on her serve when she hit a forehand that Stosur
barely tipped as it went past her.  Shout Out  Match umpire Eva Asderaki cited Williams for a verbal
hindrance because she shouted before Stosur had a chance to
swing at the ball. The point, and first game of the second set,
went to Stosur.  “Aren’t you the one who screwed me over last time here?”
Williams asked the umpire. Louise Engzell was the umpire for the
2009 semifinal that ended with the foot fault.  Williams was fined $175,000 for threatening the lineswoman
in 2009 and is on a three-year suspended U.S. Open ban, which
she would incur if she commits any further “major offense”
before the end of this year.  Williams was issued a code violation for verbal abuse by
Asderaki, the U.S. Tennis Association said in a statement, and
Earley will announce today whether Williams will be fined.  “Any impact this code violation might have on  Serena
Williams ’s Grand Slam probation would require the incident being
ruled a major event,” according to the statement. “That
determination will be made by the Grand Slam committee
director.”  No Handshake  Williams said in a news conference that she couldn’t
remember any previous run-in with Asderaki, and parried repeated
questions about whether she regretted her comments to the umpire.
During a changeover after the disputed point, Williams said to
Asderaki, “You’re a hater and unattractive inside,” and didn’t
shake hands with Asderaki after the match.  “I don’t remember what I said, I was so intense out
there,” Williams said in the news conference. “I was in a
zone.”  Williams, ranked by former Grand Slam champion  John McEnroe 
and others as the greatest server in women’s tennis history,
lost five of her nine service games and 67 percent of the points
on her second serve.  The disputed point didn’t affect the match, she said.  “I don’t think it had an impact, because she won handily
today,” Williams said. “It was the only good shot I think I
hit.”  A similar event occurred in a second-round match in which
Christina McHale of the U.S. was awarded a point when  Marion Bartoli  of  France  yelled out during play.  Stosur Finish  Williams came back after the ruling, breaking Stosur’s
serve in the next game and winning her next two service games to
take a 3-2 lead. Stosur, who won the final 12 points of the
first set, responded by winning the final four games of the
match.  “It was difficult to stay focused, it was probably the
loudest I ever felt a crowd in my whole entire life,” Stosur
said. “It was definitely a quite overwhelming feeling. But once
I hit that next ball in the court and started playing again, I
felt settled.”  Stosur tied 2004 champion Svetlana Kuznetsova of  Russia  as
the lowest-seeded woman to win the tournament in tennis’ Open
era, which began in 1968.  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium  was unseeded
when she won in 2009.  Stosur played 147 games in the first six rounds of the
tournament compared with 103 for Williams, and was part of a
women’s Grand Slam record when she and  Maria Kirilenko  played a
32-point tiebreaker in the fourth round.  Injuries, Illness  Williams was the pre-tournament favorite among Las Vegas
oddsmakers to win her 14th Grand Slam singles title. The 29-
year-old American was playing the U.S. Open for the first time
since 2009 and was coming back from two operations on her foot
and blood clots in her lungs, returning to the courts in June
after more than a year on the sidelines.  Stosur’s win harkens back to era when Australian women were
a major force at the U.S. Open. At least one Australian woman
was in the tournament’s final in eight of the nine years from
1969 to 1977 -- Court in 1969 and 1970; Kerry Reid in 1972;
Court and Goolagong in 1973; Goolagong in 1974-76; and Wendy
Turnbull in 1977.  Stosur’s first singles title in  New York  follows another
record-setting run at the year’s final major. Her three-set
victory over Russia’s Maria Kirilenko in the round of 16
featured the longest tiebreaker in women’s Grand Slam history at
32 points. It came a year after she played in the tournament’s
latest-finishing women’s match.  Racket Gift  A native of Brisbane in Queensland state, Stosur started
playing tennis at age 8 when a friend gave her a racket as a
Christmas present. She joined the Australian Institute of Sport
at 16 and turned professional in 1999.  Stosur, who reached the WTA Tour’s No. 1 ranking in doubles
in February 2006, was sidelined for 10 months after getting Lyme
disease in July 2007 and didn’t return to the women’s circuit
until June 2008. She claimed her first WTA singles title in
 Osaka  the following year.  At last year’s French Open, she became the first player
since 2000 to beat  Justine Henin  and Williams in the same Grand
Slam tournament, and ended Henin’s 24-match winning streak in
Paris.  Williams took a 4-2 career record against Stosur into the
final, including a 6-4, 6-2 win in mid-August in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  