-- 
U.K. Must Stick With Fiscal Plans, Top Tax Rate, Alexander Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-11T13:58:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/u-k-must-stick-with-fiscal-plans-top-tax-rate-alexander-says.html
The U.K. government will stick with
its plans to reduce the  budget deficit , Treasury Minister Danny Alexander said, rejecting calls to consider scrapping Britain’s
top rate of income tax.  “The right priority for the country, for the economy, too,
is to lift the burden on low- and middle-income earners,”
Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, said in a
television interview on  Sky News  today. “Those are the people
who will go out there and spend that money in the shops. That
will actually deliver a boost to the economy.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  this week sought to temper
suggestions he’s mulling the end of Britain’s 50 percent  tax
rate  on incomes higher than 150,000 pounds ($238,000) after a
group of economists said it should be abolished amid a slowdown
in the recovery. A  letter  signed by 20 economists and published
in the Financial Times on Sept. 7 said the duty, which was
introduced by the previous Labour administration to help cut the
deficit, is hurting growth by discouraging entrepreneurs.  “Those with the broadest shoulders need to bear the
largest share of the burden in what is a very difficult time,”
Alexander said. “People who think that the priority for this
government should be reducing the tax burden on the very
wealthiest are living in cloud cuckoo land.”  The Treasury minister said the government, which has plans
to raise the threshold at which Britons start paying income tax
to 10,000 pounds, should prioritize reducing levies on lower
earners and consider increasing that threshold even further.
That should be an “aspiration for the next parliament,”
Alexander said.  ‘Back in Shape’  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is implementing
the biggest cuts in public spending since World War II to
eliminate Britain’s budget deficit at a time when the economic
recovery is showing signs of losing momentum. Gauges of British
manufacturing, services and construction growth all declined in
August and the  Bank of England  last month cut its 2011 U.K.
economic growth forecast to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent.  “We need to get the economy back in shape, the deficit
down, the debt paid off, so that the economy can grow again and
grow properly,” U.K. Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith told the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show” today. “At the moment
it is growing and all the forecasts suggest that it will grow,
but perhaps at a slower rate.”  Alexander disagreed with opposition Labour Party Treasury
spokesman  Ed Balls ’ argument that spending cuts will lead to a
renewed recession.  ‘Last Thing We Need’  “We are going to stick with the plans that we have set
out,” he said. “One of the dangers of following Balls’
strategy is that we’d end up in the sort of mess we’ve seen in
other countries where people lose confidence in the government’s
ability to pay its way in the world and as a result,  interest
rates  get driven up. That’s the last thing we need.”  While the wealthiest Britons are subject to the 50 percent
tax rate, those working in the banking industry are facing
greater regulation and scrutiny as officials seek to prevent
another financial crisis. The U.K.’s  Independent Commission on
Banking , set up by the government in June 2010, will publish its
final recommendations tomorrow.  U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  wrote in the Mail on
Sunday today that British banks should pay for the commission’s
proposed reforms by cutting compensation and payments to
shareholders.  Bankers should be subject to a code of conduct similar to
doctors and lawyers that would allow them to be prevented from
working in the industry if found to be irresponsible, Labour
leader  Ed Miliband  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “We must not send a signal to banks or any other
institution that they can go back to business as usual,
particularly at a time when the hard-working majority in this
country -- who were not responsible for creating the crisis --
are being asked to pay the bill,” Miliband said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  