-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise, Erasing Loss in Last Hour, on Report China May Buy Bonds

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-12T21:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-amid-concern-about-greece-s-debt-crisis.html
U.S. stocks advanced, erasing
earlier losses, as speculation that China may invest in Italy
triggered a rally that lifted the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
more than 200 points in the last 45 minutes of trading.  Nine out of 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rallied, led by technology and financial shares.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender by assets, gained 1 percent on
plans to eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few years.  NetLogic
Microsystems Inc. (NETL)  surged 51 percent after  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  agreed
to buy the semiconductor company for $3.7 billion in cash.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.7 percent to 1,162.27 at 4 p.m. in
New York, after retreating 1.6 percent earlier. The Dow
increased 68.99 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,061.12.  “If China is willing to invest in Italy, maybe that’s the
solution,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at
Security Global Investors in Irvington, New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It introduces a new source of capital
that people weren’t considering outside  Europe . Maybe the other
countries are going to be able to find capital on their own.
That’s what we need to see to shore up these countries.”  Stocks rebounded as the Financial Times said Italian
officials are trying to convince  China  to purchase its bonds,
without identifying its sources. An Italian government official,
who declined to be identified, told Bloomberg News that Italian
officials have held talks with Chinese counterparts about
potential investments in the euro region’s third-largest
economy.  Not The Focus  The purchase of Italian bonds by China was not the focus of
the talks, which took place in the past few weeks, the official
said on condition of anonymity. A spokesman for Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  declined to comment.  “The fact that the Chinese are coming in is comforting,”
 Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees $883 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “The question will be: Is this enough
for the depths of the endemic problems facing the European
Union? Until we see an easing in credit markets, it’s going to
be difficult to take advantage of good valuations.”  Stocks fell earlier today amid concern Greece is moving
closer to a debt default. Moody’s Investors Service may cut the
ratings of BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit
Agricole SA this week because of their Greek holdings, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Between April 29 and Aug. 8, the S&P 500 fell 18 percent on
concern about Europe’s debt crisis and an economic slowdown. It
closed as low as 1,119.46 on Aug. 8, within 29 points of a  bear
market , or a 20 percent drop.  3M, Sears  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth lost 0.4 percent, paring a decline of as much as
2.8 percent. 3M Co., the maker of  Post-It Notes , gained 2.1
percent to $78.22. Sears Holdings Corp. added 1.3 percent to
$54.24.  Bank of America increased 1 percent to $7.05. The lender
will eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few years as part of
Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan’s plan to bolster
profit and the company’s stock.  The reductions, equal to about 10 percent of the staff, are
part of an overhaul that aims to remove about $5 billion in
annual costs by the end of 2013. Moynihan’s plan, dubbed Project
New BAC, included a management shakeup last week that elevated
Thomas K. Montag and David Darnell to co-chief operating
officers and left Sallie Krawcheck and  Joe Price  without jobs.  NetLogic soared 51 percent to $48.12. Shareholders will get
$50 a share. That’s 57 percent more than  Santa Clara ,
California-based NetLogic’s closing price on Sept. 9.  Valuations Are Attractive  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Neel Kashkari said
investors should buy equities because valuations, income growth
and dividends show the asset class is attractive.  The  S&P 500 ’s price-earnings ratio sank to a 28-month low
of 12.2 last month, and then recovered to 12.5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The inverse of that multiple, known
as the earnings yield, shows income represents 8 percent of the
measure’s price, or 6.1 percentage points more than the rate on
10-year Treasuries. That’s the biggest gap since 2009, when the
level was the highest in Bloomberg data going back to 1962. The
dividend payout is exceeding bonds for the second period since
the 1950s.  “Equities offer returns in three different ways: multiples
can expand, earnings can grow and through dividends,” Kashkari,
the head of global equities at Pimco, which manages about $1.3
trillion in assets, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan. “On all
three factors, equities look very attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  