-- 
Hungary Loan Plan Mustn’t Threaten Banking System, Kosa Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-11T21:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/hungary-loan-plan-mustn-t-threaten-banking-system-kosa-says.html
Hungary must help foreign-currency
mortgage holders in a way that doesn’t undermine the banking
system, Lajos Kosa, vice-president of the ruling Fidesz party
said today.  Fidesz lawmakers proposed on Sept. 9 to make lenders bear
the cost of early repayment of foreign-currency loans at fixed
rates as much as 20 percent below prevailing rates. Hungarian
shares fell to the lowest in two years and OTP Bank Nyrt., the
country’s largest lender, plunged after the proposal was
announced.  “Obviously a collapse of the banking system is in no one’s
interest,” Kosa told Budapest-based HirTV. “We have to govern
responsibly,” Kosa said, adding that the plan should also not
hurt borrowers who don’t repay early by weakening the forint.  Two-thirds of Hungarian mortgages are denominated in Swiss
francs and the plan to fix the franc exchange rate at 180 forint
and the euro at 250 forint for early repayments is the latest
effort to assist borrowers as a strengthening franc sent monthly
installments soaring. Eastern European countries, including
Hungary and  Poland , are struggling to contain the damage from
the franc’s rise of about 50 percent from five years ago, when
many of the  mortgage loans  were taken out.  After the Fidesz party’s proposal was announced on Sept. 9
the BUX index slumped as much as 8.4 percent and was 6.2 percent
lower at 17,041.97 by the 5 p.m. close in Budapest. OTP, which
was briefly suspended for breaching the 10 percent trading
limit, dropped much as 15 percent and traded 11 percent lower at
3,740 forint ($18.12), the lowest level since July 2009.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will tomorrow present some
details of the plan to help borrowers and measures to defend
against the impact of the euro-area crisis, MTI reported, citing
Orban’s spokesman  Peter Szijjarto .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  