-- 
Murdoch Makes No Retreat From Scandals With Attack on Australia Government

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-12T09:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/murdoch-makes-no-retreat-from-scandals-with-attack-in-australia.html
The phone hacking scandal in the
U.K. hasn’t muzzled Rupert Murdoch in his native  Australia ,
where his newspaper empire is doing more than any other to
undermine Prime Minister  Julia Gillard .  Less than two months ago, Murdoch told the U.K. Parliament
that the theft of voicemails by his News of the World made his
appearance “the most humble day of my life.” That’s not the
way it feels to members of Gillard’s  Labor party , who say a
drumbeat of criticism by his papers has created a “climate of
fear,” according to Australian lawmaker  John Murphy .  Murdoch’s  Daily Telegraph , the best-selling daily newspaper
in Australia’s largest city of Sydney, is “running a campaign
on  regime change,”  according to Communications Minister Stephen Conroy. Gillard herself demanded and got a  retraction  and
apology from the Australian, another daily owned by the
billionaire’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , after it printed a falsehood. She said
the Daily Telegraph should enter another report “for one of our
fiction prizes.”  “It’s not surprising at all that Murdoch is at it again in
Australia while the U.K. phone-hacking scandal is still fresh,”
said Tim Bale, a professor of politics at the University of
Sussex and the author of “The Conservative Party: From Thatcher
to Cameron.” “He tries to use his economic power to get
political influence. It’s part of his business model.”  Electoral Record  There is no campaign against the government by News Ltd.,
the company’s Australian unit, said spokesman Greg Baxter. The
80-year-old Murdoch has long wielded political clout in
Australia, where he controls about 70 percent of the newspapers.
His papers helped elect every British government over three
decades, and no New York mayor has been re-elected without his
backing since Murdoch first bought the New York Post in 1976.  The hacking scandal ravaged Murdoch’s reputation in the U.K.
Revelations that his News of the World intercepted the voice
mails in 2002 of Milly Dowler, a missing British schoolgirl who
was found murdered, forced him to close the 168-year-old
newspaper. Murdoch bought advertising in his own and competing
publications to apologize.  The scandal also led to at least 16 arrests and derailed
News Corp.’s plan to acquire complete control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  In the U.S., the  Justice Department 
opened a probe of whether News Corp. employees hacked into the
cell-phone accounts of victims of the Sept. 11 attacks.  1953 Start  None of that has subdued New York-based News Corp.’s 120
metropolitan, regional and rural newspapers in Australia, an
empire Murdoch built after he took control of the business and
began running a daily in Adelaide in 1953 following his father’s
death. The company also holds 25 percent of Foxtel, Australia’s
biggest pay television operator.  Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp.
in providing financial news and information.  News Ltd.’s Herald Sun tabloid, the nation’s best-selling
daily newspaper, reported Sept. 2 that unidentified senior
figures in Gillard’s Labor party urged her to quit even though
the next election isn’t until 2013.  The prime minister responded that she was “not going
anywhere” before the next election. Gillard, 49, who became
Australia’s first female prime minister 15 months ago, declined
to comment for this article.  ‘More Emboldened’  “News Ltd. has been more emboldened than other media
outlets, and the fact they have the majority of ownership in
this country means they will have an impact on the way people
think,” said  Andrew Hughes , a professor who does research on
political branding and marketing at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “The Murdoch press has its feet on the
throat of a government that’s already on the ropes.”  Baxter, the News Ltd. spokesman, responded to questions on
the matter in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg.  “We have made it clear that the company and its mastheads
do not have and are not engaged in any kind of campaign for
regime change as has been alleged by members of the
government,” Baxter wrote.  Gillard’s approval rating plunged to 23 percent, down 6
percentage points in two weeks, in a survey by Australia’s
Newspoll organization published Sept. 6 in the Australian. That
was the lowest for a prime minister since 22 percent for Paul Keating in 1993. The  poll  queried 1,152 voters between Sept. 2
and Sept. 4 and had an error margin of three percentage points.  Refugee Reversal  The findings reflect opposition to the prime minister’s
proposed carbon tax, according to Hughes. Gillard was dealt
another blow on Aug. 31 when the country’s top court ruled that
the government couldn’t proceed with a plan to address an influx
of refugees by sending asylum-seekers to Malaysia.  A Nielsen poll published in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  newspapers
today showed a drop in her approval by six points, to 32 percent.
The Nielsen survey of 1,400 people had a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.6 percentage points and was conducted Sept. 8-10.  The prime minister today met with her Cabinet and Labor
lawmakers to address the refugee-policy setback, later saying at
a press conference that she will submit changes in migration
laws to parliament to allow her deal with Malaysia to proceed.
Opposition leader Tony Abbott said in a statement that his
coalition would consider any legislative proposals from Gillard.  Gillard’s standing has also eroded as Australia’s mining
boom fuels a rise in the value of the currency, increasing the
cost of exports and hurting the country’s ability to compete
internationally. The Australian dollar is up 21 percent against
the U.S. currency in the past two years.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) 
last month announced plans to cut 1,000 jobs and shut a furnace
because of losses related to the currency’s gains and to high
raw material costs.  ‘Not Great’  “It is clear things are not great for this government,”
said Rodney Smith, professor of politics at the University of
Sydney and author of the book, “Politics in Australia.”
“Labor is already unpopular without any help from News Ltd.”  In last year’s election,  Labor  lost its majority, forcing
Gillard to rule with a minority government. To retain the 76
votes in the House of Representatives needed to hold power,
Gillard needs the backing of the 72 Labor seats plus three
independents and one Greens party member.  Most of Murdoch’s metropolitan papers, including the
Australian and the Daily Telegraph, urged voters to support
Abbot’s coalition, consisting of the Liberal party he leads and
the National party. In the early-September Newspoll, the Abbott
coalition got 50 percent backing, compared with 27 percent for
the Gillard government.  Newspaper Apologizes  Tensions escalated Aug. 29, when the Australian published
an opinion piece including false allegations concerning
Gillard’s former relationship with a union official. She
telephoned the paper to demand a retraction and an apology. The
Australian complied that same day and withdrew the article from
its website.  In a published apology, the paper said that the
“assertions are untrue,” that it hadn’t made any attempt to
contact Gillard for a response and that it “unreservedly
apologizes.” In an  article  on Sept. 3, the Australian reported
on its interactions with Gillard in the matter and quoted
Editor-in-Chief Chris Mitchell describing the prime minister as
“apoplectic” in her demand for an apology. Gillard declined to
answer questions about the conversation.  “There is a climate of fear among my colleagues about
retribution from News Ltd. if they campaign for government
policies,” said Murphy, the Labor lawmaker, in an interview in
Canberra. “News Ltd. has the power to get rid of this Labor
government. I have an unshakeable belief in that.”  Switch in Support  Murdoch’s record for holding sway over Australian politics
goes back to 1972, when his support helped Labor win. Three
years later, he switched his backing to the Liberal party, which
took control of the government.  He stepped into New York City politics in 1977, one year
after his purchase of the New York Post, with the paper’s
endorsement of Ed Koch.  “I would not have been elected if the Post had not
endorsed me,” Koch said in a phone interview. When Murdoch
called to tell him of the endorsement, “I said ‘You’ve just
elected me mayor.’” Koch is a Bloomberg Radio commentator.  In 1979, Murdoch started his streak of supporting winning
U.K. prime ministers by endorsing  Margaret Thatcher . Politicians
have been courting Murdoch ever since. Before he became prime
minister, when he was still the opposition leader,  Tony Blair ,
flew to Australia in 1995 to address a meeting of News Corp.
executives.  ‘Courting’ Murdoch  “We have all got to be open about the fact that both front
benches spent a lot of time courting  Rupert Murdoch ,” said
Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron in the U.K. House of
Commons in July. “This sort of relationship needs to be changed
and put on a more healthy basis.”  He made the comment as the long-simmering phone hacking
scandal erupted. Back in 2007, the News of the World’s former
royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and  Glenn Mulcaire , a private
investigator, were jailed for tapping the mobile phones of
prominent people. News Corp. insisted the phone hacking went no
further.  Then last year  London ’s Metropolitan Police reopened the
probe after the Guardian and the New York Times reported the
practice was more widespread. Among those implicated was former
News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , Cameron’s communications
chief. Coulson quit his government job at the start of this year
and was later arrested in the hacking probe.  Phone Hacking  In July, the Guardian newspaper reported that News of the
World journalists in 2002 hacked into the voicemail of Milly
Dowler, who had disappeared. The hacking interfered with the
police investigation and gave her parents false hope she might
be alive. As companies withdrew advertising from the newspaper,
Britain’s biggest-selling, News Corp. decided to close it.  In Australia, Murdoch’s papers have mainly backed the
Liberal party since 1975. Even so, their opposition to the Labor
party eased from 1983 to 1996, when  Bob Hawke  and Keating led
the country, according to professor Smith at the University of
Sydney.  Hawke and Keating  fostered stronger links with business and
were “very clever” in the way they engaged the media, said
Richard Stanton, author of “Do What They Like: The Media in the
Australian Election Campaign 2010.” “They pursued an agenda
the media couldn’t help but agree with, like economic reform.”  Tom Mockridge, a former adviser to Keating, is now chief
executive officer News International, which runs News Corp.’s
papers in the U.K.  Communication Strategy  Gillard has been less skillful than Keating at handling the
press, Stanton said. She reversed a pledge before the last
election not to enact a carbon tax, he said, then told the
public, “you have to like it, and then tried to run an
information campaign after the event.”  In a Sept. 6  editorial , the Australian said Gillard lacked
authority, stemming “from her own inconsistencies and failure
to deliver.” Gillard “seems to have expended the little
political capital she had,” the newspaper said. “By her own
criteria of securing our borders, delivering a mining tax and
implementing a climate-change policy, she is without success.”  Murdoch’s papers aren’t the only ones criticizing Gillard
and her party. Radio stations and papers owned by Fairfax Media
Ltd., Australia’s second-largest newspaper publisher, last month
revived allegations first published in 2009 that Craig Thomson,
a Labor lawmaker, used a union credit card to pay for
prostitutes before he entered parliament.  Defending Lawmaker  Gillard has defended Thomson, whose departure would
threaten her government’s hold on power. Thomson last month
resigned as chairman of the House Economics Committee and said
in a statement e-mailed by his media officer, David Gardiner,
that he continues to reject claims of wrongdoing.  Fairfax’s largest dailies, the Sydney Morning Herald and
 the Age , supported Gillard in the last election.  In the aftermath of the News of the World scandal, Bob Brown, the leader of Australia’s Greens party, called for an
inquiry into media concentration, ownership and content. Gillard,
who relies on the Greens to maintain a majority in parliament,
said July 14 she will discuss the proposal with lawmakers. In
May, Brown called Murdoch’s papers “the hate media” because of
their reporting on the climate change debate.  Privacy Laws  Gillard’s government may also toughen privacy laws to give
people the statutory right to sue for invasion of privacy,
Justice Minister Brendan O’Connor said July 21. The government
said it was seeking public comment on a move that may increase
compliance costs for media organizations.  Gillard told reporters July 20 that Australians watching
“all of that happening overseas with News Corp., are looking at
News Ltd. here and wanting to see News Ltd. answer some hard
questions.”  In his testimony to the U.K. Parliament in July, Murdoch
said he had “never guaranteed anyone the support of my
newspapers.” Asked about his meetings with premiers, Murdoch
replied: “I wish they would leave me alone.”  So does the Australian lawmaker Murphy.  “Both sides of politics are guilty of courting Murdoch,”
he said. “And both are guilty of responding to his overtures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  