-- 
Volkswagen Says Suzuki Broke Partnership Rules by Purchasing Fiat Engines

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-11T15:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/volkswagen-says-suzuki-broke-partnership-agreement-by-buying-fiat-engines.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said  Suzuki Motor
Corp. (7269)  broke the rules of a cooperation agreement by deciding to
purchase engines from  Fiat SpA (F)  and has given the Japanese
carmaker “several weeks” to remedy the alleged infringement.  “VW considers this step regrettable, but necessary, and
has offered to discuss the matter with Suzuki,” the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company said in a statement today.  The two companies have been at odds since March when VW
said in its annual  report  that it could “significantly
influence financial and operating policy decisions” at Suzuki,
describing the Japanese company as an “associate.” Suzuki in
June decided to buy diesel motors from  Italy ’s Fiat for cars
built in  Hungary .  Osamu Suzuki, the Hamamatsu City, Japan-based company’s
chairman, said in a Bloomberg interview published Sept. 6 that
the two companies weren’t speaking. The public feud has brought
to a halt VW’s efforts to turn a 222.5 billion-yen ($2.9
billion) investment into an operational alliance. The
partnership was meant to combine Suzuki’s leading position in
 India ,  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy, with
Volkswagen’s global reach as the world’s third-biggest carmaker.  “This is the latest setback in a so-called partnership
that has been developing anything but well,”  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt  who recommends buying
VW stock, said today by phone. “The two sides have quite a bit
of work to do to set aside tensions and focus on business.”  Suzuki spokespeople weren’t immediately available to
comment on VW’s statement outside normal business hours.  Original Plans  When the deal was signed in December 2009, with VW taking
a 20 percent Suzuki stake, the companies said they intended to
cooperate on technology, including hybrids and electric cars,
and expansion in emerging markets. Almost two years later, no
joint projects have begun.  VW, which forecasts deliveries will rise 5 percent this
year after selling 7.2 million vehicles in 2010, aims to surpass
Toyota Motor Corp. and  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s largest
carmaker by 2018 and is targeting India as an expanding market
to boost sales. Suzuki, which sold 2.64 million cars in its last
fiscal year, delivered 1.13 million of those vehicles in India.
VW sold 53,300 cars in the country in 2010.  Osamu Suzuki hasn’t found any VW technologies he’d like to
adopt following an extensive review of what they have to offer,
he wrote in a Nikkei newspaper column in July. Suzuki in July
also said the automaker was open to forming alliances with
others.  Keeping Stake  Volkswagen has no plans to sell or decrease its Suzuki
stake, Christine Ritz, VW’s investor relations chief, said in a
telephone interview today. VW said the carmaker still views
Suzuki as “an attractive investment.”  VW is of the opinion that Suzuki has rolled back the
partnership to square one by keeping its German ally in the dark
about the Fiat plans and its intentions to seek alliances with
rivals, a person familiar with VW’s thinking said last month. VW
Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch on a July 28
conference call said the partnership is under “review.” That
review is still ongoing, VW said today.  A successful relationship depends on an understanding that
the two are equal partners, according to two Suzuki executives,
who declined to be publicly identified discussing the matter.
The company is aiming to clarify what direction it wants to take
with the partnership by October, one of the executives said.  “Volkswagen keeps talking to the media, but not to us
directly,” Chairman Suzuki said in the interview.  Dominant Position  Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said
in May the automaker planned to target the small-car segment in
India as a potential joint project with Suzuki, as well as parts
procurement and development of alternative-drive technologies.  While Suzuki has a dominant position in India, where its
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  unit is the market leader, increasing
competition means holding onto the top spot will become harder.
VW’s global reach and product portfolio, with more than 60
models at the namesake brand alone, could help.  Maruti Suzuki will sell 36 percent of the 3.07 million
vehicles delivered in India in 2011, IHS Automotive estimates.
Overall sales in the market will climb 76 percent to 5.41
million in 2016, with Maruti Suzuki nabbing 25 percent,
according to IHS forecasts.  The German automaker remains convinced of business
opportunities for both sides, according to the person familiar
with VW’s thinking. A report by German newsletter Platow Brief
on Aug. 5 that VW and Suzuki will terminate the alliance “is
nonsense,” VW spokesman Michael Brendel said. Suzuki’s
intention is also to salvage the relationship, said one of its
executives who declined to be identified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 