-- 
West Brom Wins 1-0 at Norwich in Premier League; Fulham, Blackburn Tie 1-1

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-09-11T23:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-11/west-brom-wins-1-0-at-norwich-in-english-soccer-s-premier-league.html
West Bromwich Albion won 1-0 at
Norwich yesterday for its initial victory in English soccer’s
Premier League this season. Blackburn collected its first point,
though the club remains last in the standings.  Peter Odemwingie  got the only goal at Carrow Road after
just three minutes. In the other game, Blackburn tied 1-1 at
Fulham, leaving both teams without a win through four matches.  “It was a poor goal to lose two minutes in, but we came
back really strongly,” Norwich manager Paul Lambert told
reporters.  West Brom climbs to 12th on three points, Norwich and
Fulham are 17th and 18th respectively with two points each,
while Blackburn has one point.  Odemwingie took advantage of a weak header by Norwich
defender Ritchie de Laet to flick the ball past goalkeeper
Declan Rudd and give his team an early lead.  The striker had an opportunity to increase West Brom’s
total with 15 minutes remaining from a penalty, but Rudd made a
diving stop.  At Craven Cottage, Ruben Rochina gave Blackburn a 32nd-
minute lead with a left-foot shot from about 20 yards that hit
the underside of the bar before nestling in the net.  Bobby Zamora replied for the hosts six minutes later,
firing past goalkeeper Paul Robinson from an acute angle.  Earlier in the weekend, defending champion  Manchester
United  won 5-0 at Bolton, while  Manchester City  beat Wigan 3-0.
Both Manchester clubs have a maximum 12 points.  Chelsea defeated Sunderland 2-1, Stoke beat Liverpool 1-0,
Tottenham won 2-0 at Wolverhampton Wanderers, and Arsenal beat
Swansea 1-0. Everton and  Aston Villa  tied 2-2. Queens Park
Rangers hosts Newcastle tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 