-- 
‘Extravagant’ Spending, $16 Muffins Found at Justice Department Meetings

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-09-20T21:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/-extravagant-spending-16-muffins-found-at-justice-conferences.html
U.S.  Justice Department  agencies
spent too much for food at conferences, in one case serving $16
muffins and in another dishing out beef Wellington appetizers
that cost $7.32 per serving, an audit found.  “Some conferences featured costly meals, refreshments, and
themed breaks that we believe were indicative of wasteful or
extravagant spending,” the Justice Department’s inspector
general wrote in a report released today.  The inspector general reviewed a sample of 10 Justice
Department conferences held between October 2007 and September
2009 at a cost of $4.4 million, a period that included the
administrations of Republican  George W. Bush  and Democrat  Barack Obama . The Justice Department spent $73.3 million on conferences
in fiscal 2009, compared with $47.8 million a year earlier,
according to the report.  The muffins were served at an August 2009 conference of the
Executive Office for Immigration Review and the beef Wellington
was offered at a February 2008 meeting hosted by the Executive
Office for U.S. Attorneys. A March 2009 conference of the Office
on Violence Against Women served Cracker Jack, popcorn and candy
bars at a single break, costing $32 per person, according to the
report.  $5 Swedish Meatball  The report is a follow-up to one from 2007 that found the
Justice Department had few controls to limit the costs of
conference planning, food and beverages. That audit cited a
reception that included Swedish meatballs costing $5 apiece.  In April 2008 the Justice Department issued policies and
procedures designed to control conference spending.  The new report found that agencies were able to
“circumvent meal and refreshment cost limits” when conferences
were planned under cooperative agreements, a type of funding
awarded by a Justice Department agency.  Justice Department agencies “did not adequately attempt to
minimize conference costs as required by federal and DOJ
guidelines,” the report said.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said, “We
agree that excessive spending of the types identified in the OIG
report should not occur.”  Department agencies “have taken steps since 2009 and prior
to the OIG report to ensure that these problems do not occur
again,” Talamona said.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top Republican on the
Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that the Justice
Department “appears to be blind to the economic realities our
country is facing. People are outraged, and rightly so.”  The spending described in the report provides a “blueprint
for the first cuts” that the congressional supercommittee
should make, Grassley said. The panel was created in August as
part of the agreement to raise the national debt limit and faces
a Nov. 23 deadline to come up with recommendations for $1.5
trillion in budget savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  