-- 
‘Ill-Informed’ Commodity Rules May Add to Volatility, FOA Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-20T12:24:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/-ill-informed-commodity-rules-may-add-to-volatility-foa-says.html
Policies aimed at limiting
commodity-market positions and increasing transparency may add
to volatility if “ill-informed” measures are put in place,
according to the Futures and Options Association.  While speculation may “amplify” price movements, it’s
necessary and legal, according to a report from FTI Consulting
presented today at an FOA briefing in  London . Speculators aren’t
a “major cause” of volatility, FTI said.  French and German leaders have lobbied for policies and
taxes intended to reduce the number of speculators. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodity futures rose to a
record in July 2008, coinciding with an increase in the number
of long positions, or bets on higher prices.  “Governments have to be extremely careful about what
actions they take,” said Anthony Belchambers, chief executive
officer of the London-based FOA. “If evidence shows problems in
supply and demand and problems in production and problems in
government intervention, then maybe that’s where the focus
should be in terms of first priority.”  A “casual glance” at figures on long commodity positions
shows no proof that they cause excessive price movements, said
Dan Corry, an FTI director.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has advocated reducing
market speculation and last month joined with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  to propose a so-called  Tobin Tax  on financial
transactions. The European Union rejected a similar proposal
last year.  ‘Noise Traders’  The  Institute of Development Studies  said in June a tax on
transactions would curb volatility by reducing the number of
“noise traders and chartists” who destabilize markets. There’s
no guarantee of such a result, and a tax may spur price
movements by cutting the number of informed traders, FTI said in
its report.  Studies of speculation and price movements prove only
correlation rather than causation, according to the FTI study, a
literary review of academic literature, historic trends, recent
evidence and source interviews. Policymakers should avoid
intervention that might reduce liquidity or hinder price
discovery, the consulting firm said.  “We mustn’t lose sight of the importance of the role of
free markets,” Belchambers said. “It is the best evidence of
price formation.”  He also said governments should be sure any proposed
solutions will increase transparency.  “‘One thing we were clear about is there’s very little
disagreement on transparency,” Belchambers said. “Most
economists feel we need more transparency. The more people
operating with full knowledge, the more the price movements will
be based on fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  