-- 
‘Two and a Half Men’ Draws Record Viewers With Kutcher Debut

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-09-20T22:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/-two-and-a-half-men-scores-biggest-audience-with-kutcher-replacing-sheen.html
“Two and a Half Men” attracted
28.7 million viewers on CBS last night in its first episode
featuring  Ashton Kutcher  in place of the fired Charlie Sheen.  The audience was the largest ever for the show, which drew
a 10.7 rating in viewers ages 18 to 49, a group targeted by
advertisers, New York-based  CBS Corp. (CBS)  said today in an e-mail.  CBS is counting on Kutcher to help “Two and a Half Men”
remain the most-watched comedy on television. The show is made
by Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros., which fired Sheen at the end
of last season after the actor made disparaging comments about
the program’s creator,  Chuck Lorre .  “We had a good opening night,” Leslie Moonves, CBS’s
chief executive officer, said today at an investor conference
sponsored by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The season premiere outdrew ESPN’s “Monday Night
Football.” The New York Giants victory over the  St. Louis Rams 
averaged 11.9 million viewers, according to an e-mailed
statement from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN.  In  Canada , “Two and a Half Men” attracted 5 million
viewers, or one in three people who had their sets turned on,
according to a statement from CTV, the nation’s largest private
broadcaster. It was Canada’s most-watched show in six years.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , fell 69 cents
to $23.76 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have risen 28 percent this year.  Viacom Inc.’s Comedy Central hosted a roast of Sheen last
night that drew a total audience of 6.4 million, according to a
statement from the network.  The large “Two and a Half Men” audience carried CBS to a
win for the night in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic,
according to preliminary Nielsen data supplied earlier by the
networks.  Disney’s ABC, which aired “Dancing With the Stars,” was
the most-watched network overall for the night, averaging 16.9
million viewers compared with CBS’s 15.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  