-- 
Abbas’s UN Offensive Might Be a Step Toward Peace: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-20T00:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/abbas-s-un-offensive-may-be-step-toward-peace-commentary-by-noah-feldman.html
Just what is Palestinian leader
 Mahmoud Abbas  thinking?  At the new United Nations session, he
has announced, the Palestinian National Authority will ask the
Security Council to recognize Palestine as a state. The
application will be dead on arrival: the U.S. has already said
it will veto.  Abbas, in other words, wants to lose. The veto, he must
hope, will tell the world that Israel, backed by the U.S., is
the barrier to peace.  At first blush, this exercise looks purely symbolic --
classic defeatism brought to you by the people who, according to
the nasty adage, never miss an opportunity to miss an
opportunity.  But such a dismissal would be too hasty. Faced with a
continuing impasse in negotiations, Abbas is thinking outside
the box. Perhaps inspired by the Arab Spring, he is pursuing
nonviolent diplomacy, often the road not taken in the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. And it turns out that, appearances to the
contrary, he has more options than immediate defeat.  Abbas’s situation isn’t promising. He is blocked on one
front by Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who has so
far been unwilling to negotiate on terms the Palestinians will
accept, and has continued to build what the world (including the
US) considers settlements in East Jerusalem. On the other front
is the militant group Hamas, which controls Gaza, fires rockets
into Israel, and won’t recognize the Jewish state’s right to
exist, much less negotiate with it.  Making matters worse is the failure thus far of the so-
called peace process, which is increasingly viewed as a joke in
the region. It has produced little but frustration over the last
two decades, providing an excuse for violence. In this perverse
cycle, the worse things go, the more Hamas gains. Those on the
Israeli right who believe peace is a naive dream see all this as
confirmation of their own preferred policies of expansion and
rejection.  Given these constraints, it is understandable that Abbas
would act on his own and internationalize the issue.  Israel 
says, accurately, that unilateralism bypasses the negotiating
framework of the peace process. But it is worth remembering
that, just a few years ago, it was Israel pursuing a unilateral
path. In 2005, refusing to wait for a Palestinian deal, former
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon withdrew Israeli forces and settlers
from Gaza.  That decision is now widely considered a failure. Hamas
came to power in Gaza and began its rocket attacks on civilians,
leading to Israeli military action. At the time, however, the
Israeli public approved of the withdrawal despite -- or maybe
because of -- the fact that it was unilateral.  Strength in Nonviolence  For decades, the great mystery of the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict has been why there is no Palestinian Gandhi or Mandela,
and no popular, widespread nonviolent movement in  Palestine . As
a democracy heavily dependent on another democracy, Israel
should be doubly sensitive to the potential effects of
nonviolent civil disobedience on its reputation.  In the past, Palestinian leaders may have feared that their
followers would perceive nonviolence as weakness. But the recent
effects of peaceful protests in Tunisia and  Egypt  take away some
of the sting of this criticism.  Now, in the fall after the Arab Spring, Abbas’s efforts at
the UN may be interpreted as part of a move toward nonviolent
resistance. A successful strategy of independence-through-
nonviolence usually reaches out beyond the state from which
independence is sought -- think of how the anti-apartheid
movement became globalized in the 1980s. In this context,
symbolism -- even in defeat -- can become a source of strength.  Peaceful domestic protests are also part of any such
strategy.  Palestinian Authority  leaders have repeatedly
emphasized that any protests over the UN vote should be
nonviolent -- and will be kept that way by Palestinian police.  Diplomatic maneuvering in the UN by Palestinian leaders may
therefore frustrate Israel and the US. But it is a sign that
some Palestinians are pursuing their national aspirations
peacefully, legally -- and rationally.  Abbas may also have other tricks up his sleeve. The
 Security Council  is unlikely to vote immediately on the
Palestinian request. That gives the quartet (the U.S., EU, UN
and  Russia ) more time to try and jump-start negotiations. Under
the right conditions, Abbas could then withdraw the request.  He could also still do what most expected him to try this
week: Take his request for statehood to the UN General Assembly,
where the U.S. has no veto.  A two-thirds vote there would
upgrade Palestine from “observer entity” to “observer state,”
like the Vatican.  Winning in the General Assembly might be particularly
effective after losing in the Security Council since it would
give countries the chance to repudiate the U.S. veto. And an
observer state can participate in UN bodies and commissions.  International Court Jurisdiction  More practically, recognition as an observer state might
help the Palestinian Authority reach its goal of getting the
 International Criminal Court  to pronounce on Israel’s behavior
in the territories and perhaps even declare the building of
settlements a war crime. While the Palestinian leadership has
asked the tribunal to take jurisdiction as if Palestine were a
state, the ICC has never said “yes” or “no.” If Palestine
becomes an observer state at the UN, however, that might
strengthen its case.  Israel would certainly argue that a UN observer still isn’t
a real state in the sense meant by the ICC treaty. Israel would
also point out that the ICC can’t act if a country that has
jurisdiction over an alleged crime has adequately investigated
it. Israel’s robust judicial system regularly examines claims of
war crimes against its soldiers and government. The question is
whether the court would buy those arguments -- and whether
leverage would be gained for the  peace process  as a result.  None of this would transform the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict overnight. But at least these steps are peaceful. The
alternative, waiting in the wings, is Hamas -- and more
violence.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  