-- 
ABN Amro Turns Bullish on Stocks as Policy Makers Address Crisis

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-20T06:20:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/abn-amro-turns-bullish-on-stocks-as-policy-makers-address-crisis.html
ABN Amro Private Banking turned
bullish on equities as stocks slumped and policy makers in
 Europe  moved to stem the region’s debt crisis, according to
Chief Investment Officer Didier Duret.  “In Europe there are assurances to provide liquidity to
the market,” Duret, who manages about $240 billion from Geneva,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We have not seen
evidence of a global recession.”  The investment manager moved to an “overweight” stance
from “neutral” after the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, a gauge of stocks
in 24 developed markets, tumbled 17 percent from July 22 to
Sept. 12 amid concern global economic growth is slowing and
Europe’s debt crisis is spreading. The  European Central Bank 
last week said it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and
other central banks to conduct three dollar liquidity operations
to ensure banks have enough of the currency through year-end.  “Policy response will provide liquidity to avoid another
Lehman-style event even though there is a massive mosaic of
negative news,” Duret said, referring to the September 2008
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  ABN Amro’s private banking unit has 40 percent allocated to
equities within its strategic allocation model, 40 percent in
bonds, 10 percent in cash and the remaining 10 percent in  hedge
funds , real estate and commodities. Duret recommends buying
stocks where dividend yields are higher than the yield on their
corporate debt, including China Mobile Ltd., Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based BASF SE and ConocoPhillips in Houston.  “Even if earnings growth slows or modestly falls,
companies are unlikely to cut dividends as they are sitting on
record cash,” said Duret.  Companies in the MSCI World will increase shareholder
payouts by 8.1 percent in 2012, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  