-- 
Dubai Shares Advance a Second Day This Week on Bets Decline Overdone, Oil

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-20T13:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/abu-dhabi-s-shares-drop-for-a-10th-day-as-s-p-downgrades-italy-s-ratings.html
 Dubai’s benchmark stock index
advanced for a second day this week on bets a decline the past
two months was overdone on prospects for earnings and after
crude oil climbed.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, rose for the first time in three days.  Arabtec
Holding Co. (ARTC) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest construction
company by market value, gained 0.7 percent. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  added 0.2 percent to 1,466.08 at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai, paring its loss in the past two months to 3.9 percent.
About 60 million shares traded in Dubai today, compared with a
12-month daily average of 121 million shares. The  Bloomberg GCC
200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s stocks increased 0.2 percent.  “There is no liquidity and that has nothing to do with
company fundamentals as we are undervalued and oversold,” said
Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer for CAPM Investment
PJSC in  Abu Dhabi . “The lack of volatility has helped make the
downturn in local shares less steep than elsewhere, as
international investors are staying away.”  A decline of 10 percent this year prompted by concern over
Europe’s mounting sovereign-debt crisis has left the 31
companies in Dubai’s benchmark index valued at about 8.4 times
estimated earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with 10 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
which is down 17 percent this year. Dubai’s measure is valued at
about 0.7 times net assets, or book value, while emerging
markets stocks are valued at 1.6 times.  ‘Productive’ Talks  European stocks climbed as Greece described its debt talks
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  as
“productive” and investors speculated the  Federal Reserve  will
provide more stimulus. U.S. futures rose 0.5 percent at 8:36
a.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rallied 1
percent.  Oil for October delivery jumped as much as 1.4 percent to
$86.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Gulf Arab
oil exporters, including the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  “Even  day traders  are finding there is no point in trading
because they’re not making any money,” CAPM’s Yasin said.
“There are no local catalysts to increase liquidity.”  Emaar advanced as much as 1.1 percent, the most since Sept.
14, to 2.82 dirhams, before closing at 2.8 dirhams. Arabtec
increased for the first time since Sept. 15 to 1.36 dirhams.
Sheikh Butti bin Maktoum Al Maktoum resigned as chairman and
will be replaced by Ibrahim Belselah.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  increased 0.5 percent. Kuwait’s SE Price
Index and Oman’s MSM 30 Index were little changed. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 0.4 percent. Bahrain’s
BB All Share Index declined less than 0.1 percent.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.3 percent to the
lowest since Aug. 21, dropping for a tenth day in its longest
stretch of losses since November 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  