-- 
Acorn Media Beats Hollywood by Streaming Drama for Boomers

-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 
2011-09-20T21:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/acorn-media-beats-hollywood-by-streaming-drama-for-boomers.html
When Laura Provenzano checks the DVD top-seller lists at retailers
such as  Barnes & Noble (BKS)  and  Best Buy (BBY) , she often sees a small distributor’s fare
edge out the latest Hollywood movie titles. A vice president of purchasing and marketing at
music and video distributor Alliance Entertainment in Coral Springs, Fla., Provenzano buys
from dozens of entertainment companies around the world.  She notes that one --  Acorn Media Group  -- has learned a lesson that long eluded creators of
mainstream fare: American  Baby Boomers  eat up hard-to-find, high-quality British drama and
mystery shows, propelling the 75-employee distributor to a place among her top 20 clients.
“That’s a pretty big accomplishment for a smaller, niche business when we’re dealing with
companies like  Warner Home Video (TWX)  and  Universal Music  (VIV:FP),” says Provenzano.  As public television funding shrinks and producers churn out cheaper programming such as
“Hoarders” and “Dog the Bounty Hunter,” Acorn acquires exclusive rights to TV programs like
“ Prime Suspect ,” “Upstairs Downstairs” and “Brideshead Revisited” and distributes them to
devoted fans around the globe. The 27-year-old Silver Spring, Md., company generated $82
million in revenue in 2010 and is on target to reach $91 million this year, according to Chief
Executive Officer Miguel Penella.  While it’s clearly a small player in the $18.5 billion U.S. home video industry, Penella, 42, says
that more than 10 percent annual growth is not unusual for the business. The bulk of Acorn’s
revenue comes from direct sales of collectible DVDs via its website and 15 million catalogs it
mails out annually, as well as its wholesale supply business. With customers aging and
technology changing the way people watch movies and television, the company is now
challenged to maintain its relevance.  Downloads Up as Shelves Shrink  New ways to download entertainment to TV screens are already cutting into physical sales of
media content, and reduced footprints at traditional retailers mean 40 percent less shelf-space for
Blu-ray discs and DVD box sets, says James McQuivey, media analyst at Forrester Research.
“When you only have room for 300 titles instead of 500, those 300 are going to be made in
Hollywood, not Britain. We know from watching the same thing happen to music and books that
this market is shrinking and will continue to do so,” he says.  Determined to make online demand pay as handsomely as Acorn’s traditional sales channels,
Penella launched  AcornTV  in July. The on-demand, content-streaming service offers access to
Acorn’s library to members who pay a $24.99 annual subscription. AcornTV is initially
providing episode viewing on computers, iPhones, iPads and such services as  Google TV
(GOOG),  Penella says. Early next year, he hopes to offer it to customers who stream
programming through devices such as game consoles and Blu-ray players.  “Hats off to them for recognizing that they can’t bury their heads in the sand,” McQuivey says.
The move poses little risk, aside from the opportunity cost: Streaming content costs pennies per
hour and if it doesn’t work “they just turn around and license that content to  Amazon (AMZN)  or
 Netflix (NFLX) ,” he says.  A Complex Streaming Model  Jeff Siegel, vice president of home entertainment for FremantleMedia Enterprises, a U.K.
company that supplies titles to Acorn, agrees, particularly because Penella designed Acorn’s
streaming model not to undercut demand for its lucrative DVD sets, which can fetch more than
$50 each. Premium subscribers to AcornTV will have access to 10 of the company’s core
programs, with the ability to watch up to six seasons at a time. Available titles will rotate out
every five weeks, with the first episode of each season offered free.  Though it’s not original, Acorn’s approach departs from that taken by other streaming providers
such as Netflix or  Apple’s iTunes (AAPL) . “Acorn has been very smart about staying true to
what works for them. Their customer base skews older, so they weren’t going to run digital right
away and throw things up on platforms at low prices that cannibalize their box sets,” Siegel says.
“Now they see an opportunity to build a subscription streaming service where they can find an
additional revenue stream.”  AcornTV is also likely to help the company reach some younger fans, Penella says. He theorizes
that younger adults, busy with children and work and drawing on limited resources, typically
turn to “quick fix” entertainment that doesn’t require a major investment of time or money. As
viewers age and gain more money and free time, they become more discerning, he says. “Well-
educated consumers at some point get into opera or find other, more-selective entertainment
options they didn’t have before. That’s the audience we serve, and we’re very disciplined about
it. There are audiences that we don’t know how to serve. But 10 or 20 years from now, we want
Acorn to still be relevant to the audience that does look to us for entertainment.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at  karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  