-- 
Added U.S. Defense Cuts May Cause ‘Serious Damage,’ Panetta Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-20T23:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/added-u-s-defense-cuts-may-cause-serious-damage-panetta-says.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said
any cuts to his department beyond about $450 billion the
Pentagon is carving out from its budget over 10 years would “do
serious damage.”  Panetta’s statement today went beyond his previous warnings
about the prospect of as much as $500 billion in added
reductions that would be triggered automatically should a
congressional supercommittee fail to agree on deficit
reductions. Even lesser additional cuts, if ordered by the
panel, would do harm, he said.  Additional cuts would “do serious damage to our ability to
be able to make the kind of changes in our defense structure
that are responsible and that do protect this country for the
future,” Panetta told reporters at the Pentagon.  The reductions the department already is making will
“force us to take on greater risk in our mission to protect the
country,” the defense chief said. Still, those cuts can be
accomplished in a way that maintains the country’s military
superiority, he said.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, said today that he won’t recommend further
cuts in the Defense Department budget to the supercommittee,
because the current reduction levels are “very difficult to
meet already.” His panel and other congressional committees
have until Oct. 14 to make their recommendations.  Jobs Threatened  “Defense is taking more than its share of the cuts,” said
Panetta, whose department warned last week that slashing $1
trillion  or more might add 1 percentage point to the nation’s
jobless rate because of the effect on the defense industrial
base.  Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said at the media briefing today that some weapons
programs must be cut in this initial round.  “Programs that are behind schedule or woefully over budget
should be considered for elimination,” Mullen said. “I think
we just need to do the due diligence to make sure we get the
right ones.”  Panetta also outlined goals for budget reductions for the
next 10 years that defense officials have been trying to
identify. President  Barack Obama  in April ordered $400 billion
in defense cuts over the next 12 years, and a deficit-cutting
measure he signed into law last month called for $330 billion to
be carved out of the Pentagon’s budget over 10 years.  “Number one, we must maintain the very best military in
the world, a force capable of deterring conflict, projecting
power and winning wars,” Panetta said. “Secondly we must avoid
a hollow force and maintain a military that will always be
ready, agile, deployable and capable.”  All areas of the  defense budget  should be examined for
savings, he said, including by improving competition and
contracting procedures and “reforming personnel costs.”  Panetta signaled that he will use the process as “an
opportunity” to make changes “so that we can effectively take
on the challenges and threats in the world that we face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 