-- 
Adele Heads to U.S. With Heartbreak, Jokes, Concert Joy: Review

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-09-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/adele-heads-to-u-s-with-heartbreak-songs-jokes-concert-joy-rock-review.html
Adele Adkins offers an evening of
heartbreak and sadness. Rarely does such personal pain translate
into pop joy.  Adele, the rock success of 2011, avoids gimmicks or showy
staging and relies on her voice. She’s preparing for a  U.S. tour 
in October, which will be a hot ticket. Warming up in front of
5,000 fans at London’s Hammersmith Apollo, she introduces songs
noting that many were inspired by romantic splits.  Not so “Take It All,” she chirps brightly: The gospel-
style song actually precipitated a breakup. Adele wrote it
thinking of her boyfriend, she says. “I played it to him. A
couple of weeks later, he left me.” Her ex-lover might not have
liked the song. The audience clearly does.  Adele, who has sold more than 10 million copies of “21,”
has recovered from a throat infection which led to the
cancellation of her Mercury Prize  performance  and other shows.
Her big soulful voice is back to match her large personality.
Wearing a simple black dress, the 23-year-old Londoner opts for
crafted musicianship and garrulous gossip between numbers.  Adele draws freely on classic soul traditions and Nashville
country music. Like the brasher  Amy Winehouse  before her, she
mixes these into something that is original. She avoids mimicry
and offers authenticity: People believe what Adele sings.  The show opens with “Hometown Glory”, a paean to London
that could turn the most sun-drenched of Californians into
drizzle-loving Cockneys. She is accompanied by just a piano, in
front of a simple smoky silhouette of  St. Paul’s Cathedral .  Winehouse Dedication  With only two albums to her name, there are many cover
versions, including renditions of Bonnie Raitt’s “I Can’t Make
You Love Me” and  Bob Dylan ’s “Make You Feel My Love” (which
Adele dedicates to Winehouse).  Listening to Adele could never be a chore. She could
probably sing  Rebecca Black’s  mundane “Friday” and make it
exquisite. Her wise-cracking between-song banter, all glottal
stops, shrieking laughter and twanging  London  vowels, make
boredom impossible -- though she may need translation for some
U.S. audiences.  The majestic “Turning Tables,” which benefits from a full
seven-piece band and string section, was inspired by an argument
in a Dim Sum restaurant, she tells us. As a song, it became an
incident experienced by everyone.  “Rolling in the Deep” and “Someone Like You” close the
show, each delivered with simple emotional honesty: more than
enough explanation for Adele’s success.  Rating: ***½.  Adele’s album “21” is on Columbia/ XL, priced from $12.98
in the U.S. and 8.99 pounds in the U.K.  Adele’s rescheduled tour has another date in London
tomorrow at the Royal Albert Hall (sold out) before moving to
Edinburgh and Glasgow. The U.S. dates start in  Atlantic City ,
 New Jersey , on Oct. 7 and end in Grand Prairie,  Texas , on Oct.
21. Information:  http://www.adele.tv   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 