-- 
Adobe Rises After Sales Forecast Exceeds Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-09-21T20:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/adobe-forecast-tops-estimates-on-sales-of-business-software-shares-climb.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest
maker of graphic-design software, rose in U.S. trading after its
sales forecast topped analysts’ estimates, boosted by demand for
creating content and digital marketing.  Sales will be $1.08 billion to $1.13 billion in the fourth
quarter,  San Jose , California-based Adobe said yesterday in a
statement. That beat the average $1.07 billion estimate of
analysts, according to Bloomberg data. Excluding some items,
profit will be 57 cents to 64 cents a share, compared with the
58-cent projection of analysts.  The forecast reassured investors who were concerned that
the economic slump had sapped demand for Adobe’s products, said
Chad Bartley, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities Inc. in
 Portland ,  Oregon . Adobe, which sells software for designers and
photographers, as well as programs that help corporate customers
manage documents, had seen shares tumble 20 percent this year.  “There were concerns that the environment was difficult
and demand trends were starting to deteriorate,” said Bartley,
who has an “outperform” rating on Adobe’s shares. “The
guidance looks pretty strong.”  The shares rose 25 cents, or 1 percent, to $24.89 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Adobe has dropped 19
percent this year.  “Expectations were pretty low,” Bartley said.  HTML5 Switch  Adobe still faces challenges, including shrinking support
for its Flash technology. The software, which creates animation
and video on the Web, has been shunned by Apple Inc. and now
Microsoft Corp. says the new design for Windows 8 won’t allow
the use of Flash in its Internet Explorer 10 Web browser.
Another version of the browser that relies on the older design
of Windows will still run Flash.  To cope with the shift, Adobe is adapting its products to
support the increasingly popular HTML5 programming language in
addition to Flash. Tools for developing HTML5 programs may
eventually become part of the company’s flagship Creative Suite,
said Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen.  “We’re doubling down our investment in this area,” he
said on a conference call.  The changes could help Adobe’s prospects in the long run,
said Ray Valdes, an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc.  “Adobe has gotten the message,” he said. “They realized
the world is changing and they needed to move in the direction
of HTML5 and Web standards.”  New Flash  In a separate statement, Adobe said it will release new
versions of its Flash and Air software next month for building
games and video on the Web. Flash Player 11 runs applications
built with Adobe tools in a Web browser, while Air 3 delivers
Web content that looks like a traditional computer program.  They will let developers create 2-D and 3-D games and
deliver HD videos to personal computers, smartphones and tablets,
Adobe said.  Third-quarter profit also topped estimates, even as it
declined from a year earlier. Net income fell 15 percent to
$195.1 million, or 39 cents a share, from $230.1 million, or 44
cents, a year ago. Excluding some costs, earnings were 55 cents,
compared with the 54 cents predicted by analysts.  Sales rose 2.3 percent to $1.01 billion in the period,
which ended Sept. 2. Analysts had projected $1.03 billion on
average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  