-- 
African Union Recognizes National Transitional Council as Libya Authority

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-20T15:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/african-union-recognizes-national-transitional-council-as-libya-authority.html
The  African Union  agreed to
recognize the National Transitional Council as the governing
authority in  Libya , almost a month after its forces entered
Tripoli to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  from power.  Equatorial Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo,
chairman of the 54-nation AU, made the decision after consulting
with African leaders in  New York  yesterday, the group said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The AU refused to recognize the NTC as recently as Aug. 26,
citing ongoing fighting in the North African nation, even as
Nigeria, Ethiopia and Botswana took steps to back the opposition
forces. The AU said today its support is based on the NTC
forming an inclusive government and that it will work towards
“national unity,” the group said.  “The African Union recognizes the National Transitional
Council as the representative of the Libyan people as they form
an all-inclusive transitional government that will occupy the
Libyan seat at the African Union,” the statement said.  France , the U.K. and Turkey have reestablished diplomatic
ties with Libya, while the U.S., which participated in
airstrikes in support of the NTC, will reopen its embassy in
Tripoli this week. President Barack Obama will meet with the
council’s Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil today, according to the
White House.  Support for Airstrikes  South Africa  supported a United Nations Security Council
resolution authorizing airstrikes by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization to protect Libyan citizens. President Jacob Zuma,
who was a member of the AU’s ad-hoc committee on Libya, said on
Aug. 23 the resolution had been “abused” to oust Qaddafi’s
government, undermining the AU’s plans on seeking a ceasefire.  The NTC gave the AU chairman assurances in a letter on
Sept. 5 that the group is committed to  Africa , will bring all
Libyan parties together to rebuild the country and is working to
protect foreign workers, including African immigrants, the AU
said today.  During four decades of rule, Qaddafi cultivated close ties
with many African countries as he championed the formation of
closer political union on the continent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  