-- 
AIG Says Insurer Returns Hurt by Interest Rates That ‘Stink’

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-09-20T20:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/aig-says-insurers-returns-hurt-by-interest-rates-that-stink-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
is among insurers being pressured by lower returns on fixed-
income investments, said Robert Schimek, chief financial officer
of the company’s Chartis property-casualty unit.  “Investment income right now, and  interest rates , from the
perspective of the property-casualty industry, they stink,”
Schimek today at a conference hosted by KPMG LLP in New York,
the city where AIG is based.  AIG, the bailed-out insurer, has been adding mortgage bonds
and extending the duration on some holdings as Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  seeks to increase returns while
interest rates hover near record lows. AIG had about $250
billion of bonds as of June 30, including $138.2 billion in
corporate debt and more than $30 billion in residential
mortgage-backed securities.  The  Federal Reserve  has kept benchmark interest rates in a
target range of zero to 0.25 percent to stimulate the economy.
Insurers hold bonds to back obligations to policyholders.  “This is not a long-term sustainable interest rate
environment,” Schimek said. “Inflation in moderation is not a
bad thing, in our eyes.”  AIG has plunged by about half this year on the New York
Stock Exchange as Benmosche, 67, booked costs from the record
Japan earthquake, and market slumps pressured the value of
investments. The company may be unprofitable this quarter on
mark-to-market declines in a stake in insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  and
mortgage-related investments, Deutsche Bank AG said last week.  ‘We Are Not Alone’  AIG slipped 6 cents to $24.60 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York 
trading. That compares with the average price of about $29.70
the U.S. needs to  recover  its $47.5 billion capital injection
and $1.6 billion of unpaid dividends and fees, according to the
U.S. Government Accountability Office.  “We are not alone” among insurers in trading for less
than book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, Schimek
said today. AIG’s stock may rise as its return on equity
improves, he said.  The  insurance industry  faced about $70 billion of losses
from natural disasters and man-made catastrophes in the first
half, according to Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest
reinsurer. That makes 2011 already the second-most costly year
for insurers, surpassed by 2005, when  Hurricanes Katrina 
contributed to $120 billion in claims.  Schimek said the industry remains over-capitalized, even
after the disasters, and that companies may struggle to raise
rates for business clients. U.S. commercial rates dropped more
than 20 percent from the peak in late 2003 through March 31 of
this year, according to Advisen Ltd.’s ADVx Composite Index.  “We probably need some underwriting losses as a motivator
for the market to change,” in addition to the claims the
industry has already faced this year, Schimek said.  Chartis sells policies to businesses, including coverage of
property, corporate boards and airplanes. The unit has more than
70 million clients globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  