-- 
Air Force Strives ‘to Maintain’ Tanker, F-35, Bomber Plans

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-20T19:35:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/air-force-will-strive-to-maintain-tanker-f-35-bomber-plans.html
The U.S. Air Force will “make
trade-offs” to protect its purchase of new  Boeing Co. (BA)  aerial
tankers, the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 fighter, and a future
bomber program, Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz said
today.  “Everything is certainly under scrutiny” Schwartz said at
an Air Force Association meeting in Oxon Hill,  Maryland , near
 Washington .  “But the bottom line is there are three programs we will
strive to maintain -- it’s the tanker, it’s the F-35 at
appropriate levels and long-range strike,” Schwartz said of the
Boeing Co. and Lockheed Martin Corp programs. The long-range
strike program, including a new bomber, is in early development.
“We will do all we can,” he said.  Schwartz’s comments to reporters summarized a “State of
the Air Force” presentation to the annual  Air Force  Association
conference. The Pentagon budget is being cut by about $330
billion over the next decade, and more than twice as much if a
supercommittee in Congress fails to agree on ways to trim the
federal deficit.  “Our fiscal environment and the pace of development have
made it necessary to temper” the pace of F-35 procurement, he
said. Still, Schwartz repeated a theme voiced a day earlier by
Air Force Secretary Michael Donley that “there is no
alternative to the F-35 -- so we are committed to this
program.”  ‘Got to Perform’  “We must proceed toward efficient manufacture and a steady
production rate as soon as possible,” Schwartz said.
“Lockheed’s got to perform and we need to manage the program in
a responsible manner.”  Schwartz expressed optimism that the service’s long-range
strike program, which includes a new bomber and munitions, will
survive the Pentagon’s budget review.  “Against some amount of skepticism” from then-Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates , the Air Force last year convinced him to
“pursue this path,” Schwartz said. “It is my expectation that
that conviction will remain within the department,” he said.  The fiscal 2012 budget includes the first $200 million of
$1.7 billion planned through 2015 to develop, compete and build
the nation’s next long-range bomber program, as well as upgrade
existing B-2 and B-52 aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  