-- 
Alabama Lawmaker Vows Death for Jefferson County Debt Deal

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-09-20T15:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/alabama-lawmaker-pledges-death-to-jefferson-county-debt-bargain.html
Anyone wondering how steep a climb
Jefferson County’s Sept. 16 debt settlement still faces need
only talk to one man: state Representative John W. Rogers Jr. of
Birmingham.  The cost of averting a record municipal bankruptcy would be
“inhumane,” Rogers said in a phone interview yesterday, and
the 70-year-old Democrat vowed to stop it in the  Alabama 
Legislature however he can. Rogers said he would draw on
influence gained over 29 years to persuade colleagues to block
the bargain with holders of $3.14 billion of county debt, a
legacy of failed financing for sewer renovations.  Governor Robert Bentley, a first-term Republican, has
promised to deliver laws to make the preliminary deal a reality.
A Republican legislative majority may help, as may fears of the
statewide impact of a bankruptcy by Alabama’s most populous
county.  In his path stand Rogers and a tradition of deferring to
local lawmakers on local issues. Rogers said the deal’s cost
would be passed on in higher rates that would fall
disproportionately on poor areas of Birmingham that comprise 70
percent of sewer-system customers.  “What they’re doing is cruel,” Rogers said. Bentley “is
trying to force the entire state to vote against two
predominately black, low-income districts.”  Statewide Sickness  The bankruptcy threat has loomed over Jefferson County,
home to Birmingham and more than 658,000 residents, since 2008
as officials sought to keep sewer fees from ballooning to pay
the debt. The prospect already has elevated borrowing costs in
other parts of the state, according to Jonathan Nordstrom, a
managing director at Morgan Keegan & Co., which he said was the
top underwriter in Alabama. He said issuers pay 0.2 percentage
points more than governments in other states because of the
specter of a filing.  Jefferson County commissioners voted 4-1 last week to
accept a provisional agreement with creditors. The deal includes
$1.1 billion in concessions, including $750 million from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which arranged most of the sewer debt. The
deal calls for annual sewer-rate increases of about 8.2 percent
for three years, followed by yearly boosts of up to 3.25
percent.  A sewer customer with a $600 annual bill would see it rise
to almost $800 after the deal’s first three years.  Ticking Clock  The county and its creditors have 45 days to complete the
terms. Commission President  David Carrington  said in Birmingham
last week that the governor will not call a special session to
deliver the state’s piece of the bargain until the commission
approves the agreement in its final form.  The Legislature would then be asked to agree to create an
independent authority governing the sewer system and to grant
the state’s “moral obligation” backing for new bonds. The term
falls short of a guarantee but it is treated as one in the
credit markets.  Lawmakers also will have to resolve Jefferson County’s
general-fund deficit if it is to avoid bankruptcy. The county
faces a $40 million shortfall in the budget that begins Oct. 1,
thanks to a court decision striking down a tax on wages. The
Legislature declined to replace the levy in June.  Carrington said last week that the commission was neutral
on how the Legislature chooses to replace the revenue.  “That’s not our fight,” he said. “That’s theirs.”  Alabama lawmakers honor a “local courtesy” rule and don’t
interfere with bills backed by a county delegation. That
deference requires unanimity by a county’s legislators: One
lawmaker can kill a local bill.  Internal Divisions  Jefferson County’s 18-member delegation isn’t unified on
any of the legislation needed to complete the deal, according to
interviews with several members.  Representative Paul DeMarco and Senator Scott Beason, both
Republicans, oppose solving revenue problems by replacing the
struck-down tax.  “There’s sufficient revenue to operate the county now,”
Beason said in a phone interview yesterday. “The problem is
that the revenue is tied to certain funds.”  Beason and DeMarco want to remove state “earmarks” on
local sales-tax revenue instead. Those requirements direct money
to special purposes, the biggest of which is health care for the
poor.  Rogers favors instead a new tax, as long as the revenue is
split between the county general fund and its sewer system -- a
provision the preliminary deal did not contemplate.  The legislation to close the deal is “already dead,”
because of the divisions in the county delegation, Rogers said.  The governor has other options: DeMarco said the new sewer
authority might be added into existing law, for instance,
skirting the local delegation.  Rogers said he would fight that, too.  “I’m going to beg other county lawmakers, don’t do this to
Jefferson,” he said. “Don’t jump on Jefferson County. If you
do, the next thing is it will happen to you.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  