-- 
Malaysia Stocks: Alam Maritim, Bandar Raya, Berjaya, Hartalega

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-20T09:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/malaysia-stocks-bandar-raya-developments-berjaya-corp-kimlun.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 5 p.m. close in  Kuala
Lumpur .  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 2.48 points, or 0.2
percent, to 1,410.64, its fourth day of declines.        Alam Maritim Resources Bhd. (AMRB)  , an oil and gas
services provider, climbed 3.3 percent to 79 sen, the largest
increase since Sept 7. Alam won a 22.1 million ringgit ($7.1
million) contract to supply a vessel to a local oil and gas
company, it said in a statement.  Bandar Raya Developments Bhd. (BRD)  , a property group,
fell 5.9 percent to 2.24 ringgit, the largest loss since May 31.
Its stock rating was cut to “trading buy” from “buy” at OSK
Holdings Bhd., which cited uncertainty over a planned sale of
property assets. Minority shareholders may deem that the prices
offered “undervalued” the prime properties, OSK said in the
report.  Berjaya Corp. (BC MK) dropped 1.5 percent to 97.5 sen, the
biggest drop since Sept. 14. The property, insurance and gaming
group plans to raise as much as 767.5 million ringgit from a
rights offer of convertible loan stocks with warrants, it said
in a statement.  Hartalega Holdings Bhd. (HART)   fell 1.4 percent to 5.55
ringgit, the biggest drop since Aug. 5 The glove-maker’s
managing director, Kuan Kam Hon, is in talks to buy more shares
that will result in him gaining “indirect” control of the
company, it said in a statement. Kuan’s proposed acquisition
price will not be a premium and he has received an exemption
from the Securities Commission from having to make a general
offer for the rest of the shares, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  