-- 
Alexander Will Step Down as Chairman of U.S. Senate Republican Conference

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-20T16:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/alexander-to-step-down-as-senate-republican-conference-chairman.html
Lamar Alexander , the No. 3 Senate
Republican leader, will step down from his leadership job in
January, saying he can do more to help set budget priorities and
curb government regulations as an “independent senior
senator.”  Alexander, 71, chairman of the  Senate Republican Conference 
for four years, said he will remain in the Senate and run for
re-election in 2014. The decision by Alexander, a former
Tennessee governor who ran unsuccessfully for his party’s
presidential nomination in 1996 and 2000, will shake up the
Senate’s Republican leadership ranks. The chamber’s No. 2
Republican,  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , isn’t seeking re-election in
2012 and Alexander had been seen as his likely successor in the
Congress convening in 2013.  The Republican leader in line behind Kyl and Alexander is
 John Thune  of  South Dakota , chairman of the Senate Republican
Policy Committee.  Thune, 50, said in an interview that Alexander’s decision
came as a surprise. In a statement he issued later, he said he
planned to seek the conference leadership job.  “The chairman of the Senate Republican Conference sits in a
unique position to support Senate Republicans as we help shape
the national conversation and put this country on a new path
toward prosperity,” Thune said in the statement.  Confronting ‘Timidity’  In a floor speech today, Alexander said he wants to
confront “the timidity that allows runaway health-care spending
to squeeze out research, scholarships, highways and other
government functions that make it easier and cheaper to create
jobs.”  He said he wants to “do more to make the Senate a more
effective institution so that it can deal better with serious
issues.”  Speaking later to reporters, Alexander rejected the idea
that his decision shows that it’s becoming too difficult for the
leaders to reach bipartisan accord on contentious issues. He did
express frustration with the Senate’s slow pace and gridlock
over issues.  “The problem with the Senate is that we make our speeches
and then we go home,” he said. “We’re supposed to make our
speeches and then come to a conclusion. I could help do that in
the leadership, I think I can do more about that in the position
as an independent senior senator.”  Republicans now have 47 of the Senate’s 100 seats and are
working to take control of the chamber in the 2012 elections.  Negotiator  Alexander has been pivotal in helping to shape
communications strategy for the Republican leadership team led
by Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. He also
has helped negotiate across the aisle, working with Democratic
Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  earlier this year on a
compromise over conflicts about the frequent use of the
filibuster, a delaying tactic Republicans have frequently used
to block President  Barack Obama ’s initiatives and nominees.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, today
praised Alexander on the Senate floor as a “unique person in
this body.”  “I have found Lamar Alexander to be one of the most
thoughtful people I’ve ever served with in the Senate,” Reid
said.  Alexander told reporters he made his decision “several
months ago,” and wrote the floor speech announcing his plan in
August while on vacation in  Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  