-- 
Amazon, Wynn Among Nasdaq ‘Superstars’

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-09-20T21:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/amazon-wynn-among-nasdaq-superstar-stocks-data-explorers-says.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
largest online retailer, and Las Vegas-based  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) 
are on a list of “superstar” stocks that bearish investors are
reticent to bet against at current prices.  The five Nasdaq-100 Index stocks with price-earnings ratios
above 30 and less than 2 percent of outstanding shares sold
short as of Sept. 15 include Amazon, Baidu Inc.,  China ’s biggest
Internet company by market value,  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS) ,  Warner
Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  and casino operator Wynn Resorts, New York-based
Data Explorer said in a  report  dated Sept. 19. Short sellers and
long investors agree on the bullish outlook for this group, Data
Explorers said.  “We have deemed this group to be P/E superstars -- in
recognition of optimistic fundamental valuations and low short
interest,” wrote the firm, which compiles data on  securities
lending .  Stocks with higher earnings multiples are often targets for
short sellers, who believe the shares are poised to decline
because the price level can’t be justified by the earnings
outlook. Short investors bet against a stock by selling borrowed
shares with the hope of repurchasing them at a lower price. Long
investors buy shares betting the price will rise.  Short sellers’ bets against the 20 stocks with the highest
price-earnings ratios in the Nasdaq-100 were 6 percent on
average, compared with a mean for the gauge of 3.3 percent and
2.1 percent for the 20 shares with the lowest ratios of price to
profit, the data show.  Usual Practice  The study affirmed “that short sellers target shares with
high P/E ratios and avoid those with low P/Es, and institutional
investors are overweight shares with high P/E ratios,”  Data
Explorers  wrote.  Amazon, based in  Seattle , had a price-earnings ratio of 100
and short interest of 2 percent, the highest level for both
indicators among the five superstar stocks, according to the
report. The stock has rallied 30 percent this year.  Beijing-based Baidu’s ratio between price and profit was
67, while bearish bets were 0.5 percent against the stock, which
has risen 45 percent in 2011.  Citrix Systems, the Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based
computer-networking software maker, had a price-earnings ratio
of 33 and short interest of 0.2 percent. The stock has lost 20
percent this year.  Warner Chilcott, a Dublin-based pharmaceutical company
focused on women’s health care, had price multiple of 32 with
short interest of 1.3 percent. The shares have lost 28 percent
this year.  Billionaire  Steve Wynn ’s Wynn Resorts had short interest of
0.9 percent and a multiple of almost 50. The shares have risen
48 percent in 2011.  The average price-earnings ratio for the 100 largest and
most active companies on the Nasdaq Stock Market is 22.8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 