-- 
Manchester United Beats Leeds 3-0 in Third Round of Carling Cup Soccer

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-09-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/manchester-united-beats-leeds-3-0-in-third-round-of-carling-cup-soccer.html
Manchester United  advanced to the
fourth round of English soccer’s  Carling Cup  with a 3-0 win at
Leeds.  Also last night, 2011 finalist Arsenal won 3-1 at home
against fourth-tier club Shrewsbury. In matchups between Premier
League rivals, Bolton won 2-0 at  Aston Villa  and Stoke defeated
Tottenham 7-6 in a penalty shootout after the teams tied 0-0.  Michael Owen  scored the first two goals for league champion
United against second-tier Leeds at Elland Road to take his
tally in the competition to eight goals in as many appearances.
 Ryan Giggs  completed the scoring in first-half injury time for
United, which won the title for a fourth time in 2010.  The Carling Cup ranks below the Premier League and F.A. Cup
in importance to top teams in  England , with clubs such as
Manchester United and Arsenal typically fielding second-string
players. The tournament winner qualifies for the following
season’s Europa League, European soccer’s second-tier
tournament.  Newcastle needed a goal from Argentinean defender Fabricio Coloccini in the last minute of extra time to secure a 4-3 win
at Nottingham Forest.  The teams were tied 2-2 after 90 minutes at the City Ground
in Nottingham. Danny Simpson scored for Newcastle with a shot
from 30 yards (27 meters) in the 93rd minute. Marcus Tudgay made
it 3-3 with six minutes of extra time remaining before Coloccini
headed Gabriel Obertan’s cross into the net from six yards as
time expired.  Elsewhere, Blackburn overcame Leyton Orient 3-2, Wolves
routed Millwall 5-0, Crystal Palace won 2-1 at home against
Middlesbrough, Aldershot beat Rochdale 2-1 and Burnley defeated
Milton Keynes Dons 2-1.  Tonight, Chelsea hosts west London rival Fulham, Liverpool
visits Brighton, holder Birmingham plays at  Manchester City  and
Everton hosts West Brom.  The fourth-round draw will take place Sept. 24, with games
played in the week commencing Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 