-- 
Apple Stock Price Is Too High for Dow Industrials, Bespoke Says

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-20T19:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/apple-s-stock-price-is-too-high-for-inclusion-in-dow-average-bespoke-says.html
Putting  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  would mean the benchmark gauge would get 22
percent of its value from the iPhone maker, too much influence
even for the world’s largest company, according to Bespoke
Investment Group LLC.  Apple, trading at about $420, would have the largest
weighting in the 30-company measure because Dow companies are
ranked by stock price, not market value. Replacing Kraft Foods
Inc. with the Cupertino, California-based company would drive
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  down to 9.2 percent from
11.6 percent of the Dow, Bespoke said in a report today. IBM
closed at $173.13 yesterday.  “Don’t hold your breath,” Bespoke, based in Harrison,  New
York , wrote in a note to clients, citing speculation today that
Apple may enter the Dow. “If the stock were added to the index
without a split in the shares, it would have a disproportionate
weight in the index, making it more like the Dow Jones
Industrial Apple.”  Richard Silverman, a spokesman for Dow Jones Indexes,
declined to comment.  Apple had its weighting in another benchmark measure, the
Nasdaq-100 Index, reduced this year. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. cut
the company’s share of the Nasdaq-100 Index to about 12.33
percent from 20.49 percent. While the exchange imposed rules in
1998 preventing the biggest corporations in the index from
having too much sway, Apple’s market capitalization was too
small to qualify for a curb at the time.  Shares of Apple jumped 91-fold between 1997, when the San
Francisco Chronicle said  Steve Jobs  would be appointed interim
chief executive officer, and his resignation in August. The
company’s market value has surged to about $384 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  