-- 
Marks’s Oaktree Returns $2 Million Fees to Treasury After Slow PPIP Start

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/marks-s-oaktree-will-return-2-million-in-ppip-fees-to-treasury.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC, the
distressed-debt firm preparing to go public, agreed to refund
more than $2 million in fees received under Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner ’s plan to help banks dump toxic assets.  The Los Angeles-based money manager retroactively cut fees
charged to the Treasury Department under the $29.4 billion
Public-Private Investment Program after investing 16 percent of
the capital committed to its fund. All other managers in the
program, known as PPIP, had put at least 68 percent of their
capital to work, according to a July report by the Treasury.  Oaktree’s PPIP fund, the only one investing solely in bonds
backed by commercial mortgages, generated a 19 percent internal
rate of return through June 30, ranking it sixth among PPIP
managers. While private-equity firms usually reduce management
fees once they are done finding investments, it’s much rarer to
retroactively return such fees, said Thomas Bernhardt, an
analyst at Pacific Corporate Group in  La Jolla ,  California .  “Managers generally rebate fees when they haven’t been
able to deploy capital as quickly as expected,” Bernhardt said
in a telephone interview, adding that he had no specific
knowledge on Oaktree’s PPIP fund. Oaktree “is disciplined, so
if they can’t find the right price, they sometimes slow their
investing.”  Mark Paustenbach , a spokesman for the Treasury Department,
declined to comment. Oaktree doesn’t comment on its activities,
said a spokeswoman who asked that her name be withheld.  Voluntary Reductions  Oaktree, headed by billionaire  Howard Marks , filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in June for an initial
public offering. The firm, which oversaw about $79.5 billion in
assets as of June 30, said in an amended IPO filing Sept. 2 that
it will voluntarily reduce management fees and limit a fund’s
size when necessary “to demonstrate to our clients that we are
not financially incentivized to raise more capital than
appropriate.”  Under PPIP, announced by Geithner in March 2009, the
Treasury and private investors ultimately committed $14.7
billion in equity to funds run by eight money management teams.
The Treasury agreed to provide $14.7 billion in low-cost loans
to the funds, whose managers include  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Wellington
Management Co. and  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s Western Asset Management.  The Treasury is entitled to half of each fund’s profits and
holds warrants that entitle it to some excess gains that would
otherwise go to private investors, according to the agency’s
website. The Treasury had received $714 million in distributions
as of June 30. PPIP funds that generate profits or receive
income during a quarter generally must pay out the money within
30 days of that quarter’s end.  ‘Changed the Basis’  As is customary in private equity, Oaktree and the others
initially charged the Treasury Department an annual management
fee based on the amount of money the agency had pledged, rather
than the actual capital invested. The Treasury set the fee at 20
basis points, or 0.2 percent, of committed capital, compared
with the 100 to 200 basis points that institutional investors
typically pay hedge and buyout funds.  In the second quarter, Oaktree’s $4.6 billion fund
“changed the basis” on which it charges the Treasury from
committed capital to the amount actually drawn and invested,
according to the Sept. 2 filing. The documents disclosed a $2.1
million reduction in management fees for the “retroactive
application” of the new arrangement, cutting Oaktree’s second-
quarter fee revenue by about 4 percent to $31.4 million, the
firm said.  Fee-Generating Assets  The revision also cut the firm’s fee-generating assets by
about $1 billion, according to the filing. Rather than
immediately refund the full $2.1 million, Oaktree will credit
that amount toward future fees due from the government,
according to a July 7 letter to the firm from Timothy Massad,
the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial stability.  Oaktree’s fund has been buying CMBS more recently because
the market has offered better opportunities, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the purchases weren’t made public. The firm initially was slow
to invest because government efforts to revive the economy, led
by the  Federal Reserve ’s initiative to buy $600 billion in U.S.
Treasuries, lifted bond prices, the person said.  PPIP managers had acquired residential mortgage-backed
securities valued at $16.9 billion as of June 30, compared with
$4.4 billion of CMBS, according to the Treasury’s July report. A
lack of opportunity in commercial property last year led to an
$86 billion build-up in uncalled capital commitments among
private equity real estate funds, said Geoffrey Dohrmann, chief
executive officer of Institutional Real Estate Inc., a San
Ramon, California, consulting and publishing firm.  Angelo Gordon Fund  “All of the private-equity real estate funds have been
slow to draw down money,” Dohrmann said in a telephone
interview. “In a lot of cases, investors said, ‘We will extend
our commitments if we get certain concessions’,” such as fee
reductions, according to Dohrmann.  Angelo, Gordon & Co. and General Electric Co.’s  GE Capital 
have generated a 32 percent net internal rate of return through
a jointly managed PPIP fund that invests in both CMBS and RMBS,
according to the Treasury. That was the highest return among the
eight PPIP managers as of June 30, the agency’s report said.  Angelo Gordon’s fund started on Nov. 12, 2009, while
Oaktree’s partnership opened on Feb. 19, 2010. The CMBS market
rallied in the interim, reducing the additional yield the safest
commercial mortgage bonds paid above Treasuries to 308 basis
points from 452 basis points, based on the BarCap CMBS AAA Super
Duper Index.  “Those were dark, dark days,” said Hugh Balloch, a
managing principal in the Stamford, Connecticut, office of Goff
Capital Partners LP, a real estate private-equity firm. “Now we
all wish we had invested more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  