-- 
Arsenal CEO Gazidis Says Owner Kroenke Won’t Panic After Opening Losses

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-09-20T13:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/arsenal-s-gazidis-says-kroenke-won-t-panic-after-opening-losses.html
Arsenal Chief Executive Officer
Ivan Gazidis said owner  Stan Kroenke  won’t panic after the
London soccer club’s worst start in 58 years. He said coach
 Arsene Wenger ’s job isn’t at risk.  The Gunners have four points from their first five Premier
League games, and are one point above the relegation zone. They
lost 8-2 at  Manchester United  on Aug. 28 and last weekend went
down 4-3 at Blackburn, giving Rovers their first win this
season.  Kroenke, who owns the  National Football League ’s St. Louis
Rams and the  National Basketball Association ’s Denver Nuggets,
isn’t considering firing Wenger, Gazidis said.  “He’s got a lot of experience in sports as an owner and he
understands that you need not to get into a panic mode, because
if you do that you damage the club,” Gazidis said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “On-field success is important
to him, but he’s also not somebody who is a knee-jerk person who
will make changes that damage our progress and he’s very
supportive of Arsene.”  Gazidis said he understood supporters’ frustration after
the team’s poor start, and said new signings including defenders
Per Mertesacker and Andre Santos would need time to adjust.  The former Major League Soccer official said it was too
early in the season to write off the club’s chances, adding that
some supporters wrongly predicted Arsenal would fall behind
 Aston Villa  and Everton four years ago when he joined as CEO.  The last trophy won by the Gunners was the F.A. Cup in
2005. The 13-time English league winner is in the Champions
League group stage for the 14th straight season.  The club has cash to spend in the forthcoming transfer
windows to buy new players if Wenger and the board agree that
the team needs to be strengthened, Gazidis said.  Deals Expire  Several of the club’s big sponsorship deals expire in 2014.
While those agreements now trail those signed by Manchester
United and  Manchester City , Gazidis said, they helped fund the
Emirates Stadium, a 60,000-seat facility that opened in 2006. It
replaced a 38,000-seat stadium at Highbury in north  London .  “We did commercial deals that allowed us to get the
stadium built, and those partnerships are very strong,” Gazidis
said. “Did that mean that our commercial side of revenue would
be behind for a few years? Yes, it did but the revenue was
delivered in another way, through the stadium.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  