-- 
Harvard Suicide Expert, Windy City Architect Win $500,000 ‘Genius’ Grants

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-09-20T17:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/harvard-suicide-expert-chicago-architect-win-genius-grants.html
Jeanne Gang, a  Chicago  architect;
Cuba-born percussionist Dafnis Prieto and cellist Alisa
Weilerstein are among the artists in this year’s crop of 22
MacArthur Foundation “geniuses.”  They will each receive $500,000, paid out quarterly over
five years by the Chicago-based John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation. John D. MacArthur owned and developed
Bankers Life & Casualty Co. (now a unit of  CNO Financial Group
Inc. (CNO) ) and had numerous real estate holdings in  New York  and
 Florida . His wife Catherine (1909-1981) served as a director of
the foundation and held positions in many of his companies.  “The MacArthur Fellows exemplify how individual creativity
and talent can spark new insights and ideas in every imaginable
field of human endeavor,” Robert Gallucci, the foundation’s
president, said in a statement. Candidates are nominated
anonymously by leaders in their field.  Gang, 47, designed  Aqua , an 82-story mixed-use tower in
Chicago that won the 2009  Emporis Skyscraper Award . Last Friday
she got a message to call the MacArthur Foundation, she said in
a phone interview yesterday.  “I was completely excited and surprised,” Gang said. “It
has energized me about what I have done to date.”  Weilerstein, 29, has worked with contemporary composers
including Osvaldo Golijov. She was selected because of her
“emotionally resonant performances” with such orchestras as
the  Berlin Philharmonic  and  New York Philharmonic .  Startling Insights  Poet and translator  A.E. Stallings , 43, won a grant for a
body of work that evokes “startling insights about contemporary
life.” The foundation cited her poetry collection “Hapax”
(2000), in which she depicts figures and events from classical
drama with “a modern sensibility.”  Former U.S. Poet Laureate  Kay Ryan , 65, received the grant
for her “deceptively simple verse of wisdom and elegance.”
Ryan’s recent collection, “The Best of It: New and Selected
Poems” (2010), won this year’s  Pulitzer Prize for poetry .  The grantees represent fields ranging from the sciences to
law. Jad Abumrad, 38, a producer for radio station  WNYC  in New
York, was cited for “audio explorations of scientific and
philosophical questions that evoke a sense of adventure and
recreate the thrill of discovery.”  Harvard University psychology professor  Matthew Nock , 38,
was selected for his research on suicide trends among
adolescents and adults. Marie-Therese Connolly, 54, a lawyer and
elder abuse prevention advocate was cited for lobbying for the
federal Elder Justice Act that was signed into law last year.  Brain Injuries  Kevin Guskiewicz, 45, a professor of exercise and sport
science at University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill , caught
the eye of the MacArthur selection committee for his  brain
injury research . He was among the first to document brain
injuries and the consequences of contact sports played by youths
and professionals.  Prieto , a 37-year-old Grammy Award nominee and composer was
chosen partly because he’s “infusing Latin jazz with a bold new
energy and sound” by marrying jazz harmonies, Cuban rhythms and
other Latin and African music styles. He said he will use the
money to self-publish a book on drumming and record a trio album
in January for which he has been writing music.  “It’s hard to make a living as a jazz musician,” Prieto,
a native of  Santa Clara , Cuba, said by phone. “I have wanted to
record this trio project for a while, but I didn’t have the
budget to do it. So the grant makes this possible.”  For a complete list of the winners, please go to
 http://www.macfound.org .  To contact the writer on the story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 