-- 
Asia Stocks, U.S. Futures Drop on Italy Concern

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-20T00:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/asia-stocks-u-s-futures-drop-on-italy-downgrade.html
Asian stocks and U.S. equity-index
futures dropped, while the euro weakened for a third day after
Italy’s credit rating was lowered at  Standard & Poor’s , fueling
concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 1.1 percent as of 9:24
a.m. in  Tokyo . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures retreated 0.8
percent. Europe’s shared currency dropped 0.4 percent to $1.3627
and slid 0.4 percent to 104.45 yen. The Australian dollar
weakened before the release of minutes from the central bank’s
last policy meeting. Oil and copper retreated for a third day,
while wheat climbed for the first time in four days.  Italy was lowered to A from A+ on concern that weaker
growth and a “fragile” government mean the country won’t be
able to reduce the euro-region’s second-largest debt load, S&P
said.  Greece  will hold another call tonight with its main
creditors after a “productive” round of talks aimed at staving
off default. The U.S. Federal Reserve will start a two-day
meeting today amid data forecast to show that housing starts and
building permits declined.  “The Italian downgrade will just renew concerns about
sovereign-debt issues spreading from Greece to Italy and
Spain,” said Belinda Allen, a Sydney-based senior investment
analyst at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which
oversees $150 billion. “The focus continues to be on making
sure Greece has the liquidity to survive. There is no easy
solution.”  About seven shares declined for every two that climbed on
MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average sank 1.5
percent in  Japan , where financial markets were closed yesterday
for a holiday. South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 1.2 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.5 percent.  Futures expiring in December indicate the  S&P 500  may
extend yesterday’s 1 percent drop. Equities had trimmed losses
as Greece’s Finance Ministry said it had a “productive and
substantive discussion” with international officials who will
determine if the country gets more bailout funds.  President  Barack Obama  called for $1.5 trillion in tax
increases over the next decade to help trim the deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  