-- 
Asia Currencies Drop to Six-Month Low on Europe Debt Woes, Growth Concern

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-20T08:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/asia-currencies-drop-to-six-month-low-on-europe-debt-woes-growth-concern.html
Asian currencies weakened, with
South Korea’s won and  Malaysia ’s ringgit reaching 2011 lows, on
concern  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis will spur an exodus from
emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell to a six-
month low after Italy’s credit rating was cut one level to A by
 Standard & Poor’s . Taiwan said today export orders, an
indication of shipments in the next one to three months, gained
less than economists estimated, while a report this week may
show Thailand’s overseas sales increased by less than the
previous month, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The won dropped 1 percent to 1,148.90 per dollar as of 3
p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s
rupee fell 0.5 percent to 48.065 and Taiwan’s dollar dropped 0.4
percent to NT$29.888.  “ Risk aversion  has gone to the next level and the losses
are justified given that European officials have not been able
to reassure the markets on the  default risk ,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
in  Kuala Lumpur . “Asian assets are getting sold off in favor of
cash.”  The  Asian Development Bank  cut its 2011 growth forecast for
Asia excluding Japan to 7.5 percent from an April estimate of
7.8 percent, according to a report issued on Sept. 14. Global
funds sold $2.9 billion more Indonesian, South Korean and
Taiwanese equities than they bought this month through yesterday,
exchange data show.  Market Monitoring  The rupiah has weakened more than 5 percent this month and
dropped below the 9,000 per dollar level for the first time
since February today. Indonesia is preparing a stimulus package
that it may implement in the first half of 2012 should the
global economy deteriorate and hurt growth, the government said
Sept. 15.  South Korea ’s financial regulator will strengthen market
monitoring and take additional stabilization steps if needed,
the Financial Services Commission said today. The regulator is
watching stock market volatility and rapid outflows of overseas
funds, it said in an e-mailed copy of a report submitted to
parliament. The commission will regularly review whether banks
are meeting foreign-currency liquidity guidance and limits on
foreign-currency forward contracts, it said.  The  currency market  has reacted “excessively” to concerns
about the global economy, Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku
said today.  ‘Safe-Haven Demand’  “Italy’s credit rating cut is boosting safe-haven
demand,” said Kim Ji Myoung, a currency trader at  Korea
Development Bank  in Seoul. “Currency declines will depend on
the amount of government intervention and exporters’ selling
dollars to convert income.”  Thailand ’s baht dropped for an 11th day, the longest losing
streak since June 2008. The currency touched the weakest level
in more than two months before a report that’s expected to show
export growth slowed to 27.4 percent in August from 38.3 percent
in July, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Europe’s crisis is spurring sales of riskier assets such
as stocks and emerging-market currencies,” said Tohru Nishihama,
an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo.
“Asia will be hit through exports as Europe is a major buyer of
goods from here. The region’s currencies will remain under
downward pressure for the time being.”  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht,  Indonesia ’s rupiah and the
Philippine peso were little changed at 30.55, 9,023 and 43.472,
respectively. The ringgit traded at 3.1250 from 3.1238 yesterday
after weakening to this year’s low of 3.1425. China’s yuan was
steady at 6.3843.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  