-- 
Asian Stocks Drop as Italy’s Credit-Rating Cut Boosts Debt-Crisis Concerns

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-20T10:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/asian-stocks-drop-as-italy-s-credit-rating-cut-boosts-debt-crisis-concerns.html
Asian stocks fell, extending a two-
week decline on the region’s benchmark stock index, after
Italy’s sovereign-credit ratings were cut, intensifying concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening and may sour the earnings
outlook for exporters, banks and commodity producers.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
dropped 2.1 percent in Sydney as crude and metal prices tumbled.
Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest miner by sales, fell 1.9
percent, extending losses yesterday.  Sony Corp. (6758)  slumped 4.1
percent, leading exporters’ shares lower after Japanese markets
resumed trading following yesterday’s public holiday. China
Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., the nation’s No. 2 mobile phone
carrier, rose 3.9 percent in Hong Kong after boosting
subscribers.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.5 percent to 117.93
as of 7:01 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about three stocks declining for
every two that advanced on the measure. The gauge has fallen for
the past two weeks on concern Europe’s crisis is spreading and
on signs of slowing U.S. economic growth.  “The Italian downgrade will just renew concerns about
sovereign-debt issues spreading from  Greece  to Italy and
Spain,” said Belinda Allen, a senior investment analyst at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management in Sydney, which
oversees about $150 billion. “Markets are understanding that
there is no easy solution” to Europe’s debt crisis, she said.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.6 percent, pacing
declines among Asia’s benchmark index. The MSCI Pacific
excluding Japan Index was little changed today after falling 2.8
percent yesterday.  Tech Shares Rise  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 1 and Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index climbed 0.5 percent after swinging between losses of
as much as 1 percent and a 0.7 percent gain. South Korea’s Kospi
Index rose 0.9 percent, with technology shares climbing after
the won fell to the lowest level this year against the  U.S.
dollar .  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent,
erasing an earlier loss, amid speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve will do more to stimulate economic growth after a two-
day policy meeting concludes tomorrow.  The  S&P 500  contract expiring in December earlier dropped
as much as 1 percent after  Italy  had its long- and short-term
sovereign credit ratings cut to A/A-1 from A+/A-1+ by Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services.  In  New York , the S&P 500 fell 1 percent yesterday, paring
losses in the final hour of trading as Greece said discussions
with European officials about the country’s bailout were
productive. Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government will
hold another call with its main creditors today as European
leaders squabble over the terms of a July agreement and the
prospect that they will be forced to channel more money to keep
Greece in the currency union.  ‘Unhappy Financiers’  “We’re in the midst of normal wrangling between
recalcitrant debtors and their unhappy financiers,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “The current discussions represent minor
steps forward, but don’t resolve the underlying issue. While the
Italy downgrade isn’t a surprise, it’s an added negative to cope
with.”  BHP Billiton, also Australia’s biggest oil producer, fell
2.1 percent to A$36.80 in Sydney, while Rio Tinto declined 1.9
percent to A$68.90.  A measure of primary metals traded in  London  fell 3.1
percent yesterday and copper futures for December delivery
declined 3.8 percent on the Comex. New York-traded copper swung
between gains and losses today. The price of crude oil fell as
much as 0.7 percent.  Japan Shippers  In Tokyo, Sony slumped 4.1 percent to 1,514 yen.  Canon
Inc. (7751) , which depends on Europe for about a third of its sales,
lost 0.9 percent to 3,380 yen.  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) ,
Japan’s No. 3 shipping line by sales, retreated 4.3 percent to
178 yen.  Japan’s exporters also fell as the yen rose against the
euro today, cutting the value of their overseas income.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender
by market value, declined 2.9 percent to 335 yen on concern
Europe’s debt crisis may spill over into the banking system. In
Sydney,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  slid 2 percent to A$22.  New Measures  Losses in stocks were limited by speculation that Federal
Reserve officials will propose new measures to support the  U.S.
economy  when the Federal Open Market Committee completes a two-
day meeting tomorrow. Central bank Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told
economists on Sept. 8 that policy makers have measures at hand
and are “prepared to employ these tools as appropriate.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.3 percent drop by the S&P
500 and an 18 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.1 times for the S&P 500
and 9.4 times for the Stoxx 600.  Among stocks that advanced today, China Unicom rose 3.9
percent to HK$17.40 in Hong Kong. The mobile-phone carrier said
it added 2.36 million new mobile phone users last month,
compared with 2.13 million users in July.       Japan Tobacco
Inc. (2914) , the maker of Mild Seven cigarettes, gained 5.4 percent to
368,000 yen in Tokyo. A higher likelihood the government will
cut its stake in the tobacco company may mean management can
raise dividends, according to a report by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  LG Innotek Co. led gains in shares of South Korean
electronic-device exporters after the won fell to the lowest
level this year against the U.S. dollar. LG Innotek, a maker of
mobile-phone parts, jumped 11 percent to 67,200 won in Seoul,
while Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co. gained 8.9 percent to 69,600
won.  Huabao International Holdings Ltd. (336)  advanced 14 percent to
HK$6.92. The Hong Kong-based fragrance provider, whose
investment rating JPMorgan yesterday raised to “overweight”
from “neutral,” has climbed for five consecutive days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  