-- 
Latin American Buffered Against Global Shock, World Bank Says

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-20T20:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/latin-american-buffered-against-global-shock-world-bank-says.html
Latin American countries such as
Brazil, Colombia and  Chile  have created a buffer against a
global recession after raising  interest rates  in the past 15
months, the World Bank said in a report today.  In the worst of cases, those countries “could rely on
lower interest rates, flexible exchange rates and strong
international reserve positions as a first line of defense,”
according to the report on the region’s growth prospects. The
region should also “rebuild fiscal buffers, to enhance its
capacity to deploy counter-cyclical fiscal policy down the line
if needed.”  Latin America and the Caribbean is forecast to grow between
3.5 percent and 4.5 percent this year, thanks to capital inflows
and high commodity prices, the bank said. That’s down from about
6 percent during the 2010 economic rebound, according to the
report.  In the less pessimistic scenario for the global economy,
the  World Bank  foresees emerging markets, including China,
continuing to outgrow the developed world, with commodity prices
remaining high, Augusto de la Torre, the bank’s chief economist
for Latin America and the Caribbean, told a news conference in
 Washington . In the worse scenario, the economies of Latin
America and other emerging markets would also weaken,
undermining commodity prices, he said.  Monetary Policy  “Most Latin American countries have suspended their
increases in interest rates because central banks have entered
into a wait-and-see mode to see what happens internationally,”
said de la Torre. “More Latin American countries are making
announcements that it is convenient not only to hold off on rate
increases but maybe to prepare to lower them” while moving to
“reinforce” their fiscal positions.  De la Torre said the emergence of  China  as a major trading
partner for Latin America has been a driver of the region’s
robust growth in the past decade, contrary to initial concerns
that China “would outcompete and displace” Latin America and
the Caribbean.  Earlier today, the  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011
economic growth forecast for Latin America to 4.5 percent from
4.6 percent.  IMF and World Bank officials, together with central bankers
from the Group of 20 and other countries, are meeting in
Washington this week to seek ways of averting European default
and containing financial risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman@bloomberg.net . 