-- 
Mattel, Hasbro Lead Toys ’R’ Us Hot List for Holiday Shoppers

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-20T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/mattel-hasbro-lead-toys-r-us-hot-list-for-holiday-shoppers.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the
world’s biggest toymakers, each placed three titles on Toys
“R” Us Inc.’s list of products it predicts to be best-sellers
during this year’s holiday shopping season.  The so-called Fabulous 15 list includes Hasbro’s Sesame
Street Let’s Rock! Elmo, which allows kids to play music along
with the furry red monster, and interactive robotic toys from
Mattel called  Radica Fijit Friends , according to a statement
from Wayne, New Jersey-based Toys “R” Us. Four of the
offerings, Air Swimmers eXtreme, Moshi Monsters, Trash Pack
Garbage Truck and My Keepon are exclusive to the retailer.  Toys “R” Us, the world’s largest toy chain, began
compiling the list in January when more than 100 employees
attended the Hong Kong Toys and Game Fair, Lisa Harnisch, vice
president and general merchandise manager at Toys “R” Us, said
in an interview. The company then narrowed down the list by
testing toys at its headquarters and seeing how they sold in a
small group of stores.  Prices on the list range from $5.99 for Moshi Monsters to
$280 for a Power Wheels Dune Racer from Mattel’s Fisher-Price
brand, Harnisch said. Leapfrog Enterprises Inc. and Activision
Blizzard Inc., the world’s largest video-game maker, also have
titles on the list.  Toys “R” Us, purchased by private-equity firms KKR & Co.
and Bain Capital LLC along with  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  for $6.6
billion in 2005, plans to hire about the same amount of
temporary workers for the holiday season as last year, when it
added 45,000. The retailer will also open fewer temporary stores
than the 600 it operated last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  