-- 
Latvia Strikes Blow to Corruption by Voting Out Oligarchs: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-20T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/latvia-strikes-blow-to-corruption-in-system-by-voting-out-oligarchs-view.html
Sometimes small countries can set
an example for their larger neighbors. We hope that Russians
take note of  Latvia ’s Sept. 17 election in which oligarchs lost
control of the political system.  The election in the nation of 2.2 million people has broken
the stranglehold that a small number of oligarchs have had on
Latvian politics. Parties controlled by corrupt businessmen and
politicians won only 13 of the 100 seats in the Latvian
parliament, compared with 30 in 2010 and 51 in 2006.  The restoration of independence in 1991 in the three Baltic
states -- Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania  -- after 51 years of
Soviet and Nazi occupation was one of the most inspirational
stories of the 1990s. All three countries quickly established
market economies and democratic political systems. In 2004, they
joined the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, completing their formal integration into  Europe ’s
economic and security structures.  But building a successful democracy requires more than
holding multiparty, regular elections. And capitalist economics
is more than just privatization.  As in parts of post-communist Eastern Europe, Latvia’s
political parties were almost all dominated by individuals who
entered politics to protect and expand their business interests.
There was little ideological difference among them. So elections
gave voters no real opportunity to influence the country’s
direction.  This witch’s brew of economic interests and political power
led to rampant corruption despite heroic efforts by the KNAB,
Latvia’s anti-corruption agency. When challenged, the oligarchs
played the ethnic card, noting that Harmony Center, the major
party outside their control, appealed to Latvia’s Russian
minority and was therefore a vote for  Vladimir Putin , now
Russia’s prime minister.  The oligarchs’ undoing began when the country’s economic
bubble burst in 2008. By 2010, the economy had shrunk by more
than 25 percent, intensifying popular anger against Latvia’s
corrupt leaders. Discontent found an outlet this year when
parliament refused an investigator’s request to lift the
immunity of Ainars Slesers, an oligarch who is the subject of a
corruption investigation. Slesers’s party didn’t win any seats
in the Sept. 17 ballot.  President Valdis Zatlers decided he’d had enough and called
a referendum on whether to dissolve parliament. Ironically,
Zatlers was a political novice who had been chosen by the
oligarchs to be a ceremonial president who wouldn’t get in their
way. On July 23, about 94 percent of voters approved the
dissolution of parliament leading to the Sept. 17 election.  Harmony Center won 31 seats, Zatlers’s Reform Party gained
22, and Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis’s Unity party received
20. Dombrovskis and Zatlers have begun coalition talks but need
a third partner to form a stable government.  They have three alternatives. The least palatable is an
alliance with a party led by Aivars Lembergs, an oligarch who is
on trial for bribery,  money laundering  and abuse of office and
is a defendant in U.K. litigation over freight fraud. Bringing
Lembergs into the government would run counter to voters’ anti-
oligarch message. They should tread carefully in thinking about
a deal with Latvia’s far right, which won 14 seats, but whose
nationalist agenda will surely damage relations with the large
Russian minority and needlessly antagonize Russia.  Instead, Dombrovskis and Zatlers should explore the
possibility of a deal with Harmony Center, the largely ethnic
Russian party. Harmony leader Nils Usakovs has said his party
will accept Latvia’s membership in NATO and the EU, although it
will push for an increase in social spending. Dombrovskis should
neither rush into a deal that changes Latvia’s pro-American and
pro-Europe orientation, nor reject a deal just because Harmony’s
voters are mostly Russian. On the contrary, creating one of
Eastern Europe’s few multiethnic governments would demonstrate
Latvia’s willingness to treat all citizens equally.  Latvia isn’t the only former communist country with a thin
line between politics and private business interests.  Russia  is
in that category, as are many countries in southeastern Europe.
In fact, Latvia’s oligarchs aren’t nearly as rich, or as
corrupt, as their counterparts in other parts of the former
 Soviet Union .  That said, Latvia’s experience does indicate what is needed
to create a more honest political system. First, you need a
leader such as Zatlers, who is willing to risk his own political
future to confront corruption. Second, you require a real anti-
corruption agency, such as KNAB, that is willing to press on
with cases against the politically powerful. But neither of
those is enough unless the general public is prepared to stand
up, take risks, and throw their corrupt leaders out of office.
That’s why the Sept. 17 election was such a promising sign.  But most of all you need a democratic political system that
channels popular outrage into real political change. Until now,
Latvia’s democracy has been tarnished by corruption. But the
solution to flawed government in Latvia is more democracy.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 