-- 
Australian Mortgage Stress Climbs, Rental Vacancies Drop on Higher Rates

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-21T05:53:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/australian-rental-vacancies-remain-tight-at-1-8-in-august.html
A quarter of Australian homeowners
are experiencing mortgage stress and rental vacancies remain
“tight,” driven by higher  interest rates , rising costs and a
shortage of rental properties in some cities.  The number of homeowners facing mortgage stress has jumped
from 21 percent in March, mortgage insurance provider Genworth
Financial Inc. said in its September Homebuyer Confidence Index,
based on surveys conducted from July 30 to Aug. 5, and released
today. Rental vacancies slipped to 1.8 percent from 1.9 percent
in the previous month and below the equilibrium 3 percent rate,
according to data from  SQM Research Pty.   “As the market slows, people just take their properties
off the market and delay their decision to move, rather than
renting it,” said Matthew Hassan, senior economist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in Sydney. “We see a significant rise in
unemployment in the next 12 months, so in the near term, we’re
likely to see more stress in the mortgage belt.”  While reports published since July show dwelling price
growth has slowed, rents have continued to climb, rising 2.9
percent across the country in the three months ended June 30
from a year ago, according to real estate researcher RP Data.
Rising consumer prices, even after seven interest rate increases
by the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia , are putting more pressure on
homeowners with mortgages in the market with the most
unaffordable homes in the English-speaking world.  Rising Unemployment  Unemployment in August rose for a second straight month,
reaching a 10-month high of 5.3 percent, statistics bureau data
showed.  Australian capital city’s home prices fell 3.4 percent in
the first seven months of 2011, RP Data said in August, and a
government report showed dwelling starts dropped 4.7 percent in
the second quarter.  Homebuyer confidence fell 2 percent from March, while 36
percent think now is a good time to buy a home, the Australian
unit of Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth, said in today’s
statement.  About 85 percent of borrowers are still managing to make
mortgage payments on time, and more than 45 percent have
overpaid their mortgages over the past year, Genworth said.
First-time homebuyers in particular are cutting back on  luxury
goods , clothes and groceries to own their homes, the group said.  Housing Affordability  “Despite 40 percent of recent first-home buyers putting
more than half their monthly income towards servicing debt, we
found just 15 percent expect to have difficulties paying their
mortgage in the year ahead,” Ellie Comerford, chief executive
officer of Genworth, said in the statement.  Australian homes cost 6.1 times gross annual household
income, the highest among English-speaking nations, compared
with 3 times in the U.S., Belleville, Illinois-based consulting
company Demographia said in January.  The number of properties available for rent was highest in
 Melbourne , at 2.8 percent, up from 2.1 percent a year ago, and
lowest in the capital Canberra, at 0.6 percent, unchanged from
last year, SQM said in an e-mailed statement.  Sydney saw a decline to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent in
July, and Perth’s vacancies fell to 1 percent from 1.2 percent.  The drop in vacancies nationwide comes as the number of
properties listed for sale jumped 23.6 percent in August from a
year ago, according to an SQM report last week.  “To date there is no significant trend of vendors, having
failed in selling their properties, offering up for rent
instead,” SQM Managing Director Louis Christopher said in
today’s release. “So, the rental market remains largely a
landlords’ market for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  