-- 
Australia and New Zealand’s Growth to Rebound in 2012, IMF Says

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/australia-and-new-zealand-s-growth-to-rebound-in-2012-imf-says.html
The economies of  Australia  and  New
Zealand  will rebound next year from natural disasters and
unemployment will fall as both countries benefit from stronger
demand in Asia, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Australia’s gross domestic product will increase 3.3
percent in 2012 after a 1.8 percent expansion this year, the IMF
said today in its World Economic Outlook, and New Zealand will
grow 3.8 percent next year after a 2 percent gain this year. The
jobless rate in Australia next year will sink to 4.8 percent
from 5 percent average this year, and New Zealand’s will drop to
5.6 percent from 6.4 percent.  Flooding inundated mines and farmland in Australia’s
Queensland state in the first quarter this year and a Feb. 22
earthquake wrecked New Zealand’s second-biggest city of
Christchurch, hobbling both economies and stretching budgets
already in deficit. Australia’s economy is getting a boost from
demand for  iron ore  and coal from developing nation’s including
 China , while New Zealand’s exports of dairy products and lumber
boost its growth.  In Australia, the mining boom “provides an opportunity to
build fiscal buffers further over the medium term and contribute
to national saving,” the Washington-based fund said. “New
Zealand’s recovery has gained traction, supported by strong
terms of trade and positive trade spillovers from the region.”  The IMF growth projection for Australia next year was less
than the 3.5 percent that the fund forecast in early August. New
Zealand’s latest 2012 outlook from the IMF was lower than the 4
percent growth estimated in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  