-- 
Autodesk’s SketchBook IPhone Application Brings Surge of Users

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/autodesk-s-sketchbook-iphone-application-brings-flood-of-users-ceo-says.html
Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  spent almost 30 years
selling engineering and design software to accumulate 12 million
customers. It took a single iPhone app -- and less than two
years -- to attract 7 million more.  Autodesk’s  SketchBook application , which also works with
the iPad and Android devices, has boosted the company’s user
base and drawn new kinds of customers, Chief Executive Officer
Carl Bass said yesterday in an interview. The $1.99 product,
released in September 2009, can create sketches and paintings on
touch screens with a range of brushes, colors and layers.  While SketchBook users bring in much less revenue than
Autodesk’s engineering customers, the app’s popularity has
raised the company’s profile and spotlighted a broader shift
away from traditional personal-computing software, Bass said.
Customers are increasingly turning to Internet apps and cloud
computing, which relies on massive data centers for storage and
processing power.  “The biggest thing has been the move to the cloud,” Bass,
54, said in a televised interview with “Bloomberg West.” “We
are reaching an audience that is far larger than we have ever
reached before.”  Autodesk, the world’s largest seller of engineering-design
software, also is seeing its manufacturing and architectural
programs shift to the cloud. Bass estimates that the “vast
majority” of software will be delivered via cloud computing
within five years.  Cloud Market  Cloud services, offered by Google Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and dozens of other companies, provide an
alternative to businesses maintaining their own software and
servers. The cloud-computing market is expected to increase to
$241 billion in 2020 from $40.7 billion this year, according to
 Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   For engineers, cloud computing offers the promise of
limitless processing power, Bass said. An auto-industry
designer, for instance, can test aerodynamics and safety in a
fraction of the time.  Autodesk generated $1.95 billion in revenue last year, up
14 percent from the previous year. The  San Rafael , California-
based company serves as a bellwether for the broader economy
because customers rely on it for major construction projects and
creating new product lines. Its software has been used in
everything from bridge design to the special effects in the
movie “Avatar.”  Autodesk shares have tumbled 25 percent this year, hurt by
concerns that economic growth is slowing. The stock fell 66
cents to $28.79 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  