-- 
Bandar, Berjaya, Hartalega, Kimlun: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-20T00:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bandar-berjaya-hartalega-kimlun-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 1.2 percent
to 1,413.12.  Bandar Raya Developments Bhd. (BRD)  : The property group
agreed to sell an office building and malls for a combined 430
million ringgit ($137 million) to Ambang Sehati Sdn., it said in
a statement. Bandar Raya will distribute part of the proceeds to
shareholders via a cash dividend of 80 sen per share, it said.
The shares slid 0.4 percent to 2.38 ringgit.  Berjaya Corp. (BC MK): The property, insurance and gaming
group plans to raise as much as 767.5 million ringgit from a
rights offer of convertible loan stocks with warrants, it said
in a statement. The money raised will be used to repay bank
borrowings and fund working capital, it said. Berjaya rose 1.5
percent to 99 sen.  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  : The automaker, transport services
and banking group said its Alam Flora Sdn. unit signed a 22-year
concession agreement with the government, giving it the right to
undertake the collection of solid waste and public cleansing
management services in Pahang state, Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya.
DRB-Hicom advanced 0.5 percent to 1.98 ringgit.        Formis Resources Bhd. (FMRB)  : The  software company  plans
to venture into property development with Insas Bhd. and Red
Zone Development Sdn. to help bolster earnings, according to a
company statement. Formis gained 1.3 percent to 77 sen.  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM)  : The Employees Provident Fund,
Malaysia’s largest pension fund, bought 1.4 million shares in
the construction and property group, a stock exchange filing
showed. Gamuda slid 2.5 percent to 2.75 ringgit.  Hartalega Holdings Bhd. (HART)  : The glove-maker’s
managing director, Kuan Kam Hon, is in talks to buy more shares
that will result in him gaining “indirect” control of the
company, it said in a statement. Kuan’s proposed acquisition
price will not be a premium and he has received an exemption
from the Securities Commission from having to make a general
offer for the rest of the shares, it said. The stock advanced
0.7 percent to 5.63 ringgit.       Kimlun Corp. (KICB MK): The construction company won a 51
million-ringgit contract to build a retail mall in Medini
Iskandar, in the southern Johor state, according to a company
statement. Kimlun lost 0.8 percent to 1.19 ringgit.       YTL Corp. (YTL MK): The Malaysian utilities, cement and
property group spent 2.5 million ringgit buying back 1.8 million
of its own shares, a stock filing showed. YTL climbed 1.5
percent to 1.38 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  