-- 
Bank of Canada Governor Carney's Speech in New Brunswick (Text)

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-09-20T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bank-of-canada-governor-carney-s-speech-in-new-brunswick-text-.html
Following is the text of a speech
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  is delivering today in Saint
John,  New Brunswick . Charts and footnotes have been removed.  Introduction  It is a pleasure to be here in Saint John.  When I got up this morning, things had changed. For the
first time, there was that sense of the turn in the seasons. It
is fitting, of course, with the autumn equinox this week, but
looking at the calendar doesn’t dispel that wistful feeling:
where did summer go? Instead of looking forward to a string of
lazy, hazy days, we face the touch of frost in the air ... and
the smell of fear in financial markets.  Canadians entered the summer brimming with confidence.
Expecting strong sales, our businesses were full of plans to add
jobs and invest in plant and equipment. Canadians themselves had
a very positive view of their economic prospects. Now, in the
face of alarming events abroad, some are less sure. What
happened? And how should the public and private sectors respond?  What Happened?  The fear currently dominating global financial markets has
three causes: the deterioration in the global economic outlook,
the intensification of the European sovereign debt crisis and
growing questioning of the ability of policy-makers to respond.  High government debt leaves the Euro area extremely
vulnerable to changes in global growth prospects and investor
sentiment. These challenges are compounded by the nature of
European monetary union, which demands prolonged deflationary
adjustments in countries that have lost competitiveness.  The most immediate concern is growing funding pressures on
European banks. Most have seen their costs of borrowing rise
sharply, their access to important financial markets curtailed,
and their equities trading at historic lows relative to the
value of their assets.  If not quickly reversed, this situation could create a
damaging negative feedback loop among the banks, lending and the
real economy. This would occur at a time when the European
economy--the largest in the world--is already slowing
dramatically.  While the immediate concern is about banks, the broader
issues are the fiscal and competitive positions of a number of
countries.  Most European governments have little choice but to reduce
their budget deficits, despite weak private demand. Ultimately,
Europe’s problems cannot be solved by fiscal austerity alone.
Any durable solution must include a series of measures to
rebuild competitiveness. For example,  Spain  runs a 4 per cent
current account deficit despite its depressed economy, and Greek
unit labour costs have risen by a third relative to Germany’s
since the start of the European Monetary Union.  In the short term, the problems in Europe are being
compounded by slowing global growth. In particular, the  U.S.
economy  has lost momentum.  Recent benchmark revisions show that the U.S. recession was
deeper and its recovery has been shallower than previously
reported. What we learned over the summer does not suggest that
the dynamics currently affecting the U.S. economy have changed,
just that the magnitudes are much larger. In short, the housing
market remains a mess, the consumer is weak, and government
actions can be expected to reduce growth after materially
boosting it in recent years.  American households have experienced a major shock to their
net worth, which has fallen from a peak of 6.4 times income pre-
crisis to 5.0 in the second quarter of this year. These losses
can only be recovered through a combination of increased savings
and rising prices for houses and financial assets. Each will
clearly take time.  Overall, the  United States  is in the midst of the weakest
recovery since the Great Depression, and the Bank does not
expect that to change at any time soon. In fact, the U.S.
economy is tracking exactly the dreary path of other advanced
economies that have experienced major financial crises.  The Bank expects the U.S. economy to continue to grow at or
below its trend rate of around 2 per cent until the second
quarter of 2012. This reflects a combination of modest growth in
consumption, the beginnings of fiscal drag, solid business
investment in equipment and software, and relatively strong
export growth. These last two factors will of course be
importantly influenced by global developments.  At this stage, the Bank of  Canada  does not expect a
recession in the United States, although the risk has clearly
risen. The U.S. economy is close to stall speed, where a
negative feedback loop between weak employment, consumer demand,
and business hiring and investment could emerge. The possibility
that markets themselves could tip the balance cannot be
dismissed. Further declines in the value of financial assets
could encourage higher savings and discourage corporate
investment, and it remains possible that credit conditions for
American firms could tighten materially.  What Does This Mean for Canada?  The direct impact of weaker European growth on Canada is
relatively modest. However, the financial and confidence effects
could be considerable. In response to uncertainties in  Europe ,
global equity and commodity prices have fallen significantly,
and financial market volatility has increased markedly.  The spillovers to Canadian financial markets have been less
pronounced but are still notable. Overall financial conditions
have tightened in Canada, largely due to declines in equity
values. Importantly, our financial system continues to work
well. Our banks have virtually unmatched access to funding and
capital; credit to Canadian households and businesses remains
widely available at historically low rates.  The direct impact of a renewed slowdown in the United
States, our largest trading partner, is more material. Moreover,
the U.S. slowdown has further hit activity in sectors, such as
autos and housing, that matter for Canada. To put this into
perspective, consider that if this had been an average U.S.
recovery, U.S. GDP would be 2.5 per cent higher and Canadian
exports would be 6.5 per cent greater, equivalent to $30 billion
in additional sales.  But this is not an average recovery and, now, the
considerable external headwinds our economy has faced in recent
years are blowing harder. Net exports are now expected to remain
a major source of weakness, reflecting more modest global demand
and ongoing competitiveness challenges, in particular the
persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.  It is worth remembering that reduced competitiveness
typically means higher penetration of imports into Canada. The
ratio of imports to GDP has risen
7 percentage points over the past decade. There is also some
good news: over the same period, an increasing proportion of our
imports is for investment purposes, rather than consumption.
This indicates that an increasing share of Canada’s imports is
adding to the capital stock, rather than simply being consumed.
This will need to continue.  The Bank expects that growth will resume in the second half
of this year, led by business investment and household
expenditures, although lower wealth and incomes will likely
moderate the pace of investment and consumption growth.  Slower global economic momentum will dampen domestic
resource utilization and inflationary pressures. The Bank
expects total CPI inflation to continue to moderate as temporary
factors, such as significantly higher food and energy prices,
unwind.  Core inflation  is expected to remain well contained as
the growth of labour compensation stays modest, productivity
recovers, and inflation expectations remain well anchored.  The risks to our economy remain largely external and are
skewed to the downside.  What Then Must Be Done?  The debt-ceiling fiasco in the United States and the
inability, to date, of European policy-makers to get ahead of
their crisis have reduced investor confidence in the
effectiveness of policy. The combination of high debt loads and
unpredictable politics is toxic.  Still, it is important to distinguish between the
willingness to act and the ability to address the current
challenges. There is much that policy can do. The European
situation is fragile but fixable; manageable if it is managed.  The  European Central Bank  stands ready to supply virtually
unlimited liquidity to European banks. This should prevent the
sort of dramatic liquidity events we saw in 2008, but it is not
a cure. Banks in these situations become highly defensive. The
lesson of  Japan  in the 1990s is that once such behaviour starts,
it is hard to reverse.  The point of central bank efforts is to create a bridge.
The follow-up actions must be swift and sizeable. European
authorities need to move decisively to contain the crisis.
Measures taken must draw private capital back in, rather than
merely fund its exit.  Actually implementing announced measures will start to
rebuild confidence. Enhancements to existing European funding
facilities should be put in place. Financial reforms, including
Basel III capital measures, should be implemented in a timely
fashion. Paths for sustained fiscal consolidation should be
established, consistent with the agreement reached at last
year’s G-20 Summit in Toronto.  But more is required.  In the  Bank of Canada ’s opinion, what is needed now is a
comprehensive capital plan for European banks, and crucially, a
sizeable funding backstop for European sovereigns. The reality
is that the best commitments and even the most binding
legislation will not restore investor confidence overnight. As
Canada learned in the mid-1990s, countries need to build a
sustained track record of tangible results in order to rebuild
trust. Similarly, structural policies to enhance growth have a
long pay back.  Thus, European authorities must create time to re-found
their monetary union based on credible fiscal arrangements and
more flexible economies that can adjust quickly to inevitable
shifts in internal European competitiveness. In our opinion, the
existing European resources, including the European Financial
Stability Facility and the European Central Bank facilities, can
be used much more efficiently to create a multi-year window for
these adjustments.  Just as demand must be rebalanced in Europe between
countries with current account deficits, such as Spain, and
those with surpluses, such as  Germany , so too must it adjust
globally. Under current policies, large current account
imbalances can be expected to persist. Continued reliance on
domestic demand in advanced economies promises disappointment.
As we have seen in recent weeks, the hand-off from the public to
the private sector in the United States and Europe is in danger
of being fumbled. Fiscal consolidation has begun, without
autonomous private demand picking up the slack because of
unresolved fragilities and a barrage of negative shocks.  Rebalancing demand across economies will require the
implementation of comprehensive financial reforms; open trade
and capital markets; and significant changes to fiscal,
structural and  exchange rate  policies across a broad range of
countries, including major emerging markets. When the G-20 meets
later this week in  Washington  and next month in Paris, these
issues must be at the centre of the agenda.  In the face of this difficult external environment, the
Bank will continue to support Canada’s economic expansion by
keeping inflation low, stable and predictable.  Since the crisis erupted four years ago, the Bank has
demonstrated its nimbleness in the conduct of monetary policy.
We reacted quickly and forcefully during the downturn. As the
Canadian recovery has progressed, we have emphasised that we
would be prudent with respect to the possible withdrawal of any
degree of monetary stimulus.  The Bank always takes a flexible approach. Our decisions
are guided by considered analysis and informed judgment rather
than mechanical rules. For example, as we have emphasised, given
current material headwinds, the policy rate can return to its
long-run level after inflation is projected to reach the
2 per cent target and output is projected to reach its
potential.  The Bank also exercises considerable flexibility with
respect to the time horizon over which inflation should be
expected to return to target. In general, both the size and
nature of the shocks that hit our economy can have a bearing on
the appropriate targeting horizon. Over the last 20 years, the
persistence of the effects of the shocks on the economy has been
such that it was typically desirable to return inflation to
target over a period of six to eight quarters. However, there
has been considerable variation in this horizon from as short as
2 quarters to as long as 11 quarters. On at least eight
occasions, the Bank has extended the targeting horizon beyond
eight quarters. It did so most recently in April 2009, when
returning inflation to target over a longer period was
warranted, given the unusually large shock confronting the
Canadian economy at the time.  Just as we do not have mechanical rules for the path of
policy rates, we do not outsource our monetary policy to the
U.S. Federal Reserve. What happens in the United States
obviously matters for Canada, but this does not mean that our
rates are tied to those of the Americans. Over the two decades
of inflation targeting, the overnight rate in Canada has been
more than 200 basis points above, and more than 200 basis points
below, the Federal funds rate. These variations reflect
differences in our respective economic outlooks. Canadian
monetary policy will be appropriate to Canadian circumstances
and consistent with achieving  price stability  in Canada.  Canadians can also be assured that the Bank will take the
necessary steps to ensure that core financial markets remain
liquid and operating. In the event of a major systemic shock,
the Bank has a wide range of tools to provide exceptional
liquidity, consistent with a principles-based framework. This
will help ensure that all Canadians benefit from the strength of
our financial system, in bad times as well as good.  While we experience the fallout of events in Europe and the
United States, Canada should also draw the lessons from these
experiences. The European sovereign crisis reinforces the
importance of sustainable government debt and the value of a
flexible exchange rate. American difficulties underscore the
risks of excessive  household debt .  Should You Wait Out the Storm?  Financial markets appear paralysed. You shouldn’t be. These
events are like the waves on the sea. The underlying currents--
those forces that affect the long-term outlook for our
businesses and economy--are much stronger. Today, the charts
reveal three major currents: Canadian firms are underexposed to
the fastest growing parts of the global economy; commodity
prices can be expected to remain elevated relative to historic
averages; and our firms are not as productive as they could or
need to be.  Regardless of what happens in the United States or Europe,
these challenges and opportunities need to be seized through
sustained efforts here in Canada.  The world’s economic centre of gravity is shifting rapidly
from advanced to emerging economies. The game in the United
States will be more about taking market share (something we have
not been doing recently) than participating in a growing market.
To put it bluntly, the U.S. economy can be expected to be
relatively weak for some time as households repair balance
sheets and governments wrestle with deficits. How weak depends
on the choices Americans make but, given the pressures, there is
limited upside.  Canada will have to look elsewhere to grow our exports.
Emerging markets already account for almost one-half of the
growth in all imports over the past decade. In a process that
can be expected to continue for decades, emerging  Asia  is
rapidly urbanizing. China and  India  are housing the equivalent
of the entire population of Canada every 18 months. In parallel,
a massive new middle class is being formed, growing by 70
million people each year.  Thus, even though commodity prices have eased in recent
weeks, they can be expected to remain at elevated levels,
supported by large, sustained demand increases from the emerging
world, particularly Asia.  We will need to take advantage of such opportunities
because the limits of domestic debt and demography mean that the
potential growth of our economy is slowing. As the boomer
generation ages, labour force participation rates will decline
and hours worked will fall. The direction is clear. The question
is merely one of degree.  If we do not develop new markets and if we do not improve
productivity, the cumulative loss of income from slower
potential growth could be almost $30,000 for every Canadian over
the next decade.  Conclusion  It is often said that Canada is not an island. This is true
and illustrates that we are not immune to global events. Perhaps
a better analogy for us today here on the shores of the Bay of
Fundy is that Canada is like a ship. We can be tossed by the
waves or pulled by the current, but we are still able to chart
our course in even the stormiest of seas.  The challenges in the current global economic environment
are significant but so, too, are the opportunities. Our
corporations and governments have strong balance sheets, our
financial institutions are among the most resilient in the
world, and our economy can be geared to the future sources of
global growth. To take advantage of these attributes, we will
need continued, heavy investment to improve productivity and
sustained, innovative efforts to develop new markets.  For its part, the Bank of Canada has a wide range of tools
and policy options that it will continue to deploy as
appropriate in order to ensure that Canadians can seize these
opportunities in an environment of domestic macroeconomic and
financial stability.  Fall may be around the corner, but we all know that
Canadians are at their best during winter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  