-- 
Merscorp Sued in Dallas With Bank of America Over Mortgage-Tracking System

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-09-21T21:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bank-of-america-merscorp-sued-by-dallas-county-over-tracking-of-mortgages.html
Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., along with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , was sued by
Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins over claims its
mortgage-tracking system violates Texas law.  Merscorp Inc.’s MERS, which runs an electronic registry of
mortgages, cheated Dallas County out of “tens of millions in
uncollected filing fees,” Watkins said in a statement. MERS
tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in  mortgage
loans  on its registry, allowing banks to buy and sell loans
without recording transfers with counties.  Watkins, in a complaint filed yesterday in state court in
Dallas, claims MERS was established by banks including Bank of
America to avoid paying filing fees, as well as to ease
transfers of mortgages. The county asked the court to hold Bank
of America liable as a shareholder of MERS and said the bank
“knew or should have known” that the system would cause
improper filing.  “ Texas  public policy favors a reliable functioning public
recordation system to avoid destructive breaks in title,
confusion as to true identity of the holder of a note,
fraudulent foreclosures and uncertainty as to title when a home
is sold,” Watkins, said in the 48-page complaint. MERS “has
all but collapsed this system throughout the U.S,” he said.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  “The claims made in the lawsuit filed in Dallas County,
Texas, yesterday are without legal or factual merit,” Janis Smith, a Merscorp spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today. “The
MERS business model and practices are legal and comply with the
recording statutes and regulations of Texas.”  The legality of MERS’s practices “has been upheld in
numerous cases in Texas courts and countless cases across the
country on the state and federal level,” Smith said. “We are
confident that this court will agree that MERS’ business
practices are perfectly legal.  More Banks  Dallas  County may add other banks to the lawsuit, Watkins,
43, said in an interview. Naming Bank of America first was “a
strategic move,” he said. “We expect more banks will be in
this before it’s over.”  The Dallas county clerk has estimated that $58 million in
fees have not been paid as a result of MERS-related
transactions, dating back to 1997, Watkins said. “Our research
shows it could be more than $100 million.”  Through the MERS system, notes and mortgages in Texas are
being “sold, assigned or transferred” without being recorded
in the deed records of the county, Watkins said in the
complaint. The defendants “misrepresented the true beneficial
owner of notes and related mortgages filed by them in Dallas
County, Texas, for the purpose of avoiding the recordation of
subsequent transfer and payment of attendant filing fees.”  The case is Dallas County v. Merscorp Inc., CC-11-06571-E,
County Court at Law, Dallas County, Texas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  