-- 
Bank of China Halts Forex Trade With Europe Banks, Reuters Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-20T08:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bank-of-china-halts-forex-trade-with-europe-banks-reuters-says.html
Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  has stopped
trading foreign-exchange forwards and swaps with several
European banks on concerns about the region’s debt crisis,
Reuters reported, citing three unnamed people.  The banks include  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
and BNP Paribas, after Moody’s Investors Service lowered or put
their credit ratings on review for possible downgrades, Reuters
reported today.  Moody’s put the companies on review for a possible cut on
June 15, citing the risks posed by their investments in Greece.
Since then, concern over Europe’s escalating sovereign debt
crisis has crimped the ability of the region’s banks to raise
funds in dollars.  The Chinese bank also halted trading with UBS AG, which
disclosed a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading, Reuters
said. Italy’s credit rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s  to A
from A+ as weakening economic growth and a “fragile”
government mean the nation won’t be able to reduce the euro-
region’s second-largest debt burden.  Bank of China’s credit risk-weighted amounts of currency
forwards, swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps totaled
16.3 billion yuan ($2.6 billion) as of June 30, a 28 percent
increase from end of 2010, according to the lender’s first-half
report. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Currency swaps are agreements between two
parties to exchange future payments in one currency for payments
in another currency.  Wang Jianqiang, Bank of China’s Beijing-based risk
management general manager, didn’t answer calls to his office
seeking comment. UBS’s Hong Kong-based spokesman Mark Panday and
Credit Agricole’s Paris-based spokeswoman Charline Coue declined
to comment. Lilian Kung, a spokeswoman at  BNP Paribas (BNP) , and
Societe Generale spokeswoman Carmen Lee, both based in  Hong Kong ,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  --Zhang Dingmin, Fion Li. Editors: Linus Chua  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  