-- 
BofA Said to Dismiss 13 Investment Bankers

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-20T20:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bank-of-america-said-to-dismiss-13-investment-bankers-in-industrials-group.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, dismissed 13 investment bankers in its industrials
group, including managing directors David Iwan and Egan Antill,
said two people with direct knowledge of the actions.  Iwan and Antill departed this month during a round of 3,500
reductions throughout the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company, said the people, who declined to be named because
personnel matters aren’t public. The cuts amount to about 5
percent of jobs in the group, one person said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is trimming staff
as costs from soured mortgages rise and revenue shrinks amid the
slowing U.S. economy. The industrial group cuts weren’t part of
Moynihan’s broader cost-cutting plan known as Project New BAC,
announced earlier this month, which will eliminate 30,000 jobs
over the next few years, said one of the people.  “In this environment, we’re finding that no one is safe,
even if you are producing,” said  Jeanne Branthover , a managing
director at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. in New York.
“Everyone is scrutinizing costs and revenue much more than in
the past.”  Iwan worked on financing transactions for companies
including Kennametal Inc., a machinery parts maker in Latrobe,
 Pennsylvania , according to regulatory filings. Bankers who cater
to industrial firms sell services including merger advice and
underwriting. Iwan and Antill were registered with Merrill Lynch
& Co. since before its 2009 takeover by Bank of America,
according to their broker registration data.  Industrial Fees  Bank of America is ranked second in the U.S. and globally
in industrial-firm fees, according to Dealogic, an information
and consulting service. Kerrie McHugh, a bank spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the dismissals. Efforts to reach Iwan and
Antill by e-mail and telephone weren’t immediately successful.  The industrials group provides financing and advice through
two units. One is run by John Pratt and includes shipping,
aerospace, defense, cars, machinery and tools. The other, run by
Greg Kelly and Mitch Theiss, covers chemicals, mining and paper.  One of the year’s largest industrial mergers is being
negotiated. United Technologies Corp. is in talks to acquire
aerospace equipment maker Goodrich Corp., three people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Mergers and acquisitions of industrial companies accounted
for about 15 percent of all M&A activity in the last decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More Cuts Possible  Deeper job cuts may loom for the firm’s investment bankers.
The 30,000 reductions announced so far affect consumer, credit-
card and back-office operations. Moynihan, 51, will  next tackle 
expenses in global corporate and commercial banking, areas
overseen by co-Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, 54.
That effort starts next month and ends in April, the firm said.  Bank of America has lost almost half of its market value
this year amid concern that costs tied to the 2008 takeover of
subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp. will force the
company to sell stock to bolster capital.  Banks are cutting jobs at the fastest pace since 2008. HSBC
Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest bank, said last month it will
eliminate 30,000 positions by the end of 2013 to curb the cost
of rising salaries and to prepare for stricter capital rules.
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said it would trim about 17,000
positions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 