-- 
Barclays Wealth Shuns Treasuries for Company Bonds, Stocks

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-20T18:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/barclays-wealth-shuns-risky-treasuries-for-company-debt-stocks.html
Investors who are pouring money
into Treasuries instead of higher-yielding assets amid signs the
U.S. may enter a recession and as  interest rates  hover at about
record lows are making a mistake, according to  Barclays Wealth .  Investors face negative real yields, said Hans Olsen, head
of investment strategy for the Americas at  Barclays Wealth . He
said with inflation as measured by the  consumer price index 
running at an annual rate of 3.8 percent, they have a better
shot at maintaining purchasing power with corporate debt and
dividend-paying stocks instead of  government bonds .  “The people that are buying our Treasuries right now,
they’re focusing on, ‘Well, I can get 0.9 percent on a five-year
piece of paper, that’s good enough for the environment we’re
in,’ they’re not thinking about the purchasing power of it,”
Olsen said today at a press briefing in  New York . “The funny
thing is that when prices are really, really cheap sometimes,
that’s where the least amount of risk is, and when prices are
extraordinarily expensive, that’s where all the risk is.”  U.S. Treasuries due in 10 years or more have rallied almost
20 percent this quarter, poised for the best three-month period
since 1986, as economists slash growth forecasts for the world’s
biggest economy and as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens. Many
economists expect the  Federal Reserve  to announce some version
of what traders call “Operation Twist” this week, according to
a Bloomberg News survey, the latest step by the central bank in
its four-year effort to keep the economy out of a recession.  Crossover Names  “I don’t think it’s going to do anything,” Olsen said of
the move. “It’s pushing on a string. I can give you the money,
I can make it cheaper, but I can’t actually make demand for
it.”  Olsen said his firm, which oversees $272 billion of assets,
is seeing opportunities in speculative-grade debt, lower-rated
investment-grade bonds and so-called crossover names.  “Either the lower end of investment-grade or the high end
of high-yield, especially double B, is just really cheap,” he
said.  Par-weighted prices on bonds graded BB have fallen to 101.4
cents on the dollar from as high as 106.9 cents in May,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. All debt
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  has lost 3.2 percent this quarter,
while Treasuries maturing in 10 years or more have gained 19.8
percent, the index data show.  ‘Greater Fool’  The rush to sovereign debt represents a “bubble,” Olsen
said.  “It seems like the flows into the sector are so massive
that there is this belief that perhaps somebody else will buy it
from them at a greater price, right, so there’s a greater fool
thing going on here -- maybe it gets worse, and I can sell it to
someone else at a higher price,” he said. “A wise man does
first what the fool does last, so we want to be talking to folks
about being the first rather than the last.”  Seventy-one percent of the 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg said the  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to
replace short-maturity Treasuries in its portfolio with longer-
term bonds in “Operation Twist,” known as such for its goal of
bending the yield curve.  Equities are “very cheap, and you get paid to wait,”
Olsen said. “Corporate debt, cheap. You can even do munis.
You’re not going to make a lot of money on munis but at least
you maintain the purchasing power on your capital. What’s really
expensive, the thing that everybody loves, is sovereign credit,
especially U.S. sovereign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  