-- 
Anguillan Resort Owner Barnes Bay Is Denied Approval of Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-09-20T20:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/barnes-bay-anguilla-resort-owner-is-denied-approval-of-bankruptcy-plan.html
Barnes Bay Development Ltd., owner
of the  Viceroy Anguilla Resort & Residences  on the British West
Indies island of  Anguilla , will be denied approval of its
reorganization plan, which discriminates against creditors, a
judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter Walsh in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
said today that he will issue a written decision giving his
reasons by the end of the week.  Barnes Bay will seek approval of a modified plan that won’t
pay anything to a group of unsecured creditors, referred to as
the PSA creditors, which had made deposits to purchase units at
the resort, lawyers for Barnes Bay told Walsh.  “They get nothing other than the opportunity to buy the
unit” under the modified plan, said Charles R. Gibbs, a Barnes
Bay attorney. The company will “eliminate the cash option” so
“PSA creditors can accept to close on the contract or they get
nothing, and have all their rights” to pursue lawsuits.  The creditors objected to the way Barnes Bay’s
restructuring proposal split PSA creditors owed about
$52.8 million into two groups, with recoveries of 15 percent in
cash for some and 50 percent in cash for others.  Lawyers for the objecting PSA creditors, including  Mark
Minuti , Joseph H. Houston and  Jeremy W. Ryan , declined to
comment after the hearing about the judge’s decision, the
modified plan and potential lawsuits.  Three Choices  The rejected version of the plan had three options for the
PSA creditors. They could have received a cash payment,
completed their purchase agreement or pursued legal action.  The proposal was based on an auction of the resort, won by
an affiliate of Greenwich, Connecticut-based Starwood Capital
Group LLC, with an offer to forgive $165 million in debt owed,
according to court documents.  “If I deny confirmation, Starwood can do anything it
wants,” Walsh told the lawyers at the hearing. He ruled that
the so-called automatic stay should be lifted to allow the sale
to Starwood to close. “Why do we need a plan?”  The modified plan is necessary to provide “comfort” to
the general unsecured creditors, which would be fully repaid
except interest, that they would be paid now and the sale can go
through, Richard A. Chesley, a Starwood lawyer, told Walsh.  Walsh said he “would like to see the revised plan in
writing.” He told lawyers to return to court Sept. 23 to
discuss it. Gibbs told the judge Barnes Bay may seek dismissal
of the case.  Loan Purchase  The Starwood affiliate bought the company’s $370 million in
secured loans in October, court documents show. The loan was
purchased for $117 million to $122 million, according to court
testimony. It also provided the resort owner with as much as
$12.5 million in financing for the bankruptcy.  “Starwood called their bluff and the PSA creditors lost,”
Lee Zoeller, a PSA creditor who would have received 50 cents on
the dollar under the previous plan, which he supported, said in
an interview after the hearing.  Barnes Bay, based in  Beverly Hills ,  California , listed
about $531 million in assets and about $462 million in debt as
of Dec. 31 in Chapter 11 documents.  The project was expected to take two years to complete when
construction began in 2005, at an estimated cost of
$144 million. Expense projections more than doubled by January
2007 to $327 million, according to court documents. Labor
disputes and Hurricane Omar further delayed construction.  The Anguillan resort covers 35 acres, with 3,200 feet of
beach frontage featuring 166 “beachfront and blufftop villas,”
townhouses, four restaurants and a water-purification plant. The
residences sell for as much as $6.5 million, according to court
papers.  The case is In re Barnes Bay Development Ltd., 11-10792,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 