-- 
Barroso Says Euro-Area Bonds Must Remain an Option in Debt Crisis Battle

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-09-21T10:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/barroso-says-euro-bonds-should-be-preserved-as-debt-plan-option.html
Policy makers battling a European
debt crisis shouldn’t rule out issuing joint euro-area bonds and
must develop integration tools to make that possible, even if
German opposition means it can’t be done immediately, European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  “The commission believes we should look also at that
option,” Barroso said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. “We are not saying it is immediately.
This is a matter that must be discussed, but we should not
exclude that option either.”  The idea of bonds sold jointly by the euro area’s 17
nations remains alive because unprecedented bailouts by
governments and the European Central Bank have failed to stamp
out debt concerns that began in  Greece  almost two years ago and
rattled markets. Barroso said the commission, the European
Union’s executive branch, would present euro-bond options “very
soon,” reiterating a previously stated time frame.  Germany and  France  have opposed so far joint euro bonds,
arguing it could threaten their AAA credit rating.  “Euro bonds is part of the issue, it’s not the panacea,”
Barroso said in yesterday’s interview.  Barroso said euro-area members must work to increase
economic and fiscal integration to ensure long-term stability.
“We have a monetary union, but we have not yet the instruments
of a full fiscal economic union. It takes time, yes,” Barroso
said.  Investor Doubts  As the Greek government fights investor doubts and domestic
opposition, European leaders are squabbling over the prospect
that they will be forced to channel more money to keep Greece in
the currency union. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said in an interview this week that  Europe  will eventually adopt
some of the same measures the U.S. took after the 2008 financial
crisis.  The European debt crisis that began in Greece in late 2009
has triggered 365 billion euros ($499 billion) in emergency
bailout loan pledges and exposed cracks in the euro’s
architecture.  Greece is seeking this month to win a sixth payment of
loans under last year’s 110 billion-euro aid package from the
euro area and  International Monetary Fund  to avoid a default.
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government also wants to
benefit from a planned second aid package of 159 billion euros
approved by euro-area leaders on July 21.  ‘Good Progress’  Greece held a conference call yesterday with the European
Union, the  European Central Bank  and the International Monetary
Fund. The talks made “good progress” while the full mission of
the EU, ECB and IMF is expected back in Athens early next week,
the EU said.  The austerity measures demanded in return for the emergency
loans are worsening a three-year recession in Greece, making it
harder for the government to meet the deficit goals laid out in
the international aid package. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said extra budgets cuts were needed to meet targets
because of the deeper-than-projected slump and failures by the
government to enact measures agreed upon last year.  “The risk is that the system, the financial sector and the
real economy stop functioning,” Venizelos told Parliament in
 Athens  today before Papandreou convenes his Cabinet to press for
accelerating austerity measures.  Merkel’s Coalition  The specter of a Greek insolvency was raised by members of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition, when Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler said there can be no “taboos” in
considering action “to stabilize the euro in the short term.”
The German government is considering a “Plan B” to help shield
banks and insurers from losses if Greece defaults, three
coalition officials said on Sept. 9 while rejecting the euro-
bond plan.  “We are opposed as far as the instrument of euro bonds is
concerned because we believe you can’t fight debt in Europe by
making it easier to take up debt,” German Foreign Minister
 Guido Westerwelle  told reporters in Berlin on Sept. 14.  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said two days
earlier that bonds backed by the entire euro area may eventually
be an option, though they aren’t an immediate solution to the
region’s sovereign-debt problems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in  New York  at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  