-- 
Baucus Seeks Permanent Research Tax Credit to End ‘Yo-Yo’

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-20T15:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/baucus-calls-for-permanent-research-tax-credit-to-end-yo-yo-.html
The chairman and the top Republican
on the Senate Finance Committee are calling for permanent
extension of the research and development tax credit, saying
that frequent expirations of the break undermine its effect.  “The R and D credit has been like a yo-yo, up and down, up
and down,” Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and the
panel’s chairman, said today at a hearing on the issue. He is
sponsoring a bill with Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the
committee’s top Republican, that would expand the tax credit and
make it permanent.  Companies that are part of a coalition lobbying for the
credit include  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  They say a
robust credit encourages domestic investment in high-wage jobs.  The Obama administration has said incentives for research
should be continued even in a tax code overhaul that would
remove many breaks. Allowing such tax breaks to continue would
make it more difficult to lower the corporate rate, which is now
35 percent.  Making the credit permanent may be politically difficult,
given the congressional focus on  deficit reduction . The
administration’s version of a permanent research credit would
cost the Treasury $87.6 billion in forgone revenue over the next
decade, according to the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation.  Set to Lapse  The research credit, which was first enacted in 1981, has
regularly been extended. Congress last did so in December 2010
as part of a law that continued existing income tax rates. The
credit is scheduled to lapse Dec. 31.  The Baucus-Hatch bill would eliminate the regular version
of the credit, which calculates a company’s benefit based on a
comparison with research spending during a set period in the
1980s. Instead, the Finance Committee leaders are proposing to
increase the rate in a simpler version of the credit to 20
percent from 14 percent.  Critics of the research credit contend that corporations
conduct research for their own purposes and to develop
profitable products, not necessarily because of an incentive. A
simpler research tax break would provide a clearer incentive,
said Michael Rashkin, an author and witness at the hearing.  “There’s a lot of wasted money that’s paid to companies
for research they would otherwise do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  