-- 
Baxter Wins Bid to Force Teva to Honor Hepatitis-Case Accord

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-09-20T16:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/baxter-wins-bid-to-force-teva-to-honor-agreement-on-hepatitis-case-costs.html
Baxter International Inc. won a bid
to force  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to pay costs of
defending  Nevada  lawsuits alleging that the drugmakers’ sales of
the anesthetic propofol led to patients developing hepatitis.  An arbitration panel properly found that Teva was bound by
an agreement to cover all liability tied to claims that tainted
vials of  propofol  caused colonoscopy patients to develop
hepatitis,  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster
concluded. A Las Vegas jury last year ordered Teva and Baxter to
pay more than $500 million in damages to a Las Vegas school
principal on one such claim.  The arbitration finding “is valid and enforceable,”
Laster said in a Sept. 15 ruling. The accord requires Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva to reimburse Baxter for “all claims,
damages, liability or losses” from the cases, the judge said.  The indemnity agreement is among the evidence a  Las Vegas 
jury is hearing in the trial of three more cases alleging Teva
and Baxter officials sold propofol in oversized vials that
encouraged medical personnel to reuse the containers for
multiple patients. Las Vegas residents contend they got
hepatitis C from the tainted vials.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, declined
to comment on the judge’s ruling. Deborah Spak, a spokeswoman
for Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment on the decision.  Reused Vials  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern Nevada, the company said in
a July regulatory filing. Nevada health officials blamed the
reuse of propofol vials for infecting patients with the
incurable liver disease.  Propofol is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website.  Teva manufactures the
drug and San Francisco-based  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  is its current U.S.
distributor. Baxter sold the drug for Teva until 2009, according
to court filings.  Teva already agreed to settle about one-third of the
hepatitis-related suits alleging patients received propofol from
reused containers, according to a July 28 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Teva said it set aside an
undisclosed reserve to cover the settlements.  In the first propofol suit to go to trial, a Las Vegas jury
awarded  Henry Chanin , a private-school principal, and his wife
$5.1 million in compensatory damages and $500 million in
punitive damages against Teva and Baxter. Chanin argued he
developed hepatitis C after getting tainted propofol during a
colonoscopy.  Punitive Damages  Jurors ordered a Teva unit to pay $356 million of the
punitive award while assessing $144 million of the award to
Baxter. It was the fourth-largest U.S. jury award of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. Teva has asked the
 Nevada Supreme Court  to throw out Chanin’s verdict.  Baxter officials said earlier this year that Teva accepted
all liability for the Nevada hepatitis cases.  In a February SEC filing, Teva said the indemnification
agreement with Baxter “does not extend to punitive damages.”
Four months later, Teva executives acknowledged in another
regulatory filing that an arbitration panel ruled 2-1 the
agreement covered punitive awards.  The indemnity agreement extends to “any award of punitive
damages in the Chanin” case or “any other case” brought
against Baxter in Nevada over the hepatitis outbreak, Laster
said in his ruling.  The Delaware case is  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  v. Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 6819, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington.) The Nevada case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of
Southern Nevada LLC, 08A572315, District Court for  Clark County ,
Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 