-- 
BayernLB Talks Are Taking Much Longer Than Hoped, EU Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-20T15:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bayernlb-talks-taking-much-longer-than-wished-eu-s-almunia-says.html
The European Union isn’t close to
reaching a decision on a restructuring plan for  Bayerische
Landesbank ,  Germany ’s second-biggest state-owned lender, an EU
regulator said.  The talks over BayernLB’s restructuring measures are
“taking much longer than I wish,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  told reporters today in Brussels. “We are still
far from giving our support to a viable business model.”  The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm in
Brussels, is examining the restructuring measures of lenders
that needed state aid during the financial crisis. While
regulators approved Germany’s bailout package for HSH Nordbank
AG today and the one for Hypo Real Estate Holding AG in July,
they are still holding discussions with Munich-based BayernLB.  BayernLB, led by Chief Executive Officer Gerd Haeusler,
said last month that first-half profit declined 56 percent on
writedowns of its Greek debt holdings. As part of its revamp,
the lender announced plans in 2008 to refocus operations and
reduce the workforce by 2013. While BayernLB said its online
venture DKB Deutsche Kreditbank is an “indispensable” part of
the business, a sale of Budapest-based subsidiary MKB Bank is
being discussed with the EU Commission, Haeusler has said.  BayernLB needed 10 billion euros ($13.7 billion) in fresh
capital and a 4.8 billion-euro guarantee for a portfolio of
asset-backed securities from its home state of Bavaria during
the financial crisis.  Little Progress  Bavaria’s savings banks, whose stake in the lender fell to
about 6 percent following the bailout, may also be required by
the EU Commission to convert 840 million euros in so-called
silent participations into core capital as part of the revamp.  Almunia said in July the company has made “very little
progress so far” on negotiations with EU regulators, while
Haeusler said last month that “six quarters in a row with black
numbers shows that BayernLB, with its new focus, is on the right
track.”  BayernLB last month reiterated a target for a “positive”
result for 2011 that probably won’t match last year’s pretax
earnings of 885 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  