-- 
Bernanke to Preempt Accusations of Do-Nothing Fed: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-09-20T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bernanke-to-preempt-accusations-of-do-nothing-fed-caroline-baum.html
Members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  meet this week to consider a range of unconventional
tools for additional monetary stimulus.  One such tool, “forward guidance,” was unveiled at the
Aug. 8-9 meeting: The Fed  pledged  to hold the benchmark rate
near zero at least through mid-2013.  The odds-on favorite to debut at the conclusion of the two-
day meeting is an effort to extend the maturity of the  Fed’s
portfolio , with the goal of lowering long-term  interest rates .  If these tools don’t strike you as home runs, it’s because
they’re not. They aren’t even singles. Bunts, perhaps, or to mix
sports metaphors, punts is more like it. If policy makers want
to appear to be doing something while doing no harm, the least-
worst option is fiddling with the maturity of its portfolio. The
size of the Fed’s balance sheet won’t change as a result of any
duration shift, so the hawks on the committee aren’t apt to
balk.  This is not the first time officials have tried their hand
at yield-curve manipulation. In 1961, the U.S. Treasury and Fed
embarked on a rare coordinated effort to raise short-term rates
to prevent capital outflows and lower long-term rates to
stimulate investment. (We were all Keynesians then, too,
apparently.)  Operation Nudge, as it was known in internal government
documents, and Operation Twist outside official circles, was
considered a failure by those who were involved at the time and
by academics who applied economic theories to evaluate it after
the fact. (It couldn’t have been a total failure, though,
because the idea keeps coming back.)  Reluctant Participants  Part of the problem with the 1960s experiment was that
neither the Fed nor the Treasury was a committed participant. A
 Joint Treasury-Federal Reserve Study  of the U.S. Government
Securities Market undertaken in the early 1970s found that the
Fed was a net seller of bills, but only one-third of its coupon
purchases had maturities longer than five years and a tiny
fraction exceeded 10 years. At the same time, the Treasury was
extending the maturity of its debt -- something it’s doing again
now.  In the second quarter of this year, the average maturity of
marketable debt stood at 62 months, up from a 25-year low of
49.4 months in the third quarter of 2009. Shortening the
maturity of the debt would subject the Treasury, and taxpayers,
to unnecessary rollover risk, one reason the Obama
administration might be reluctant to participate.  Even if the two parties were to play their parts perfectly,
it’s not clear what lower long-term rates would accomplish.  Misplaced Focus  For starters, there’s no imperative for either businesses
or households to borrow for 10 years or longer. They have
options.  Secondly, the level of rates isn’t the problem. Potential
homeowners are probably drooling at 30-year mortgage rates of 4
percent and adjustable rates below 3 percent. The problem is
access. They can’t sell their home, don’t qualify for
refinancing or owe the bank more than the house is worth.
Another quarter-point reduction isn’t going to change that
dynamic.  Yes, economics operates at the margin, so there will be
marginal benefits. The Fed’s two-pronged attack -- fixing
expectations about short-term rates, which are a crucial input
for long-term rates, and buying long-term notes and bonds --
should produce some reduction in long rates. Arguably, it
already has.  If you aren’t bowled over by forward guidance and Operation
Twist 2.0, consider some of the other unconventional options
outlined by Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  over the past year. The
Fed can reduce or eliminate the interest on excess reserves
(IOER) to encourage banks to lend. It can tinker further with
its communications. And it can target a higher rate of
inflation.  False Promises  Some economists expect the Fed to adjust the IOER,
currently 0.25 percent, as early as this week. If the Fed wants
to nudge banks to lend, eliminating the interest
or imposing a fee for holding banks’ deposits would create more
of an incentive. Then again, banks would probably pass along the
cost to depositors.  The second option would entail communicating more specifics
about how much the unemployment rate would have to fall for the
Fed to begin reversing its accommodative policies.  This is ivory-tower thinking run amok -- rational
expectations theory taken to its (il)logical conclusion. Why
would the Fed set up an expectation that it would do X when the
 unemployment rate  drops to Y when the trade-off between
inflation and unemployment is a short-run phenomenon at best?  Missing the Target  Besides, if the Fed is concerned about its credibility,
which it is, it should not make promises it may not be able to
keep.  Things change; sometimes quickly. In early 2010, policy
makers were worried about banks’ $1 trillion in excess reserves
igniting a rapid expansion of credit. Six months later, they
were looking for ways to accelerate the process.  Targeting higher inflation is a nonstarter for both moral
and practical reasons. Morally, the Fed wants higher inflation
just as much as the Republicans want higher taxes. As a
practical matter, the Fed wasn’t very good at hitting its  money
supply  targets back in the 1980s. Why should we expect better
results targeting higher inflation, the result of its money
creation?  Alas, printing money is the Fed’s only viable tool;
everything else is minor housekeeping.  I’m not advocating more outright purchases of Treasuries,
which the Fed views purely as a means of lowering long-term
rates. The economy’s problems stem from a long period of excess
credit creation, which requires a period of deleveraging to
correct.  But if policy makers determine that the economy is
suffering from inadequate credit creation, verbal promises and
portfolio reshuffling are poor substitutes for the real thing.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 