-- 
Bernstein Warns Against Fiscal Stimulus to Danish Economy

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-20T09:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bernstein-warns-against-fiscal-stimulus-for-denmark-s-economy.html
Danish central bank Governor Nils Bernstein said the Nordic nation’s economy will rebound and
warned against resorting to fiscal stimulus in the current
market climate.  Denmark ’s gross domestic product will grow 1.4 percent this
year, versus a June estimate of 1.7 percent, the bank said in
its quarterly report today. The economy will expand 1.6 percent
in 2012 and 2013, it said.  “The economy is slowly but surely returning to a normal
track, so there’s no need to increase economic activity through
fiscal policy,” Bernstein said in the statement.  Denmark is Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy, after a
housing market bust and local banking crisis undermined  consumer
confidence . The new ruling bloc of Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who
won last week’s national election, lured voters with a pledge to
create jobs by spending 21 billion kroner ($3.9 billion) more a
year than the outgoing administration of Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen, including initiatives to stimulate the frozen
housing market.  “The current situation in the financial markets speaks in
favor of exercising caution in fiscal policy,” Bernstein said.  Denmark’s bond markets have so far enjoyed a haven status
among investors eager to flee the euro area’s debt crisis. The
central bank today said it sold 12.4 billion kroner of 2 percent
2014 bonds in an auction that was almost three times over-
subscribed. The yield was 0.83 percent, compared with a yield of
1.21 percent in an Aug. 16 auction of the same bond.  Deficits  The country’s haven status may be at risk if the housing
market doesn’t recover or the  budget deficit  widens, Jes Asmussen, chief economist in Copenhagen at Svenska Handelsbanken
AB, said.  Denmark’s budget deficit will exceed the European Union’s 3
percent limit and reach 3.8 percent of GDP this year, before
widening to 4.6 percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry  said Aug.
24. The euro area’s average deficit will be 4.3 percent in 2011
and improve to 3.5 percent in 2012, according to European
Commission forecasts from May.  The difference in yield between Denmark’s 10-year
government bond and German bunds of a similar maturity has
averaged 19 basis points in the past 3 months, a narrower spread
than that of any euro member. Still, credit default swaps on
Danish five-year bonds have risen more than contracts on
equivalent German debt.  Default Swaps  Danish swaps have soared 50 percent since the beginning of
August, compared with a 39 percent rise for German contracts,
according to CMA. Swedish CDS gained 31 percent in the period.  Thorning-Schmidt’s Social Democratic-led government said
last week it will show fiscal restraint and bring the budget
deficit within the EU’s 3 percent threshold.  Consumer spending  is likely to remain lackluster throughout
the year, as retail sales and the housing market remain weak,
the central bank said today.  House prices  will fall 0.9 percent
this year before rising 0.8 percent and 1.6 percent in 2012 and
2013, the bank said.  While the bank’s forecast looks optimistic, low  interest
rates  should provide support for house prices and help avoid the
16 percent drop the market experienced amid the height of the
credit crunch, said Christian Heinig, chief economist at
Realkredit Denmark A/S, the mortgage unit of Denmark’s largest
lender Danske Bank A/S. Price declines so far this year imply a
yearly fall of 2.3 percent, he said in an investor note.  “We’re not worried about experiencing the dramatic price
declines of 2008 and 2009,” he said.  The central bank uses monetary policy to defend the krone’s
peg to the euro. The bank has cut rates twice since August to
offset krone gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  