-- 
Big East Teams Leave Conference for Sports Allies With Lucrative TV Market

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T05:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/big-east-teams-leave-conference-for-sports-allies-with-lucrative-tv-market.html
Big East  Conference officials
pointed 3,000 miles away to explain why they rejected an offer
from ESPN this year that would have quadrupled the league’s
annual television haul to about $155 million.  “The Pac-12 deal, which has just shocked all of us, has
changed the way we look at our future,” Big East Commissioner
John Marinatto, 53, said at the conference’s media day last
month. “We’re going to take advantage of the landscape they
helped create.”  What the Pac-12 Conference helped to create with its $2.7
billion TV deal is a situation in which the Big East is being
raided by another league with the stated goal of blanketing the
East Coast, including New York, the nation’s No. 1 media market.  The  University of Pittsburgh  and Syracuse University, which
on Manhattan taxi cabs bills itself as  New York’s college team ,
left the Big East this week to join the Atlantic Coast
Conference, whose commissioner said he’s working to stage its
postseason basketball tournament at Madison Square Garden. The
Big East has staged its tournament at the landmark arena for the
past 28 years, the longest such streak in the country.  “Clearly, these discussions have all been around land
grabs,” said  Paul Swangard , managing director of the Warsaw
Sports Marketing Center at the University of  Oregon , a member of
the Walnut Creek, California-based Pac-12, which has a $225
million annual television contract with ESPN, a unit of  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , and  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox. “The most valuable land is
the one with the most televisions.”  Tradition Gone  Conferences and universities are scrapping decades of
tradition, geography and rivalries in exchange for the stability
afforded by expanding conferences and their ability to command
billion-dollar television contracts.  Marinatto said last night, following a three-hour meeting
with presidents and athletic directors from the Big East’s
football schools, that all the members of the conference are
committed to staying together, the AP reported.  Marinatto didn’t return e-mails yesterday seeking comment
on the future of the Big East, and conference spokesman John Paquette declined to comment in an e-mail. Syracuse basketball
coach Jim Boeheim, speaking at an event in  Alabama  on Sept. 19,
said the league faces the prospect of also losing  Connecticut ,
the national men’s basketball champion, and Rutgers, which is
about 35 miles from  Manhattan , to the ACC, the Birmingham News
reported. Syracuse will play one home football game at MetLife
Stadium, home of the  National Football League ’s New York Jets
and Giants, in 2012, 2014 and 2016.  Rutgers is “engaged in discussions with several parties to
explore all of our options,” athletic director Tim Pernetti
said in an e-mailed statement. He didn’t mention any conference
by name.  Connecticut President Susan Herbst said in a statement that
the Huskies were also in discussions with “counterparts from
around the country.” University spokesman Mike Enright declined
to provide additional comment.  Big 12 Merger  The Big East, in response to the defections, is talking
with the Irving, Texas-based Big 12 Conference about a merger,
the  Associated Press  said, citing people it didn’t identify. The
Big 12 might lose Texas and  Oklahoma , both of which were being
courted by the Pac-12 -- whose school presidents and chancellors
voted last night to not expand further for now.  The loss of Pitt and Syracuse, basketball powers with
football histories and large-market bases, puts the Big East at
a disadvantage when television partners make their next offers,
said former Madison Square Garden President Bob Gutkowski, a
partner in the New York-based sports consulting firm Innovative
Strategic Management.  “The question for the Big East is: How do you replace
those two schools?” Gutkowski said in a telephone interview.
“Even if you do, they’re not going to be equal types of schools
located in this area.”  Network Interest  Officials from ESPN, Fox and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and NBC
Sports Network, which will be rebranded from Versus in January,
attended last month’s Big East media day in Newport,  Rhode
Island . Spokesmen for the networks said their executives
wouldn’t comment on the value of the Big East without Syracuse
and Pittsburgh.  The departures leave the Big East with seven teams in
football and 15 in basketball, including Texas Christian
University, which is scheduled to join next season from the
Mountain West Conference.  Athletic Director Chris Del Conte said, when asked whether
the agreement with the Big East allows TCU to reconsider the
move, that he’s “actively engaged in conversations with
colleagues across the country to protect TCU’s best interests.”  The additions expand the ACC, which includes universities
such as Duke,  North Carolina ,  Maryland , Miami and Boston
College, to “virtually the entire eastern seaboard of the
 United States ,” ACC Commissioner John Swofford said in a
conference call to announce the newest members on Sept. 18.  Renegotiate Deal  Expansion has another benefit for the ACC. It now has the
right to renegotiate its contract with ESPN, which pays the
conference about $155 million a year under a 12-year deal that
began this season.  “The ACC now reaches 90 million people,” said Harvey Schiller, commissioner of the Southeastern Conference from 1986
to 1990. “That’s a lot of people, and that’s attractive to
networks and cable operators.”  Neither Gutkowski, Swangard, Schiller nor Scarsdale, New
York-based television consultant Lee Berke, whose clients
include Pittsburgh and Oklahoma, would speculate how much the
ACC would get in a reworked agreement or how much the Big East
would be able to command until conference realignments are
completed.  Those changes are happening quickly.  Officials at Texas and Oklahoma have given their presidents
permission to seek new conference affiliations, taking them a
step closer to a possible departure.  Fast Decision  “As they make their announcements, it accelerates the need
for other schools, whether it’s a Rutgers, a UConn, a  Notre Dame 
to make a fast decision,” said David Carter, executive director
of the Sports Business Institute at the  University of Southern
California ’s Marshall School of Business.  Working against the Big East from a TV perspective is its
emphasis on a sport other than football. It’s the only major
conference that generates more revenue from basketball than
football, the preferred sport of television executives, Berke
said.  “For the Big East to survive and prosper, they’re going to
need football schools,” Berke said. “Scrambling is the
operative word.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  