-- 
AutoZone Billionaire Pumps Fortune Into Cancer Fight

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/billionaire-autozone-founder-pumps-fortune-into-cancer-fight.html
In the 15 years since J.R. “Pitt” Hyde was diagnosed with prostate cancer, the founder
of  AutoZone Inc. (AZO)  has devoted the largest single portion of
his billion-dollar fortune to searching for a cure.  Hyde, now 68 and cancer free, teamed up with Mitch Steiner, the surgeon who removed his prostate, to form  GTx
Inc. (GTXI) , a biomedical company based in  Memphis , Tennessee. GTx
has yet to put a new drug on the market since its 1997
launch and the stock, which closed yesterday at $3.49, has
been volatile. It hit its 52-week low of $2.31 in March and
its 52-week high of $6.57 in June.  “Biotech is a vast departure from retailing for sure,”
Hyde said in a telephone interview. “It’s a business not
for the faint of heart.”  This month GTx began the process to enroll patients
in the third and final phase of study for its most advanced
experimental medicine Ostarine, designed to increase muscle
mass and fitness in cancer patients. The company began a
mid-stage study this summer for its other drug candidate
Capesaris, a hormone therapy for prostate tumors without
the side effects of existing treatments.  Ostarine showed promise among select patients in
earlier studies, said David Nierengarten, an analyst with
Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles . Lung cancer
patients getting it did better on a stair climbing test
than those on a placebo, while the higher risk of death
among those who lost significant amounts of weight seemed
to lessen in those getting Ostarine. The final studies are
needed to confirm the benefits.  ‘Actually Worked’  “We think it has a better chance than maybe some other
drugs in phase 3 clinical trials because it has actually
worked in phase 2 so far,” said Nierengarten, who has an
“outperform” rating on GTx with a 12-month target price of
$13.  Capesaris “is the first new hormone treatment for
prostate cancer in quite some time,” Nierengarten said.
“The current treatment options have a lot of side effects
associated with them hopefully the GTx compound won’t
have.”  Even if the trials go well, Food and Drug
Administration approval likely wouldn’t come for Ostarine
until 2014 at the earliest and 2015 at the soonest for
Capesaris, said Steiner, 50, who is GTx’s CEO.  “All your risk and all your capital is front-end
loaded unlike the retail business I grew up in where if you
didn’t make money every quarter you were toast,” Hyde said.
“You’ve got to take a long view in this business.”  At yesterday’s close, Hyde’s stake in GTx was worth
about $65 million.  ‘Imbedded Gain’  John Pontius, Hyde’s money manager who is president of
Pittco Management LLC, said Hyde’s investment in GTx is “by
a wide measure, the largest single investment he has made
since he was diagnosed with prostate cancer.  “His AutoZone stock is probably worth a little more
than his GTx stock today,” Pontius said, but those shares
were purchased years ago and there is a large imbedded gain
in that stock. Hyde’s stake in AutoZone was worth about $83
million at yesterday’s close.  Hyde turned what was an estimated $485 million net
worth in 1996 into a billion-dollar fortune through
investments in managed funds,  venture capital  and real
estate, he said.  ‘Learned From Sam’  After graduating from the University of  North Carolina 
at  Chapel Hill  with a bachelor’s degree in economics in
1965, Hyde joined his family’s wholesale grocery business,
Malone and Hyde Inc., in Memphis, building it from a
regional company to the third largest of its kind in the
U.S. He was invited to join the board of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , where he soaked up business lessons from the chain’s
founder,  Sam Walton .  “I got to be tutored by the master,” Hyde said. “A lot
of the things we incorporated into AutoZone, I learned from
Sam.” He served on the board from 1978 to 1983, according
Greg Rossiter, a Wal-Mart spokesman.  He also learned from Wal-Mart that it might be time to
think about exiting the wholesale grocery business.  “The highest percentage of our business was in small
towns,” Hyde said. “In some small towns, we might be
supplying every grocer in town. Obviously seeing the
potential of Wal-Mart opening these huge stores in small
towns, they were certainly going to take a huge bite out of
the apple.” He sold Malone and Hyde in 1988 to Fleming Cos.  Hyde saw an opening in providing auto parts for the
do-it-yourself market and opened the first AutoZone, then
called Auto Shack in July 1979 in Forrest City,  Arkansas ,
with four stores in Memphis following a few days later. The
chain now has 4,500 stores, with $7.4 billion in fiscal-
year 2010 revenue.  FedEx Director  Hyde still serves on the AutoZone board but stepped
down as CEO in 1996, the year he had surgery for prostate
cancer. He also serves on the board of Memphis-based  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , devoting half his workday to business and the other
half to philanthropy. Off hours, he goes fly-fishing and
skiing in Aspen,  Colorado , where he owns a home. In 2001,
Hyde and five other Memphis investors purchased a 30-
percent stake in the National Basketball Association
franchise, the  Memphis Grizzlies , an investment Hyde said
was prompted more by a desire to help Memphis than by a
passion for sports.  GTx, the biotech company “is the one area where I am
directly involved in operations,” said Hyde, who serves as
non-executive chairman.  ‘Dream Come True’  After his own successful surgery for prostate cancer,
Hyde began donating money for Steiner’s research at the
University of  Tennessee  before they launched GTx. Hyde has
been cancer-free since his surgery, Steiner said.  Steiner called Hyde’s investment in GTx “a dream come
true” because it rescued his research from the cash-starved
academic field.  “In academics, you have to get a grant and you’re
lucky to get an $80,000 or $100,000 grant which is only
going to cover a fraction of what you need,” said Steiner.
“You need to put in 20 years or 30 years of your life to
see something move very little. In industry, you can really
move it because you have the resources and the people and
you pay them well.”  Over the years, Steiner taught Hyde about science and
Hyde taught him about business.  “With Pitt having had prostate cancer, he gets it, he
understands it,” said Steiner. “Having a combination of the
surgeon and the grateful patient, it’s just a very unusual
mix.  “It’s high risk but it’s high reward,” Steiner added.
“All you need is one. Once you get one, boom, you are
instantly a player.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Beasley at   dbeasley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net  