-- 
BlackRock Buys Junk Debt at Spreads Exceeding Bearish Scenarios

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-09-20T13:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/blackrock-buys-junk-debt-in-energy-cable.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, is buying  junk bonds  after relative yields
widened to levels that signal default rates more than three
times the current pace and in excess of Wall Street’s most
bearish outlooks for the economy.  “The high-yield market is a great long-term investment at
this point and these spread levels,” said James Keenan, who
oversees BlackRock’s $28 billion leveraged finance unit. “In
July we were much more defensive, and we had sold out and built
a significant cash position.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade,
or junk-rated debt jumped 2.07 percentage points to 7.61
percentage points in the past two months on concern that
 Europe ’s leaders will be unable to prevent a sovereign-debt
crisis from infecting bank balance sheets and freezing credit
markets. BlackRock joins Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in favoring securities that had their worst monthly return in
August since November 2008, even as default rates remained at
about 25 percent of their historical average.  “The high-yield market is in a good space,” said
BlackRock’s Keenan, who’s based in New York. “Balance sheets
today look better than they did in 2006 and 2007.”  The $3.66 trillion investment firm is targeting bonds of
speculative-grade companies involved in energy, mining, oil,
natural gas, cable and wireless operations, Keenan said.
BlackRock is largely shunning debt of retail restaurants and
supermarkets that are more susceptible to an economic slowdown.  ‘Visible Cash’  “You want companies that have more stable and visible cash
flow streams, so their earnings quality is a lot higher and more
stable to withstand economic downturns,” said Keenan, who
manages the $5.4 billion BlackRock High Yield Bond Portfolio
that’s beaten 89 percent of its peers over the last five years.
Those are the companies to target for “high single-digit
yields” and “what we think is longer-term, relatively lower
risk.”  Investors are purchasing high-yield bonds after spreads
expanded to 7.64 percentage points on Sept. 12, the most since
Nov. 30, 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Funds that buy the debt, ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , reported
inflows of $210 million last week following outflows of $6.4
billion in August, JPMorgan research shows.  Defaults could reach a peak of 6 percent in a U.S.
recession compared with up to 15 percent during prior downturns,
JPMorgan analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti , the top-ranked high-
yield strategist in Institutional Investor magazine’s annual
poll wrote in a Sept. 16 report. Relative yields on high-yield
bonds are implying default rates of 7.4 percent, six times the
current pace of 1.2 percent, the New York-based analysts wrote.  Default Rates  The U.S. corporate default rate fell to 2.1 percent in
August from 2.3 percent, Moody’s data show. Relative yields on
junk bonds are pricing in the worst five-year cumulative default
rate on record, according to a Morgan Stanley report published
on Sept. 4.  “The spreads are factoring in a pretty draconian scenario
in the economy,” Keenan said. While high-yield bonds are a good
relative investment, it “may not be a good short-term trade
because of policy risks,” Keenan said. “There’s still a
tremendous amount of systemic risk.”  The  U.S. economy  may end the year with an expansion rate of
1.6 percent compared with 3 percent for 2010, according to the
median estimate of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  High-yield bonds lost 0.4 percent this month following
declines of 4 percent in August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Notes graded BB by S&P and Moody’s have outperformed the
lowest-rated junk debt for five consecutive months as investors
continue to shed risk tied to companies that rely most on
economic growth to reduce debt, the data show.  Bonds rated CCC and lower have lost 10.6 percent since the
end of April following a rally that increased the value of the
debt by 123.9 percent since the end of 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  