-- 
Bloomberg Launches New Radio App for iPhone & iPod Touch

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-20T21:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bloomberg-launches-new-radio-app-for-iphone-ipod-touch.html
                                
Press Release  New Ways to Experience Radio Using Visuals, Text, and Real-Time
Data  New York -- The latest in a series of recent innovations in
mobile,  Bloomberg  today announced its new  Bloomberg Radio+  App
for iPhone and iPod touch. Available on the  App Store , this is
the first radio app where listeners can view real-time charts,
get the latest market information and news, and access guest
bios -- all while listening to the most preeminent minds in
business and finance.  “We look forward to bringing  Manhattan ’s number one radio
station to a global audience,” said  Oke Okaro , general manager
and global head of Bloomberg mobile. “Now people around the
world will have 24/7 access to Bloomberg Radio’s market-moving
news and analysis on their terms.”  The Bloomberg Radio+ app gives listeners the flexibility to hear
live breaking financial and business news 24-hours per day as
well as download a vast on-demand library of shows and
interviews they can listen to at their convenience. For example,
rather than having to wait for the regularly scheduled market
updates at the 20 minute and 50 minute marks, people can now get
that information on demand, download it onto their device, and
listen to it offline where and when they want.  Top Bloomberg news professionals including  Tom Keene ,  Ken
Prewitt ,  Kathleen Hays ,  Pimm Fox , and Jan Stoddard keep
listeners connected to the news that moves markets through in-
depth interviews with world leaders and insightful analysis.
Past guests have included: Former President  Bill Clinton ;  George
Soros , the billionaire best known for breaking the  Bank of
England ;  George Papandreou , Prime Minister of  Greece ; and
 Christine Lagarde , Managing Director of the  International
Monetary Fund , just to name a few.  The Bloomberg Radio+ App is available for free from the App
Store on iPhone and iPod touch or online  here .  Read more about the Radio+ app and other innovations from
Bloomberg.com at  http://inside.bloomberg.com . For additional
information on Bloomberg Mobile, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/mobile/ .  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  CONTACT for Bloomberg:  Lauren Meller, +1 212 617 8185,  Lmeller@bloomberg.net   #<199256.6944917.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 