-- 
Venezuela’s 55% Default Probability Overstated by Swaps Market, BofA Says

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-09-20T21:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bofa-sees-venezuela-default-unlikely-at-current-oil-prices.html
Traders are overestimating the
probability that  Venezuela  will default on its debt,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  said.  While the credit default swaps market is pricing in about a
55 percent chance that  South America ’s biggest oil producer will
miss debt payments over the next five years, Bank of America
analysts said crude prices above $80 a barrel are likely high
enough to “sustain the inefficiencies caused by” President
 Hugo Chavez ’s policies.  Venezuela “is experiencing what may be the largest oil
windfall in its history,” Bank of America analysts Jane Brauer
and  Francisco Rodriguez  wrote in a report. “When risk appetites
return, Venezuela should be among the best, if not the best,
performing assets” in emerging-market external debt, they
wrote.  The cost to protect Venezuelan debt against non-payment for
five years has risen more than 200 basis points, or 2 percentage
points, in the past two months to 1,203 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Chavez’s drive to nationalize companies and his funneling
of money to off-budget funds that have “virtually no mechanism
of public accountability” are eroding confidence in the
country, the analysts said. Still, they predict 2011 per capita
oil revenue of $3,464, more than during the country’s 1970s oil
boom and a figure high enough to help ensure debt servicing.  A Finance Ministry official in Caracas declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  