-- 
Bond Woes to Worsen as Austerity Suffocates Growth: Euro Credit

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-20T14:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bond-woes-to-worsen-as-austerity-smothers-outlook-for-growth-euro-credit.html
Borrowing costs may rise even
further for  Europe ’s most indebted nations as slower growth at
home combines with a weakening global economy to subvert
deficit-reduction plans, measures in the bond market show.  “The market is afraid of a lack of growth that will make
debt rebalancing quite a challenging task,” said Koen Van De Maele, global head of fixed income at Brussels-based Dexia Asset
Management, which oversees the equivalent of about 83 billion
euros ($113 billion). “As an investor, if you know that the
growth will be lower then it’s definitely a concern in terms of
the debt sustainability. You have to balance the risk and the
return.”  Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy -- which was
downgraded today by  Standard & Poor’s  -- are implementing
austerity packages to bring down their debts and restore
confidence after investors demanded record premiums to hold
their bonds instead of benchmark German bunds. The growth
assumptions underpinning those plans are under threat after the
 European Central Bank  and the European Commission cut their
economic forecasts for this year and next.  The ECB began buying Spanish and Italian bonds on Aug. 8 to
curb a surge in yields as contagion from the debt crisis spread
to the region’s third- and fourth-largest economies. Spain’s 10-
year bond yield climbed to a euro-era record 6.46 percent on
Aug. 2, while similar-maturity Italian yields reached an all-
time high 6.40 percent on Aug. 5. Italian 10-year yields were at
5.66 percent today, while  Spain ’s were at 5.37 percent.  ECB Forecast  The ECB cut its euro-region growth forecast for 2011 to 1.6
percent from 1.9 percent and its 2012 forecast to 1.3 percent
from 1.7 percent on Sept. 8. The European Union said on Sept. 15
the euro-area economy may come “close to standstill at year-
end.” There’s “a serious risk” of recession in the U.S. and
Europe, Nobel-prize winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said Sept.
16.  Greece became the first of Europe’s most indebted economies
to need outside aid in May 2010, forcing it to implement
austerity programs after its borrowing costs surged to records,
locking the nation out of the debt markets. It now faces
economic contraction of 5.5 percent this year, borrowing costs
near records and a default probability of 95 percent, according
to credit-default swaps prices.  ‘Not Positive’  “It’s clearly not positive for any country that’s trying
to sort out its debt dynamics,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed debt-market strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“ Italy  and Spain really need to have decent global growth to
prevent their deficit situations from getting worse. In all
cases, slower global growth will have a negative effect.”  Italy’s 54 billion-euro austerity package seeks to balance
the budget by 2013 and relies on an expansion of gross domestic
product of 1.1 percent this year and of 1.3 percent in 2012.
Confindustria, the Italian employers’ association, predicts
Italy’s $2.3 trillion economy will expand 0.7 percent this year
and 0.2 percent next year. The premium investors demand to hold
its 10-year securities instead of benchmark German bunds widened
to 386 basis points today.  S&P cut Italy’s credit rating to A from A+, citing concern
that weakening economic growth and a “fragile” government mean
the nation won’t be able to reduce the euro-region’s second-
largest debt burden.  Spain’s Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said she couldn’t
rule out that slower growth affecting Europe may have an impact
on the Spanish economy.  Ireland,  Portugal   Yields on 10-year bonds from bailed-out Ireland and
Portugal are above the average for the past two years, even
after falling from records. Ten-year Irish bonds yield around
8.70 percent while rates on similar-maturity Portuguese
securities are more than 11 percent.  Ireland’s 10-year yield spread was at 690 basis points.
That compares with a record 1,154 on July 15. Portugal’s 10-year
bonds yielded 986 basis points more than German bunds, versus a
record 1,071.  “A slowdown in global growth could weigh on the
feasibility of the bailout packages agreed for Portugal, Ireland
and  Greece ,” said Norbert Aul, a European interest-rate
strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “Weak growth in
the stronger euro-area economies could spark resistance for
further aid commitment.”  Economic decline has prevented Greece from reaching its
deficit targets, as the fiscal gap ended at 10.5 percent of
gross domestic product last year, exceeding the goal of 9.5
percent. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday the
nation’s economy will shrink 5.5 percent this year and will also
contract “notably” next year. That’s greater than the 3.8
percent forecast by the European Commission, as austerity
measures deepen a three-year recession.  Default Bets  “It’s clear they’re in an austerity trap,” said Duncan Sankey, head of research and partner at Cheyne Capital
Management LLP in London, a hedge fund that manages more than $7
billion in assets. “Greece is heading towards meltdown. If that
happens, the question is how to stop contagion to Italy and
Spain.”  Greek two-year bond yields soared above 80 percent last
week as traders increased bets the nation will default on its
debt. The 10-year yield was at 23.1 percent today. Its yield
spread with German bunds was little changed at 2,131 basis
points and reached a euro-era record 2,482 basis points on Sept.
15.  Eighteen months of crisis-fighting, 256 billion euros in
loans for Greece, Ireland and Portugal and 143 billion euros of
bond purchases by the ECB have failed to stabilize markets and
stop the debt crisis spreading.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said last week that
the demands of budget cutting make any plan to spur growth
through fiscal measures impossible.  “Policy makers don’t have the firepower to deal with the
crisis like they did at the start of the crisis,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London. “It
is difficult to see what more they can do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  