-- 
Boston Scientific Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Sales Group

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-20T17:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/boston-scientific-wins-dismissal-of-class-action-over-shares.html
Boston  Scientific Corp. won
dismissal of a class-action lawsuit accusing the company of
failing to disclose questionable sales practices in its cardiac-
devices group to investors.  Four pension funds sued last year, claiming losses of more
than $2.8 million from buying the stock at an artificially
inflated price. U.S. District Judge Douglas Woodlock in Boston
ruled yesterday that the complaint failed to state a
“cognizable” claim for  securities fraud .  “Rather than suggesting an intent to deceive investors,
the facts contained in the complaint exhibit the defendants
engaging in a good faith process to inform themselves and the
public of the risks,” Woodlock said in a 41-page opinion.  Boston Scientific failed to promptly disclose its decision
to fire some sales representatives after an internal audit
uncovered ethical violations in dealings with physicians,
according to the complaint, filed on behalf of investors who
bought the stock from Oct. 20, 2009, to Feb. 10, 2010.  The company, based in Natick,  Massachusetts , disclosed the
terminations in February 2010 after many of the sales personnel
were hired by competitor St. Jude Medical Inc., court papers
showed. Boston Scientific reported in April 2010 that the
disciplinary actions would result in about $300 million in
losses.  ‘Reasonable Time’  The company made the disclosures in a “reasonable time,”
Woodlock said in his ruling.  Boston Scientific’s cardiac rhythm management sales group
is responsible for devices such as pacemakers and implantable
defibrillators.  Jonathan Shapiro, an attorney for one of the plaintiffs,
Steelworkers Pension Trust, didn’t immediately return a phone
call seeking comment on the ruling.  Boston Scientific rose 2 cents to $6.33 at 1:21 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is In re  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  Securities
Litigation, 10-10593, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 