-- 
BP Says It Didn’t Hide Information About Gulf Well Blowout

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-09-20T19:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bp-says-it-didn-t-hide-information-before-after-well-blowout.html
BP Plc (BP)  said it didn’t hide
information about a possibly dangerous condition in the Macondo
oil well before or after it blew out in April 2010, killing 11
people and triggering the biggest U.S. offshore  oil spill .  BP personnel determined that a sand layer above the target
zone was water-bearing rather than a gas-containing
“hydrocarbon zone” and provided supporting data to its well
partners before the blowout, the company said yesterday in a
court filing. BP investigators reported publicly after the
explosion that this may have been gas-containing sand, while
determining it wasn’t a cause of the incident, the company said.  A  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  unit that provided cementing services for
the well asked a federal court in  New Orleans  Sept. 1 to allow
it to add a claim of fraud in its lawsuit against BP over the
spill, alleging the hydrocarbon zone was concealed.  Halliburton shouldn’t be allowed to add the new claim, BP
said in its filing.  “There is no evidence that BP held the pre-incident belief
that the sand was hydrocarbon-bearing, or that it had any intent
to conceal,” the company said.  BP distributed information about the shallower sand within
days of the incident, it said.  “Had BP disclosed the higher hydrocarbon zone in April
2010, Halliburton would not have pumped the cement program
unless and until changes were made to the cement program,
changes that likely would have required BP to redesign the
production casing, ”Tara Mullee Agard, a spokeswoman for
Houston-based Halliburton, said today by e-mail.  Hundreds of Suits  The Macondo blowout and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors. The
lawsuits over economic losses and personal injuries are combined
before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.  Also sued were  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that
exploded; Halliburton;  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which
provided blowout-prevention equipment; and BP’s minority
partners in the well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui &
Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit.  Halliburton alleges slander and business disparagement in a
separate suit against BP in Houston federal court, contending
that the  oil company  “knew or should have known about an
additional hydrocarbon zone in the well that BP failed to
disclose” before Halliburton designed the cement program for
the well.  Halliburton Stance  BP failed to disclose this after the blowout as well, in an
effort to blame others for the explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon, Halliburton said. Halliburton filed a proposed
amendment in its suit against BP in federal court in New
Orleans, seeking to add fraud claims.  BP asked Barbier to reject the fraud claims because
Halliburton filed them months after a deadline for cross-
complaints and they would prove a disadvantage to the company in
preparing for trial. A trial on liability is set for Feb. 27
before Barbier.  “At this late stage, Halliburton’s undue delay would
severely prejudice BP if the new claims were allowed,” the
company said. “Halliburton’s proposed amendment brings ten
pages of new allegations after the close of fact discovery.”  Halliburton contended it learned of the additional
hydrocarbon zone in a July deposition of Galina Skripnikova, the
BP petroleum scientist who determined before the incident the
sand was water-bearing, BP said.  Halliburton’s Knowledge  “Halliburton had knowledge of facts and arguments
underlying its new claims regarding the alleged concealed
hydrocarbon zone for fourteen months before the deposition of
Ms. Skripnikova,” BP said.  Halliburton’s corporate representative Richard Vargo was
“sufficiently confident in this theory that he testified under
oath in March 2011 that BP had withheld information about the
hydrocarbon zones from Halliburton,” BP said in yesterday’s
filing.  Skripnikova and other BP petroleum scientists met to review
Macondo data at the Houston operations center the day after the
blowout, BP said. They magnified digital data from the Macondo
and detected for the first time a “slight” indication that the
shallower zone might have contained gas, BP said.  Before the blast, Skripnikova believed the data showed that
oil-based drilling fluids used in the well had soaked into a
shallower rock layer containing ground water, BP said. The
company said she confirmed this before the blast by examining
rock cuttings from the well and conferring with  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB) , which conducted the Macondo digital tests.  Company’s Analysis  Schlumberger’s analysis concluded that the shallower zone
was “water-bearing, not gas-bearing,” BP said. The cement job
was planned based on those conclusions.  BP said its internal Macondo investigation team fully
examined data concerning the shallower sand layer and ruled it
out as a cause of the incident. The team didn’t disclose the
shallow zone in its final public report “because it believed
that inclusion would cause confusion on an issue that was
unrelated to the cause of the incident,” BP said.  The federal case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-
2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 