-- 
Brazil Seeking WTO Talks on Measures to Regulate Currency Exchange Rates

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 
2011-09-20T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/brazil-seeks-wto-talks-on-measures-to-regulate-currency-exchange-rates.html
Brazil  called on the  World Trade
Organization  to allow its members to protect their industries
from trade imbalances prompted by currency fluctuations.  The Foreign Ministry said global rules protecting against
unfair trade practices date from when most exchange rates were
fixed. Mechanisms including anti-dumping and safeguard
mechanisms, as well as retaliation rights, need to be updated to
deal with “steep fluctuations in exchange rates,” the ministry
said in a statement yesterday.  While Brazil’s proposal presented to the Geneva-based WTO
yesterday didn’t specify which countries it believes are keeping
their currencies undervalued, the move comes as President Dilma Rousseff has intensified efforts to protect manufacturers from
cheaper imports from  China , whose exchange rate is pegged to the
 U.S. dollar . Last week, the government raised by 30 percentage
points a tax on cars with a large percentage of imported parts
after Chinese-made car imports surged.  Manufacturers in Latin America’s biggest economy are being
hurt by a 29 percent rally in the real since the end of 2008,
more than all 25 of the biggest emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg except the Chilean peso. Since October 2010,
Brazil has also increased taxes on capital inflows and stepped
up dollar purchases to defend Brazil from what Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  has called a “currency war.”  The real plunged yesterday to a one-year low, cementing its
status as the worst performer among major currencies this month,
as the European debt crisis compounded government measures to
weaken the currency.  The real declined 3.6 percent to 1.7976 per dollar from
1.7331 on Sept. 16. On July 26, the currency closed at 1.5391
per U.S. dollar, its strongest level since January 1999.  Brazilian imports increased 29 percent to $147 billion
dollars in the first eight months of the year, while exports,
spurred by an increase in commodity prices, jumped 32 percent to
$167 billion.  Purchases of foreign cars, Brazil’s second-biggest imported
good, jumped 45 percent to $7.4 billion in the same period.
Total imports from China have surged 35 percent so far this year,
to $21 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliain@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Chiarini in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 