-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Rise as Inflation Quickens, Real Advances

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-09-20T22:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/brazil-rate-futures-rise-as-inflation-quickens-real-advances.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts rose after consumer prices jumped more
than economists forecast this month, limiting the central bank’s
room to further cut borrowing costs.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013, the
most actively-traded today in  Sao Paulo , rose five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 10.69 percent at 5 p.m. New York
time.  Speculation mounted that central bankers may limit further
rate cuts after they trimmed benchmark borrowing costs 50 basis
points to 12 percent on Aug. 31. Consumer prices, as measured by
the IPCA-15 index, rose 0.53 percent in the month through mid-
September, the national  statistics agency  said today. That’s the
fastest pace since May.  “Today’s data shows that inflation is very pressured and
should break the ceiling of the target this year,” said Silvio Campos Neto, economist at Tendencias Consultoria in Sao Paulo.
“For next year the perspective is some deceleration, but very
small,” he said in a telephone interview.  The inflation rate doubled this month from the 0.27 percent
reading in mid-August, led by a 1 percent jump in clothing
prices and 0.72 percent increase in the cost of food and
beverages, the statistics agency said. Annual inflation
quickened to 7.3 percent, the fastest pace in six years.
Inflation first breached the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
government’s annual target range in May.  Inflation Target  Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy estimate inflation will
stay above the bank’s target through 2013, according to a
central bank survey. This year, consumer prices as measured by
the IPCA index will rise 6.46 percent, the survey found.  “Inflation is challenging the official view,” Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in
Sao Paulo, said in an e-mail.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut Brazil’s
benchmark interest rate last month after raising it at the
previous five policy meetings, citing a “substantial
deterioration” in the global economy. The bank said the lower
borrowing costs won’t compromise its 4.5 percent inflation
target next year.  The real advanced 0.7 percent to 1.7855 per  U.S. dollar ,
after tumbling 3.6 percent to 1.7976 yesterday. It has lost 11
percent this month, the worst performer among major currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European stocks climbed as  Greece  described its talks with
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  as
“productive” and investors speculated the  Federal Reserve  will
provide more stimulus.  “The external market had an improvement in relation to
yesterday,” Mauricio Junqueira, who helps manage about $300
million at Squanto Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “The real is being guided by the
international scene,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  