-- 
Brazil’s Inflation Accelerates More Than Analysts Expected After Rate Cut

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-20T13:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/brazil-s-ipca-15-price-index-rises-0-53-through-mid-september.html
Brazilian consumer prices jumped
more than economists expected this month, limiting the central
bank’s space to further cut interest rates to shore up growth in
 Latin America ’s biggest economy. Yields on interest-rate futures
rose.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
0.53 percent in the month through mid-September, the national
 statistics agency  said today. That’s the fastest pace since May
and steeper than 40 of 41 economists expected in a Bloomberg
survey whose median forecast was for a 0.49 percent price rise.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut Brazil’s
benchmark interest rate a half point to 12 percent on Aug. 31,
after raising it at the previous five policy meetings, citing a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy. The bank
said the lower borrowing costs won’t compromise its 4.5 percent
inflation target next year.  “Inflation has quite a lot of pressure and there’s no sign
that the global slowdown is affecting the domestic scenario,”
said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets in
Sao Paulo. “The chances of inflation cooling down this month as
the bank has been saying is less and less likely.”  Borrowing Costs  Traders pared bets for lower borrowing costs in the
interest rate futures market, pushing the yield on contracts due
January 2013 up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
10.66 percent at 9:13 a.m. New York time. The real rose 1
percent to 1.7793 per  U.S. dollar .  Yesterday, in a speech in Lisbon, Tombini said that Brazil
can take advantage of a deterioration in the global economic
environment to “rebalance” its macro-economic policies. While
he didn’t specify what policies may be adjusted, analysts expect
him to lower the benchmark Selic rate another percentage point
this year, according to a Sept. 16 bank survey of 100 economists
published yesterday.  In August, Tombini said annual inflation will have a
“significant” drop from September and will be reduced by two
percentage points by April.  Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy estimate prices will
keep rising next year and inflation will stay above the bank’s
target through 2013, according the central bank survey. This
year, consumer prices as measured by the IPCA index will rise
6.46 percent, the survey found.  Inflation doubled this month from the 0.27 percent reading
in mid-August, led by a 1 percent jump in clothing prices and
0.72 percent increase in the cost of food and beverages, the
statistics agency said.  Prices rose 7.33 percent from a year ago, the fastest pace
in six years. Inflation first breached the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the government’s target range in May.  ‘Very Pressured’  “Today’s number indicates that inflation is very pressured
and should be above the high end of the target range this
year,” said Silvio Campos Neto, an economist at Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada in  Sao Paulo .  Even as the industrial sector shrank in July from a year
earlier, higher wages continue to bolster demand for  consumer
goods .  Unemployment fell to 6 percent in July, its lowest level
this year, fueling a 1.4 percent jump in retail sales in the
month that was the biggest this year. The country’s minimum
wage, which is used to adjust pension payments, is slated to
rise 14 percent next year.  As inflation accelerates, workers across the nation have
walked off their jobs to demand higher salaries. More than
70,000 metalworkers in the industrial belt surrounding Sao Paulo
are scheduled to vote today whether to strike after carmakers
and manufacturers rejected their demand for a 10 percent raise.  Brazil’s economic growth slowed last quarter to 3.2 percent
from a year earlier, down from 4.2 percent in the first quarter
and a 7.5 percent pace last year that was the fastest in two
decades. The retail industry led the second-quarter expansion,
increasing 4.9 percent from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  