-- 
Brevan Howard to Return $2 Billion to Clients of Biggest Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-09-20T14:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/brevan-howard-to-return-2-billion-to-investors-in-its-biggest-hedge-fund.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
the hedge fund run by  Alan Howard , will return about $2 billion
to investors in the firm’s biggest fund, keeping a promise to
clients to limit the size of the $26.9 billion pool.  Investors in the Brevan Howard Master Fund have told the
London-based firm they want assets to remain at about $25
billion to ensure it continues to produce good returns, Brevan
Howard Chief Executive Officer Nagi Kawkabani said in an
interview today. Assets rose after the hedge fund posted
investment gains of 11 percent this year through August.  “It has nothing to do with the opportunity set we see in
the markets,” Kawkabani said. “We made a promise to our
investors, and we feel we have to do the things that we told
them we are going to do. Otherwise, we lose credibility.”  Brevan Howard joins Caxton Associates LP and SAC Capital
Management LLC in taking steps to limit the size of hedge funds
managed by the firms. Investors scrutinize assets because of
concerns that funds can become too big to find profitable
trades.  “When the amount you are managing is above a certain
threshold, what you are doing can be visible to other market
participants,” said Jacob Schmidt, founder of Schmidt Research
Partners Ltd., a London-based hedge-fund advisory firm. “You
can also influence the market through your buying and selling.”  Caxton Associates, the $10 billion hedge fund run by Andrew Law, told its clients last week that it will restrict the amount
of money it takes in.  Steve Cohen ’s $14 billion SAC Capital
Management LLC decided earlier this year to close its biggest
fund to new clients. The fund, which opened in 1992, had
remained closed for its first 13 years before re-opening to
investors in 2005.  Macro Fund  John Thaler’s JAT Capital Management LP, with $2.5 billion,
has decided to stop marketing its fund for the time being, and
won’t be taking new investments beginning next month, according
to two people familiar with the plans, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The New York-
based fund has climbed 35 percent this year, the people said.  Brevan Howard’s Master Fund is managed by Howard and a team
of traders. A so-called macro fund, it invests in liquid assets,
including currencies and  interest rates , to try to profit from
global economic trends.  Brevan Howard could pick and choose which clients get their
money back, or it could return money to investors in the fund on
a pro rata basis. The firm isn’t likely to make investors take
withdrawals if they’ve shown a commitment to the hedge fund over
a long period of time, such as those who haven’t submitted
redemption requests, said a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the company is private.  6.2% August Gain  Brevan Howard has faced recurring questions about the size
of the Master Fund from investors, and acknowledged the scrutiny
in a November 2009 statement. At the time, Brevan Howard said it
would recommend to the firm’s board of directors that money be
returned to clients “if and when we sense that a fund cannot
deliver an attractive return because of the size of its assets
relative to market opportunities.”  The fund gained 6.2 percent in August, its best month since
February 2008. The returns came in a month when  hedge funds  on
average declined 1.6 percent, the industry’s worst performance
since May 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brevan Howard’s Master Fund made most of its profits last
month from “being long fixed-income markets globally via swaps
and options,” according to a statement the company sent to
clients yesterday. In August, Treasuries posted the biggest
monthly gain since December 2008 after investors ignored
 Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating and
sought a refuge in safe securities due to signs of slowing
growth.  Euribor Bets  “In recent months, the prospect of the  U.S. economy 
sliding into recession has become increasingly likely,” BH
Macro Ltd., a publicly traded company that raises money for the
Master Fund, said in yesterday’s letter to investors. “In
August, as a response to these fears, markets reacted and caught
up with our macro views.”  The Master Fund had “minimal exposure” to financial
stocks and wasn’t betting on declines for debt of European
countries such as Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , the letter said.  Brevan Howard has also probably made money this year by
wagering that the volatility of interest rates would rise
because of uncertainty about the prospects for growth in the
U.S. and  Europe , according to a report by Tom Skinner, an
analyst with JPMorgan Securities Ltd. in London. The Master Fund
has profited from a bet that the short-term lending rates
between European banks, or Euribor, would decline, Skinner wrote
in the Sept. 5 report.  Other Founders  Brevan Howard’s Master Fund gained 1 percent last year,
18.7 percent in 2009, 20.4 percent in 2008 and 25.2 percent in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Howard, 48, founded Brevan Howard in 2002 with four other
traders from Credit Suisse Group AG’s proprietary fixed-income
trading desk. James Vernon, the chief operating officer who
represented the “V” in Brevan Howard’s name, decided in July
to leave the firm. Jean-Philippe Blochet, who represented the
“B” in the company’s name, left the company last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  