-- 
Bureau Veritas Targets Revenue, Margin Growth on Food, Energy

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-09-20T06:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/bureau-veritas-targets-revenue-margin-growth-on-food-energy.html
Bureau Veritas SA (BVI) , the world’s
second-largest goods-inspection company, expects sales and
profitability to grow through 2015 as it expands in food safety,
energy and infrastructure.  Bureau Veritas plans annual sales of about 5 billion euros
($6.8 billion) in 2015, up from 2.9 billion euros last year,
representing average yearly revenue growth of 9 percent to 12
percent in the 2012-2015 period, the company said in a
statement. The forecast excludes any “transforming acquisition
projects,” it said.  Two-thirds of the growth will come from “robust”
expansion of existing businesses, and the rest will come from
bolt-on acquisitions, the company, based in the Paris suburb of
Neuilly-sur-Seine, said today. Emerging markets may represent 53
percent to 55 percent of revenue in 2015, up from less than 50
percent today, Chief Executive Officer Frank Piedelievre said on
a conference call with journalists today.  Bureau Veritas will seek acquisitions to boost its testing
capacity in markets such as  consumer goods  in Germany and Japan,
mobile phones in the U.S., drilling and offshore oil in the  Gulf
of Mexico  and  North Sea , and  wind energy  in Northern Europe,
Piedelievre said.  “We’ll make acquisitions in mature countries to strengthen
our technical expertise,” the CEO said. “We will then deploy
that expertise in emerging markets that have only a few local
players, which are usually rather small.”  Operating profit as a proportion of sales, adjusted for the
effects of acquisitions or one-time gains or costs, will climb
within a range of 1 percentage point to 1.5 points by 2015,
while adjusted earnings per share will increase by 10 percent to
15 percent a year on average, Bureau Veritas said.  The company, controlled by French investment firm  Wendel (MF) ,
plans to bring net debt to less than annual earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, down from about
1.8 times Ebitda currently, leaving room for a “significant”
acquisition if an opportunity occurs, Piedelievre said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  