-- 
HTC, Google, Righthaven, American Superconductor: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-20T15:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/htc-google-gm-righthaven-amsc-intellectual-property.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese smartphone
maker locked in a global patent battle with Apple Inc., lost a
U.K. court bid to rush the scheduling of a trial in Britain
before a parallel case is heard in  Germany .  Holding a U.K. trial in January on the validity of Apple’s
patent for multilingual texting technology would put too much
pressure on the iPhone maker, which is defending three other
patents for touch-screen features against HTC lawsuits in
Britain, Judge Richard Arnold ruled yesterday in the  High Court 
in  London . HTC had hoped to win a U.K. judgment in its favor in
time to show the judge in the German trial early next year.  While the trial shouldn’t be expedited to accommodate a
German trial that isn’t yet scheduled, the case does have
“commercial urgency,” Arnold said. All four patents should go
to trial in March or April, he ruled.  HTC is pleased with the ruling, the company’s European unit
said in an e-mailed statement.  The dispute over the U.K. trial date comes as Apple, based
in Cupertino,  California , is embroiled in a global battle with
Samsung Electronics Co. over both smartphones and tablet
computers. HTC sued Apple in London on July 29, seeking to
revoke the European smartphone patents it was accused of
infringing in two German lawsuits earlier that month.  Apple also sued in the U.K., naming HTC and Samsung in a
complaint filed Sept. 12.  The case is HTC Europe Co. Ltd. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , High Court
of Justice, London, HC11C02703  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ISYS Technologies Settles ChromiumPC Trademark Case With Google  ISYS Technologies Inc., creator of a 3.5-inch modular
computer product, has dismissed a trademark infringement case
against Google Inc., according to a court filing.  ISYS sued Google and its marketing partners Amazon.com
Inc., Best Buy Co., Samsung Electronics Co. and  Acer Inc. (2353)  in
efforts to halt the sale of the Google Chromebook.  That suit, filed June 6 in federal court in  Utah , alleged
that Google’s application to register “Chromium” as a
trademark, and opposition to ISYS’ application for a
“ChromiumPC” trademark to be used for computer hardware were
both done in bad faith. The closely held Salt Lake City-based
ISYS claimed the public would be confused by the similarity of
the two names.  The suit was dismissed and the transcript of a hearing on
ISYS’s request for a ban on the promotion and sale of the
Chromebooks was removed from public viewing in the court file at
the parties’ request, according to an order by U.S. District
Judge Clark Waddoups.  ISYS spokesman David Politis  told the Salt Lake Tribune 
that the company had decided to abandon its effort to register
“Chromium PC” and that it’s “very pleased with the terms and
conditions of this settlement.”  The case is ISYS Technologies Inc. v.  Google Inc (GOOG) , 2:11-cv-
00507-CW, U.S. District Court, District of Utah.  Kentucky  Man Accused of Forgery in Sale of GM Auto Parts  Mike Archbold, an auto-parts dealer in Hendersonville,
Kentucky, was charged with forgery following an investigation
into the sale of counterfeit  General Motors Co. (GM)  auto parts,
Nashville’s WTVF-TV  reported  on its news website.  Some of the fake parts were marked with GM’s “bowtie”
Chevrolet trademark, according to the website.  Archbold told the television station that the dispute
should be a civil matter between the automaker and himself, and
he couldn’t understand why this had become a criminal case.  Although GM told police they had sent the auto-parts seller
a cease-and-desist letter in 2010, Archbold told the television
station he’d never received it.  Beatles Tribute Band Barred From Use of ‘Get Back’ Trademark  A Nashville, Tennessee-based Beatles Tribute band that uses
the name “Getback! Productions” persuaded a federal court to
halt a second band’s use of a similar name.  According to a Sept. 9 court filing, Cefalo Corp. of
Carnegie,  Pennsylvania , is barred from using “Get Back” or any
similar name in connection with its Beatles tribune band. The
Tennessee group, which was formed in the early 1980s, acquired
the mark in June 2001. It had been registered with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office in March 1999, according to court
papers.  GetBack! Productions filed an infringement suit March 15 in
federal court in Pittsburgh, asking for a ban on the
Pennsylvania band’s use of the mark and for money damages.  The case is Jack Petrilla v. Cefalo Corp., 2:11-cv-00335-
NBF, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  Vietnam’s Phu Quoc Mark for Fish Sauce Sought by Chinese Company  While the Phu Quoc trademark is limited to  fish-sauce
makers on Vietnam’s Phu Quoc island , a Hong Kong-based company
is seeking to register the mark in  China ,  according to  Vietnam
News.  In 2001, Phu Quoc became one of Vietnam’s first products to
have its geographic origin registered, Vietnam News reported.  If the owners of the Phu Quoc trademark fail to object to
the Chinese company’s application in time, the mark could be
registered in China, the news service reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven Defendant Seeks Company’s IP and Bank Accounts  In another potential blow against Stephens Media Group’s
copyright enforcement program, a defendant who was awarded
attorney fees and court costs in a copyright infringement case
involving one of Stephens’ newspapers has asked the court to
seize real estate, bank accounts and intellectual property
rights.  Wayne Hoehn, of the  madjacksports.com  website, was sued for
infringing the copyright to a story that appeared in Stephens’
Las Vegas Review-Journal. The suit was filed against Hoehn in
federal court in Las Vegas in January by Righthaven LLC of Las
Vegas.  In this case and others of the more than 150 infringement
suits Righthaven has filed, the defendant challenged whether
Righthaven had the standing to enforce Stephens Media’s
copyrights. Courts have said that because Righthaven didn’t have
total control over the licensing and other uses of the content,
it lacked the standing to pursue infringement actions.  U.S. District Judge Philip M. Pro granted Hoehn’s request
to dismiss the case on June 20 and on Aug. 15 awarded him
$34,000 in attorney fees.  In his Sept. 18 filing, Hoehn said he waited past the court
deadline for Righthaven to pay the judgment and that it’s now
the proper time for him to seek enforcement.  He asked that the court authorize the U.S. Marshals to
execute the judgment through the seizure of “Right haven’s bank
accounts, real and personal property, and intangible
intellectual propriety rights for levy, lien, auction or other
treatment appropriate for satisfaction of Hoehn’s judgment.”
The filing didn’t mention seeking anything from Stephens Media
itself.  In a Sept. 9 filing in this case, Righthaven asked that the
judgment be stayed until an appeal is completed. It warned that
it could be forced into seeking the protection of bankruptcy
court and then it “would then be faced with the impossible task
of trying to recapture essential intellectual property assets
that were seized and liquidated during the appeals process.”  Hoehn is represented by  Marc J. Randazza  and  J. Malcolm De
Vow IV  of the  Randazza Legal Group  of Las Vegas.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Wayne Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-
PMP-RJJ, U.s. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  UNC Uses ‘Hall Pass’ to Control Student File Sharing on Network  In efforts to halt unauthorized sharing of digital content,
the University of  North Carolina  is barring student laptops with
installed file-sharing programs from connecting to the
university’s dormitory computer network,  according to  the
Chronicle of Higher Education.  Students with the software who attempt to log on will view
a message saying “UNC Chapel Hill is blocking file-sharing
throughout student housing,” the Chronicle reported.  Those who sign an agreement known as a “hall pass”
affirming that any copyright violation will be reported to the
dean of students and agree to learn about what content can and
can’t be shared under copyright law will be allowed back on,
even with the file sharing software, according to Chronicle.  About 11,000 computers are on the school’s dormitory
computer network, and before the new system was adopted, it cost
the school at least $40,000 per year plus staff time dealing
with allegations of student copyright infringement, according to
the Chronicle.  Oracle Asked to Revise Request for SAP Verdict Review  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  was asked by a federal judge to consider
revising its request to seek review of a court order overturning
a $1.3 billion damage award against SAP AG, according to court
records.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
California, on Sept. 1 granted SAP’s motion to throw out the
copyright-infringement verdict against it. She ruled that SAP
should get a new trial for damages if Oracle rejects her
decision to reduce the amount to $272 million, which she said
should be the maximum in damages based on the evidence at trial.  The jury award in November was a record for copyright
infringement. In the 11-day trial, Oracle accused SAP’s
TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit of making hundreds of
thousands of illegal downloads and several thousand copies of
Oracle’s software. Oracle said SAP’s aim was allegedly to avoid
paying licensing fees and to steal customers.  In her Sept. 16 order, Hamilton she gave Oracle until Sept.
23 to make and file revisions to its request for review. SAP
then will have until Oct. 7 to respond.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Kerry Weighs in on AMSC’s Trade Secrets Claims Against Snivel  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) ’s allegations of trade secret
theft against Beijing’s Snivel Wind Group Co. have garnered both
a denial from the Chinese company, and a warning from a U.S.
senator that the alleged theft could have far-reaching
implications for his state, the Boston Globe  reported .  Senator John F. Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told the Globe that
Massachusetts jobs and the future of Chinese-American
cooperation in alternative energy could be affected by such
actions against Deveins, Massachusetts-based AMSC.  He said American businesses “wouldn’t make investments
there” if trade secrets can be misappropriated by the Chinese,
according to the Globe.  Snivel, which is AMSC’s largest customer, has denied all
allegations made in China, the U.S. and Austria that it has
stolen the Massachusetts company’s technology, according to the
Globe.  IP Moves  ICO’s Ovarian Unit Hires Robert Saltsburg from Morrison Firm  Led’s  Ovarian  unit hired Robert Saltsburg as managing
director, the Berkeley-based IP firm said in a statement.  Saltsburg  joins from  San Francisco ’s Morrison & Forester
LLP, where he was a partner and presently remains as a special
counsel. There he headed the firm’s electronics patent practice.
He has also served as chief patent counsel at Novara Optics,
which was  acquired  by the LG-Nortel joint venture in 2008.  Before he was a lawyer, he was an engineer at TRW Inc.,
which was acquired by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in 2002.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from the University of  Maryland , a master’s degree in electrical
engineering from  Stanford University  and a law degree from the
University of California Berkeley School of Law.  ICO acquired Ovarian in June and said it is changing its
name to Penndel Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 