-- 
Canada July Wholesale Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-20T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/canada-july-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for July from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales advanced 0.8% in July to $48.2 billion
after remaining unchanged in June. Although five of the
seven subsectors, representing more than 85% of total
sales, reported increases, most of the growth was
concentrated in the machinery, equipment and supplies, the
personal and household goods, and the motor vehicle and
parts subsectors.  In volume terms, wholesale sales grew 1.5% in July. The
difference between the growth rates expressed in current
and constant dollars reflects lower prices for imported
products sold by wholesalers. This was partly attributable
to the appreciation of the Canadian dollar relative to the
American dollar during the month.  Widespread sales increase  The machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
registered the highest increase in dollar terms as sales
rose 2.1% in July. All four industries in this subsector
posted gains with the largest increase from wholesalers of
construction, forestry, mining, and industrial machinery,
equipment and supplies.  Sales in the machinery, equipment and supplies
subsector have been showing an upward trend since the
second quarter of 2010. This reflects higher business
investment in plant and equipment, which has increased for
six consecutive quarters.  After a decline in June, sales in the personal and
household goods subsector rose 2.9% in July, the highest
month-over-month growth recorded by this subsector since
April 2008. Sales grew in most of the industries, with
personal goods reporting the highest increase.  Following three consecutive months of declines, sales
in the  motor vehicle  and parts subsector advanced 2.6% in
July. This coincided with higher production and imports of
automotive products. Prior to July, sales in this
subsector had been affected by disruptions in the supply
chain following the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  in
March.  Overall growth in wholesale trade in July was dampened
by a 5.1% decline in the miscellaneous subsector. This
resulted mainly from lower sales of agricultural supplies
(-18.5%), which had been strong in May and June.  Ontario accounts for most of the increase  Ontario accounted for almost all of the national sales
increase in July. Sales grew 2.1% after declining 0.9% in
June. Higher sales of machinery, equipment and supplies,
and motor vehicle and parts contributed to most of the
increase.  Among the western provinces, only Manitoba (+1.1%)
posted an increase. After increasing in June, sales in
Saskatchewan and Alberta declined largely as a result of
lower sales in the agricultural supplies industry.  In the Atlantic provinces, only Prince Edward Island
reported gains as its sales grew 0.4%.  Sales in  Quebec  fell slightly (-0.1%), their second
consecutive decrease.  Inventories continue to rise  Inventories rose 0.3% to $56.5 billion in July, posting
their seventh consecutive monthly increase.  Inventories were up in 11 of the 25 wholesale
industries. Wholesalers in the construction, forestry,
mining, and industrial machinery, equipment and supplies
industry, and the new motor vehicle parts and accessories
industry reported the largest gains in dollar terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio declined from 1.18 in June
to 1.17 in July.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  