-- 
Canada Dollar Reaches 3-Day Low on Growth Concern After IMF Cuts Forecasts

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-09-20T21:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/canadian-currency-reaches-3-day-low-on-growth-concern-as-imf-cuts-forecast.html
The Canadian dollar touched a
three-day low versus its U.S. counterpart as the  International
Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global economic growth and
reduced projections for Canada.  The currency fell for a second day as the IMF lowered
Canada’s growth forecast this year to 2.1 percent from a June
estimate of 2.9 percent. It cited weaker demand from the U.S.,
the nation’s biggest trade partner, and slower  government
spending . Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said he may keep
 interest rates  low beyond when full output is restored.  “Growth is going to be challenged, that much is clear,”
 Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange sales at
National Bank of Canada, said by telephone from Toronto.
“Ultimately, the Canadian dollar takes its cue from the global
barometer, which is decidedly negative these days.”  Canada’s dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to 99.27 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 99.07 cents
yesterday, when it dropped as much as 1.5 percent to 99.23
cents. Earlier today, it fell 0.4 percent to 99.49 cents, the
weakest level since Sept. 15. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0074.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, pared losses as commodities
rose. October futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
gained for the first time in three days, advancing 1.4 percent
to $86.89 a barrel in New York trading, and gold for immediate
delivery climbed 1.4 percent to $1,803.63 an ounce. Raw
materials account for about half of the nation’s export revenue.  ‘Getting a Lift’  “We are getting a lift from commodities rising, especially
oil and gold,” said Dean Popplewell, head analyst in Toronto at
the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp.  Government bonds  declined, with yields on benchmark 10-year
notes rising one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.19
percent. The price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in
June 2021 fell 9 cents to C$109.19.  Bank of Canada  Governor Carney said the domestic economic
recovery will be hobbled by a weak U.S. recovery that could tip
into another recession.  “The  United States  is in the midst of the weakest recovery
since the Great Depression, and the bank does not expect that to
change at any time soon,” Carney, 46, said in a speech today in
Saint John, New Brunswick. “Given current material headwinds,
the policy rate can return to its long-run level after inflation
is projected to reach the 2 percent target and output is
projected to reach its potential.”  The Bank of Canada has kept the overnight rate at 1 percent
since September 2010.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Reserve  may take steps at a two-day meeting
that began today to bolster the  U.S. economy . The Fed may decide
to replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio
with long-term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The idea is known as “Operation
Twist” for its goal of bending long-term yields lower.  “Everyone is keeping their powder dry ahead of the Fed
meeting tomorrow,” said Oanda’s Popplewell.  The IMF said the world economy will expand 4 percent this
year and next, compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent in
2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth projection for
2011 was cut to 1.5 percent this year, from 2.5 percent in June.  Canada , the world’s 10th largest economy, relies on exports
for a third of its gross domestic product, and a majority of
that goes to the U.S.  The currency of  Australia , another commodities exporter,
rose versus the majority of its 16 most-traded counterparts
today as investors sought higher-yielding assets. Australia’s
biggest trade partner is  China .  Wholesale Sales Rise  The Canadian dollar erased losses earlier versus the U.S.
currency as Statistics Canada data showed wholesale sales rose
0.8 percent to C$48.2 billion ($48.6 billion), matching the
median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
sales stalled a month earlier.  “The data released this morning support our expectation
that economic growth will rebound in the third quarter, ensuring
that Canada will avoid a technical recession,”  David Tulk ,
chief Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit, said in a note to clients. “However, the
prevailing rate of growth is not expected to be that strong, as
there is a limited ability for domestic demand to carry the
overall economy against intensifying global headwinds.”  Canada’s consumer price index rose 2.9 percent in August
from a year earlier, compared with 2.7 percent the previous
month, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the
statistics agency reports the data tomorrow.  The loonie has weakened 2.2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback has fallen 2.8
percent, while the yen has gained 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  