-- 
Capital One ING Deal Should Hinge on Public Benefit, Group Says

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-20T16:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/capital-one-ing-deal-should-hinge-on-public-benefit-group-says.html
Capital One, the seventh-largest
U.S. bank by deposits, should be allowed to acquire  ING Groep
NV (INGA) ’s online bank only if the lender shows a “true commitment to
the public,” said the head of an advocacy group opposed to the
deal.  “The only public benefit that can outweigh this kind of
increase in systematic risk is a forward commitment to do those
things that generate wealth for Americans,”  John Taylor , chief
executive officer of the National Community Reinvestment
Coalition, told the Federal Reserve today.  Representatives of consumer and affordable housing groups
spoke in opposition and support of the proposed deal at a Fed
hearing in  Washington , one of three scheduled by the agency
after complaints that Capital One’s acquisition of ING Direct
USA would create a financially unstable institution.  Consumer advocate groups including the NCRC have pushed to
stop the transaction, saying it will create another “too-big-
to-fail” institution. Capital One, based in McLean,  Virginia ,
and run by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, 61, is trying to weaken opposition that the $9 billion
deal announced in June will threaten the financial system.  Capital One, this year’s best performer in the KBW Bank
Index, said in June will pay $6.2 billion in cash and $2.8
billion in stock for ING Direct USA to gain deposits and access
to 7 million customers. The company expects the transaction to
be completed in late 2011 or early 2012, and said the deal will
help make it the fifth-largest U.S. bank by domestic deposits.  Reduce Risk  Capital One’s acquisition of ING Direct will reduce risk to
the financial system, John Finneran, general counsel at the
lender, said at the hearing. The European Union forced
Amsterdam-based ING Groep to sell its U.S. online bank as a
condition of a 10 billion euro ($13.7 billion) bailout.  “The issue is not whether an acquisition should occur, but
rather who the acquirer will be,” Finneran said. “The only
viable alternative to an acquisition by Capital One would have
been a sale of ING Direct to a larger and more complex
institution or a more interconnected foreign bank, which would
have created a substantially greater probability of heightened
risk to the financial system.”  The transaction threatens the goals of the Dodd-Frank Act,
the NCRC said in a letter to Treasury Secretary Tim F. Geithner
and  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month. The
deal should only be considered in Capital One’s favor if the
lender installs a “meaningful plan showing a true commitment to
do more for the public,” Taylor said today.  Community Loans  Capital One will make $180 billion in new community-
development loans and investments over the next decade,
including $28.5 billion in home lending to borrowers or
neighborhoods characterized as low- and moderate-income, Dorothy
Broadman, Capital One’s head of community development banking,
told the Fed.  The NCRC, as well as House Financial Services Committee
ranking member Barney Frank of  Massachusetts , requested the Fed
hold hearings and extend the public-comment period on the deal.  The Fed board, working under a mandate from the Dodd-Frank
Act that says it must consider whether mergers will result in
“greater or more concentrated risks” to the banking or
financial system, agreed to hold three hearings and extended the
comment period to Oct. 12 from Aug. 22. The other two are
scheduled in  Chicago  and  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 