-- 
Carney Says Weak U.S. Recovery With ‘Limited Upside’ to Restrain Canada

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-09-20T19:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/carney-says-weak-u-s-recovery-with-limited-upside-to-restrain-canada.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said the domestic economic recovery will be hobbled by a weak
U.S. recovery that could tip into another recession, and that he
may extend a period of low interest rates beyond when full
output is restored.  “The  United States  is in the midst of the weakest recovery
since the Great Depression, and the bank does not expect that to
change at any time soon,” Carney, 46, said in a speech today in
Saint John, New Brunswick. “Given current material headwinds,
the policy rate can return to its long-run level after inflation
is projected to reach the 2 percent target and output is
projected to reach its potential.”  The speech came after the  International Monetary Fund 
reduced its Canadian growth forecast because of tepid U.S.
growth and before Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said in  New York 
that he will make “appropriate” spending changes if needed to
boost a slow recovery. The Bank of Canada kept its key policy
rate unchanged Sept. 7, saying there was a “diminished” need
for higher borrowing costs.  Carney also used some of his strongest language to date to
describe the inaction of policy makers in other countries,
calling the U.S. debt-ceiling debate a “fiasco” and saying
European leaders must “re-found their monetary union based on
credible fiscal arrangements.”  ‘Stall Speed’  “The  U.S. economy  is close to stall speed, where a
negative feedback loop between weak employment, consumer demand,
and business hiring and investment could emerge,” Carney said,
adding the risk of another U.S. recession “has clearly risen.”  Carney said the bank’s policy won’t be influenced by
investor bets that he will lower  interest rates . Trading in
overnight index swaps indicate a 55 percent chance of a decrease
by January, rising to 78 percent by June.  “The OIS market is making an estimation, that’s fine, but
we will make the decision, I am not going to make their job
easier,” Carney said at a press conference.  His earlier speech also pledged “considerable
flexibility” in how fast inflation returns to the bank’s
target, and said that investors shouldn’t expect him to rely on
“mechanical rules” in setting interest rates.  The central bank’s “recent shift to a more downbeat
outlook was reinforced today,” Emanuella Enenajor, economist
with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s World Markets unit in
Toronto, said in a note to clients. Carney is saying “growth
will resume, but will crawl forward.”  Economy Shrank  The world’s 10th largest economy shrank at a 0.4 percent
annualized pace in the second quarter for the first time since
the last recession in 2009. Exports sagged as energy and
automobile production was disrupted amid flagging U.S. demand
and a strong dollar.  The Canadian dollar traded for 99.14 cents per  U.S. dollar 
at 2:55 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 99.07 cents yesterday.
Earlier today, it fell 0.4 percent to 99.49 cents, the lowest
since Sept. 15. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0084.  Carney said net exports are expected to remain a “major
source of weakness” due to modest global demand and a loss of
competitiveness including the strength of the Canadian dollar.  “The risks to our economy remain largely external and are
skewed to the downside,” Carney said.  Carney said the immediate concern in Europe is “growing
funding pressures” on the region’s banks. He also said Europe
needs a “sizeable funding backstop” for governments giving
them time to rework the monetary union.  European Resources  “In our opinion, the existing European resources,
including the European Financial Stability Facility and the
European Central Bank facilities, can be used much more
efficiently to create a multiyear window for these
adjustments,” he said.  In his speech, Carney called for a “comprehensive capital
plan for European banks, and crucially, a sizable funding
backstop for European sovereigns.”  Europe  has enough capital on hand to solve its debt
problems and it’s “very unlikely” there will be a repeat of
the 2008 banking crisis, Carney said at the press conference.  To help counter slowing growth in the U.S., Carney said
Canada will need to grow its exports in emerging markets that
are expanding faster. He also said he expects commodity prices
to remain at “elevated levels” on the back of sustained demand
in  Asia  and encouraged companies to bolster productivity through
“heavy investment.”  Canada sends three-quarters of exports to the U.S., and
shipments abroad are equal to about a third of its gross
domestic product.  “We will continue to recover, the global economy will
continue to recover and the Canadian economy will continue to
grow, but slowly,” Harper told reporters at the  United Nations 
today. “The global recovery is extremely fragile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Saint John,  New Brunswick , at   gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  