-- 
Cemex Buy Recommendations Rejected as Yields Soar to Record: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-09-20T22:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/cemex-buy-recommendations-rejected-by-investors-mexico-credit.html
Yields on bonds of Cemex SAB, the
biggest cement maker in the Americas, are soaring to a record as
concern that slowing global growth will curb revenue prompts
investors to reject buy recommendations.  Yields on Cemex’s dollar bonds due in 2018 jumped 83 basis
points in the past month through yesterday and touched 13.64
percent last week, the highest since the securities were issued
in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
yield on debt sold by junk-rated global building materials
companies rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, during
the same period, according to Bank of America Corp.  While analysts from five banks are advising clients to
purchase Cemex’s bonds as a bet it will be able to weather the
slowdown in the U.S. and  Mexico , investors are selling amid
concern the economic slump will crimp its ability to repay debt.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and ING Groep NV unveiled their calls to
buy the securities last week, adding to recommendations made in
the past month by Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Miller Tabak
Roberts Securities LLC.  “Cemex depends a lot on growth and on infrastructure
spending,”  Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about $1.5
billion of debt at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview. “With everything we’re
seeing in the U.S. and in Mexico, we’re not expecting much for
Cemex. They’re going to have to restructure their debt. They’re
not going to go bust, but they’re going to face a lot of
problems.”  Growth Outlook  Cemex bonds yield 1,144 basis points more than Mexican
 government securities  due in 2019 as of yesterday, compared with
430 at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Notes maturing in 2016 issued by Lafarge SA, the
world’s biggest cement maker, yield 6 percent, or 756 basis
points less than Cemex.  Jorge Perez , a Cemex spokesman in the Monterrey suburb of
San Pedro Garza Garcia, declined to comment on the performance
of the bonds.  The U.S., where Cemex got 19 percent of its revenue in
2009, may post economic growth of 1.6 percent this year after
expanding 3 percent in 2010, according to the median estimate of
68 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Mexico’s economy, the
company’s biggest market, will grow 4 percent this year after
expanding 5.4 percent in 2010, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Sept. 8.  ‘Attractive’  Investor concern about Cemex’s ability to service its debt
is growing two years after the company refinanced $15 billion of
bank debt to avoid a default amid the global financial crisis. A
covenant under the bank agreement requires Cemex to have net
debt relative to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of 7 times or less. The ratio was 7.16 times at
the end of June.  Cemex’s stock fell 8.7 percent in Mexico City today,
leaving it down 56 percent this year, the worst performing
member of the benchmark IPC index. Yields on the company’s
dollar bonds due in 2016 rose eight basis points to 13 percent.  Alvaro Gonzalez, an emerging-market credit analyst at
Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC, began recommending clients
buy Cemex’s bonds on Aug. 22. Investors who followed his advice
would have lost 1.8 percent since then.  “You can never calculate the timing perfectly,” Gonzalez
said in a telephone interview. “Bonds continue to be
attractive.”  ‘Top Pick’  Cemex will have no problem making debt payments, Natalia Corfield, a corporate analyst at ING in  New York , said in an a
report dated Sept. 12.  The company has sold $2.45 billion of debt overseas this
year to help repay the bank debt. It has 4.1 billion pesos ($334
million) of local bonds and about $195 million of bank debt
outside the financing agreement that matures through the end of
2013. It’s scheduled to make $8.1 billion in debt payments in
2014.  “Cemex is my top pick,” Corfield said in an e-mail. “We
do not see refinancing risks in the next few years.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 7 basis points
to 235 at 5:47 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso fell 0.8 percent to 13.2299 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in April 2013 rose 2 basis points to 5.01 percent.  Bond Rebound  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose five basis points today to 174, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Cemex’s bonds will rebound as concern the U.S. may fall
into recession eases, according to  Guillermo Rodriguez , who
helps manage about $5.5 billion at Corp. Actinver SAB.  “The company isn’t that bad,” Rodriguez said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “The fundamentals of the
company haven’t changed. My scenario is that the U.S. won’t fall
into a second recession. The economy will grow more slowly than
expected, but there will be a recovery.”  Cemex’s rating was cut seven levels by  Standard & Poor’s 
over a 10-month span ending August 2009 after the company
boosted debt levels to pay for the $14.2 billion acquisition of
Rinker Group Ltd. in 2007. The Rinker purchase formed part of a
two-decade, $29 billion acquisition spree by Chief Executive
Officer Lorenzo Zambrano, whose grandfather founded the company
in 1906.  ‘Remain Strong’  Christopher Buck , a corporate debt analyst at Barclays,
said in a Sept. 15 report that Cemex will be able to weather the
slowdown in Mexico and the U.S. Growing aversion to higher-
yielding assets globally means the company’s bonds are unlikely
to rebound in the “near term,” he said in the report.  “We expect cement demand will remain strong even if
economic conditions come under pressure,” Buck wrote, referring
to demand in Mexico.  JPMorgan analysts including Isabela Bacchi recommended on
Sept. 15 that investors take an “overweight” position on Cemex
bonds due in 2014, 2015 and 2017.  “Prices and valuations have gone too far,” the analysts
wrote.  Eric Ollom, a New York-based credit strategist at Citigroup
who recommended investors buy Cemex’s bonds due in 2018 last
month, declined to comment further.  “It’s a good time to buy the bonds if you can stomach the
volatility,” Ollom said in a telephone interview last month.  Bondholders may have to wait until 2012 for a rally in the
securities, said Gonzalez at Miller Tabak Roberts. Demand may
remain tepid until then, he said.  “I don’t expect Cemex to rebound from one day to
another,” Gonzalez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  