-- 
China Says It May Regulate Corporate Structure Used for Overseas Listings

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-09-20T06:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/china-says-it-may-regulate-corporate-structure-used-for-overseas-listings.html
China  may regulate a corporate
investment structure that enables domestic companies to list
overseas, a Commerce Ministry spokesman said.  “There are currently no laws or regulations to regulate
VIE,” Shen Danyang, a ministry spokesman, said at a regular
briefing in Beijing today, referring to  variable-interest
entities . “Mofcom and other related government agencies are
studying ways to regulate such investment.”  The government’s position on the VIE structure, which
allows foreign investors to tap  cash flow  from Chinese companies
where foreign investment is restricted, became unclear after
Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd.’s e-payment affiliate Alipay
dismantled its VIE structure following discussions with the
People’s Bank of China. At least 42 percent of Chinese
businesses listed on the New York Stock Exchange or  Nasdaq  use
the structure, including Baidu Inc. and Sina Corp.  Shen didn’t elaborate on the ministry’s discussions.  Already-listed companies may not be affected by a change in
the government’s position on the structure, while private
companies with foreign investors and plans to list may face new
challenges. said  Paul Boltz , a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP.  “Many funds have made investments through this structure
in companies that are not yet listed,” Boltz said. “There’s a
significant queue of companies trying to get to IPO that would
be affected.”  In a VIE arrangement, foreign partners in Chinese companies
agree to provide technical services in exchange for a share of
revenue, avoiding restrictions imposed by the Chinese government
that bar direct investment by foreigners in sectors including
telecommunications, software, steel making, education and
agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  