-- 
China Growth Forecasts Trimmed by IMF as Worldwide Export Demand Softens

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-20T16:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/china-growth-forecasts-trimmed-by-imf-as-export-demand-softens.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its  China  growth estimates for this year and next and indicated
that a stronger yuan would help to contain inflation and
rebalance the economy.  Gross domestic product will grow 9.5 percent this year,
less than a June estimate of 9.6 percent, the Washington-based
lender said yesterday in its World Economic Outlook report,
citing policy tightening and moderating external demand. The
2012 forecast was lowered to 9 percent from 9.5 percent.  China has offered a bright spot amid a deepening debt
crisis in  Europe  and the threat of renewed recession in the U.S.
At the same time, the nation needs to move more quickly to boost
domestic demand as part of rebalancing the global economy for
more stable and sustainable growth, the IMF said.  For the world as a whole, “the forecast is for an increase
rather than a decrease in imbalances,”  Olivier Blanchard , the
IMF’s economic counselor, said in the report.  China needs to raise the contribution of household
consumption to growth, according to yesterday’s report.
Investment growth “has decelerated with the unwinding of the
fiscal stimulus but it remains the principal contributor to
growth.”  Strengthening the nation’s social safety net and shifting
the focus of the financial sector toward household rather than
corporate lending “would provide much needed support to global
demand rebalancing,” it said.  ‘Undervalued’ Currency  Misalignment in exchange rates globally has changed little
over the past six months, the IMF said in its report. The yuan
“still appears substantially undervalued.”  For economies in emerging  Asia , “further exchange-rate
flexibility remains a key policy priority,” it said. In
countries with current-account surpluses and rising foreign-
exchange reserves, “a stronger  exchange rate , combined with
structural reforms would raise domestic purchasing power and
allow external rebalancing, while also containing inflation
pressure.”  The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  five
times in the past year and curbed lending by boosting banks’
reserve requirements to a record to help rein in consumer prices
that jumped 6.5 percent in July from a year earlier, the most in
three years. Gains eased to 6.2 percent last month.  Property Curbs  Although inflationary pressure remains, tighter monetary
policy and curbs on property lending and home purchases “have
been gaining traction,” the IMF said, noting that growth in
property prices and credit “have softened from recent record
levels.”  Monetary policy  in China could be made more transparent and
effective by relying more on interest rates than quantitative
measures of monetary control, the IMF said. The country needs to
make more progress in financial liberalization, including the
use of market-determined interest rates, it said.  This would “create incentives for financial institutions
to better manage their market risks; remove the artificially low
cost of capital, which favors investment over consumption; and
at the same time strengthen the transmission of monetary
policy,” according to the report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  