-- 
China’s Growing Class of Wealthy Are Youngest in Asia Ex-Japan, HSBC Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-09-20T07:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/china-s-growing-class-of-wealthy-are-youngest-in-asia-ex-japan-hsbc-says.html
Wealthy people in  China  are the
youngest among eight Asian economies and their numbers are
poised to surpass counterparts in the region’s developed
markets, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The average age of people in China with liquid assets of at
least 500,000 yuan ($78,000) is 36, compared with 48 in Hong
Kong and 38 in Indonesia, according to an HSBC report released
today that also covered Australia, India, Malaysia, Singapore
and Taiwan.  “They’re all in their 30s -- the wealth accumulation
phase,” Bruno Lee, HSBC’s Asia-Pacific head of wealth
management, said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “You
will not be surprised to see this group of people becoming
bigger and bigger. At some point, it’s possible that the number
will surpass that in the mature markets.”  HSBC,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are among
global banks expanding in Asia, where economic growth and wealth
creation are outpacing the U.S. and  Europe . Signs of a global
slowdown fueled by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis are likely to
prompt Asia’s wealthy to invest more locally, Lee said.  “The euro debt crisis and the global financial crisis have
increased risk aversion among the investors,” he said. “They
prefer to invest in places closer to their home base.”  Looking to China  More than a quarter of affluent Asians plan to invest in
greater China and Southeast Asian funds and equities in the next
six months, according to the report.  Asian stocks fell today after Italy’s credit rating was
lowered at  Standard & Poor’s , fueling concern Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1.1
percent at 3:46 p.m. in  Tokyo , extending losses to 16 percent
since the end of July.  So-called mass affluent clients in  Hong Kong  have at least
HK$1 million ($128,000) of liquid assets each, while those in
Singapore have a minimum of S$200,000 ($158,000), the HSBC
report said.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest bank,
said today it plans to increase its private banking headcount in
China.  The country’s billionaires rose to a record 146, Forbes
said this month in its 2011 China rich list. Among the
billionaires who are under 40 is Yang Huiyan, the controlling
shareholder of property developer Country Garden Holdings Co.  Millionaires from the country may account for about half of
the rich people across 10 major economies in Asia by 2015,
according to a study by Julius Baer Group and CLSA  Asia  Pacific
Markets released last month.  "Over the next five, 10 years, the growth in high net worth
will be structurally a much stronger story in Asia compared to
other parts of the world," Amar Gill, head of special projects
research at CLSA said today at a conference in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  