-- 
China Endorsing Tobacco in Schools Adds to $10 Trillion Cost

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T08:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/china-endorsing-tobacco-in-schools-adds-to-10-trillion-gdp-cost.html
In dozens of rural villages in
 China ’s western provinces, one of the first things primary
school kids learn is what made their education possible: tobacco.  “On the gates of these schools, you’ll see slogans that
say ‘Genius comes from hard work -- Tobacco helps you become
talented,’” said Xu Guihua, secretary general of the privately
funded lobby group  Chinese Association on Tobacco Control . The
schools are sponsored by local units of China’s government-owned
monopoly cigarette maker. “They are pinning their hopes on
young people taking up smoking.”  Anti-tobacco groups say efforts to reduce sales in the
world’s largest cigarette consumer, such as a ban on smoking in
public places introduced in May, have been hampered by light
penalties, a lack of education about the dangers of smoking and
the fact that the regulator, the  State Tobacco Monopoly
Administration , also runs the world’s biggest cigarette maker,
China National Tobacco Corp.  China has more than 320 million smokers, a third of the
world’s total, and about 1 million Chinese die from tobacco-
related illnesses every year. Reducing mortality in the country
from cardiovascular diseases, for which smoking is a main risk
factor, by 1 percent a year over the three decades to 2040 could
generate economic value equal to 68 percent of China’s 2010 real
gross domestic product, or $10.7 trillion, according to a  World
Bank   report  published in July.  “Despite the strong will of the government to implement
smoking control policies,” the volume of cigarettes sold in
China is expected to keep rising from 2011 to 2015, London-based
researcher Euromonitor International said in a July report. It
forecasts China’s tobacco market will grow at an average 14
percent a year to hit 1.8 trillion yuan in retail sales in 2015.  Sales Rising  The tobacco industry grew at an average annual rate of 19
percent from 2006 to 2010, according to State Tobacco. Last year,
earnings rose 17 percent to 605 billion yuan ($95 billion),
including 499 billion yuan in taxes. About 53 percent of Chinese
men and 2.4 percent of women smoke, according to a 2010  survey 
by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.  While China’s laws ban tobacco advertising on radio,
television and in newspapers, they “do not have clear
restrictions on sales and sponsorship activities,” according to
a report published in January by Yang Gonghuan, a former deputy
director of China’s Center for Disease Control, and Tsinghua
University professor Hu Angang. The report, titled “Tobacco
Control and China’s Future”, cited the example of a Chinese
cigarette brand that sponsored a TV series, ensuring that the
name appeared during the closing credits.  The European Union banned all tobacco advertising in its
member states in 2005. Last year, new U.S. rules ended the
industry’s backing of sports like Nascar racing.  ‘Healthy Mothers’  Other tobacco sponsorship in China includes funding for 42
primary school libraries in Xinjiang and 40 in  Tibet  in
September 2010, and a 10 million yuan donation in Nov 2010 to a
Chinese women’s development fund for a “Healthy Mothers’
Express” campaign, the report said. China National Tobacco,
lists charitable activities on its  website , including a 5
million yuan donation this month for drought-hit Yunnan province.  In a survey of more than 2,000 adults conducted in 2009 by
the Chinese Association on Tobacco Control, 7 percent had a good
impression of the tobacco industry because of its charity work,
while 18 percent said they would pick a cigarette brand based on
involvement in such activities.  State Tobacco’s press office didn’t respond to requests for
interviews or a faxed list of questions about sponsorship.  China decided to create a tobacco monopoly in the 1980s
when the industry supplied more than 10 percent of government
revenue, said Wang Shiyong, the World Bank’s senior health
specialist in Beijing. Today, tobacco contributes 6.7 percent,
according to figures from Yang and Hu’s report.  Internal Lobbying  “Especially in tobacco-growing provinces like Yunnan and
Guizhou, the tobacco industry is a very important part of local
government income,” said Wang. “There is a lot of internal
government lobbying to make sure the health consequences of
smoking are not addressed.”  The lack of awareness is an issue lung surgeon Liu Deruo is
trying to address, starting in his own hospital. Liu lit his
first cigarette in 1974 while forced to work in a tobacco field
in northeast China during the Cultural Revolution.  “All the farmers I worked with smoked, so I also smoked,”
said the 55-year-old head of thoracic surgery at Beijing’s
 China-Japan Friendship Hospital , who quit after going to medical
college. He persuaded the 15 surgeons who work for him also to
kick the habit. “Now I tell my doctors they are allowed to
smoke only in my office, and nobody dares to do so.”  Liu’s campaign is part of an effort to get doctors to lead
reforms in people’s lifestyles.  ‘Role Models’  “Doctors’ smoking behavior is of particular importance,”
said Sarah  England , technical officer at the  Tobacco Free
Initiative  of the  World Health Organization  in China. “They are
role models for their patients and for the general public.”  A government survey found that two in five male doctors
light up every day in China. When Liu took over his department
in 2001, 94 percent of the doctors smoked, he said.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , whose Champix is the main prescription anti-
smoking drug sold in China, funded a three-year program from
2008 to set up 60 smoke-free hospitals in Beijing,  Shanghai  and
Guangzhou to help doctors quit. Smoking among the hospitals’
leadership more than halved to 8.4 percent from 19.1 percent,
while overall rates for doctors fell to 6.8 percent from 10.7
percent, said Neena Moorjani, a spokeswoman for the New York-
based drugmaker in an e-mail.  Western Images  The education drive has a way to go. Only one in four
adults in China believe exposure to tobacco smoke causes heart
diseases and lung cancer, and the percentage for smokers is even
lower -- 22 percent -- according to the 2010 Global Adult
Tobacco Survey for China.  “Socially, smoking is still part of everyday life in China
and images, many from the West, still glamorize smoking,” said
Linda Sarna, a professor at the University of  California ,  Los
Angeles ’ School of Nursing, in an e-mail. “Quitting smoking is
still not the norm,” said Sarna, who is recruiting 1,000 nurses
at four Beijing hospitals for a new smoking intervention  program .  China National Tobacco is one of the country’s biggest
employers, with 510,000 staff and its monopoly on production has
meant international rivals have made little progress in the
country. The state cigarette maker controlled 97.9 percent of
the market in 2010, followed by  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) 
with 0.6 percent,  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  with 0.3
percent, and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  with 0.1 percent, according to
Euromonitor.  Closed Market  Philip Morris , the world’s second-biggest tobacco company,
 entered the market  in 2008 after signing a license for China
National Tobacco to produce Marlboros at two factories.  “For now, the Chinese market is pretty much closed,”
Chief Financial Officer Herman Waldemer said at a conference on
Sept. 7. “There is a complete monopoly on it. We are developing
our relationships.”  In addition to State Tobacco’s control of the industry, it
is also part of the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology , which chairs the eight-member body tasked with
implementing the WHO’s  Framework Convention on Tobacco Control 
in China, said Xu, a former deputy director at the Chinese
Center for Disease Control and Prevention.  “The government and the industry are in the same body --
the regulator is also the enterprise,” she said.  Judith Mackay, a senior policy adviser to the World Health
Organization, said the power of the tobacco industry in China
made it more difficult to address the problem.  Health Warnings  “An amazing number of things in China come under the
jurisdiction of the tobacco industry,” she said. “The health
warnings on cigarettes for example. It’s not under the Health
Ministry. There’s clearly a set of conflict of interests.”  Mackay was attending a United Nations meeting on Sept. 19-
20 at which global leaders backed a plan to fight non-
communicable diseases such as  lung cancer , including proposals
to curb tobacco use.  Regional units of China’s tobacco monopoly fund more than
100 primary schools throughout the country, such as the Sichuan
Tobacco Hope Primary School, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported in  May . Some are named after top-selling brands like
Hongta, which means red pagoda, or Zhongnanhai, named after the
compound next to the Forbidden City where China’s top leaders
live and work.  “We’ve been trying to get the Ministry of Education to
stop the  tobacco companies  from sponsoring these schools,” said
Xu. “But the ministry wants us to show them proof that this is
causing harm.”  --Daryl Loo. Editors: Adam Majendie, Bret Okeson.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7540 or  dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  