-- 
Chinese Stocks in the U.S.: Baidu, NetEase, Sina, Sohu Decline

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-20T21:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/chinese-stocks-in-the-u-s-baidu-netease-sina-sohu-decline.html
The Bank of New York Mellon  China 
ADR Index, which tracks American depositary receipts, fell 0.9
percent to 383. The New York Stock Exchange China Index dropped
1.8 percent to 230.68. The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.4
percent to 2,447.76.  The following companies were among the most active Chinese
shares in New York trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are as of the close of trading at 4 p.m. New York time.  China may regulate a corporate investment structure that
enables domestic companies to list overseas, a Commerce Ministry
spokesman said today in Beijing. The ministry and other related
government agencies are studying ways to regulate variable-
interest entities (VIE), structures that allow foreign investors
to tap  cash flow  from Chinese companies where foreign investment
is restricted, said Shen Daiyang, a ministry spokesman.  Sina Corp. (SINA US), owner of China’s third-most popular
website, tumbled 15 percent, the most since December 2008, to
$92.76.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  , operator of China’s fifth-most
visited website, sank 5.6 percent to $64.77, the lowest close
since January.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU US), China’s biggest Internet company by
market value, fell 3.9 percent, the most in a month, to $139.94.  NetEase.com (NTES)  Inc, the second-biggest online games
operator, declined 2.1 percent to a four-week low of $43.68.  Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (SNDA)   dropped 1.2
percent, the most in a week, to $34.58. The owner of China’s
third-biggest provider of online games said today it will hold
an annual general meeting of shareholders in  Hong Kong  on Oct.
11. Shareholders will vote for directors of the company, it said
in a regulatory filing.  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM)  , a Vancouver-based Chinese
silver mine owner which was accused of fraud in an anonymous
letter last month, climbed 0.7 percent to $7.02. North American
securities regulators need to protect consumers from short
sellers who spread rumors to depress a stock price, Silvercorp’s
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rui Feng said today in a
speech to miners and investors at a forum in  Colorado Springs ,
 Colorado .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  