-- 
China Causing ‘Growing Frustrations’ With Curbs on Businesses, Locke Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-20T10:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/china-business-climate-causing-growing-frustrations-locke.html
U.S. Ambassador to  China   Gary Locke 
said the Asian country’s business climate is leading to
“growing frustrations” among business and government leaders
abroad, planting “seeds of doubt” in the minds of investors.  “There is a gap between the goals China identified in its
five-year plan and the steps it is taking to achieve them,”
Locke told U.S. business executives in Beijing. “Goals like
expanding domestic consumption and fostering innovation require
an acceleration and expansion of the economic reforms China has
undertaken in the last few decades.”  Business groups including the Beijing-based  American
Chamber of Commerce in China , which hosted Locke today, are
increasingly concerned that China aims to boost its companies
through subsidies and anticompetitive rules at the expense of
foreign companies. The European Union Chamber of Commerce in
China said this month that discriminatory laws and regulations
still impede its members in the world’s second-largest economy.  Locke said that foreign businesses face “substantial
restrictions” in industries from “health care to energy to
financial services and several others.” To ease investor
doubts, Locke said China should abolish restrictive practices
like requiring “joint ventures in so many fields” and allowing
both local and foreign companies to “make investment decisions
without expansive government interference.”  Credit Cards  Access for financial firms was an area of concern, Locke
said, singling out credit cards where he said China’s
restrictions had created a domestic monopoly that failed to best
serve consumers’ needs. State-owned banks were also skewed
toward serving government-sector companies, he said.  “A more open and diverse Chinese financial system would
help spur China’s economic reform efforts by helping finance the
most dynamic firms in the economy and by putting more money in
the pockets of the Chinese people through better savings
options,” Locke said.  Foreign companies are shut out of industries such as
mining, power generation and transportation altogether through
China’s policy of selecting “national champions,” he said.  China’s policies deny its companies from receiving
technology, management skills and jobs that more investment
would bring, as well as “creating seeds of doubt in the minds
of foreign investors as to whether they are truly welcome in
China,” he said.  Mutual Benefit  In an interview with Bloomberg Television following the
speech, Locke said more Chinese openness to U.S. goods would
help the country meet its goal of shifting away from an
investment-heavy growth model to one based more on consumption.  “We believe that the introduction of American companies,
the participation by American companies, will actually benefit
the Chinese,” Locke said in the interview.  In a report in March, AmCham found 24 percent of
respondents to an annual business climate survey said China’s
economic reforms had done nothing to improve the environment for
U.S. businesses in the country, up from 9 percent who said the
same in a poll released last year.  China’s government hasn’t lived up to Premier Wen Jiabao’s
pledge last year that foreign companies would receive equal
treatment, the EU chamber said in a report released Sept. 8.  Carmakers must take a Chinese partner and are limited to a
50 percent stake in their ventures, while telecommunication
companies are effectively shut out from the world’s biggest
mobile phone market, the report said. Foreign banks’ ownership
of domestic financial firms is capped at 20 percent and overseas
wind-turbine makers must tie up with local rivals on the grounds
of “national security,” it said.  Locke said China’s reform process would be aided by letting
its currency, known as the yuan or renminbi, appreciate.  Global Responsibility  “Allowing the renminbi to appreciate more rapidly would
help reduce inflation, including the price of goods and services
coming into China, allowing Chinese consumers to buy more with
the income that they have,” he said.  Locke said China had a responsibility as the world’s
second-biggest economy to help revive global growth, adding that
reforms and greater  market access  were “critical to creating
jobs in America.”  Wen this month said developed nations shouldn’t rely on
China to bail out the world economy, and must cut deficits and
free up their own markets. The U.S. should “ditch”
protectionist measures and “open their arms” to Chinese
investments, Xinhua News Agency said in a commentary today.  ‘Houses in Order’  “Countries must first put their own houses in order,” Wen
said Sept. 14 at the  World Economic Forum  in the Chinese city of
Dalian. “Developed countries must take responsible fiscal and
monetary policies.”  China had a “huge stake” in ensuring the health of the
U.S. economy, Locke said in the interview. The U.S. is China’s
biggest single trading partner, and the $273.1 billion  U.S.
trade deficit  with China last year was equivalent to about 5
percent of China’s gross domestic product.  “It is in their economic self-interest to have a strong
and growing  U.S. economy  where more people in America are
working,” Locke said.  Locke, 61, a former governor of  Washington  from 1997 to
2005, also represented the state in Congress from 1982 to 1993.
From 2005 to 2008, he was a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine
LLP, a business and litigation law firm that represents clients
in the U.S. and China.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  