-- 
Chipotle’s Ells Was Inspired by Thailand Noodle Binge

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-20T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/chipotle-s-ells-says-two-week-thailand-noodle-binge-inspired-asian-eatery.html
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  Chief
Executive Officer Steve Ells said his new restaurant, ShopHouse
Southeast Asian Kitchen, was born during a two-week eating spree
in Thailand and  Singapore  last year.  “I was very inspired by Southeast Asian food and the fact
that it would lend itself to the Chipotle format,” Ells, 46,
said in an interview yesterday.  Along with Tim Wildin, Chipotle’s concept developer, Ells
sampled noodle soups and curries at family-run storefronts, took
cooking classes and visited local markets during the two week
visit to  Asia . Last week, Denver-based Chipotle opened the first
ShopHouse in  Washington ’s Dupont Circle, and optimism the
restaurant may grow into a successful chain contributed to a
recent climb for the company’s shares.  Ells, a classically trained chef who opened the first
Chipotle in 1993, spent more than a year cooking and fiddling
with the ShopHouse  menu . The restaurant expands Chipotle beyond
burritos and guacamole, yet sticks to the chain’s serving-line
set-up where diners customize their meals.  At ShopHouse, customers choose between rice and noodles
topped with ingredients such as grilled chicken satay, organic
tofu, pork meatballs, Chinese broccoli and eggplant. The bowls
go for $6.50 to $7.50, compared with $7 to $8 for a Chipotle
burrito. They’re also hawking traditional banh mi Vietnamese
sandwiches with green papaya slaw and crushed peanuts, which
were added to the menu in the final hour -- six weeks from open,
Wildin said in an interview this week.  ‘Tweaking Things’  “Right up to opening we were tweaking things,” he said.
The day before the grand opening, Wildin said he had to reprint
the burlap-sack-like paper menus after they decided to serve the
spicy charred corn hot instead of cold.  While the first restaurant came together relatively
quickly, don’t expect ShopHouse stores to start springing up
across the U.S. -- there are no more locations planned now, Ells
said.  “It’s too early to talk about what the next steps are,”
he said.  Still, investors are betting Chipotle may duplicate its
namesake chain’s success with ShopHouse. The company advanced
3.2 percent to a record $346.78 yesterday in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading before falling 0.9 percent to $333.19
after CNBC’s  Jim Cramer  said the stock was up “too much.”
Chipotle has climbed 5.5 percent since Sept. 14, before
ShopHouse opened.  ‘More Optimistic’  “People are getting more optimistic about” the new
restaurant, Bart Glenn, an analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co. in
 Lake Oswego ,  Oregon , said in an interview.  Investors also may be flocking to the company for its
overall domestic growth potential, he said. Revenue at Chipotle,
which operates more than 1,100 U.S. stores, climbed 22 percent
to $571.6 million in the quarter ended June 30, the Denver-based
company said in July, marking the fifth straight quarter in
which sales increased at least 20 percent.  “Even with just the core Chipotle U.S. stores, there’s an
awful lot of runway ahead,” said Glenn, who advises buying the
shares.  A ShopHouse expansion wouldn’t be without challenges, said
Peter Saleh, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York who
estimates ShopHouse may grow to 50 stores in five years.  While Americans are “looking for something different,
something unique,” ShopHouse would compete with fast-casual
restaurants, such as Smashburger, Five Guys Burgers and Fries
and  Panera Bread Co. (PNRA) , for prime real estate, he said.  ‘Bare Bones’  ShopHouse, which seats about 45 customers, was inspired by
stores in Thailand, Malaysia and  Vietnam  where families live
upstairs and run restaurants on the ground floor.  Traditional shophouses are not “known for their
accouterments,” said Thaddeus Briner, an architect at  New York- 
based Architecture Outfit who designed ShopHouse. “They’re kind
of bare bones.”  At ShopHouse, a lineup of about 50 hot-sauce bottles is the
only wall decoration -- most of the color comes from the bright
food and sauces such as spicy red curry or tamarind vinaigrette.
Briner said he considered lining the walls with rice paper and
installing bamboo floors before deciding both were too cliche.  “You want to bring something that is kind of memorable
without relying on a sort of caricature of Southeast Asian
food,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  