-- 
Clinton Global Summit Explores Art, Sax Lessons Easing Violence

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/clinton-global-summit-explores-art-sax-lessons-easing-violence.html
As world and business leaders
gather in  New York  today for the  Clinton Global Initiative , one
group of experts will ponder how painting classes or guitar
lessons can help curb youth violence around the world.  “In a lot of the poorest countries we’re trying to help,
the level of violence is a continuous undercurrent,” former
U.S. President  Bill Clinton  said in a phone interview. “There’s
an enormous amount of evidence that shows that giving people an
opportunity for creative expression improves their ability to
learn in school and increases their ability and desire to
navigate life in a positive rather than a negative way.”  The summit’s “From Conflict to Creativity” meeting on
Thursday expands the scope of the 7-year-old Global Initiative
beyond its core focus on global health,  climate change , gender-
gap issues and improving infrastructure. Participants in the
meeting, subtitled  “Reducing Violence Through the Arts,”  will
discuss ways in which innovative arts instruction can reduce
violence and rescue at-risk children.  The panelists include Irina Bokova, director-general of the
 Unesco,  Gary Knell, president and chief executive of  Sesame
Workshop , and Alvaro Maldonado, founding director of the
Washington-based Ballet Teatro Internacional.  When his staff pitched the idea of discussing art, Clinton
said he approved it quickly. A standout tenor saxophone player
in high school, Clinton said his interest in music as a youth
had “a great deal to do with his success” as a political
leader.  “It taught me discipline and teamwork on the one hand and
the importance of creativity,” he said.  Arkansas  Program  Clinton points to the  THEA Foundation  in his native
Arkansas as an example of an arts program that proves the merits
of including art instruction in the schools. Based in North
Little Rock, the nonprofit advocacy group gives scholarships to
high-school seniors and art supplies to public schools lacking
financial resources.  “Every place they’ve done this program, you see a
reduction in the dropout rate and an increase in the academic
performance of the young people,” Clinton said. “Having strong
arts instruction supports learning in a very substantial way.”  The Global Initiative matches businesses and
philanthropists with nonprofits and nongovernmental
organizations to solve problems. Since 2005, CGI has secured
more than 2,000 commitments between businesses and nonprofit
programs. Boosting jobs and sustainability and empowering women
and girls are among the main discussion topics on the agenda.  Obama, Yunus  Leaders scheduled to attend the meeting at Manhattan’s
Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers include U.S. President  Barack
Obama ; Secretary of State  Hillary Rodham Clinton ; Nobel laureate
 Muhammad Yunus , chairman of the Yunus Centre; Harvard Professor
Paul Farmer, co-founder of the Partners in Health nonprofit,
which has provided health care in  Haiti ; the singer Sting; and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive  Bob Diamond .  With more U.S. schools cutting back or not offering music
instruction in the past decade, Clinton said corporate and
foundation support will be needed to bolster art instruction.  “As the economy comes back, I think more and more school
districts will be willing to fund or at least have joint funding
with the foundation world.”  Clinton said that as his annual summit expands its focus to
include art and gender-gap issues, he hopes it will be
remembered years later as a “global network of givers” who
worked together to provide services not supplied by the private
sector.  “When I started this, I didn’t know if anyone would ever
come,” he said. “Here we are inviting people to the joys of
 Manhattan  when the  United Nations  (General Assembly) is in town,
and they actually have to pay to go to a meeting in the city,
and they can only come back if they promise to do something.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 