-- 
Coca-Cola Femsa to Buy Bottler Cimsa for 11 Billion Pesos

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-09-20T16:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/coca-cola-femsa-to-buy-bottler-cimsa-for-11-billion-pesos-1-.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB,  Latin
America ’s largest Coke bottler, said it will account for half of
Mexico’s Coca-Cola sales after completing an agreement to buy
the bottling operations of  Grupo Cimsa  with new shares.  The transaction, valued at 11 billion pesos ($837 million)
in stock and assumed debt, tops the acquisition of Mexican
bottler Grupo Tampico for 6.55 billion pesos of shares and 2.75
billion pesos of debt announced by the Mexico-City based company
in June. Tampico was Coca-Cola Femsa’s largest purchase since it
bought Panamerican Beverages Inc. for $3.6 billion in 2003.  The acquisition announced yesterday of Cimsa, a closely
held company that sells Coca-Cola products mostly in the central
states of Morelos and  Mexico , marks the second transaction this
year in which Coca-Cola Femsa offered shares instead of cash.
That’s designed to reduce resistance by family-owned companies
to sell out and exit the soft-drink business completely.  The consolidation of Coke bottlers in Mexico “is likely to
continue as third-generation owners of smaller Coke bottling
operations swap their controlling equity stakes for minority
positions in a larger bottler,” Alan Alanis, a New York-based
analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report today.  Coca-Cola Femsa rose 1.89 pesos, or 1.5 percent, to
124.87 pesos in Mexico City trading at 12:05 p.m. New York time.
The shares gained 20 percent this year before today.  The agreement with Cuernavaca, Mexico-based Cimsa
“confirms that our company represents an attractive,
transparent and diversified investment vehicle for families that
have been in the beverage industry for a long time,” Chief
Executive Officer Carlos Salazar said in a statement.  Mexico Consolidation  The Cimsa and Tampico transactions follow the merger,
completed in June, of Mexico’s second-largest and third-largest
Coke bottlers to form Arca Continental SAB. There are now eight
family-owned Coca-Cola bottlers left in Mexico that may be
targets for Coca-Cola Femsa or Arca Continental, said Alanis,
the JPMorgan analyst. He rates Coca-Cola Femsa “neutral.”  Shareholders of Cimsa, whose bottling operations are called
Corporacion de los Angeles SA, will receive 75.4 million newly
issued Coca-Cola Femsa shares valued at 118 pesos each, the
companies said yesterday. Coca-Cola Femsa will absorb net debt
of 2.1 billion pesos.  Cost Savings  Cimsa, which also has operations in the states of Guerrero
and Michoacan, is forecast to sell 159 million unit cases this
year, Coca-Cola Femsa said. A 13.2 percent stake in Promotora
Industrial Azucarera SA, a Mexican sugar company, is included in
the acquisition. Cimsa’s bottling unit is forecast to have 2011
revenue of 4.79 billion pesos and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization -- a measure of  cash flow 
known as Ebitda -- of 1.1 billion pesos, Coca-Cola Femsa said.  The 2011 estimated Ebitda margin for Cimsa is 23 percent,
higher than 20 percent for Coca-Cola Femsa in this year’s first
half,  Luis Miranda , an analyst at the Mexican unit of Banco
Santander SA, wrote in a report today. He recommends buying
Coca-Cola Femsa shares.  “We view this news as positive,” Miranda wrote. “The
operation is accretive from the operating side.”  The company expects to achieve annual cost savings of more
than 260 million pesos from Cimsa’s bottling unit because it
touches Coca-Cola Femsa’s territories on three sides, Hector Trevino, the company’s chief financial officer, said in a
telephone interview. The amount of “synergies” allowed the
company to pay 10 times annual Ebitda, compared with 9.6 times
for Tampico, he said. Cost savings with Tampico will be in a
range of 180 million pesos to 270 million pesos, Trevino said.  ‘Very Achievable’  “We’re very sure that the 260 million pesos of annual
synergies is very achievable and perhaps a bit conservative
because of the proximity,” he said.  After the issue of new shares for the acquisition, Cimsa
will own 3.8 percent of Coca-Cola Femsa.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s stake
in the company will drop to 29.4 percent from 30.6 percent and
Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB will have about 50 percent, down
from 51.9 percent. Tampico will hold 3.2 percent, and the
remaining 13.6 percent of the shares trade publicly.  Cimsa operates three bottling plants and 18 distribution
centers and has 4,600 employees.  Coca-Cola Femsa and Cimsa will seek shareholder approval in
special meetings. The transaction also requires approval from
Mexico’s antitrust agency and Coca-Cola Co., according to Coca-
Cola Femsa’s statement. Coca-Cola Femsa will hold a conference
call tomorrow at 11 a.m. New York time to discuss the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  