-- 
British Telecommunications Sued by Comcast in U.S. Over Network Patents

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/comcast-corp-sues-british-telecommunications-over-eight-network-patents.html
A unit of  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s
biggest fixed-line phone company, was sued by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the
largest U.S. cable-television provider, which seeks a ruling
that it doesn’t infringe eight BT patents.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, asked for a  jury trial  and
an award of legal fees from London-based BT Telecommunications
Plc in a complaint filed Sept. 19 in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  “There is substantial controversy of sufficient immediacy
and reality” between the companies “to warrant the issuance of
a declaratory judgment,” Comcast said in court papers. The
company also wants the BT patents ruled invalid.  Comcast, with revenue of $37.9 billion last year, operates
cable-TV systems and provides high-speed Internet and phone
services to homes and businesses. BT Group, with revenue of
about $31 billion last fiscal year, offers fixed and mobile
communications services in more than 170 countries.  “BT’s constant investment in innovation has seen it
develop a large portfolio of patents which are corporate assets,
so it is only right that we are seeking to protect that
investment,” Kris Kozamchak, a BT spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  The patents cover network-traffic management, pricing
methods, fault monitoring and other functions, according to
court papers.  Another Lawsuit  The lawsuit was filed in response to a motion by BT to
amend another patent lawsuit in the same court filed last year
against Cox Communications Inc. and Cable One Inc. asking for
unspecified treble damages. The amendment would add Comcast as a
defendant, according to a Sept. 1 filing.  Comcast lawyers said in a Sept. 19 letter to U.S. District
Judge Sue L. Robinson that adding Comcast would “expand many
times over” the process of document gathering, confuse the
issues and “strain the patience” of jurors.  The new case is Comcast Cable v. British
Telecommunications, 11CV843, U.S. District Court, District of
 Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 