-- 
ConAgra Looking at ‘a Number’ of Targets After Withdrawing Ralcorp Bid

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-09-20T20:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/conagra-quarterly-profit-trails-estimates-on-higher-food-costs.html
ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  Chief Executive
Officer Gary Rodkin said the maker of Banquet frozen meals and
Orville Redenbacher popcorn is looking at “a number” of
acquisition targets after it withdrew its offer for Ralcorp
Holdings Inc. yesterday.  Takeovers are “very high on our radar screen,” Rodkin
said today on a conference call, a day after ConAgra dropped its
$5.18 billion bid for Ralcorp, ending a pursuit that began in
March. “We certainly do have a number of different initiatives
that we are looking at,” said Rodkin, who also reiterated that
the company is “still focused on private label.” He declined
to identify potential targets for ConAgra, which today also
reported quarterly profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  ConAgra, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , is seeking to boost
sales of less expensive, store-brand foods as some shoppers
trade down because of the weak economy. Possible takeover
targets include  TreeHouse Foods Inc. (THS) , Snyders-Lance Inc., or J&J
Snack Foods Corp., according to  Alexia Howard , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in New York.  ”The theme this quarter was, ‘What are you going to do
next after Ralcorp?’”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis , said in an interview. ”Analysts want some
changes in their portfolio, and there is some frustration out
there.” Russo recommends holding the shares.  Net income in the quarter ended Aug. 28 fell 41 percent to
$85.3 million, or 21 cents a share, from $146.4 million, or 33
cents, a year earlier, according to a statement. Excluding costs
related to restructuring, profit was 29 cents, trailing the 31-
cent average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cost Inflation  ConAgra said its consumer foods unit, which includes
Banquet frozen meals and Slim Jim snacks, is grappling with
“severe” cost inflation. The company now projects food costs
to increase as much as 10 percent this year, up from a previous
estimate of a maximum of 8 percent.  Those costs, in part, will push second-quarter earnings per
share down from last year, when profit was 45 cents, the company
said. Analysts projected 46 cents, the average of 11 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. In response, ConAgra and other foodmakers
have raised prices.  ConAgra fell 40 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $22.99 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
advanced 1.8 percent this year.  “We knew the first quarter was nothing to write home
about, but when they said the second quarter would also be down,
the stock started tanking a bit,” Russo said.  Revenue rose 9.5 percent to $3.07 billion, led by a 19
percent gain in sales at its commercial foods unit, which makes
up about 38 percent of total revenue. ConAgra also reaffirmed
its full-year forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  