-- 
Cornyn Would Force Obama to Sell 66 Lockheed F-16s to Taiwan

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-20T19:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/cornyn-would-force-obama-to-sell-66-lockheed-f-16s-to-taiwan.html
U.S. Senator  John Cornyn  said today
he’ll seek to force the Obama administration to sell 66 new F-16
C/D jets to Taiwan by attaching a provision to a trade bill
before the Senate.  China opposes weapons sales to Taiwan, which it considers
one of its provinces. Cornyn, a Texas Republican, said in an
interview that the Obama administration has signaled it won’t
sell Taiwan the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  jets it has requested.  Cornyn said his staff members have been in communication
with the State Department about the Obama administration’s
decision not to sell the new F-16s to Taiwan. Instead, the Obama
administration plans to upgrade Taiwan’s older F-16 fighter
jets, according to Cornyn.  “That’s the message that I got,” Cornyn said in an
interview. “They are going to try and say that upgrading the
current fleet is satisfactory, and that is not satisfactory.”  Cornyn said he introduced an amendment to the generalized
system of preferences bill which serves as a vehicle for trade
adjustment assistance. The amendment is based on a bill Cornyn
introduced with New Jersey Democrat  Robert Menendez  last week,
called the Taiwan Airpower Modernization Act of 2011.
Connecticut Democrat Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut Independent
 Joe Lieberman , Oklahoma Republicans Tom Coburn and James Inhofe
and Arizona Republican Jon Kyl signed onto the Taiwan bill in
the Senate.  McCain Support  Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona said that he was
“leaning towards agreeing” with Cornyn on selling new F-16s to
Taiwan. McCain said in a short interview that he has “serious
concerns” about the Obama administration’s decision and said he
is waiting to be briefed on the details.  Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , builds the
F-16 fighter in  Fort Worth , Texas -- Cornyn’s state. The company
has said that, without a sale of new jets to Taiwan, orders for
the jet would continue production through 2013.  The Obama administration is required to aid the island
nation in its defense under the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act. The
administration also is seeking to improve economic, diplomatic
and defense relations with  China .  As of December, China’s military had as many as 1,200
short-range ballistic missiles deployed opposite Taiwan,
according to the U.S. Defense Department, which conducts an
annual assessment of the mainland’s military strength.  ‘On Beijing’s Terms’  “China continued modernizing its military in 2010, with a
focus on Taiwan contingencies, even as cross-Strait relations
have improved,” the department said in its latest annual report
released last month. The goal is “to deter Taiwan independence
and influence Taiwan to settle the disputes on Beijing’s
terms.”  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-Jeou urged during a May speech
via videolink to an audience in  Washington  that the
administration end years of stalling and provide the new F-16
C/D fighter jets his country had requested as long ago as 2006.
Upgrades of its existing 145 F-16 A/Bs also have been on hold.  U.S. officials have sought to press China to reveal more
about its military modernization program and its intentions, as
it develops weaponry that has the capability to thwart American
access in the region.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told a Senate committee
considering his nomination in June that China appeared to be
building the capability “to fight and win short-duration, high-
intensity conflicts” along its borders.  Possible Intervention  “Its near-term focus appears to be on preparing for
potential contingencies involving  Taiwan , including possible
U.S. military intervention,” Panetta said in a 79-page set of
answers to questions from the Senate Armed Services Committee in
advance of his hearing at the time.  The U.S.-Taiwan Business Council, an Arlington, Virginia-
based group of businesses with interests in Taiwan, is making an
economic argument in favor of allowing sales of new F-16s.  “The F-16 deal to Taiwan is potentially worth over $8.5
billion a year in gross economic activity,” council President
Rupert Hammond-Chambers said in a Sept. 14 telephone interview.
“You’re talking about supporting well over 20,000 jobs here in
the U.S. through the production of the F-16.”  In addition to the  production line  in Fort Worth,  Texas ,
subcontractors in Florida and  Ohio  would be affected, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  