-- 
Corporate, Sovereign Credit Swap Indexes Roll Into New Series

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-20T07:05:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/corporate-sovereign-credit-swap-indexes-roll-into-new-series.html
The latest series of indexes
measuring the cost of protecting against default on corporate
and sovereign bonds started trading today.  Gauges of credit-default swaps on companies in  Europe ,
 Asia ,  Japan  and  Australia  rolled into their 16th series. The
17th version of the Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade
Index also opens today as well as the sixth series of Markit’s
iTraxx SovX Indexes of sovereign credit.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings cost 807
basis points at 8 a.m. in London, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. That compares with 747 basis points on the previous series,
linked to 40 companies, at the close of trading yesterday.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings cost 191.75 basis points, compared with
186.75 yesterday. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on
the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers cost 299 and the
subordinated index cost 520 basis points.  New series of credit-default swap benchmarks are created
every six months when companies are added or dropped depending
on their ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading.  London-based Markit Group Ltd., which administers the
iTraxx and CDX indexes, changed the rules for inclusion to
reflect trading volumes published by the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., which runs a central repository for the market,
instead of a dealer poll. Markit created a governance committee
of the 12 largest dealers by trading volumes over the past year.  Crossover Index  Markit also created a supplementary list for the Crossover
index of companies without actively-traded swaps that have
issued a minimum of 500 million euros ($682 million) of new debt
in the past year and have at least one bond included in Markit’s
cash indexes. That change helped boost the size of the gauge,
with 12 companies replacing two that left because their cost of
protection had fallen.  Seven companies changed in the investment-grade index and
nine in Markit’s HiVol index of 30 riskiest high-grade
companies. Constituents of the financial gauges didn’t change.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  