-- 
Cowboys Quarterback Tony Romo May Play With Broken Rib, Punctured Lung

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/cowboys-quarterback-tony-romo-may-play-despite-broken-rib-punctured-lung.html
Quarterback  Tony Romo  may be able
to play in the  Dallas Cowboys ’ next game, eight days after
suffering a fractured rib that punctured one of his lungs.  “I wouldn’t think there’s any reason he won’t be able to
play Monday,” said Cowboys coach  Jason Garrett , whose team next
plays Sept. 26 against the  Washington Redskins . “We’re
certainly hopeful.”  Romo, a three-time Pro Bowl selection, was injured on the
third play of the Cowboys’ 27-24 overtime win against  San
Francisco  two days ago when he was hit by 49ers linebacker Ahmad Brooks. Romo missed most of the third quarter before completing
12 of 15 passes for 201 yards in the fourth quarter and overtime
to give the Cowboys their first win of the season.  Dallas said yesterday in a statement that Romo suffered a
pneumothorax, or a collapsed lung. The Cowboys said their
medical team will monitor Romo’s injuries and conduct additional
tests as the week progresses.  Dr. Selene Parekh, an associate professor in Duke
University’s Department of Orthopedic Surgery, said in an e-mail
that if a small pneumothorax is present, chest X-rays are
obtained every day to make sure that the air is going away. If
it enlarges, a chest tube may be needed.  Parekh also said most rib fractures are treated without
surgery, and that pain medication, anti-inflammatories, a brace,
ice and rest usually are enough to recover.  “As long as Romo’s pneumothorax stays small, and if his
pain is well controlled, he’ll be able to play this weekend,”
Parekh said. “However, he’ll likely be wearing extra protection
around his ribs.”  Romo missed 10 games last season after suffering a
fractured clavicle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  