-- 
Hong Kong Inflation Will Become a ‘Nightmare,’ Tao Dong Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-20T08:36:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/credit-suisse-economist-tao-says-hong-kong-property-s-peaked.html
Hong Kong ’s consumer prices will
keep rising and become a “nightmare” that will hurt the
economy, Tao Dong, chief economist for non-Japan  Asia  at Credit
Suisse AG said.  “Five percent inflation is the beginning of our inflation
nightmare,” Tao said at a briefing in Hong Kong today. He
expects inflation in the city will average 5.2 percent this year
and 5 percent next year.  Consumer prices in the city jumped the most since 1995 in
July and home sales have slowed as economic growth moderated.
Credit Suisse cut its forecast for Hong Kong’s expansion in 2011
and 2012 this month as faltering growth in the U.S. and Europe
crimps exports. Hong Kong has no monetary tools to curb
inflation because its currency is pegged to the  U.S. dollar .  The city’s inflation is fueled by gains in the Chinese
currency and “excessive monetary expansion” in the U.S., and
the Hong Kong government has no control over those, Tao said.
“Inflation is going to add tremendous pressure to business
costs and living costs.”  Consumer prices surged 7.9 percent from a year earlier in
July as food and rental costs jumped. Excluding distortions from
government subsidies for some households, the gain was 5.8
percent.  Credit Suisse this month lowered its estimate for Hong
Kong’s economic growth this year to 5 percent from a previous
forecast of 5.2 percent. It cut next year’s projection to 4
percent from 4.6 percent.  ‘Downward Cycle’  The city’s property market has begun a “downward cycle”
and prices may fall over the next three to four years amid the
European debt crisis and the likelihood the U.S. government will
withdraw its stimulus, Tao said.  The city’s home prices have jumped more than 70 percent
since the start of 2009, according to Centaline Property Agency,
the city’s biggest closely held real estate broker. Prices fell
for the first time in seven months in July after the government
introduced new housing curbs the previous month. Banks increased
 mortgage rates  last week to the highest in 28 months.  “Although property prices in Hong Kong peaked, we probably
won’t see a drastic decline because the banking sector is solid
and consumers are low-leveraged,” Tao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  