-- 
Oil Gains for First Time in Three Days as Concern About Debt Crisis Eases

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-09-20T12:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/crude-oil-futures-recover-in-new-york-as-euro-pares-losses-against-dollar.html
Crude oil rose for the first time
in three days as advancing European equity markets eased concern
that the region’s debt crisis is damping demand for fuel, while
investors bet that some supplies may be at risk.  Futures in  New York  gained as much as 1.4 percent, halting
a slide of more than 4 percent in the previous two trading days,
as the Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 1.6 percent. Opposition
fighters in Libya continued to battle loyalists at the town of
Bani Walid and the city of Sirte, while anti-government protests
in Yemen left 50 people dead this week.  “Given the scale of the price fall, we are seeing some
buying interest out there,” said Amrita Sen, a London-based
analyst at Barclays Plc. “The fundamentals still look robust
with demand, even after slowing down, outpacing supply growth.”  Oil for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  gained as much as $1.21 to $86.91 a barrel and was at
$86.75 a barrel at 12:48 p.m.  London  time. The contract fell 2.6
percent yesterday and will expire today. The more actively
traded November future was up $1.02 at $86.83 a barrel.  Brent crude  for November settlement was up $1.40 at $110.54
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The
contract yesterday fell 2.7 percent to $109.14 a barrel. The
European benchmark future was at a premium of $23.67 to the
November price of West Texas Intermediate, compared with a
record settlement of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  OPEC’s ‘Ideal Price’  Futures in New York closed at $85.70 a barrel yesterday,
the lowest level in more than three weeks, amid concerns about
the European debt crisis and after OPEC’s secretary-general
indicated that global consumption of oil is rising less quickly
than expected.  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries no longer see $75 a barrel as an ideal price, and the
group will discuss altering output levels in December should
Libyan production recover, OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El- Badri told reporters in Dubai today.  Libya  production slumped to as little as 45,000 barrels a
day last month from 1.6 million barrels at the beginning of the
year, according to Bloomberg estimates. Output may rise to 1
million barrels a day in six months, el-Badri said yesterday.  Supply disruption in North Africa, Nigeria, Angola and
Azerbaijan reduced global supply of light, sweet crude by 1.4
million barrels a day in the first eight months of the year,
according to Bank of America Corp.  “The physical Brent market remains tight as a drum,”
 Francisco Blanch , New York-based commodity strategist at the
bank, wrote in a report dated yesterday. Brent will average $102
a barrel in the fourth quarter, according to its estimates.  Saudi Inventories  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, cut exports
and increased inventories in July, a sign that demand worldwide
may be slowing. The kingdom pumped 9.6 million barrels a day,
down 2 percent from June, the Joint Organization Data Initiative
reported Sept. 18. The output was lower than earlier estimates
by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the
 International Energy Agency .  Greece  will talk today with its main creditors after a
“productive” round of discussions in a teleconference with
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union officials
yesterday aimed at staving off default, the Athens-based  finance
ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. crude oil supplies probably declined to an eight-month
low last week as refineries cut deliveries with the start of a
maintenance cycle, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Stockpiles
fell 1.5 million barrels, or 0.4 percent, to 344.9 million in
the seven days ended Sept. 16, according to the median of nine
analyst estimates before a weekly Energy Department report
tomorrow. The industry-finance  American Petroleum Institute 
publishes its inventory figures today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in Belfast at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  