-- 
Oil Slides in New York on Speculation Demand to Falter; Brent Erases Drop

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-21T12:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/crude-drops-in-new-york-trading-on-concern-european-debt-crisis-to-worsen.html
Oil fell in  New York  as investors
bet that rising U.S. fuel stockpiles are a signal of waning
demand, while supplies from the Middle East and  Africa  grow.
Brent crude in  London  widened its premium over U.S. futures.  New York oil slipped as much as 1.3 percent after the
 American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday crude and gasoline
supplies increased last week. A separate Energy Department
report today is forecast to show inventories declined. Libya’s
Arabian Gulf Oil Co. said it will be ready to export crude
within a week.  “Sentiment is still fragile,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst
at Commerzbank AG, said by phone from  Frankfurt . “The general
trend is still downwards,” as gasoline demand in the U.S. is
weak and Libyan oil supplies appear to be resuming sooner than
expected, he said.  Crude for November delivery dropped as much as $1.12 to
$85.80 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $85.87 at 1:16 p.m. London time. Yesterday,
the contract advanced 1.3 percent to $86.92. Prices have risen
17 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for November settlement erased earlier gains,
declining 36 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $110.18 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract’s premium to the West Texas Intermediate futures traded
in New York widened to $24.28 after closing at $23.62 yesterday.
The spread settled at a record $26.87 on Sept. 6.  U.S. Inventories  The API said crude supplies increased by 2.57 million
barrels last week. Today’s Energy Department report today was
forecast to show stockpiles declined by 1.3 million barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles climbed by 62,000 barrels, the API
reported. The Energy Department’s report may show inventories
increased 1.35 million barrels, based on the median of 16
analyst estimates in the survey.  “API data were mixed-to-negative,” Tom Pawlicki, a
Chicago-based analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd., said today in
a note. “Energy prices are expected to trade in a mixed-to-
lower direction in the near term.”  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Libya ’s Return  Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. will be ready to export 1
million barrels of crude within a week as its marketing
department evaluates several offers for shipments, Hassan
Bolifa, a company official, said yesterday.  “If it’s true that we’ll see the oil coming out in weeks
rather than months, then the Brent-WTI differential will narrow
to a more reasonable level,” said Ole Hansen, senior manager of
trading advisory team at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  Fighting in the African nation since February has reduced
the availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density
and sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels
a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared
with the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  Brent crude ’s price will drop in the fourth quarter as
global demand slows and production increases in Libya and the
North Sea, Bank of America Corp. said in a note dated Sept. 19.
It will average $102 a barrel in the three months ended Dec. 31,
said New York-based commodity strategist  Francisco Blanch .  IMF Cuts Forecasts  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its growth
forecast for the world’s two biggest energy consumers. The
Washington-based lender reduced  China ’s growth this year to 9.5
percent from the 9.6 percent projected in June and said the  U.S.
economy  will expand 1.5 percent, down from 2.5 percent.  The first North Sea Forties crude cargo for October loading
was deferred, and a third September shipment was delayed to next
month, according to a revised export program obtained by
Bloomberg News. Forties is one of four  North Sea  crude grades
used to price Dated Brent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  