-- 
Crude Oil Prices Rise First Time in Three Days on Fed Stimulus Optimism

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-20T20:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/crude-oil-rises-first-time-in-three-days-as-greek-debt-talks-productive-.html
Crude oil increased for the first
time in three days on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will take
steps to bolster the  U.S. economy , increasing fuel consumption.  Futures rose 1.4 percent as the  Federal Open Market
Committee  began a meeting in  Washington . Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  extended the conference to two days to give the FOMC
more time to discuss the merits and costs of policy options. A
U.S. Energy Department report tomorrow will show supplies fell
to an eight-month low, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “There’s optimism that the Fed Open Market Committee will
announce additional measures tomorrow to boost economic
growth,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc. in New York.  Oil for October delivery rose $1.19 to settle at $86.89 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract expired
today. The more actively traded November future climbed $1.11,
or 1.3 percent to $86.92.  Prices retreated from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles rose 2.57 million barrels to 346.7 million. November
oil was up 56 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $86.37 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:33 p.m.  Brent oil for November settlement increased $1.40, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $110.54 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract was at premium of $23.62 to U.S. futures, compared with
a record $26.87 on Sept. 6, based on November settlement prices.  Futures in  New York  settled at $85.70 a barrel yesterday,
the lowest level in more than three weeks, amid concern the
European debt crisis will cut fuel consumption.  ‘Buying Interest’  “Given the scale of the price fall, we are seeing some
buying interest out there,” said Amrita Sen, a London-based
analyst at Barclays Plc. “The fundamentals still look robust
with demand, even after slowing down, outpacing supply growth.”  Stocks erased gains after floor trading of oil ended at
2:30 p.m. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.2 percent
to 1,202.09 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 0.1
percent to 11,408.66.  “What equities do is being looked at for signals of how
the economy is doing,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research
for IAF Advisors in Houston. “When equities are higher, it
increases optimism that the economy is stable and growth is
going to pick up.”  Price also rose as the Greek government said it held
“substantive” discussions about obtaining a sixth installment
of aid. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos spoke with European
Union and  International Monetary Fund  officials in a
teleconference last night. A second call will be held tonight.  IMF Growth Outlook  Oil and equities briefly dropped after the International
Monetary Fund cut its forecast for global economic growth and a
government report showed that builders began work on fewer U.S.
homes than forecast. The Washington-based IMF said the world
economy will expand 4 percent this year and next, compared with
June forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012.  The IMF predicted “severe” repercussions if  Europe  fails
to contain its debt crisis or if U.S. policy makers reach an
impasse over a fiscal plan.  U.S. housing starts dropped 5 percent to a three-month low
571,000 annual rate last month, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a 590,000 pace.  “The market is reacting to economic news,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “We may head lower because of the great
uncertainty about the U.S. and European economies.”  Energy Department Report  U.S. crude-oil supplies fell 1.3 million barrels, or 0.4
percent, to 345.1 million in the seven days ended Sept. 16,
according to the median of 15 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow.  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries no longer see $75 a barrel as an ideal price and the
group will discuss altering output levels in December should
Libyan production recover, OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El- Badri told reporters in Dubai today.  “When  Libya  produces a meaningful volume, then production
will be discussed in the December meeting,” el-Badri told
reporters in Dubai today. “If Libya will produce a meaningful
number, then the secretariat will take it into account when we
present our report to ministers.”  Libya’s oil output and exports came to a standstill after
fighting broke out in February between forces loyal to leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels seeking his ouster. El-Badri said
yesterday he expects the country to produce as much as 600,000
barrels a day of oil soon, rising to 1 million barrels a day in
six months. Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels a day in January,
according to Bloomberg News estimates.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 444,451
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 612,467
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.38 million contracts,
the lowest level since Dec. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 