-- 
Cuomo’s Approval Among New Yorkers Rises to Record After Storms

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-09-20T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/cuomo-s-approval-among-new-yorkers-rises-to-record-after-storms.html
  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
approval rating reached a record high as almost nine in 10
voters supported his handling of Tropical Storms Irene and Lee,
according to a survey by  Quinnipiac University .  Voters approved of Cuomo’s job performance by 66 percent to
17 percent, with 86 percent favoring the way he dealt with the
storms. The 66 percent rating for a New York governor matches
the high set in July 2002 by Republican George Pataki, according
to Quinnipiac.  “New York’s love affair with Governor Andrew Cuomo
persists, perhaps helped along by Irene and Lee,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute
in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a statement. “Yes, we like him.
Yes, we like his policies. Yes, we think he did a good job on
the tropical storms.”  The survey of 1,016 registered voters was conducted by
telephone from Sept. 13-18, when recovery efforts from the
storms were under way. Irene caused an estimated $1 billion in
damage, washed out six towns, damaged 150 major roads and wiped
out 600 homes in the Catskills and Mid-Hudson region.  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat who took office in January,
said in a  statement  yesterday that he has created the
Neighborhood Rebuilding Corps, a program that will put several
hundred New Yorkers to work repairing areas damaged by the storm.
The program, funded by a $16 million emergency grant from the
U.S. Labor Department, will pay workers an average of $15 an
hour, the statement said.  Legislative Victories  The poll results show 77 percent of voters perceive
Cuomo as successful in his dealings with lawmakers after he
pushed through the Legislature a same-sex marriage bill, an on-
time budget and an overhaul of the state’s ethics laws. That
figure is up from 61 percent in a June poll taken before the
same-sex marriage bill passed.  The most recent poll also said 70 percent of voters want
Cuomo to “speak out more forcefully” to convince lawmakers in
 Albany , the capital, to turn legislative redistricting over to
an independent commission.  The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  