-- 
DBS Group to Expand Private Banking in China, Middle East

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-09-20T07:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/dbs-to-invest-s-250-million-over-5-years-in-private-banking.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  will invest
S$250 million ($198 million) to expand private banking over five
years, including hiring in  China  and setting up an international
desk focusing on the  Middle East  and emerging markets.  The bank, Southeast Asia’s largest, started a service
targeting individuals with more than S$1.5 million of investable
assets, it said in Singapore today. That is an extension of its
private banking operation, which caters to customers with more
than S$5 million each.  Singapore’s importance as a wealth management center has
been rising as Europe struggles with the sovereign debt crisis
and the U.S. economic recovery weakens. Asia hasn’t been immune
to Europe’s woes, with stocks in the region declining today
after  Italy ’s credit rating was lowered at Standard & Poor’s.  “Notwithstanding the present market volatilities, Asia is
experiencing rapid wealth creation and we remain optimistic
about the long-term prospects of the region,” DBS Chief
Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  said in a statement.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.8 percent as of 4:37
p.m. in Tokyo, extending a two-week decline.  Singapore is the fifth-largest offshore private banking
center, with $512 billion in assets at the end of 2010,
according to the Boston Consulting Group, which counted those
with over $1 million in investable assets. Switzerland, the
largest, had about $1.7 trillion.  Asia-Pacific millionaires outnumbered those in Europe for
the first time in 2010, according to a survey by Capgemini SA
and Bank of America Corp. DBS said it will set up its
international desk by the end of the year, it said today.  “Over the next five, 10 years, the growth in high net
worth will be structurally a much stronger story in  Asia 
compared to other parts of the world,” Amar Gill, head of
special projects research at CLSA Ltd., said today at a
conference in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  