-- 
Dutch Face ‘Tough Year’ Because of Budget Cuts, Euro Crisis

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-09-20T16:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/de-jager-says-2012-will-be-a-tough-year-for-dutch-citizens.html
Dutch citizens face a “tough
year” as slowing growth, spending cuts and increased taxes sap
purchasing power amid the European debt crisis, said Finance
Minister Jan Kees  de Jager .  “I see large risks and certain dangers,” De Jager told
reporters after presenting the 2012 budget to parliament in The
Hague today. “We’re doing everything to prevent the
escalation” of the debt crisis. The current situation may be
“slightly riskier” than the previous economic crisis, he said.  The Netherlands, the fifth-largest economy in the euro
area, cut its forecast for 2012 economic growth to 1 percent
from 1.75 percent. Slower growth will reduce tax income and may
increase spending on  unemployment benefits , widening next year’s
budget deficit to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product instead
of the 2.2 percent forecast in June.  The government plans to cut 18 billion euros of spending
through 2014. Purchasing power, or a household’s ability to buy
goods, will decline for a third year in 2012, falling an average
of 1 percent, according to government planning agency CPB.  “The Cabinet is planning for a storm; we can’t say how
big, strong or fierce it will be,” De Jager told parliament in
his budget speech. “It’s clear 2012 will be a tough year for
many people.”  The agency forecasts that if the credit crisis worsens,
next year’s deficit will remain at 4.2 percent of GDP, breaching
the European Union limit of 3 percent for a fourth year. To
prevent this, the government needs 5 billion euros of extra
austerity measures, according to the agency.  “I’m not going to assess the likelihood of such a
scenario,” De Jager said. “We’re doing all we can to prevent
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  