-- 
Debenhams Says Profit Beat Consensus, Helped by Discounts

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-20T08:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/debenhams-says-profit-beat-consensus-helped-by-discounts-1-.html
Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-
largest department-store owner, said full-year pretax profit
beat expectations as it sold more of its own-brand Designer at
Debenhams ranges and lured shoppers with discounts.  Debenhams rose as much as 6 percent in London trading to
the highest level since Aug. 8. Chief Financial Officer Chris Woodhouse said he expects today’s report to prompt analysts to
raise their consensus for profit before tax in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 3 to as much as 164 million pounds ($258 million)
from 158 million pounds.  The retailer, which cut prices and started its summer sale
five days early, said it gained market share in clothing,
premium health and beauty products. Like-for-like sales grew in
the past two months, Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp said,
announcing that he will add about 10 percent more selling space
to the flagship store on  London ’s Oxford Street in 2013.  “Debenhams looks to have had a good summer,” Richard Cathcart, an analyst at Espirito Santo in London, said in a note
to clients. “Management comments that LFL sales grew in the
final two months is in contrast to other clothing retailers who
have suggested the market has been less than stellar.”  U.K. retail same-store sales fell 0.6 percent in August,
according to the  British Retail Consortium , led by declines in
footwear and housewares.  Cotton Prices  Debenhams rose 1.4 pence, or 2.4 percent, to 60.70 pence at
9:55 a.m. in London.  “Our decision to maximize cash profit by investing in top-
line growth has proven successful and this will result in
headline profit before tax for the year coming in ahead of
consensus forecasts,”Sharp, who took over as CEO three weeks
ago, said in a statement. Debenhams is confident that “we can
continue to make progress over the coming year.”  Revenue at stores open at least a year excluding value-
added tax fell 0.3 percent in the 52 weeks ended Aug. 27. The
median of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for a drop
of 0.4 percent. Sales climbed 6.3 percent in local currencies at
the Danish unit Magasin du Nord, the London-based company said.  Sharp, on the conference call, reiterated earlier comments
that price inflation will peak in the autumn-winter season and
ease in spring-summer as cotton-price gains abate.  The concession agreement to sell Jane Norman Holding Ltd.
clothing in Debenhams stores will be replaced with own-bought
ranges such as H! by Henry Holland in the 85 stores after the
fashion retailer fell into administration.  “Jane Norman had been underperforming in our stores for
quite a long time,” Sharp said on the call. The change probably
won’t disrupt business much, according to the company.  Debenhams is scheduled to report full earnings on Oct. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 