-- 
Debt Crisis Infects Companies via Surging Cost of Bank Loans: Euro Credit

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-09-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/debt-crisis-infects-companies-via-surging-cost-of-bank-loans-euro-credit.html
Banks in  Spain  and  Italy  are
curbing loans and charging customers more as aftershocks from
the sovereign debt crisis drive their own borrowing cost higher.  “They can’t lend what they don’t have, I suppose,” said
Francesc Elias, the owner of  Bomba Elias , a pumps and filters
maker near  Barcelona , which shelved a 100,000-euro ($144,000)
plan to open a Bahrain office when it couldn’t get an affordable
 bank loan . “The banks are very clever about finding new ways to
charge us more.”  Spanish and Italian government bond yields surged to euro-
era records this quarter as Greece struggled to avoid default,
driving the cost of insuring against nonpayment by the region’s
banks to a record and making it harder for them to sell bonds.
Spain pays 5.35 percent for 10-year money, up from an average of
4.07 percent in the first half of 2010, while Italy pays 5.65
percent compared with a 4.05 percent average last year.  As a result, banks such as  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
biggest lender, are passing higher funding costs on to their
customers. Santander’s return on Spanish loans rose to 3.63
percent in June from 3.37 percent in December, as the yield it
pays on deposits fell to 1.32 percent from 1.54 percent.  UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest lender, said on Aug. 3 it’s
being more selective about who it lends to and levying higher
rates. One out of three companies asking for credit in the
second quarter period didn’t get it or obtained less than they
asked for, according to Confcommercio, an Italian retailers’
lobby group.  ‘Increasingly Stringent’  “The cost of financing our current activities has
increased significantly,” said Riccardo Illy, chairman of
Italian coffee maker Gruppo Illy SpA. “We don’t have any
problems accessing credit because we’re large enough, but we
know many businesses that are having trouble because banks’
requirements have become increasingly stringent.”  Spanish banks including Santander and Bankia SA are
shrinking their loan books after being pummeled by a collapse in
credit demand for real-estate and surging loan defaults.
Santander’s Spanish lending shrank an annual 7 percent through
June, mirroring a trend in the Bank of Spain’s data that show a
1.9 percent annual drop in lending to companies and individuals.
Lending at Bankia, the third-biggest lender formed from a merger
of seven savings banks, was down 2.3 percent from December.  The average  interest rate  on new company loans of as much
as 1 million euros rose to 4.70 percent in July from 4.57
percent in June and 3.88 percent in December, according to the
Bank of Spain. Companies took out 15.9 billion euros of those
loans in July, down from 18.7 billion euros in the same month a
year ago and 39.2 billion euros in July 2007, according to the
central bank.  ‘The Bottom Line’  “In our case, it’s not so much the issue of access to
credit that’s the problem, it’s the fact that it costs more,”
said Luis Zapatero, chairman of Bodegas Riojanas, a Spanish
winemaker, which needs to finance putting wine aside to create
reserve vintages that may not go on sale until several years
after bottling. “Our financial costs have increased 15 percent
and that goes straight to the bottom line.”  Banks face a dilemma when trying to pass on increased
funding costs in full because they risk driving more borrowers
into default, said  Barclays Capital ’s Pascual. Bad loans in the
Spanish banking system are near 7 percent of total lending, the
highest since 1995.  Increased Caution  “Banks are more cautious in giving long-term loans because
it has become more difficult to transfer increasing funding
costs to customers,” said Giovanni Bossi, chief executive
officer of Banca Ifis SpA, an Italian bank specializing in
short-term loans to companies.  As lending slides in Spain and banks struggle to finance
themselves, the outlook for growth is worsening, said Antonio Ramirez, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods in London. Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Sept. 14 that Spain
might miss its 1.3 percent growth target this year because of
the “situation of financial tension and economic uncertainty,
mainly because of  Greece .”  Banks, meantime, are struggling to sell bonds. The last
benchmark-sized issue of 1 billion euros or more of debt by a
Spanish bank was a sale of public-sector covered bonds by
Santander in June. UniCredit paid a record spread for Italian
covered bonds when it raised 1 billion euros from a sale of 10-
year notes that yielded 215 basis points more than the benchmark
mid-swap rate.  ‘Negative Feedback Loop’  “It’s the negative feedback loop between what’s happening
to the sovereign and the effect on banks and the economy,” said
Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief southern European economist at
Barclays Capital in London. “To a large extent, the problems
facing Spanish lenders also apply to Italy.”  As financing costs rise in Italy, analysts have started
revising down their growth estimates for that country. Nomura
International Plc economists revised their Italian gross
domestic product growth estimate for 2012 last month to 0.5
percent from 0.8 percent previously.  “The increased financial costs will become more evident in
the dynamics of the economy,” said  Giada Giani , an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in  London . “I definitely think that the
deterioration of financial conditions is a key factor in the
macro-economic picture.”  A  survey  by Spain’s national statistics institute published
in May showed that one in every four companies that sought loans
in 2010 failed in the attempt, compared with 10 percent in 2007.
Half of the companies surveyed said they’d been able to line up
the credit needed, compared with 80 percent in 2007, according
to the survey.  Meanwhile, Spanish banks are also demanding higher fees
from customers, Bank of Spain data show. The  average six-month
charge  for a retail customer current account jumped 15 percent
to 25.80 euros at the end of August from 22.36 euros in
December, according to the regulator.  “There’s a double effect because commissions have also
increased dramatically,” said Elias, the owner of the pumps and
filter maker, who has cut his workforce to 12 from 20 in the
past year. “It affects any kind of investment plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  