-- 
Defense Chairman Won’t Recommend More Cuts to Pentagon Budget

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-09-20T20:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/defense-chairman-won-t-recommend-more-cuts-to-pentagon-budget.html
The chairman of the U.S. Senate
Armed Services Committee said he won’t recommend defense cuts to
the congressional supercommittee beyond the $400 billion already
planned over the next 12 years.  Defense panels, including the Senate Armed Services
Committee, have until Oct. 14 to make recommendations to the
supercommittee, which has the assignment of cutting $1.5
trillion in federal spending.  “I am not recommending more than is already there, which
is very difficult to meet already,” Senator  Carl Levin ,
Democrat of  Michigan , said today.  As a result of a deficit-trimming measure President  Barack Obama  signed into law Aug. 2, the Office of Management and
Budget said that $350 billion would be trimmed from planned
national defense spending over 10 years, with about $330 billion
coming from the Pentagon budget.  The Defense Department’s savings targets based on the
military’s current planning are closer to $400 billion over 12
years, according to Pentagon figures. Levin said today he won’t
recommend any more cuts beyond that.  “We are struggling hard to get through what the law is
requiring us to do,” Levin said, referring to the budget
control act signed into law Aug. 2. Levin’s panel has to trim an
additional $20 billion from the 2012 defense authorization act
to match the cuts under the deficit-reduction deal. So far, the
Senate panel has cut $5.9 billion from the Pentagon’s base
budget request of $553 billion and $537 million from the $118
billion requested for war operations.  Now, the panel has to find an additional $20 billion in
cuts for 2012 to match Senate budget allocations and the 2012
Pentagon spending bill approved by the Senate Appropriations
Committee last week.  Hawaii Democrat Daniel Inouye, who leads the Senate
Appropriations panel, said last week that cutting the  defense
budget  more than already planned would be “detrimental” to
national security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 