-- 
Disney Plans ‘Avatar’ Park Lands in Accord With Fox, Cameron

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-09-20T20:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/disney-plans-avatar-attractions-in-florida.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s
biggest theme-park operator, unveiled plans for attractions
based on the top-grossing 3-D movie “Avatar,” starting at its
 Animal Kingdom  in  Florida .  James Cameron , who directed Fox’s 2009 science-fiction
thriller, will serve as a creative consultant in development of
“Avatar” lands at the parks, officials of Burbank, California-
based Disney said today at a press conference.  The company has increased spending in its resorts division,
including a new theme park in  Shanghai , a vacation project on
the Hawaiian island of Oahu and an expansion of California
Adventure in Anaheim. Investments in parks, resorts and other
properties totaled $2.56 billion through nine months of the
fiscal 2011, almost double the year earlier tally.  “With this agreement, we have the extraordinary
opportunity to combine James’s talent and vision with the
imagination and expertise of Disney,” Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Iger  said in a statement.  Construction is scheduled to begin by 2013 and take five
years, said Disney, which licensed worldwide theme park rights
to “Avatar” from Cameron’s Lightstorm Entertainment and News
Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox studio.  The project is expected to cost about $400 million,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly. Cameron’s first “Avatar” film
sequel is scheduled for release in 2014.  Disney fell 20 cents to $32.31 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 14 percent
this year.  Box-Office Sales  “Avatar” has collected $2.78 billion in worldwide
theatrical sales, the most of any film, according to  Box Office
Mojo , an industry researcher. That eclipsed the previous record
of $1.84 billion for “Titanic,” also directed by Cameron.  The film took place on a moon called Pandora, where humans
leading a mining effort were pitted against the native Na’vi
people.  Theme parks accounted for 28 percent of Disney’s $38.1
billion in sales in the year ended in September 2010 and
contributed $1.32 billion in operating income, or 17 percent of
the total.  Locations for other “Avatar” themed lands will be
determined by Disney and its international theme park partners,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  