-- 
Health Insurers Pool $1 Trillion in Medical Claims Data to Spot Trends

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-20T19:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/health-insurers-pool-1-trillion-in-claims-data-to-spot-trends.html
Major health insurers are pooling
more than $1 trillion in claims data and creating an institute
to cull the statistics and identify the drivers of higher health
spending.  More than 5 billion medical claims from  Aetna Inc. (AET) ,  Humana
Inc. (HUM) ,  Kaiser Permanente  and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  will be
collected and combined with government health claims data by the
newly formed Health Care Cost Institute. The nonprofit group,
which will likely be housed in  Washington , will begin publishing
semi-annual scorecards beginning next year on spending and
consumption of health-care services and products.  Policy makers and researchers have been frustrated by the
limited availability of information from commercial insurers,
who provide coverage for about two-thirds of Americans with
insurance, said  Martin Gaynor , a professor of economics and
public policy at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh who
will lead the institute. Much of the available data now comes
from Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled.  “You literally can’t know too much as one of my colleagues
likes to say,” Gaynor said in a telephone interview. “We have
not been getting a very complete picture of what has been
driving our health spending and utilization, and that restricts
our ability to make policy.”  The insurers are providing an undisclosed amount of initial
start-up money.  Soliciting Data  Gaynor said the organization will talk to other health
insurers and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in
Baltimore to solicit their participation and data. The institute
is collecting data from 2000 to the present covering more than
5,000 hospitals and 1 million doctors and other health-care
providers.  The information, which carries no individual identities,
will be made available to researchers whose proposals are
accepted by the institute. Insurance companies won’t be allowed
to see information submitted by competitors, only aggregate
numbers. Researchers will have to have grants or pay their own
expenses. The participating insurers are providing initial
start-up money and covering the cost of transferring their data
to the institute, Gaynor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  