-- 
Mechel Said to Delay $2 Billion IPO Plan for Coal Mine Unit

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-20T11:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/mechel-said-to-delay-plan-to-sell-shares-in-coal-mining-unit.html
OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s largest
producer of coking coal, has delayed a plan to raise as much as
$2 billion selling shares in a mining unit, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Mechel has notified the banks hired to manage the initial
public offering, the people said, asking not to be identified as
the information is private. The Moscow-based company cited
unfavorable market conditions for its decision, they said.  The IPO would have been the largest in Russia’s metals and
mining industry this year. It’s the biggest sale to be delayed
since May when thermal coal producer OAO Siberian Coal Energy
Co. put off a decision on a $1.5 billion IPO and OAO Severstal’s
gold unit Nord Gold NV postponed a similar-sized deal it was
planning. Mechel’s press-office declined to comment.  Mechel proposed selling a stake of 10 percent to 15 percent
of OAO Mechel Mining as early as this year in  London  or Hong
Kong, two people familiar with the process said in July. The
company picked  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
to manage the IPO, they said. The sale was intended to generate
$1.5 billion to $2 billion, they said.  “The company went half-way with this IPO and technically
will be able to restart the process at any moment when the
markets improve,” George Buzhenitsa, a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst, said by phone from Moscow today.  Mechel joins at least seven Russian companies that have
pushed back plans or decisions on share sales. They include
ChelPipe, cell phone retailer Euroset Holding NV, steel and
mining company OAO Koks, OAO Russian Helicopters and UTH  Russia 
television network.  The last Russian company to complete an IPO was OAO
Phosagro, which raised $538 million from investors on July 13,
excluding the value of additional shares available to banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  