-- 
Teddy Bears, Robots, Dolls Cavort in Paris Exhibition: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-09-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/teddy-bears-robots-stylish-dolls-cavort-in-paris-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Christmas is three months away, yet
a new Paris exhibition will get you right in the mood.  “Of Toys and Men” at the  Grand Palais  traces the history
of dolls, teddy bears, toy trains and other playthings from
antiquity to the present.  It’s a gigantic show, though by no means complete: You’ll
look in vain for scientific or educational toys, marionettes or
musical instruments.  The Puritans had a point when they dismissed Christmas as a
pagan feast thinly concealed beneath a Christian veneer. The
Saturnalia, the merriest event of the Roman calendar, feted
around Dec. 17, were an occasion for exchanging gifts, chiefly
wax candles and terra cotta dolls.  One of those dolls, from the first century B.C., is in the
show. It has a hole in its belly; when you lifted the lid, you
discovered a fetus.  The vast majority of modern dolls represent girls, not
mothers. One of the most successful, created in 1905, was
Bleuette, “The Doll That Goes With Fashion.” It was mailed to
subscribers of “La Semaine de Suzette,” a weekly for girls,
who were then expected to keep its look up to date.  Elizabeth and Margaret, the future U.K. queen and her
sister, didn’t have to worry about fashion: France and Marianne,
the dolls they received from the French president when he
crossed the Channel for a state visit in 1938, came with a dowry
of no less than 360 pieces of clothing designed by leading
Parisian couturiers.  Princely Steed  Another toy devised for a blue-blooded child is the
mechanical horse of the Imperial Prince, the only son of
Napoleon III. A century later, princely tastes had changed. Six-
year-old Andrew, one of Elizabeth’s sons, got a kiddie version
of  James Bond ’s Aston Martin sports car (achieving a maximum
speed of 10 miles per hour).  Toys clarify role models. While girls were supposed to
prepare themselves for housework and motherhood, boys were
encouraged to seek adventure. From chariots to airplanes you
find all forms of locomotion at the Grand Palais.  Toy soldiers, on the other hand, seem to have fallen out of
fashion. Once regarded as an early preparation for military
service and war, they have become collectors’ items for retired
generals and amateur strategists. Today’s heroes, the exhibition
demonstrates, are more likely to come from comics than from
military history.  Religion, too, has lost much of its grip on juvenile
imagination. The show includes an amazing number of child-sized
chasubles, vestments, bishops’ hats, crosiers and monstrances.
Today, it would be difficult to make a living from such a
product range.  The good old teddy bear, we are told, had two fathers --
Richard Steiff of  Germany , who created him in 1902, and Theodore “Teddy” Roosevelt, who lent him his name. The U.S. president
refused to shoot a black bear his fellow hunters had tied to a
tree, a noble gesture that linked him to the animal.  Among the many robots in the show the most hilarious is a
table with a waiter serving a bunch of unusual diners -- pigs.  “Des Jouets et des Hommes” runs through Jan. 23, 2012,
and then travels to Helsinki. The sumptuous catalog (50 euros or
$68.49) comes in two versions, sky blue for boys, pink for
girls. Information:  http://www.rmn.fr  or +33-1-4413-1730.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 