-- 
Medicaid Exemption Means Gridlocked Congress Is Good for States

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/medicaid-exemption-means-gridlocked-congress-is-good-for-states.html
As Congress and its deficit-
reduction supercommittee debate ways to slash the federal budget
during the next few months, governors and the Medicaid programs
they oversee may be better off if legislators don’t agree.  Gridlock on  Capitol Hill  will trigger at least $1.2
trillion in already agreed-upon spending reductions in January.
Medicaid, the $428 billion joint federal-state health-insurance
plan for the poor, is exempt from those automatic cuts.  Any action by Congress on Medicaid, by contrast, could push
more of the program’s expenses from Washington to the states.  “We’re willing to be part of cost savings, but we will
strenuously object to cost-shifting,” said Mississippi Governor
Haley Barbour, a Republican, in a telephone interview. “I think
that’s uniformly bipartisan.”  State officials aren’t rooting for the supercommittee and
Congress to deadlock, according to Matt Salo, executive director
of the National Association of Medicaid Directors in Washington,
“but if all they were going to do is something that would make
the problem worse, then yes, it would be better to do nothing.”  Standard & Poor’s  highlighted the benefit of congressional
paralysis in an Aug. 18 report.  “From the standpoint of state and local governments’
fiscal positions, the structure of the automatic trigger cuts
have potential to be more favorable than cuts that could derive
from the joint special committee recommendations,” it said.  Panel’s Roots  Congress and the Obama administration created the 12-member
supercommittee as a way of working through the partisan and
ideological divide that almost led the U.S. into default during
the July debate over raising the nation’s debt limit.  While the debt-reduction plan President  Barack Obama  signed
Aug. 2 doesn’t directly affect Medicaid, the supercommittee is
allowed to target the program, assuming the panel -- split 50-50
between Democrats and Republicans -- can agree on reductions.  Medicaid has seen its enrollment soar during the past three
years, as people lost jobs or their income fell enough to let
them qualify. The program is now the largest single line item in
most states’ finances when federal funding is included. It
accounts for 22 percent of the average budget, more than is
spent on primary and secondary education, according to the
 National Association of State Budget Officers  in  Washington .  Expenditures as a share of total budgets ranged from an
estimated 37.1 percent in  North Carolina  to 7.3 percent in
 Wyoming  in fiscal 2010. In big states including  New York  and
Florida the proportion approached a third of total spending, at
28.3 percent for both, according to the budget officers group.  Rising Enrollment  More than 50 million Americans participate in Medicaid, a
19 percent jump since June of 2007, according to the nonprofit
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation in  Menlo Park , California.
Enrollment is expected to climb 3.8 percent in fiscal 2012,
according to the budget officers association, also called Nasbo.  The health-care overhaul Obama signed last year could add
another 20.4 million recipients by 2019, according to the U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. States’ share of
Medicaid spending is projected to climb 18.6 percent this year,
after the July expiration of economic-stimulus funding that
increased federal contributions.  Governors have had to reshuffle their finances to cope with
Medicaid’s rising costs. In  Arizona , where Medicaid spending
jumped 65 percent to $2.6 billion during the past four years,
Republican Governor Jan Brewer borrowed $2.1 billion, slashed
school spending by 16 percent and campaigned for a voter-
approved temporary sales-tax increase.  Stabilizing Spending  Brewer also has frozen Medicaid enrollment for some classes
of residents, such as childless adults.  “The state cannot get onto stable financial footing until
it gets a handle on its Medicaid spending,” said Brewer’s
spokesman, Matthew Benson.  Governors also have been finding ways to limit Medicaid
expenditures. California’s  Jerry Brown  imposed co-payments of
$50 for emergency-room visits and $100 a day for hospital stays,
part of a package of changes designed to reduce state costs by
almost $1.4 billion this year, according to Norman Williams, a
spokesman for  California ’s Health Care Services Department.  Obama recommended a new and potentially lower Medicaid
reimbursement rate for states in the deficit-reduction steps he
unveiled yesterday. He also suggested limiting state taxes on
health-care providers, which have the effect of increasing
federal matching funds. Such moves may cut federal contributions
to the program by $66 billion over a decade, according to the
president’s  plan . The supercommittee is likely to consider both
proposals, said Salo of the Medicaid Directors organization.  Shifting Costs  “We would hope that that fails,” he said, because the two
changes would shift Medicaid costs to states.  Even if Congress deadlocks and Medicaid is spared the
federal budget axe, states may need to cut money out of the
program on their own, said Joy Johnson Wilson, health policy
director at the Denver-based  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  She said the automatic federal cuts would be “a big hit”
to the states, some of whom may use Medicaid money to plug other
budget holes.  “Downstream, that might be the impact,” Wilson said.
“We’ve got a lot of unknowns to work with.”  Federal funding for education and other nonsecurity
programs would fall by 9 percent under the automatic cuts, said
Edwin Park, vice president for health policy at the nonprofit
Center for Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington.  States Face Choices  “States will either have to compensate for those cuts with
new revenue or they’ll have to make cuts to other parts of their
budget,” Park said. His group focuses on issues that affect
lower-income Americans.  There are changes to Medicaid that governors would like to
see the supercommittee propose, Salo said. One would be to
streamline care for people who are both old enough to qualify
for Medicare and poor enough for Medicaid.  These “dual-eligibles” comprise about 15 percent of
Medicaid recipients and account for 39 percent of spending,
according to Kaiser. They turn to Medicaid to pay for services
that Medicare doesn’t cover, such as long-term stays in nursing
homes.  Providers and health plans in Medicare, the federal health
plan for the elderly and disabled, are almost certainly looking
at reduced payments. If Congress doesn’t reach a deficit-
reduction agreement by January, the automatic cuts will take as
much as 2 percent from Medicare funding.  Alternative Views  Republicans have their own ideas for Medicaid. The
 Republican Governors Association  has proposed giving states wide
flexibility to change the program, including curbing enrollment,
a step that is forbidden under the health-overhaul legislation.  The budget plan adopted by the Republican-led U.S. House of
Representatives earlier this year would have cut spending on
Medicaid by $1.4 trillion, or 34 percent, over 10 years by
canceling the health-care overhaul and capping federal
contributions in exchange for fewer restrictions on how states
operate the program.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who campaigned on
lowering Medicaid spending by $1.8 billion, or almost 10
percent, has called switching from the current system to block
grants one of his biggest goals.  “Sure we are business partners with the federal government
delivering some services for them,” Utah Governor Gary Herbert,
a Republican, said in an interview. “But I’m better off having
the flexibility to decide how to use it. This lack of
flexibility should concern all of us.”  Gridlock May Rule  Extending federal funds without guarantees on how the money
will be spent may not pass muster with Democrats who control the
Senate, where the Republican budget plan was rejected in May.  Enrollment could have fallen by as much as 44 million by
2021 under the House plan because of eligibility cuts for those
with higher incomes, according to Robin Rudowitz, a Medicaid
analyst at Kaiser. The  federal poverty level  on which
eligibility is based is $22,350 for a family of four.  Many of those who would have lost coverage under the
Republican plan wouldn’t have been able to afford private
insurance, Rudowitz said.  “If Congress fails to come together, then we’ll at least
not have to deal with them balancing the budget on the backs of
those who are most vulnerable,” said Anne Dunkelberg, associate
director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a nonprofit
group in Austin,  Texas , that lobbies for programs benefiting
low-income citizens.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 