-- 
Medtronic Wins $101 Million Award From NuVasive Over Spinal Device Patents

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-09-21T16:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/medtronic-nuvasive-infringed-each-other-s-patents-jury-finds.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  won a $101.2 million
jury award in a patent-infringement trial against NuVasive Inc.
over claims related to medical devices used in spinal surgery.
NuVasive dropped as much as 8.4 percent in Nasdaq trading.  The federal jury in  San Diego  yesterday also held Medtronic
liable for $660,000 in damages to NuVasive for infringing one of
its patents.  In a two-week trial, Warsaw Orthopedic Inc., a unit of
Minneapolis-based Medtronic, accused San Diego-based NuVasive of
infringing three patents for implants capable of being inserted
trans-laterally between adjacent vertebrae, a plate and screw
system used to stabilize vertebrae in the cervical spine and a
tissue retractor, according to court filings.  “We are pleased by the jury’s verdict,”  Doug King , senior
vice president and president of Medtronic Spinal, said in a
statement. “The decision confirms our leadership in spinal
implant technology, and we remain committed to vigorously
defending our intellectual property.”  The verdict is the 14th-largest jury award in the U.S. so
far in 2011 and the fourth-largest for a patent-infringement
claim, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. The largest
patent jury verdict in 2011 was for $482 million in a lawsuit
over stents against a Johnson & Johnson unit.  “We will aggressively challenge this verdict,” NuVasive
Chairman Alex Lukianov said in a statement distributed by
Marketwire.  Shares Fall  NuVasive dropped $1.21, or 5.7 percent, at 11:59 a.m.  New
York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after falling as much
as $1.78. The shares declined 17 percent this year before today.  “Maybe it’s time for NuVasive to consider selling itself,”
Suraj Kalia, an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New York,
said in a note today. “The luster from the spine surgery space
is coming off.”  Kalia rates the shares “outperform.”  Medtronic hasn’t filed a request for a court injunction
blocking the use of products found to have infringed its
patents.  In computing damages, the eight-member jury decided upon
patent royalty rates of 3 percent, 6 percent and 10 percent in
awarding “lost profits damages (with royalty remainder)” for
the three Medtronic patents, and a 5.5 percent “patent royalty
rate” for the NuVasive patent, according to the verdict form.  Damages Motion  Alexander MacKinnon, a lawyer for Medtronic, said in an
interview after the verdict that “the jury award only reflects
damages through June 2010 and Medtronic will file a motion for
an accounting from NuVasive to bring the damages up to date.”  Another Medtronic attorney, Luke Dauchot, told jurors in
his closing argument that they could award as much as
$375.2 million for lost profits and royalties.  NuVasive alleged that another Medtronic unit, Medtronic
Sofamor Danek USA, infringed its patent for a nerve monitoring
system for lateral spinal surgery, according to court filings.  A NuVasive financial expert testified during the trial that
NuVasive could be awarded as much as $752,000 over the company’s
infringement claim against Medtronic.  NuVasive lawyer Frank Scherkenbach told jurors that
NuVasive didn’t infringe the Medtronic patents. He said
NuVasive’s technology at issue is the product of independent
development, was first put on the market in 2003 and soon
“changed the face of spinal surgery.” He said that Medtronic
possessed no such technology in 2003.  ‘Copied Nothing’  “We didn’t copy,” he said. “NuVasive copied nothing.”  He said that NuVasive’s devices became so successful that
the small company that originated in an orthopedic surgeon’s
garage became a target for the much larger Medtronic. “They
wanted in on this product,” he said.  Dauchot said that Medtronic stands by its claim that it
didn’t infringe the NuVasive patent.  “Although we respect the jury’s finding of infringement on
NuVasive’s patent we differ and are considering our options in
that regard,” he said.  U.S. District Judge Michael M. Anello presided over the
trial.  The case is Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA v.  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA) ,
3:08-cv-1512, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 