-- 
Egypt to Boost Wheat Imports to Avert Unrest, El Attal Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-09-20T10:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/egypt-to-boost-wheat-imports-to-avert-unrest-el-attal-says-1-.html
Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat
buyer, plans to boost imports this year to build domestic
stockpiles and prevent future political unrests fueled by high
food prices, the nation’s Agricultural Export Council said.  Overseas purchases may rise to 10.5 million metric tons in
the year starting July 1 from 9.8 million tons a year earlier,
Hisham El Attal, board member of the council, said in an
interview in Singapore today.  El Attal’s import forecast is higher than the 10 million
tons estimated by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  on Sept. 12
and may help limit a 14 percent slide in wheat futures this year.
December-delivery wheat gained 0.9 percent to $6.7925 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 5:41 p.m.  Singapore  time.  Egypt will take advantage of the slump in prices to rebuild
stockpiles and enable the government to immediately supply the
market in case of any unrest, he said.  Protests toppled leaders in north African nations of Egypt
and Tunisia while riots erupted from  Bahrain  to  Morocco  this
year, in part because of high food prices.  Food-price inflation concerns for policy makers are set to
persist even as rice declines and wheat trades below this year’s
peak, according to the  United Nations , which said that importers
are still paying more than a year ago.  Another year of bumper wheat and rice harvests, as well as
a continued surplus in corn, is needed to bring stockpiles back
to “healthy” levels and reduce inflation concerns, Abdolreza Abbassian, senior economist at the UN  Food & Agriculture
Organization , said in an interview in Singapore today.  China , the largest consumer, may also boost purchases of
wheat to 1.5 million tons in 2011-2012, from 1.3 million tons a
year earlier, as millers seek high-grade variety to blend with
local supply, Haiguang Shi, vice president of the Canadian Wheat
Board, said at a conference in Singapore today.  -- Editors: Ovais Subhani, Thomas Kutty Abraham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  