-- 
Eight Offshore Banks Under Grand Jury Investigation Over Taxes, U.S. Says

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-20T17:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/eight-offshore-banks-under-grand-jury-investigation-over-taxes-u-s-says.html
Eight offshore banks are under
federal grand jury investigation for facilitating tax evasion by
U.S. citizens as part of a probe the Justice Department said has
dealt “fabled Swiss bank secrecy a devastating blow.”  The department disclosed the probes on a section of its
website detailing the Tax Division’s Offshore Compliance
Initiative. In 2009, prosecutors charged  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest
Swiss bank, with aiding tax evasion by U.S. clients. UBS avoided
prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax
evasion, and giving the U.S. Internal Revenue Service data on
more than 250 accounts. It later turned over data on another
4,450 accounts.  Prosecutors opened 150 grand jury investigations of
offshore-banking clients, charging 30 people, and indicting 13
other people who facilitated the hiding of assets offshore,
according to the  website .  “In addition, grand jury investigations have been opened
into eight additional offshore banks across the world,”
according to the website. “The outcome cannot be measured in
litigation results alone. This enforcement effort has dealt
fabled Swiss bank secrecy a devastating blow.”  The  Justice Department , which didn’t identify the eight
banks, hadn’t previously said how many were under investigation.
 Charles Miller , a spokesman for the department, declined to
comment yesterday.  ‘Highly Unusual’  “The fact that the department has confirmed that there are
eight grand jury investigations into offshore banks shows that
the government’s enforcement efforts are a lot further along
than had previously been disclosed,” Jeffrey Neiman, a former
federal prosecutor who worked on the UBS case, said in a phone
interview.  Neiman, who is now in private practice in  Fort Lauderdale ,
 Florida , said it’s highly unusual for the government to
“trumpet” the opening of a grand jury investigation.  “What makes this public acknowledgement so peculiar is the
secrecy that usually surrounds grand jury investigations,” he
said. “In fact, the department is prohibited by law from
speaking about matters occurring before the grand jury.”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest Swiss bank, has
said that U.S. prosecutors stated it’s a target of a criminal
investigation. Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based
Credit Suisse, declined to comment and referred to a July 21
bank statement.  July Indictments  Seven Credit Suisse bankers, including the former head of
North American offshore banking, Markus Walder, were indicted
that day in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , on a charge
of helping U.S. clients evade taxes through secret accounts.  “Credit Suisse is committed to a fully compliant cross-
border business,” the bank said in that statement. “Subject to
our Swiss legal obligations and throughout this process we will
continue to cooperate with the U.S. authorities in an effort to
resolve these matters.”  Since 2008, the U.S. has filed criminal tax charges against
more than three dozen former U.S. clients of Zurich-based UBS,
Credit Suisse, and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest bank. Most of those clients have pleaded guilty.  On Sept. 4, SonntagsZeitung reported that  Switzerland  had
until Sept. 6 to provide the U.S. with data as part of the
Justice Department’s criminal probe into Credit Suisse.  The U.S. was requesting information about accounts held by
thousands of Americans in 10 banks including Credit Suisse, the
Zurich-based newspaper reported, citing correspondence between
Michael Ambuehl, the state secretary to the Swiss  finance
ministry , and  James Cole , the U.S. deputy attorney general.  HSBC,  Julius Baer   Also among the 10 banks are HSBC,  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) ,
Wegelin & Co., Basler Kantonalbank and Zuercher Kantonalbank, a
person familiar with inquiries sent to them by U.S. prosecutors
said. The person, who declined to say whether the ten banks
include those under grand jury investigation, requested
anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  Jan Vonder Muehll, a spokesman for Julius Baer in Zurich,
declined to comment on the probe, as did Albena Bjorck, a
spokeswoman for Wegelin in  St. Gallen , Switzerland, Michael
Buess, a spokesman for  Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP)  in Basel, and Lisa
Baitup, a spokeswoman for HSBC in  London .  Igor Moser, a spokesman for Zuercher Kantonalbank, the
biggest of Switzerland’s publicly owned cantonal banks, said in
an e-mailed statement: “The Zurich Cantonal Bank has just
learned that it is said to be subject of investigations by the
U.S. Department of Justice. The bank is currently looking into
the details of the alleged circumstances.”  U.S. Grand Juries  U.S. grand juries, which normally consist of 16 to 23
members, meet in secret. Federal prosecutors present evidence
for grand jurors to determine whether there is probable cause
that an individual or a business committed a crime and should be
put on trial. If a grand jury decides there is enough evidence,
it can issue an indictment.  In recent years, the Justice Department charged dozens of
corporations with crimes and agreed to defer prosecution in
exchange for companies paying fines, making required reforms and
admitting wrongdoing. Prosecutors typically agree to drop the
charges after one or two years if companies meet those terms.  Aside from the UBS deferred-prosecution agreement, Credit
Suisse agreed in December 2009 to pay $536 million to resolve
claims that it helped process payments to let  Iran  and other
nations avoid government sanctions and gain access to U.S.
financial markets.  30,000 Taxpayers  Since 2009, about 30,000 U.S. taxpayers have avoided
prosecution by disclosing their undeclared accounts to the IRS
through a limited amnesty program, Douglas Shulman, the
commissioner for the agency, said Sept. 15. Shulman said that
12,000 taxpayers had voluntarily disclosed their accounts in a
second round of the program offered this year. He said the IRS
had taken in $2.7 billion from holders of offshore bank accounts.  “You’d have to be living in a hole not to know that the
U.S. government is really focused on offshore  tax evasion ,”
Shulman said in a conference call.  The U.S. is “highly indebted and is looking for ways to
collect funds abroad,” Christophe Darbellay, head of the Swiss
Christian Democratic Party, said in an interview.  Strain on Relations  “It makes me uneasy that a friendly nation like the U.S.
disrespects Swiss laws,” Darbellay said in an interview. “It’s
a strain on the relations between both countries.”  More than 200 offshore bank clients who made voluntary
disclosures to the IRS have been questioned this year by U.S.
prosecutors seeking information on the bankers and advisers who
helped them hide their money.  “The government had an enormous, unprecedented, reliable
source of data to mine regarding the who, what, where, how and
when of the non-compliant and those who aided and abetted their
non-compliance,” said Miami tax attorney Robert Panoff in an e-
mail.  “It is safe, if not prudent, to assume that if the data
gathered so far indicates that there is a pattern of conduct by
any bank’s employees which show aiding and abetting that
eventually that bank will be targeted,” Panoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  