-- 
Embryonic Stem-Cell Research Opponents Appeal Funding Ruling

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-20T22:36:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/embryonic-stem-cell-research-opponents-appeal-ruling-on-funding.html
Opponents of human embryonic stem-
cell research asked a federal appeals court to reverse a judge’s
ruling that the U.S. may continue to fund experiments in the
field.  Two doctors filed their challenge today with the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia  Circuit seeking to block
the U.S. Health and Human Services Department and the  National
Institutes of Health  from spending federal funds on research
involving human embryonic stem cells.  In July, U.S. District Judge Royce C. Lamberth in
Washington dismissed the lawsuit filed by  James Sherley , a
researcher at Boston Biomedical Research Institute, and Theresa
Deisher, founder of AVM Biotechnology in Seattle, citing an
appeals court finding that the government-backed research is
probably lawful.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the appeal.  “Each time grant-awarding officials and federally funded
scientists support or engage in hESC research, living human
embryos are ‘knowingly subjected to risk of injury or death,’ in
violation of the federal law known as the Dickey-Wicker
Amendment,” said Sam Casey, a lawyer for the doctors, in a
press release.  Today’s appeal is the third time the case has reached the
 Washington  appellate court.  Lamberth last year temporarily barred the government from
funding the research, finding it probably violated the Dickey-
Wicker Amendment. The 1996 law bars government spending on
research that damages or destroys a human embryo. In a 2-1
decision in April, the appeals court let the funding continue
while Lamberth considered a final ruling. The appellate panel
said the language of the statute wouldn’t support a funding
cutoff.  Appellate Ruling  “The D.C. Circuit’s conclusion that the term ‘research’ in
the Dickey-Wicker Amendment is ambiguous binds this court,”
Lamberth wrote in his ruling.  The government said the stem-cell research is separate from
any that destroys the embryo because the cells must be grown in
a medium and are then “differentiated” into other cells, such
as nerve cells.  Stem cells  derived from embryos develop into different
tissues and may lead to cures for conditions such as juvenile
diabetes,  Parkinson’s disease  and some cancers.  The cells come from human embryos donated by patients of
fertility clinics. Abortion opponents say destroying the embryos
is equivalent to murder.  In fiscal 2010, NIH spent about $200 million to fund more
than 200 human-embryo research grants, the Justice Department
and the institutes’ director,  Francis Collins , said in court
papers.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 11-5241, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 